prime minister rajiv gandhi inducted 13 people into his council of ministers on sunday and reshuffled the portfolios of existing ministers
the reshuffle is the 12th since gandhi was sworn into office in january 1985 and comes one week before parliament's annual budget session is due to start
gandhi told reporters the council's expansion was meant to give more representation to various regions of the country and social groups
since the last reshuffle, a lot of people had dropped out of the cabinet and this had upset the balance. in this reshuffle we have tried to restore the balance,'' the united news of india news agency quoted him as saying
however, no cabinet minister was named to head the external affairs ministry. gandhi himself handles the portfolio, aided by a junior minister
gandhi denied that the changes were a prelude to early elections to parliament. ``a snap poll is definitely out,'' uni quoted him as saying
there are now 63 ministers in the council with 15 holding cabinet rank, excluding gandhi
three of the new ministers were inducted at cabinet rank. these include bindeshwari dubey and motilal vora, who resigned as chief ministers of two indian states saturday
dubey, who quit as chief minister of eastern bihar state, was named as law and justice minister while vora, who resigned from central madhya pradesh state, was given the health and family welfare portfolio
the third, dinesh singh, re-entered the cabinet after 15 years as the water resources minister
cabinet communications minister arjun singh was named madhya pradesh chief minister on saturday. gandhi dropped agriculture minister g. s. dhillon from the cabinet sunday and also relieved a junior minister, ram dulari sinha. mrs. sinha has been asked to become governor of southern kerala state, a largely ceremonial post
the other inductions included four junior ministers and six deputy ministers
the other changes were mainly exchanges of portfolios between existing cabinet ministers and junior ministers. astorga, a0894; hawkins, a0846, and loewe, a0910.</note>
arthur mizener, who revived interest in f. scott fitzgerald with the acclaimed first biography of the jazz age novelist, died thursday at age 80
the far side of paradise,'' mizener's best-selling biography of fitzgerald, was published in 1951 by houghton mifflin, a decade after a heart attack ended fitzgerald's downward spiraling career
fitzgerald, now considered one of the great american novelists of the 20th century, wrote ``this side of paradise,'' ``the great gatsby,'' ``tender is the night'' and ``the last tycoon,'' as well as numerous short stories
mizener, who died in a bristol, r.i., nursing home, taught english at cornell university from 1951 until his retirement in 1975. he wrote scores of essays and book reviews
he graduated from princeton university in 1930, received his master's degree from harvard in 1932 and earned a doctorate from princeton in 1934
virgil hawkins, a black man who waged a 28-year battle to practice law in florida and helped break the color barrier at the university of florida law school, died thursday at age 81
in 1949, at age 41, he applied to the all-white law school in gainesville and was rejected. he challenged the segregated school system and in 1956 the u.s. supreme court ruled that he should be admitted
but the florida supreme court invoked states' rights to deny him admission and the state adopted rigid entrance requirements that made it impossible for hawkins to enroll
in 1976 the florida bar urged the state supreme court to allow hawkins to take the bar exam even though he had attended an unaccredited law school in massachusetts 20 years earlier. the bar said he deserved special consideration because of ill treatment in 1949
the florida supreme court waived a requirement that he take the exam
hawkins opened a practice in leesburg, but in 1984 the florida supreme court censured hawkins and placed him on probation for two years for errors he made in his first cases. hawkins, facing two more complaints, resigned from the bar in 1985
nora astorga, nicaragua's u.n. ambassador who gained fame during the sandinista revolution for luring a general to his death, died of cancer sunday in managua, said a spoksman for the nicaraguan government. she was 39
in managua in 1978, ms. astorga lured gen. reynaldo perez vega, deputy commander of the national guard, to her bedroom, where guerrillas cut his throat
perez vega had held the post in the regime of president anastasio somoza, who was ousted by the leftist sandinistas in 1979
in 1984, the united states rejected her as the proposed ambassador to the united states. she held the rank of deputy foreign minister at the time
she was appointed u.n. ambassador in 1986. before the revolution, she earned a law degree at catholic university in managua and worked for an engineering firm there
leon goossens, an oboist who redefined the instrument's potential and inspired composers to write music to showcase it, died friday at age 90
a liverpool native born into a family rich in musical talent, goossens played with some of the finest orchestras of the day. by 1927, he was a soloist with the london philharmonic
in his youth, the liverpool orchestra, paid him 22 cents a night plus 9 cents for tackling the cor anglais solo in rossini's ``william tell overture.''
edward elgar's 1934 soliloquy for oboe and strings, one of his last works, was composed in honor of his friend goossens. benjamin britten and francis poulenc also dedicated works to him
goossens was made a commander of the order of the british empire in 1950. he toured the world until 1962, when a car accident temporarily halted his career
goossens played and recorded for many top orchestras and bands, including jack hylton's jazz orchestra at london's plush kit kat club
he was the son of conductor eugene goossens. survivors include two sisters, both harpists, marie, 93, and sidonie, 87, who was principal harpist with the british broadcasting corp. symphony orchestra for 50 years
dorothy kurgans goldberg, an author, artist and wife of former u.s. supreme court justice arthur j. goldberg, died of lung cancer saturday at age 79
mrs. goldberg's ``the creative woman,'' published in 1963, was an early feminist novel. she also wrote ``a private view of a public life,'' and a story for children, ``lola and the moving stairs.''
mrs. goldberg, who lived in washington, recently completed the manuscript for a fourth book, about international negotiations on human rights
in 1977-78 she served as a delegate to the belgrade conference on security and co-operation in europe, which reviewed the helsinki human rights accords
her paintings were exhibited in several one-person shows, and in the late 1940s she helped found of the associated artists gallery in washington
she graduated from the university of chicago in 1932, a year after she married goldberg. he served on the supreme court from 1962 to 1965, when he became ambassador to the united nations
nelson benton, a broadcast journalist who covered the vietnam war, the civil rights movement and the nation's capital in more than 20 years with cbs news, died of cardiac arrest saturday. he was 63
benton began his career at radio station wsoc in charlotte, n.c. in 1960, he joined cbs in new york as an assignment editor and reporter
he worked in dallas when president kennedy was assassinated in 1963 and became new orleans bureau manager and reporter in 1964
he covered the civil rights movement in the south and the vietnam war from saigon, then spent the next decade as a washington correspondent
in 1982, he left cbs news to become an anchorman at wmar-tv in baltimore. he left in 1984 and worked for the mutual broadcasting system as white house correspondent
most recently, he was co-anchor of ``america today,'' a daily u.s. information agency news program broadcast overseas
frederick loewe, who created the unforgettable tunes for alan jay lerner's lyrics in such broadway hits as ``camelot,'' ``my fair lady,'' ``brigadoon'' and ``gigi,'' died sunday at age 86
i could have danced all night,'' ``on the street where you live,'' ``i've grown accustomed to her face'' and ``if ever i should leave you'' were among the classic songs produced by the 18-year partnership
lerner and loewe's collaboration began with a one-night flop in detroit in 1942. they parted bitterly after ``camelot,'' their last broadway hit, in 1960
in between came ``brigadoon'' in 1947 and ``my fair lady'' in 1956
lerner and loewe reunited in 1973 for the broadway production of ``gigi,'' and remained friends
loewe retired in 1974. lerner died in 1986
loewe was born in vienna, austria, the son of a tenor and an actress. he began piano lessons at age 5 and composition at age 7. at 13 he became the youngest pianist to appear as soloist with the berlin symphony
loewe came to the united states in 1924 with hopes for a career as a piano soloist
after his debut at town hall in new york was ignored, he embarked on a bohemian life, playing piano in clubs and movie houses and working as a busboy
a cruise ship passenger fell overboard and drowned as the ship steamed toward long beach harbor, the coast guard reported saturday. foul play was not suspected, authorities said
the identity of the 27-year-old woman, whose body was recovered by a coast guard cutter, was withheld until relatives could be contacted, petty officer don roberts said
the woman fell overboard about 3 a.m. when the ship was 30 miles southwest of san diego, roberts said. the long beach-based cutter point stuart, along with a coast guard helicopter and jet, immediately began a search
after four searches, the point stuart recovered the woman's body at 12:30 p.m., roberts said
the body was taken to san diego for autopsy. there was no evidence of foul play, roberts said. he had no further details
the star dancer, which docked in long beach saturday, was carrying about 900 passengers and was completing a cruise along the mexican coast, roberts said
he added it wasn't immediately known which port the ship had sailed from or how long it had been at sea. the star dancer regularly makes cruise runs between long beach and mexico
the star dancer is owned by admiral cruises of miami, roberts said. officials for admiral cruises were unavailable saturday night. published saturday and sunday, sted saturday. picks up 4th graf, `after billie...'.</note>
a former methodist minister accused in a civil suit of trying to choke his wife to death says he is innocent and has avoided his california apartment to dodge reporters, not court officials
my response to the allegations in the suit are the same they have been all along: i'm not guilty of anything and don't have anything to fear on that point,'' walker railey said in an interview in the dallas morning news
i regret the lawsuit because it puts all the family _ the nicolai family and me _ under an even added amount of pressure,'' railey said in his first interview since he moved to san francisco in november. stories based on the interview were published in the newpaper's saturday and sunday editions
after billie joe nicolai, railey's mother-in-law, filed the lawsuit feb. 2, railey began living in hotels and with friends instead of in his apartment
railey, former senior minister of the first united methodist church in downtown dallas, said he has stayed away from the apartment because news reporters and photographers have staked it out
i'm keeping a low profile because people are sitting out in front of my flat and i resent that,'' railey said. ``i know the press is doing its job and i'm just trying to live my life. at this point, there seems to be difficulty in making both of those things work.''
the constant attention and news reports have made him weary and resentful, he said
i'm in a situation where my silence makes people wonder and, when i talk, the way it's used (in the media) also makes people wonder,'' railey said, describing his position as being ``between the devil and the deep blue sea.''
railey has said he found his wife, margaret ``peggy'' railey, near death the night of april 21 in their garage. mrs. railey has been comatose since the attack and is in a tyler nursing home
the lawsuit by mrs. nicolai, peggy railey's mother, seeks unspecified damages
court officers have been unable to locate railey to serve him formal notification of the civil suit, but railey denied ``trying to dodge the papers.''
he declined to review a copy of the lawsuit offered by the morning news and said he wanted to first discuss it with his dallas attorney, doug mulder
railey declined to give an account of the night his wife was attacked, and he also declined to talk about his relationship with psychologist lucy papillon, who told a grand jury in july that she had been having an affair with railey. late last year and railey signed a one-year lease on a san francisco flat
before his wife was attacked last april, the prominent minister reported to police that he was receiving death threats that he blamed on his strong pro-civil-rights stance. police later concluded that the threatening notes were typed on a church typewriter. the morning that police were planning to question railey about the attack on his wife, he took an overdose of sleeping pills but later recovered
railey has since resigned his church position
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has a solid lead in the new hampshire democratic primary, while vice president george bush and sen. bob dole are locked in a tie on the republican side, according to two polls released saturday
the latest abc news-washington post poll, completed friday night, put dukakis at 40 percent with rep. richard gephardt of missouri and sen. paul simon of illinois each with 16 percent
the poll was based on interviews with 375 likely democratic primary voters and 373 likely republican primary voters over the three days ending friday. the survey of republicans found that bush and dole were tied for the lead in the republican race at 29 percent. new york rep. jack kemp, pat robertson and former delaware gov. pete du pont were tied for third with 12 percent
the remaining candidates in the race had single-digit support in the poll, which has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points for the democrats and six percentage points for the republican sample
meanwhile, the sunday boston globe said its poll of 789 new hampshire voters also showed dukakis with a comfortable lead and bush and dole with almost even support
the random telephone survey was conducted thursday, friday and saturday before the democratic debate at st. anselm college. a significant number of voters said they were still undecided and nearly a third of those in each party said they might change their mind
thirty-nine percent of the 387 democratic voters favored dukakis; gephardt had 14 percent and simon 13 percent
dole was favored by 32 percent of the 402 likely republican voters, and bush had 28 percent. ten percent of the voters were undecided. the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points. update with globe poll. picks up 15th graf pvs bgng: at his ..., editing to tighten</note>
presidential candidates plunged saturday into the final weekend of campaigning before new hampshire's do-or-die primary, with democrats staging a spirited debate and republican sen. bob dole encountering hecklers from opposition camps
dole, locked in a tight race in new hampshire with vice president geroge bush, was campaigning at a shopping mall in bedford when he found himself surrounded by chanting supporters of bush and rep. jack kemp
the scene quickly became a shouting contest with sign-waving supporters from the three campaigns vying for attention. the shouting cointinued in the parking lot after dole's motorcade departed
the democratic debaters engaged in a little shouting of their own, with jesse jackson acting as peacemaker and urging his rivals to stick to the issues and stop playing ``how bruised i am.''
the debate heated up quickly with rep. richard gephardt and sen. paul simon continuing their running dispute over simon commercials that attack gephardt. then sen. albert gore jr. and gephardt had a run-in over remarks gephardt's campaign manager made about gore
new hampshire democratic front-runner michael dukakis attacked gephardt for accepting money from political action committees and also for supporting an oil import fee
at times it was hard to distinguished who was shouting at whom
what's your energy policy,'' former front-runner gary hart asked the massachusetts governor
this is a budget issue,'' chimed in former gov. bruce babbitt of arizona
can i finish my answer?'' asked dukakis
the nationally televised one-hour debate, sponsored by the league of women voters, took place at st. anselm college in goffstown
the league was sponsoring a republican debate at the college on sunday
meanwhile, two polls showed bush and dole locked in a tie for the lead in new hampshire's republican primary, with dukakis enjoying a solid advantage among democrats
an abc-washington post poll gave bush and dole each 29 percent. kemp, pat robertson and former delaware gov. pete du pont were tied for third with 12 percent. dukakis had 40 percent with gephardt and simon each at 16 percent
the poll was based on interviews with 375 likely democratic primary voters and 373 likely republican primary voters over three days ending friday. it had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points for the democrats and six percentage points for the republican sample
the sunday boston globe said its poll of 789 new hampshire voters surveyed thursday, friday and saturday showed 39 percent of the democrats for dukakis, with 14 percent for gephardt and 13 percent for simon
dole was favored by 32 percent of the likely republican voters, and bush had 28 percent. ten percent were undecided. the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percentage points
at his first campaign stop of the day, gephardt, the winner in iowa last monday, warned his rivals _ particularly simon _ that negative campaigning now could hurt the party's chance to win the presidency
we're not going to win this if we're brawling in the mud,'' said gephardt, who has been the target of simon commercials focusing on the missouri congressman's votes in favor of the b-1 bomber and nuclear power
kemp of new york, whose candidacy hinges on the support of new hampshire republican voters on tuesday, unveiled a new television commercial attacking dole for not being effective enough in the fight to get congressional approval of aid to the nicaraguan contras
kemp spokesman john buckley described dole as ``relatively passive on the issue'' of contra aid
when the congressman was asked if his candidacy could survive a finish behind robertson on tuesday, he replied: ``he's not going to beat me in new hampshire.''
dog sled races in laconia drew kemp, bush and dukakis, while du pont went rummaging for votes at the bedford town dump
noticing campaign workers for dole and bush passing out literature at the dump, which attracts 400 to 500 people on a saturday, du pont said, ``here's a real candidate.''
dukakis, at an appearance in dover, shrugged off criticism in a gephardt television commercial that called him ``one of the biggest tax raisers in massachusetts history.''
i've cut taxes five times in the last four years,'' dukakis said, adding that he did not want to see the democrats letting themselves ``disintegrate into the kind of backyard squabbling that bush and dole have been involved in.''
robertson toured shopping malls on the seacoast, shaking hands and telling people, ``i need some help on tuesday.''
the former evangelist told reporters, ``it's a horserace all the way, and i think we might see some surprises come tuesday night. but the momentum is on my side right now and that's the good way to be at this stage.''
bush appeared at a high school in wolfeboro with gov. john h. sununu and hall of fame baseball player ted williams and was on the offensive against dole
i think bob is making some statements that are pretty extravagant,'' said the vice president. ``bob dole says when ronald reagan wants something done he calls bob dole. but when he wanted somebody to be the vice presidnt of the united states, he called me.''
in addition to his campaigning, robertson was the candidate featured this weekend in the televised interviews by david frost, part of the series called, ``the next president.''
asked about libyan leader moammar gadhafi, the former television evangelist said, ``i wouldn't have hesitated to kill him. he's a madman and he was a terrorist.''
dole picked up the endorsement of former defense secretary donald rumsfeld who dreamed of being one of the gop candidates but eventually decided against entering the race
also appearing with dole at jaffrey was former secretary of state alexander m. haig jr., who dropped out of the race on friday and endorsed the kansan
addressing a rally at conant high school, dole said, ``some people say bob dole is pretty tough. you better hope i'm tough. we're talking about our future. we're talking about our children's future. we're talking about our grandchildren.''
it was clear that dole's victory in iowa coupled with bush's embarrassing third-place finish had blown away the big edge the vice president once held in new hampshire surveys
new hampshire could be a last stand for kemp and du pont, as well as for two democrats, former gov. bruce babbitt of arizona and former sen. gary hart of colorado
kemp said he was confident he'd finish ahead of robertson in the primary. asked if he also had to beat bush or dole, he replied, ``no, i've got to be competitive. i've got to be up in the pack among the leaders. and that's what our goal is.''
you have to do well, you have to start beating somebody,'' conceded du pont, who finished fifth in iowa and is running the same in new hampshire surveys
the new kemp ad took swipes at both dole and bush on the contra aid issue
the commercial said that in the recent house vote that rejected president reagan's request for more money for the contras, eight bush supporters were among those who voted against the money. the ad also quoted dole as telling the boston globe ``he wasn't concerned about (nicaraguan president daniel) ortega or his army. is that leadership?''
when reporters asked how kemp could attack dole, when the senator had voted for contra aid, buckley said, ``sure he's voted in the right place. but this guy has run for the last year on leadership. ... bob dole has been relatively passive on this issue.''
republican presidential contender sen. bob dole has continued to spend thousands of dollars with a travel agency owned by the daughter and son-in-law of a former dole political aide, a newspaper report said sunday
dole cut political ties with dave owen, his former chief fund-raiser and a former kansas lieutenant governor, after questions were raised last month about owen's business dealings
but according to federal election commission records, the campaign of dole, r-kan., paid more than $80,000 in the last quarter of 1987 to international tours of alexandria, va., the kansas city star reported
a dole spokesman said the campaign decided it would be unfair to stop buying travel services from international tours, which is owned by owen's daughter, deborah, and his son-in-law, kent wells
it seemed remarkably unfair to make debbie suffer more than she already has on a personal level,'' said scott morgan, the campaign's chief counsel
the agency has been providing services from the start,'' morgan said. he said campaign america, dole's political action committee, had used international tours and it ``seemed a natural continuation'' to use the travel agency in dole's presidential bid
morgan said the campaign gets no price breaks on travel services, and said nothing was wrong with the relationship. a federal election commission spokesman generally agreed
as long as they're paying the going rate, there's no problem,'' said fred eiland, the federal election commission's chief spokesman. eiland said such special treatment by a company could violate campaign finance laws against corporate contributions or individual contributions exceeding $1,000. continuing sunday. picks up 4th graf pvs, `the government ...' subs 9th graf pvs to conform. ^by hasan saeed</note>
protesters fought police and detonated homemade bombs saturday as opposition parties renewed their drive to oust president hussain muhammad ershad. one person was killed and at least 34 injured
a general strike that continued sunday shut down most shops and businesses in dhaka and other major cities
since the major opposition parties launched their anti-ershad campaign last nov. 10, there have been 24 days of general strikes
there were no reports of violence sunday morning
saturday's violence, in which nine people were arrested, comes on the heels of bloody street battles during local elections last wednesday
the government on saturday raised its official death toll from the election-day melees to 101. most of the deaths occurred in clashes among supporters of rival opponents for seats on more than 4,370 village councils
unofficial death counts in bangladesh newspapers put the figure at 135. hundreds were injured
sheik hasina, leader of the opposition awami league, said saturday she had reports of more than 350 deaths in the wednesday rampages
in addition, confrontations between protesters throwing bricks and bombs and police firing rifles and tear gas have killed 25 people by the government's count, 100 by hasina's count, since nov. 10
on saturday, like last wednesday, much of the damage was done by homemade bombs, which are being used increasingly by political protesters here
one person was killed and at least 14 injured by a bomb thrown at a state-run bus in mirpur, a northern suburb of dhaka, witnesses and hospital officials said
rahul amina, a student who accompanied one of the bus victims to a hospital, said some injured passengers fled the scene for fear of being asked by police to be witnesses
another bomb injured 10 people in central dhaka
ten other injuries were reported after police wielding batons clashed with about 100 slogan-shouting demonstrators near the capital's central office, witnesses reported
police posted outside dhaka university accused students of hurling homemade bombs toward shuttered shopping centers nearby. no casualties were reported
twenty-one of the country's major opposition parties began their campaign more than three months ago to force ershad to resign
ershad, 58, a former army general, took power in bangladesh in a bloodless coup in 1982. he was elected to the presidency in 1986 in an election the opposition contends was rigged
in an effort to appease his political opponents, ershad dissolved parliament and called for fresh elections march 3. the main opposition leaders say they will boycott the vote
a family that secretly kept a mummified body in their home for more than eight years has been linked to a cult that preaches use of nutrients and exorcism in place of traditional medicine, investigators said
i think we are touching on something, a group that hasn't been known before _ a group that is almost a secret society,'' knox county sheriff mark shearer said in a story published in sunday's chicago tribune
shearer said those involved in the cult, known as the ``holistic society,'' included several suburban chicago dentists, but he would not identify them because of pending investigations
carl stevens, the man whose withered corpse was found in bed last month in his rural knoxville home, was a diabetic who was persuaded to rely on vitamins and powdered mixes in place of his daily insulin injections, according to investigators and family members
his body was found more than eight years after he died may 12, 1979, at age 40. his brother also died at a relatively young age, and investigators were told that his death may also be related to unorthodox health practices
the holistic society disdains traditional health methods and relies instead on an extreme form of ``holistic health care,'' in which the mind and body are treated with only natural vitamins, herbs and nutrients, shearer said
treatments are administered in a quasi-religious fashion that involve the use of healing crystals, the exorcism of ``black souls or satan,'' and ``channeling'' to communicate with spirits, shearer said
there is no evidence that the health cult is violent or guilty of anything other than encouraging bizarre health practices for the unwary, shearer said
in the weeks before his death, stevens had cut his daily insulin intake in half and was taking up to 20 vitamin pills a day, according to an aunt, frances kennelly of lambe, mo
stevens, who had been a member of the knoxville high school board of education, died after vomiting a ``black substance,'' his 42-year-old wife, carole, told investigators
the only criminal charges in the case were lodged against mrs. stevens, a former nurse, and former aurora dentist richard g. kunce, 56. both are charged with forging the dead man's name on legal and bank documents and with cruelty to children. the stevenses' teen-age son and daughter lived in the house with the mummified corpse
kunce, who is in custody, and mrs. stevens, who is out on bond, have already pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of failing to report stevens' death
in another twist to the case, investigators say they found a ``travel permit'' from the right-wing posse comitatus anti-tax group in the wallet of kunce, who moved in with the stevens family 18 months ago as their ``spiritual leader.''
kunce was introduced to the stevens family by carl stevens' brother, roger, a st. charles lawyer who was apparently the first family member to become involved in the health cult, shearer said
investigators and family members said roger persuaded his brother to use the vitamins and powdered mixes in place of his daily insulin injections, and said carl even began selling the substances from his office
roger stevens died at age 43 in 1985 at a chicago hospital. his death was attributed to gastrointestinal hemorrhage and hepatic cirrhosis. but a nurse who cared for him told investigators, ``i think it was his diet that killed him,'' according to the tribune
a man who threatened to blow himself up in a bar with dynamite he'd strapped to his body was taken into custody by police early sunday after four hours of negotiations. authorities later found no explosives
john james allgood, 33, of arlington walked out of the plaza lounge shirtless, following police instructions, and surrendered to authorities at about 12:10 a.m., said arlington police spokesman dee anderson
the officers did not find any explosives. they did find a hoax device. people in the bar had seen something so we knew allgood had something,'' anderson said
bartender ina silloway said the man came into the bar shortly after 8 p.m. and walked around for a few minutes before ordering a 12-pack of beer to go. when she returned with the beer, she said, he handed her a valentine's greeting card
it said something to the effect of, `this is no joke. i have six sticks of dynamite strapped to me. if you look at me, i will show you,'' ms. silloway said
at that point i looked up and he showed me,'' she said, adding that the man told her he planned to ``commit police suicide.''
police say allgood, who was alone inside the bar, threatened to harm no one but himself
police cordoned off the area, but because other nearby businesses were closed saturday night there was no need for any evacuation, said officer ken burton
charges were pending against allgood, anderson said, but he would not specify what they involve
former president richard nixon said in the sunday times that sen. edward kennedy should run for president this year and his character would be his greatest asset
in the first of a series of articles on the elections, nixon predicted if there is an economic recession this year, ``any one of the democrats will win. if there is not a recession, the democrats cannot win without a charismatic candidate such as kennedy or (new york gov. mario) cuomo.''
drafting kennedy ``would bring the still potent magic of the kennedy name to a party that had been demoralized by six months of fruitless campaigning,'' nixon wrote. ``kennedy's eloquence could bring the party together.''
the massachusetts democrat ``will turn 57 in eight days,'' nixon wrote. ``if he is ever going to run for president, a 1988 draft would be his best shot.''
kennedy, who was born feb. 22, 1932, is ``the least discussed but most logical candidate for a draft. ... his greatest strength would be the character issue, both its negative side and especially its positive side,'' the republican former president wrote
no one will ever forget chappaquiddick,'' he wrote, referring to a july 1969 auto accident in which he was the driver and a woman passenger was killed. ``the question is whether people have forgiven him for it,'' he wrote. ``if the media hound kennedy over that tragic accident 19 years agothey might well help him rather than hurt him _ and also land themselves in the political doghouse.''
soviet authorities saturday expelled to sweden two estonian activists who were trying to organize an independant estonian party, a human rights group and the swedish national news agency tt reported
the two men, buddhists with shaven heads, arrived on an soviet aeroflot flight and were greeted by a crowd of about 15 estonian exiles
the stockholm-based baltic helsinki group quoted eke-part nomm as saying he and vello vaartnou had been told by the soviet authorities to leave the country or face imprisonment
mr. nomm, 22, said they were pressured into leaving probably because he had read an appeal to form an estonian independence party at a meeting in tartu feb. 2, the human rights group reported
numm and vaartnou, 36, belong to a group of 16 estonians who work for the formation of a national independence party, tt reported
the expulsions came shortly before the 70th anniversary of estonia's pre-soviet independence day on feb. 24, which is expected to lead to celebrations and demonstrations. similar activities are planned in lithuania, whose independence day falls on feb. 16
the soviet union annexed the three independent baltic states estonia, latvia and lithuania in 1940 in a secret pact with nazi germany
arthur mizener, author of the acclaimed first biography of f. scott fitzgerald, has died at the age of 80
mizener died of congestive heart failure thursday at the bristol, r.i., nursing home where he had lived
the far side of paradise,'' mizener's best-selling biography of fitzgerald, was published in 1951 by houghton mifflin, a decade after a heart attack ended the downward spiraling career of the chronicler of the jazz age of the 1920s
the biography was credited with reviving interest in fitzgerald, now considered one of the great american novelists of the 20th century
fitzgerald wrote ``this side of paradise,'' ``the great gatsby,'' ``tender is the night'' and ``the last tycoon,'' as well as numerous short stories
mizener taught english at cornell university from 1951 until his retirement in 1975. he wrote scores of essays and book reviews for many publications
born in erie, pa., he graduated from princeton university in 1930, received his master's degree from harvard university in 1932 and returned to princeton, where he received his doctorate in 1934
a memorial service is to be held at noon on feb. 27 at the united congregational church in little compton
he is survived by a daughter, rosemary colt of little compton, r.i.; a sister, virginia jarecki of erie and three grandchildren. official blaming israel for bombing. no pickup.</note>
three men were killed sunday when a bomb exploded in their car in the southern port city of limassol, police said
a palestine liberation organization official in nicosia said the victims were members of yasser arafat's fatah group, the main plo guerrilla faction
the official, speaking on condition of anonymity, identified the victims as mohammed sultan; mohammed buheis, also known as abu hassan kassem; and marwan kayyali
he said kayyali was a member of the plo's military council
police, however, identified one of the victims as an arab named ghazi ali hazem and said the other two victims' bodies were burned beyond recognition. they said they believed the other victims also were arabs
there was no explanation for the discrepency in identifications
the police said they did not believe the blast was related to the cyprus presidential elections sunday, and they said it didn't disrupt voting
a sizeable number of arabs, mainly lebanese and palestinians, live in limassol, which has a population of 121,000
police said the bomb went off shortly before noon as the driver tried to start the car, which was outside an apartment building
in athens, plo spokesman bassam abu sharif accused israel of being behind the slayings
israel started this open war after losing the secret war concerning the ship,'' he said, referring to plo plans to sail a group of palestinian deportees back to israel from greece
the trip has been delayed several times, and the plo has accused israel of waging a ``secret war'' against the plo to prevent the ship's sailing
four men tried to hijack a tanzania airways jet to london but were overpowered sunday after the pilot duped them into thinking he had flown them out of the country, sources said
capt. dominic ngandile was stabbed in the neck and hand and his co-pilot, christopher mnika, suffered cuts on his hands when the hijackers slashed at them after realizing they had been tricked, said airline and security sources who spoke on condition of anonymity. they said the injuries were not serious
none of the passengers on board the boeing 737 was injured
officials said there were 70 passengers, including the hijackers, and a crew of six
the sources said the hijacking occurred saturday night aboard a tanzania airways' flight between dar es salaam, the capital, and kilimanjaro, the northern town near the kenya border
passengers said at 9:17 p.m., about midway through the 50-minute flight, four men forced their way into the cockpit and threatened the captain and co-pilot with knives
airline sources said the men demanded to be flown to london, with a stop in addis ababa, the ethiopian capital, so the plane could be refueled
ngandile told the hijackers that the plane did not have enough fuel to reach addis ababa and suggested he refuel instead at a small airport at ludwar, kenya, the sources said
the hijackers agreed
instead of heading for kenya, ngandile flew the plane in a wide arc and headed back to dar es salaam airport. he also managed to send a secret distress signal to the control tower at dar es salaam
airport officials turned off the terminal lights and some of the runway lights to give the appearance that the plane was landing at a small airport
the jet landed at about 10:30 p.m. security forces called to the airport stormed the plane and took the men into custody
the four hijackers were described as residents of the semi-autonomous island of zanzibar. they were believed to be between the ages of 16 and 20
opportunity came knocking for undercover police officers who raided a house looking for drug dealers and ended up arresting their customers as they came to the door
the police street-crime unit had arrested four suspected drug dealers friday and were searching their house when the first customer knocked on the door, said lt. rafael garcia
over the next few hours, the impromptu sting operation resulted in 18 unexpected drug arrests, police said
garcia said the undercover cops intended only to arrest the dealers, but when the first would-be buyers knocked ``we decided to do a reverse sting operation.''
seized from the house were about 80 bags of heroin, an unspecified amount of cocaine, $2,900 in cash, a loaded .38-caliber revolver and assorted drug paraphernalia, police said
the owners of the building that housed tootsie's orchid lounge, a legendary honky-tonk frequented in its heyday by country music celebrities, also own the right to the tavern's name, a judge has ruled
chancellor robert s. brandt ruled friday that howard dodson, son of the late club owner hattie l. ``tootsie'' bess, lost his right to use the name when he closed the tavern in 1985 and did not renew the trade name registration his mother had filed 10 years earlier
dodson had filed suit in 1986 charging that the building's owners, mollye ashe and her brother, abe stein, were illegally using the name of the tavern which his mother had operated there for 25 years
what i want is my mother's name back,'' dodson said when he filed the suit in chancery court
but brandt said ms. ashe and her brother did not invade dodson's rights by registering the name ``world famous tootsie's orchid lounge'' with the secretary of state's office in july 1985, four months after dodson closed the club
ms. ashe and stein have leased the building to others, who have continued to operate the tavern since august 1985
tootsie's was located across the alley from the backstage door of the ryman auditorium where the grand ole opry was performed from 1943 to 1974. parts of the movie ``coal miner's daughter'' were filmed there, depicting the life of country music star loretta lynn
mrs. bess was famous for her hospitality and generosity, and her tavern became a well-known refuge for aspiring entertainers, musicians and songwriters, many of whom went on to achieve fame and fortune,'' brandt wrote
but when the opry moved to the opryland theme park complex in the suburbs, country stars dropped in less often and business in general dropped off
mrs. bess died in 1978
her son's decision to close the bar ``received considerable coverage in both the local and national news media. from all indications, tootsie's was closed for good,'' brandt wrote
a fad for jewelry made from the dials of old watches may pose a danger to unsuspecting wearers: many of the old watches used radium to make them glow in the dark, and the radioactivity can cause cancer, health officials say
we're finding more and more of this stuff,'' said dr. jose lopez, supervisor at the arlington regional office of the texas bureau of radiation control. ``people suddenly think it's cool to have necklaces, earrings, bola tie clasps and other things made with old watches.''
but the radium on some old watch dials can cause cancer, either on the skin or internally if the substance is inadvertently inhaled or swallowed
like calcium, radium powder seeks the bone,'' he said
radium jewelry definitely poses an increased risk of cancer,'' lopez said
radium was used in watches to make the hands and numbers glow, he said. watch makers have since developed other ways to cause fluorescence
when the watches were intact, with glass covering the dial, they were relatively harmless because the glass acted as a shield
but the risk has increased since the watches have been dismantled to make jewelry, and the risk is even greater to jewelers and other people who work with the timepieces than it is to buyers, he said
three workshops in the dallas area that were found to be handling the watches all registered some radioactive contamination, he said
workers were getting the radium on their fingers and clothes, lopez said
we found several places in the work areas that were hot'' with contamination, he said
we're sure there are other places out there,'' he said
the work is illegal as well as hazardous, lopez said. people who handle radioactive materials must have a state license and to get one, an applicant must take stringent precautions against contamination
the radiation control bureau did not issue citations but told companies to remedy the contamination, lopez said
officials at the texas department of health regional office in arlington offered free testing of jewelry for radiation and free disposal of contaminated pieces, lopez said
a nuclear accident was averted with minutes to spare aboard a british submarine in scotland last month, the observer newspaper reported sunday. the ministry of defense denied there had been a crisis
no public announcement had been made earlier about the incident
on sunday, a ministry spokesman who wouldn't be identified said: ``there was no emergency. there was no possibility of anybody, crew or general public, being subjected to any radiation problems. there was a minor electrical malfunction but no radioactive material was released.''
the spokesman said the weekly was incorrect in claiming a nuclear accident was averted by minutes
the observer said that, on jan. 26, at the nuclear submarine base at faslane near glasgow, a fault developed in the primary cooling system of the nuclear reactor power plant on hms resolution, the oldest of britain's four operational nuclear submarines, commissioned in 1967
the fault led to heat building up in the reactor's core, threatening a meltdown, and potential disaster was only averted when two of the crew ran to start up a diesel generator to provide alternative power for the cooler, the report said
it said there was only between 1{ and 7 minutes for the crew to take action and one of the two crewmen had to be scrubbed down for 24 hours afterward because he was exposed to radiation
a meltdown could have released radioactivity contaminating 2,000 square miles with ``devastating consequences'' for the 13,000 people living within a five-mile radius of the base, the report said
round springs road isn't what most people would call a road. it's a path that winds around the bluff and dips twice into round springs before it reaches the western handle co
that's twice suppliers, buyers, and the occasional visitor have to drive through the shallow creek to get to the company located just outside tia juana, a small northeastern oklahoma community east of disney
there are a few electric saws and automated lathes and sanders at the wooden handle mill to hint that the industrial revolution once visited. and a home computer used in the office is proof the computer age stopped by
of course, making wooden handles for tools and farm implements is a business that hasn't changed much since ed willhite started the company in 1934. the only difference now is how fast a handle can be made with the help of machines, he said
willhite made some of the electric equipment used in the mill and other machinery was bought through the years as the company expanded
this is just a baby company compared to some of the others,'' willhite said
but co-owner bob bradley, who bought the company from the willhite's in 1981, is proud of this mill, the only company of its kind in oklahoma
we don't try to compete with the others. we just make our product and do what we can,'' bradley said
the 90-year-old willhite has been retired since 1961. he turned the business over to his two oldest sons, who ran it for more than 20 years before selling it to bradley and joe myers. the two had 20 years with the company between them when they took it over
bradley said business is fair at the mill, with 15 employees working on the three-acre operation producing an average of 5,000 handles a day that range from a 10-inch machinist handle to a 60-inch pitch fork handle
but business isn't as good as it was in 1975 when bradley joined a 35-man crew that produced as much as 10,000 handles a day. he blames that on a depressed state economy that has forced most businesses to cut back
the mill now operates on a temporary three-day work week in the slow winter season, but it won't be long before business picks back up and the company is flooded with orders, bradley said
right now we're trying to stockpile our supply so we can meet the demand in the spring when it comes,'' he said
bradley said the company sells to lumber yards, hardware stores and other handle companies. state prisons also buy from the mill for their farming projects
willhite said he thinks the mill has manufactured and sold enough handles over the years to ``make a rick 8-foot high from here to tulsa,'' a stretch of some 60 miles
willhite started the company in 1934 ``with a shave horse and a knife,'' making about a dozen handles a day. in 1942, they moved west to the remote wooded area it's nestled in now
we couldn't get any good white hickory out of arkansas,'' he said
these days, the western handle co. gets an ample supply of hickory, ash, and red and white oak from tennessee, and some from ohio, willhite said
myers said the western handle co. really still is in the willhite family because he's married to willhite's granddaughter and calls him grandpa. and many of the employees are related or have the willhite name, he said
you're the one who started this thing,'' myers told willhite. ``sometimes we've got to get him in here to straighten things out.''
i may have started it, but i can't take all the credit,'' willhite said. ``i'm not the one who finished it.''
vietnam's communist leaders observed a minute of silence at a ceremony in the former south vietnam capital of saigon to mark the 20th anniversary of the tet offensive, a report seen sunday said
communist party chief nguyen van linh and prime minister pham hung attended the ceremony friday in ho chi minh city, which saigon was renamed after the 1975 communist victory, the official vietnam news agency said
it said vo tran chi, the secretary of the city's party committee, told participants that the 1968 offensive against u.s. and south vietnamese forces ``had created the necessary prerequisites for the entire party, army and people to advance in the following years to total victory.''
the participants observed a minute of silence in memory of those compatriots and combatants who had fought heroically and laid down their lives in the fierce battles 20 years ago,'' the report said
an exhibition of photographs and relics of the offensive has been opened to mark the anniversary, the report added
the communists took enormous casualties in launching the tet, or lunar new year, offensive beginning on jan. 30, 1968, striking at more than 100 cities and towns across south vietnam
u.s. and south vietnamese forces turned them back, but the offensive convinced some americans that the war was unwinnable and fueled the antiwar movement. the u.s. military withdrew in 1973
the north vietnamese won the war with a lightning invasion of the south in april 1975
the new hampshire primary could be the last hurrah for several presidential candidates who have suggested radical changes in social security ranging from letting young workers opt out of the system to taxing all of affluent retirees' benefits
but even if the candidates who stumped for those ideas are gone, social security will remain a hot issue in this presidential race, just as it was in 1984 and in the last three congressional elections
the likelihood is that it will also be a provocative topic in 1992 and every four years after that for the foreseeable future. too many americans have too much at stake in social security for it to be otherwise
this issue may be with us for the rest of our lives,'' said paul maslin, pollster for democratic candidate paul simon
in the iowa caucuses, the candidates most closely associated with calls for changes in social security, republican pete du pont and democrat bruce babbitt, took a shellacking
republican pat robertson, who like du pont favors privatizing some of social security, finished a strong second, but it was his stand on moral issues, not pensions, that galvanized his iowa supporters
du pont, who contends the system will crash in the next century under the weight of the retired baby boomers unless they are allowed to save their own retirement funds, finished a distant fifth
rep. jack kemp of new york, the republicans' most vigorous defender of the status quo in social security, was fourth, but hoping to move up in new hampshire with his unbridled attacks on sen. bob dole and vice president george bush for supporting a freeze on social security in 1985
dole, on the other hand, is telling voters everywhere he goes about his role on the national commission on social security reform in 1983, when the kansas senator helped hammer out a last-minute compromise that put social security back in the black
you don't have to worry about it being broke. you don't have to worry about getting your checks. and there i made a difference,'' says dole, who never fails to add that kemp voted against the social security rescue plan. the new york congressman says he did so because of its increase in payroll taxes
kemp also argued that it was the improved economy and reduced unemployment that revived social security's fortunes
kemp's hard-hitting ad campaign against dole and bush on social security has rekindled memories of the way claude pepper hammered reagan and other republicans for backing deep social security cuts in 1981
du pont has accused kemp of repeatedly misrepresenting his plan to allow workers to set up tax-free savings accounts if they relinquish future social security benefit rights. du pont says kemp's attacks ``remind me of the demagoguery practices by the democratic party in the 1982 elections.''
some republicans, including dole, have said it was the democrats' pounding on senior citizens' fear of social security cuts or freezes that cost the gop control of the senate in 1986
on the democrats' side, babbitt has called for ``a universal needs test to discipline government programs,'' including social security, and suggested making wealthier retirees pay income tax on all their benefits instead of half
gary hart also has suggested taxing 85 percent of the benefits
the other democrats generally have been vowing to safeguard social security and its cola's
we're going to keep it away from the republican budget knives forever,'' promises missouri rep. richard gephardt
social security's trust funds, which started 1988 with $67 billion, are expected to swell to $104 billion by the start of 1989 and to top $400 billion by 1994 and $1 trillion before the end of the decade
ultimately, social security's trust fund is expected to peak at $12 trillion _ $2.5 trillion in today's dollars _ around 2020, then be drawn down to nothing by 2050 to help pay the baby boomers' retirement
du pont and robertson have argued that even before the trust funds are depleted, there will be nothing in there but government iou's. to pay off those iou's _ actually, interest-bearing treasury bonds _ du pont says, ``we face a big tax increase.''
when du pont asked 80 people at a debate in manchester, n.h., how many thought social security would be there for them at 65, three people raised their hands
more scientific polls have shown young workers remain dubious about their personal prospects for social security
but that sentiment has not translated into support for politicians such as du pont and babbitt who suggest overhauling or even tinkering with social security
maslin, the simon pollster, said, ``the elites have attempted to move the debate in a direction the voters don't want to move yet.'' young voters don't expect to get social security themselves, maslin said, but they do expect it to be there for their parents
for all of the provocation, the voters are still on the side of protection,'' said maslin. ``they understand that if the government does not provide those benefits, they are going to have to pay for their parents' retirement or health problems.''
the university of rhode island's traditional thursday night fraternity parties have succumbed to the complaints of professors who teach friday morning classes
the interfraternity council voted last week to stop holding the beer blasts after professors complained that too many students were sleeping in class or skipping it entirely the next day
we feel that the fraternity system has a commitment to education, and thursday night parties seemed to hinder us in attaining that goal,'' said eric andreozzi of phi gamma delta, president of the council
in addition, thursday night parties dated from a time when most uri students were rhode island residents who headed home on friday, but more students these days are likely to live on campus, andreozzi said
panama, skating on the edge of a fiscal disaster, was awaiting word from private bankers this week on whether they will accept a bailout scheme that could keep the country out of default
ricaurte vasquez, panama's planning minister, met in new york late last week with a committee representing 150 commercial bank creditors in a new effort to keep the country afloat by delaying loan interest payments
panama owes the private banks $200 million in interest this year, with the bulk of it scheduled to come due in mid-march. but the country's dollar reserves are virtually depleted and it is unlikely it can meet its commitments
vasquez first met with the creditor committee in december and asked that $100 million of the interest due this year be added to the principal for future payment. the bankers were said to have shown little interest in that plan
it was not known if vasquez offered the bankers a new bailout plan last week, but he said recently that his government might have to dismiss as many as 15,000 public employees next month to reduce its cash flow
one out of every four panamanian workers is employed by the government, many owing their jobs to loyalty to the democratic revolutionary party, which has close ties to the country's de facto leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega
much of what little popularity noriega still retains comes from the public sector,'' said a western diplomat. ``if the government is forced to make layoffs in that sector, it obviously won't help noriega's image.''
noriega has been under pressure to resign since last summer from a broad but loose coalition known as the national civic crusade. it counts more than 200 civic, business, professional, labor and other groups as members
the opposition's charges of corruption against noriega were given added weight earlier this month when he was indicted by federal grand juries in miami and tampa, fla., on charges of drug smuggling, money laundering and racketeering
the general, who dominates the counry's civilian government as head of panama's defense forces, sent his army into the streets last year to quell demonstrations by the civic crusade, and the opposition has increasingly turned to what one official called ``economic warfare.''
the tactics, which have added to the government's fiscal woes, include removal of deposits from state banks and the avoidance or late payment of utility fees and taxes. the civic crusade also has called several nationwide strikes, but none has been particularly successful
the crusade's activities are an annoyance, i'm sure,'' said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``but that's a really small part of panama's problem.''
the problem, which noriega inherited, comes from a huge public debt rolled up by a predecessor, gen. omar torrijos, who came to power in a 1968 coup and began an ambitious program of building schools, health clinics, roads and other public facilities
the world bank put panama's total foreign debt at $4.8 billion at the end of 1986, the latest year for which figures are available. the u.s. commerce department says the government declared itself in ``informal, indefinite default'' to all governmental lenders last year, meaning it made no interest or principal payments
the united states halted all aid to panama's government last year, and the world bank and the international monetary fund also cut off lending programs pending compliance by panama with an imf demand for a restructuring of its social security programs
diplomats and private economists say the government has been loathe to make the reforms for fear of losing further popular support, particularly among the lower and middle classes who benefit most from the programs
the government's fiscal crisis appears to have had little effect on the private economy, particularly among the more than 120 foreign banks that maintain offices here and make panama one of the western hemisphere's largest banking centers
the banking sector could face problems if the crisis deepens because it is highly dependent on a sense of confidence and stability,'' the diplomat said. ``but so far there have been no failures, nobody has pulled out and deposits remain relatively stable.''
the military said sunday it sent 4,000 troops to protect voters in the southern island province of sulu, the last area to vote in the philippines' violence-marred regional elections
the island's 214,000 voters are to choose three governors, 18 mayors and 126 members of town councils monday in the final stage of balloting that began four weeks ago
about 50 moslem bandits friday attacked the southern island town of maimbun, about 600 miles south of manila, said col. romeo abendan, head of the philippine constabulary of sulu
he said four people were killed, three of them members of the moslem rebel moro national liberation front
on saturday, bandits attacked kulasi village just outside maimbung, but no casualties were reported, he said. in nearby luuk, rival political groups traded fire with automatic weapons, but there were no reported fatalities, he said
col. anthony elias said 4,000 marine and army troops have joined constabulary and special forces to prevent violence during voting in the largely moslem province and moro stronghold
we expect some disturbance after the voting, which is normal, especially when trends begin to show,'' elias told reporters
most filipinos voted jan. 18 in an election that president corazon aquino said restored full democracy nearly two years after the ouster of president ferdinand marcos. but voting was postponed in 11 of the 73 provinces because of fears of violence from communist rebels and regional warlords
in manila, defense secretary fidel ramos said saturday that his department was studying proposals to assist the military against the 24,000-member communist new people's army
ramos did not specify what measures were under review, but he previously has called for restoring the death penalty for rebels
ramos also has proposed an unspecified ``package of legal weapons'' to enable the military to crush the 19-year insurgency. such calls have led to speculation that the government was considering a limited state of emergency in some provinces
mrs. aquino told reporters friday she would await recommendations from ramos before deciding whether to impose emergency measures
human rights groups have denounced such proposals. marcos imposed martial law from 1972 to 1981 and said it was to prevent a communist takeover. the move helped fuel opposition to the administration that culminated in the february 1986 uprising that toppled marcos
the recent spate of skittish economic indicators is raising concerns that the next president will take office without the tools to combat a recession, even if an election-year downturn can be avoided
that's because the federal budget deficit has grown so huge that the historical remedies for jolting an economy out of a recession _ lower taxes and more federal spending _ simply will not be available to the next president, a growing number of analysts suggest
in fact, if anything, the next occupant of the oval office will be under extreme pressure to press for higher taxes to reduce the budget deficit _ a tactic that would become all but impossible during an actual recession
in 1981, when the last recession began, the federal budget deficit stood at $78 billion. by 1987, with the recovery from that recession entering its sixth year, the shortfall was $148 billion after soaring to a record $221 billion in 1986
the bloated budget deficits of the 1980s will make it that much harder for ronald reagan's successor to cope with a recession, say analysts troubled by recent reports showing a faltering economy and by last week's congressional budget office report that the deficit may hit $176 billion next year
economists and political leaders are coming down with a good case of the jitters
the ability of the new president to use the discretionary parts of the budget, particularly large tax cuts, just aren't there,'' said david jones, senior economist for aubrey g. lanston and co
and william dunkelberg, business school dean at temple university, suggests: ``the chicken is coming home to roost. on oct. 19 (the stock market plunge) he came looking for a place to roost but he didn't do it. he was just observed to be a very large chicken.''
so far, the focus has been on whether the nation will avoid an election-year recession that could spell disaster for republican candidates
but, even if recession is escaped this year, many analysts see one lurking just around the corner _ perhaps in 1989. that would present reagan's successor with painful policy choices from his very first day
under the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction act, passed in 1985 and revised last year, the budget deficit is supposed to be trimmed to $136 billion next year. congress and the white house, in a rare show of cooperation, cut a deal in the aftermath of the stock crash spelling out broad outlines of a package to do just that
white house budget director james c. miller iii says that the fiscal 1989 budget that the president submits to congress next week will hit that $136 billion target on the nose, even though ``it will be close.''
but the cbo has cast serious doubt on that projection with its report last week that the federal deficit in fiscal 1989, which begins next oct. 1, would miss the gramm-rudman target by $40 billion even under terms of the white house-congress budget compromise
if a recession hits, all bets are off. both the white house and the cbo projections assume that growth will slow in 1988, not be negative. (a recession is usually defined as a decline in the gross national product for two consecutive quarters, after adjustments for inflation
deficits usually expand in recessions because tax revenues are off at the same time demand for government benefits rises
nobel laureate paul a. samuelson, an economics professor at the massachusetts institute of technology, suggests that if the nation gets lucky and a recession doesn't arrive by 1989, it could present a rare chance to get the government's fiscal house in order
it can be done in the early years of the next president,'' samuelson said
but samuelson and many other economists say major reductions in the deficit likely will require new taxes _ a course reagan has steadfastly resisted throughout his term
of all the presidential candidates, only democrat bruce babbit advocates higher taxes to reduce the deficit even though all 13 _ six republicans and seven democrats _ give reducing the deficit a top priority
economic consultant pat choate of trw says that regardless of whom is elected, barring a recession, ``the next president will raise taxes.''
the case for a tax increase ``is now much stronger than it was in 1984,'' when democratic presidential candidate walter mondale braved much political derision to advocate one, says harvard economist lawrence summers
still, murray weidenbaum, economics professor at washington university in st. louis and reagan's first chairman of the council of economic advisers, argues: ``given the softness of the economy, it would be hard to find a worse time to talk about a significant tax increase.''
either way _ a painful recession or a major tax increase _ the economic policy options facing the next president will be limited and difficult
the question is: who would want to win control of the white house or the congress this time? maybe that's why nobody is running,'' jokes temple's dunkelberg
esther ruth langford says she struggles daily to pay her bills, and she counts on the $161 royalty check she gets each month from exxon co. usa to help stretch her social security income
but exxon officials claim mrs. langford, a widow, owes the houston-based company $37,000, because oil pumped from her property and sold in the late '70s and early '80s was overpriced
there's no way in the world i could pay that,'' mrs. langford said last week. ``i'd have to sell everything i've got. and i don't know if that would do it or not.''
mrs. langford is one of 2,300 defendants named in an exxon federal class-action lawsuit. the list of defendants includes a millionaire or two and other oil companies. it also includes the salvation army and school districts
exxon is suing because a federal court decided in 1983 that the company had overcharged customers for oil pumped from the defendants' land. the court ordered exxon to refund $895.5 million, and now exxon wants the royalty owners to help with the restitution
the defendants argue that they should not have to pay for exxon's errors
they got their fingers caught in the till and now they want the people in hawkins to pay it back,'' said gerald langford, mrs. langford's stepson. he is being asked for $49,000
many defendants live in this pine-forested community of about 1,300. they are original landowners, their heirs, or beneficiaries who receive royalties _ a portion of proceeds from the sale of oil and gas pumped from their property
the hawkins field lies about 4,400 feet below ground. it was discovered in 1940; in 1975, landowners and heirs agreed to let exxon pump the field as a unit, believing they could increase its production and extend its life
oil from the hawkins field unit should have been priced according to federal regulations implemented during the carter administration, but the federal government charged exxon did not follow the regulations
exxon claimed the overpricing was the result of interpretations of complicated federal pricing guidelines
as exxon appealed the restitution order, and lost, the sum swelled to $2.1 billion because of interest. exxon, in a statement distributed by spokesman les rogers, said that since owners' payments were based on the disallowed higher prices, they should expect to help pay the refund
exxon said it warned royalty owners that its prices were being challenged and they might have to pay back some money they received, and said the court permitted it to seek repayment. the company settled with about 1,500 defendants, but time was running out so the suit was filed, rogers said
none of the interest owners told us not to pay them at that higher rate. no one told us to pay them the lower rate,'' said rogers
i had nothing to do with it,'' said mrs. langford, 62. ``they didn't consult me when they priced the oil. they did that themselves.'' she said exxon sent her a letter asking her to settle, but ``i didn't get that kind of income.''
royalty owners receive about one-eighth of the proceeds from the sale of oil and gas pumped from their property
exxon is seeking $104,000 from the hawkins school district, which has elementary, middle and high schools, said superintendent wendell mcguire
any time you take $100,000 from a program, it's going to affect it,'' mcguire said. he's not sure where the district's $4.2 million budget would be cut if forced to pay, but expects the elementary school would lose a planned computer lab
some defendants are heirs and are being asked to pay back money spent by their parents
gerald langford inherited his interest from his father. ``they sent me a notice that i owed them $49,000. i only had it (the royalty ownership) for three years,'' he said
hubert smith, 82, settled. the settlement includes an agreement not to discuss figures. ``i don't think i should have owed it but it seemed as if i was going to have to pay, so i got it off my mind,'' smith said. ``i got them down to an agreeable sum.''
smith said he paid with royalty money he had saved and invested
george bramblett jr., a dallas attorney, represents jarvis christian college, a predominantly black college in hawkins; the meredith foundation, a philanthropic organization; and several individuals
exxon wants the foundation to repay $4 million, he said
our first line of defense is that exxon has no right under the government regulations to seek this restitution,'' said bramblett. ``they set the price on the oil and gas and if they made the mistake it's their problem.''
hundreds of royalty owners have chosen to wait for the outcome of the suit, which does not yet have a trial date
i can't afford an attorney,'' mrs. langford said
it looks like an ordinary set of false teeth, but it's mounted in something that looks like a machine-shop drill press
it doesn't look like an artificial mouth, but it works like one,'' said dr. william douglas, who directs the artificial resynthesis technology study at the university of minnesota
scientists are using a pair of the bulky machines, the only ones of their kind, to test dental products and conduct other kinds of research
douglas and his colleagues can duplicate the rigors of a year of chewing in a single day. that, he says, offers hope for vast improvement in the quality of dental fillings and crowns and in scientists' ability to understand the forces of chewing and digestion
without the new technology, douglas explains, manufacturers must test and prove the durability of their wares in the mouths of real subjects. years of grinding and chomping must go by before researchers can judge a product's merit
if you put this together, you have an investigative tool,'' said douglas, 50, who left a research post in wales to do research at the university
if you have an obedient artificial mouth which is believable, you have something to enable you to approach many tough problems that otherwise would be very difficult to do.''
the mouth began taking shape when douglas joined the dental research staff at minnesota in 1978. his endowed chair is partly funded by 3m co., based in the st. paul suburb of maplewood. 3m is a leading manufacturer of fillings, crowns and other dental products
douglas soon learned of a company, mts systems corp., in suburban eden prairie that builds test equipment with the precision and sophistication he needed to replicate mouth dynamics in the laboratory
along with colleagues ralph delong and r.l. sakaguchi, douglas adapted mts equipment to build the mechanical mouths
the next step was artificial saliva. a researcher at state university of new york at buffalo has learned how to make it, and he sends douglas and company quantities to use with the mouth. jets shoot the saliva and other lubricants between test teeth the way ducts do in real life
along with the mouth, the dental researchers have developed computer imaging technology that maps precisely where and how teeth wear out
it's a very painstaking procedure right now, where you're marking on teeth ... and measuring them,'' said walter poxon, international professional services manager for 3m. ``this computer imaging is the state of the art in dental materials research. it really does give you an accurate picture of what's happening.''
douglas has other, more ambitious dreams for his mouth. now, it chews only in the sense that it simulates the wear-and-tear of chewing. he wants it to masticate fully _ to grind, break down and even swallow food
the next step: development of artificial tongues and cheeks. douglas is poring over scientific papers for background while he prepares applications for national institute of health grants to finance more work in that direction
i want to figure out how this thing can give a good simulation of what happens in the human mouth. for that you need a tongue and cheek mechanism,'' douglas said. ``it's very tough. it's a very difficult thing to do.''
douglas sees a complete artificial mouth as a research tool for food-product development, a field in which tenderness, texture and ``mouth feel'' possess tremendous importance. the artificial mouth would be able to quantify precisely the oral effort product x would demand of the consumer
you have an instrument that can figure out just how much mastication has to go into that beef,'' he said
some youth gangs are taking a corporate approach to selling drugs, complete with accounting and marketing divisions and bonuses for top salesmen, according to michigan state university researchers
this is a street version of wall street. it's straight out of any graduate school of business,'' said carl taylor, an adjunct professor of criminal justice and one of five researchers in a five-year study on gangs
he cited as an example richard ``white boy rick'' wershe jr., who recently was sentenced to life in prison for selling cocaine in detroit
kids are still talking (about) his trappings and how he was rolling. in the halls of denby high school, he's a legend,'' taylor said last week
taylor and his associates studied gangs in three cities, including two ``corporate'' bands of hoods in detroit, where the study was focused
the researchers interviewed gang members on street corners and in nightclubs, aided by a researcher who was a former gang member
they found that in the corporate gangs some members would be assigned to marketing, checking out neighborhoods to assess potential sales and what competition, if any, existed
they would report back to gang leaders who would decide whether to enter that market
other members were assigned to do the actual selling. if they did well, they could be promoted to distributor and put in control of larger amounts of drugs. distributors also were responsible for keeping books
like companies in search of excellence, gang leaders would reward top salesmen with bonuses such as cars, trips, money and clothing
with the new corporate entity, they will do anything to further and protect their goals,'' taylor said. ``it's the `in' thing to be a white boy rick or young boys incorporated. that role model has replaced cub scouts, boy scouts and pro athletes. the ramifications are so deep it's scary.''
detroit police say taylor's thesis has some merit, but that corporate gangs are not that widespread
more and more of these operations are operating like businesses,'' said narcotics inspector warren harris. ``these things are planned for and these things are well-arranged. it's almost as if they've had professional guidance.''
he said older adults are usually the top leaders of drug organizations and the number of youths running such operations has declined since the days of young boys inc., a notorious detroit drug ring that operated in the 1970s. and, he said, the organizations do not always evolve from gangs
harris speculated that young criminals' ability to structure a drug business may come from watching how the legal system operates or taking advice from attorneys and other professionals
as efficient as corporate gangs might appear, there is no dominant drug distributor in the detroit area, police say
detroit's problems are shared nationwide and extend from the inner cities to wealthy suburbs, taylor said, adding that the greatest threats to corporate gangs are crackdowns, capitalism, and relatively inexpensive crack cocaine
big activity by a corporate gang often prompts big interest from the government, including the internal revenue service, taylor said, and the combined forces of the government can bring down a gang
but crack can bring about the breakdown first. the drug, far cheaper than powder cocaine, has inspired many young entrepreneurs to split off from their corporate gangs and head out on their own
it's their version of the american dream,'' taylor said
following are sales figures reported by states which have operated lotteries for at least one full accounting year, and the amount of profit turned over to the government. figures are in millions of dollars
florida, kansas, montana and south dakota have started lotteries but have not yet reported full-year figures

sales profit
arizona          142.3         51.6 california     1,400          504 colorado         113.3         35.7 connecticut      489          214 delaware          45.9         17.1 district col.    118           40 illinois       1,330          553 iowa              94.5         26.9 maine             58           18.2 maryland         760.5        332.3 massachusetts  1,270          410 michigan       1,005          410 missouri         177           80 new hampshire     58.7         20.7 new jersey     1,100          472.2 new york       1,460          666.8 ohio           1,070          376 oregon           100.4         33.2 pennsylvania   1,338          570 rhode island      57.9         21.5 vermont           25.3          7.98 washington       194           78 west virginia     66           28
a strike by ground crew workers at leonardo da vinci airport on sunday forced cancellation of some of alitalia's domestic and international flights
employees walked off the job at 7 a.m. and said they would stay out until midnight to protest the unexpected suspension of negotiations on a new contract
labor leaders representing ground crews and pilots told italian newspapers they will stage periodic strikes at italian airports until feb. 29. strikers want to force alitalia, the national flag carrier, to meet their demands for shorter hours and higher pay
travelers in italy may face other transportation problems near the end of the month, when national train strikes are planned. railroad workers plan strikes feb. 26 and feb. 28-29
police used tear gas to subdue rioting fans at a professional wrestling tournament, and two officers were injured in scuffles, a police spokesman said sunday
lt. bala naidoo said one officer was hit in the face and chest by a bottle-wielding spectator, and another was hit on the head with a chair during the saturday night disturbance
he said an unspecified number of ``angry, berserk'' fans were arrested, most of them for using obscene language. the cause of the violence was not immediately known
the crowd had gathered for a tournament that featured an appearance by a west german wrestler known as ``mighty rambo.'' 0133</first>
about 300 people marched through downtown seoul on sunday to protest what they said was government suppression of labor movements and u.s. pressure to open south korea's restricted market
police took away about 30 people for defying an order to disperse near the headquarters of the governing democratic justice party. they didn't say if charges would be filed
demonstrators shouted ``out with roh tae-woo!'' and ``the united states, stop unfair economic pressure!''
u.s. officials are asking south korea to reduce its growing trade surplus by allowing more imports of foreign cigarettes, beef and other agricultural products
south korea ran up a trade surplus of $9.3 billion with the united states last year
roh was elected president on dec. 16. errors</head>
a senior justice department official says the reagan administration might have avoided its iran-contra mistakes if it had the political nerve to stand by its plan to curb leaks with widespread polygraph tests and expanded censorship
the administration paid a real price'' for backing off president reagan's anti-leak order in 1984, said assistant attorney general richard k. willard, architect of the plan known as national security decision directive 84
that price showed up most clearly in iran-contra: people were so afraid of leaks from official channels that they bypassed those safeguards. they adopted all these other approaches that resulted in inadequate consideration and scrutiny,'' willard said in an interview before he leaves government this week for private practice
presidential and congressional investigations said the fear of leaks was a prime motive for white house aides to rely on shadowy businessmen to carry out iran and contra policies while keeping key reagan cabinet members in the dark
willard believes if these people had been consulted they would have prevented the mistakes
although willard became a symbol of government secrecy during the anti-leak fight, the 39-year-old lawyer operated quite openly during seven years at the justice department _ whether he was devising changes in intelligence policy or planning drug tests for federal employees
looking back, he said the administration's biggest victories _ such as raising public concern about drugs and adding new drug agents and drug tests _ show the importance of altering public opinion before changing government policy
and its biggest disappointments, including on-and-off support for contra rebels in nicaragua, reveal the folly of trying to sneak new policies through the washington political thicket, willard said
willard, who served at justice longer than any other reagan appointee, now heads its civil division. but he started as intelligence policy counsel to attorney general william french smith, who named him to head the inter-agency team that drafted the anti-leak order
that order would have subjected the hundreds of thousands of federal employees who see classified papers to possible firing if they refused to take polygraph tests in leak investigations. other thousands with access to the deepest secrets would have to let the government censor their speeches and writings for life
the order enraged editorial writers, many members of congress, authors and publishers, public employee unions, civil liberties groups, and _ privately _ even some of willard's colleagues at justice
willard became the directive's only public defender and was, as he put it, ``castigated daily in the columns of the new york times and the washington post'' for most of a year. the pressure forced reagan to replace the order with a small polygraph test program in the pentagon
the administration showed a lack of political nerve to deal with this problem, because they were afraid to take on the press,'' which paid more attention than the order deserved, willard said
this administration has had its greatest problems where we just try to change public policy without changing the overall climate of ideas in the country,'' willard said. ``you have real problems given the balance of power in washington between the president and congress and entrenched interest groups
no one thought then that the leak order would solve all the problems or even most of them; it was part of an effort to get a better climate of ideas about leaks.'' willard said. ``but people like bill casey (then cia director) and others who should have had an equally strong interest did not think it was important to defend and deal with the public.''
willard said president jimmy carter had the same problem with his failed military mission to rescue u.s. hostages in iran. ``people who could have helped make the project a success were not brought into it because of the fear of leaks
i feel the same way about central america,'' willard said. ``it was a mistake early in this administration to do so much covert action without developing public support.''
among administration successes, willard said, ``the whole drug issue, not just drug testing but the broader change of attitudes about drugs in this country, is a remarkable turnabout since the carter administration'' when some localities dropped criminal penalties for minor drug use
and he cited his own 3-year-old effort to reduce soaring damage awards in liability cases. ``our strategy was to emphasize the need for reform across the board, rather than say, `we need this federal statute and all our problems will be solved'.''
federal revisions still have not passed, but, after many speeches and sending reports to every state legislator, ``in 1986 and 1987, 47 of the 50 states adopted one or more of our recommendations to limit liability,'' he said
willard said if he had one thing to do over ``i would have tried to get the senior national security and intelligence people to undertake more of a personal commitment to the leak policy before committing so much of my own effort and reputation.''
after that battle, attorney general smith's deputy, edward schmults volunteered to a newsman that ``willard won't be nominated to head the civil division or any post requiring senate confirmation so long as smith and i are here.'' he wasn't nominated until edwin meese became attorney general
ten passengers on a dc-10 jet flying to copehnagen from tokyo were sightly injured sunday when the plane suddenly dropped nearly 200 feet, a spokesman for scandinavian airlines system said
sas information officer troels rasmussen said the drop in altitude lasted only a few seconds. he said 10 of the 217 passengers on board were treated in a hospital for cuts and bruises and released after the plane landed in copenhagen
the dc-10 jet was two hours out of anchorage, alaska, where it made a short stopover, when it suddenly dropped 60 meters (198 feet) from a cruising altitude of 9,300 meters (30,690 feet),'' rasmussen said
there were no injuries among passengers who had their seat belts on at the time the plane lost height, he said. the airline was investigating the incident.   
about 300 people marched through downtown seoul on sunday to protest what they said was government suppression of labor movements and u.s. pressure to open south korea's restricted market
police took away about 30 people for defying an order to disperse near the headquarters of the governing democratic justice party. they didn't say if charges would be filed
demonstrators shouted ``out with roh tae-woo!'' and ``the united states, stop unfair economic pressure!''
u.s. officials are asking south korea to reduce its growing trade surplus by allowing more imports of foreign cigarettes, beef and other agricultural products
south korea ran up a trade surplus of $9.3 billion with the united states last year
roh was elected president on dec. 16
judges used broad discretion granted under the newly enacted bail reform act of 1984 to jail a sharply higher percentage of people awaiting trial for federal crimes, the government said sunday
the chances of being jailed while awaiting trial for people accused of serious narcotics violations were 20 percent higher after the law took effect than previously, said the study by the bureau of justice statistics
after the bail reforms took effect in november 1984, the probability of being jailed was 63 percent higher for people accused of causing injuries. it was 23 percent higher for those who had used firearms and 17 percent higher for those classified as dangerous during pre-trial interviews
overall, 29 percent of the defendants awaiting trial on federal criminal charges were incarcerated until they appeared in court. this was an increase from 24 percent who were held during the same period in 1983
the study was based on information collected during a six-month period in 1985
the act permits federal courts to deny bail altogether if the government proves that no conditions of release will reasonably assure either the safety of the community or the appearance of the defendant at trial
the report suggests that pre-trial detention is being used as an alternative to holding people under high bail
william paley, the 86-year-old founder and chairman of cbs, was in satisfactory condition at a manhattan hospital sunday following gall bladder surgery earlier in the week
paley had the operation thursday and was in the intensive care unit of new york hospital-cornell medical center, according to an administrator, debbie green. she said she could provide no further information about his condition
paley bought a fledgling radio network in 1928 and turned it into the columbia broadcasting system, which he controlled for more than half a century
in april 1983, he turned the reins of cbs inc. over to thomas h. wyman
but when cbs's biggest stockholder, loew's corp., became unhappy with wyman's policies, paley teamed with loew's chairman lawrence tisch in 1986 to retake control, with paley as chairman and tisch as president and chief executive officer
veteran cbs newsman walter cronkite, who once worked as a radio and wire service reporter in kansas city, has joined a fund-raising effort to save a crumbling local landmark
cronkite narrates an emotional 16-minute film, ``union station is us,'' promoting renovation of the historic rail depot, which was built in 1914 and once accommodated 200 passenger trains a day
in the film, finished friday, cronkite recalls meeting dignitaries, including the queen of romania, at the grand old station
the committee for union station plans to distribute the film to schools, television stations and at various events before a march 8 vote. officials are asking voters for $35 million to start renovating the building
prince andrew and his wife sarah, the duke and duchess of york, made a surprise valentine's day visit to northern ireland on sunday
the royal couple toured rockport preparatory school on the shores of belfast lough, where andrew met one of his former teachers
graham broad, the school's headmaster, was head of the geography department at gordonstoun school in scotland when queen elizabeth ii's second-oldest son was a pupil there
the couple, expecting their first child in august, watched a gymnastic display, a music and drama program and the planting of two birch trees to commemorate their visit to the private school
the two last visited northern ireland, where the irish republican army is waging a guerrilla war to overturn british rule, in june 1986. andrew, an avid amateur photographer, made a private visit to carrickfergus last october to take pictures of a 12th-century castle
some 35,000 people turned out to give a hero's welcome to the hometowner who made good _ washington redskins quarterback doug williams, the super bowl's most valuable player
williams, who played high school football at nearby chaneyville and lives in zachary, told the crowd saturday it was time to relax and be a regular citizen once again
if i don't, what's going to happen to me is that before i know it, we'll be back in training camp without a chance to enjoy the season,'' he said
williams, the first black quarterback to play in the super bowl, threw four touchdown passes to lead the redskins to a 42-10 win over the denver broncos
at a news conference after the homecoming parade and a celebration at a high school football stadium, williams was asked how he would handle the attention
i think it's easy. just be yourself,'' said williams. ``mom had a lot to do with it. my mom has always sung the phrase, `the same people you see on the way up, you see on the way down.' you treat them the way you want to be treated.''
richard branson, head of a multimillion-dollar entertainment empire, has accepted an offer to become a director of intourist, the soviet state-run tourist organization, a newspaper reports
the invitation came after branson, 36, one of britain's richest men, visited the soviet union last month to sign a deal to run a hotel in the black sea resort of yalta and another under construction near the turkish border, the observer said sunday
the weekly said branson accepted because of his regard for soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. ``he is making a tremendous effort to improve things in the soviet union and it is important that we give him a chance,'' branson was quoted as saying
the report said branson hopes to sell condoms and records in the soviet union, as well as have his pop artists perform there
the multimillionaire, who has a penchant for daring stunts such as balloon and powerboat crossings of the atlantic, runs a huge video, record and satellite tv business as well as virgin atlantic airlines
three-time u.s. surfing champion donald takayama is trying to make a splash in the marinade business
the rage now is peanut butter, avocado and banana sandwiches with my chunky pineapple marinade,'' takayama said last week
takayama, 44, left his native hawaii a quarter-century ago for the mainland and went on to become surf champ in 1972, 1973 and 1974
the surfer's choice teriyaki and chunky pineapple marinade are currently available at five supermarkets, and other stores have also expressed interest, said takayama, who also runs a surfboard business
when asked if success would infringe on his daily surfing, he said, ``no way. i just tell them i'm in a board meeting.''
security forces sunday dispersed more than 400 demonstrators who gathered in a downtown square to demand human rights
five people were arrested after police broke up the protest, which began after an official observance of the 43rd anniversary of the allied bombing of dresden
church leaders, speaking on condition of anonymity, said late sunday the five detainees were released after questioning. there were no reports of injuries
the protesters unfurled banners demanding more human rights and called on the communist east german government to allow freedom of travel to the west. many shouted ``the wall must go!'' and ``we want freedom!''
it was the first time a demonstration of that size had taken place in the city, protesters said
communist authorities in 1961 erected a heavily fortified wall between east germany and west germany. the barrier also divides berlin
as the protesters prepared to leave the dresden square, police moved in and dragged away the five activists and detained them briefly in the nearby palace of culture. police blocked an attempt by other demonstrators to storm the building
the square then was cleared by at least 100 uniformed and plainclothes police
on saturday afternoon, several protesters raised banners demanding more freedom during a ceremony marking the allied bombing of dresden on feb. 13, 1945
the banners were quickly ripped down and confiscated by security forces
witnesses said one man was arrested for carrying a banner that read, ``freedom for those who think differently.''
more than 100 people were arrested in east berlin last month for attempting to demonstrate at a state-sanctioned rally honoring the founders of the german communist party
east german authorities have since expelled more than 60 of the east berlin dissidents, including several prominent east german artists
four protesters were arrested last week during a visit to east berlin by west berlin mayor eberhard diepgen. they have since been released, officials in west berlin said saturday
a supermarket found a novel way to help celebrate this city's centennial _ a 100-second, mad dash through the aisles for free groceries and other items
seven runners, each representing a city resident who is at least 100 years old, racked up $975.51 worth of items saturday, according to store manager paco preciado. most of the competitors were the centenarians' grandchildren, he said
about 50 regular shoppers cheered and preciado kept a close eye on the stopwatch as the racers made individual dashes through the aisles
when it got down to 10 seconds, it was like pandemonium for the person shopping,'' preciado said
one woman managed to cram $289 worth of goods in her cart
she was running a lot of meat, a lot of soaps, high-figure items,'' he said
other favorites were ice cream and frozen foods
the centenarians, wearing special t-shirts, watched the goings-on, preciado said
they looked like they were enjoying themselves,'' he said. ``when you're 100 years old, you don't jump up and down.''
instead of calling the witness to the stand, judge robert fullerton asked him to ``please step over to the telephone speaker.''
fullerton, who wore no judicial robes, was conducting an experiment in trying a case by conference telephone call
when plaintiff dennis ginther testified in denver, he was cross-examined by defense attorney michael soileau in metairie, la., a new orleans suburb
i like to think in colorado we're always trying advanced techniques,'' said fullerton, a district court judge. defense attorneys had sent exhibits to the court in advance, he said, and attorneys in both cities were sent copies
the case involving a louisiana firm did not close as scheduled last month, and defense attorneys and defendants returned to louisiana. so fullerton scheduled the court session by telephone
that saved the defendants and attorneys a second trip to denver, which would have cost $1,500 in air fare alone, soileau said
i don't know what the cost of the phone call will be, but it will be substantially less,'' said fullerton
ginther, who is based here, is seeking $13,525 in appraisal services he said he performed for financial management services of metairie in 1985, plus interest and attorneys' fees. the louisiana company claimed ginther was paid according to the contract's terms
fullerton heard the telephone testimony friday, but did not issue a ruling
the judge admitted that the experiment has limitations. he can't tell during questioning if a defendant is being counseled by attorneys on the other end. and a jury trial would be difficult to conduct by phone
but his clerk, ginny dondelinger, said there's one advantage
attorneys talk less on the telephone than when they can act out in court,'' she said
firecrackers, dragon floats and even a banner reminding illegal aliens they can still seek amnesty were part of the celebration as thousands began ringing in the chinese new year over the weekend
people jammed the streets of chinatown on saturday for a multiethnic celebration of the chinese lunar year 4686, the year of the dragon, although the year actually begins wednesday
a parade featuring beauty queens, floats, firecrackers and hundreds of people in colorful costumes wound through the streets
mixed with the traditional chinese new year sounds of cymbals and gongs were musical notes from scottish bagpipes and rhythms produced by aztec drums
it's just a cultural shock,'' said dan olson of escondido, who attended the parade for the first time. ``it's really interesting to see the different nationalities represented here
during the parade, a small plane flew overhead trailing a banner from the immigration and naturalization service that proclaimed, ``apply for amnesty by may 4.''
dragons of all sizes, and appearing in nearly every color, pranced through the streets
about 30 people from the first testament church gathered on the sidewalk to protest the appearance of the dragons, arguing they were satanic symbols
many people are being deceived,'' said jeannie lin. ``with the year of the dragon, satan is trying to snatch the glory of god. to them it might just be a celebration, a parade, but actually the dragon is of satan.''
most people ignored the protesters
the activities also continued into the evening with exhibits of martial arts, traditional entertainment and crafts
as part of an unusual valentine's day project, about 350 students at two high schools have agreed to give up or not start smoking or dipping snuff
the american heart association and the texas association of student councils organized the project, called ``save a sweet heart,'' to make students aware of how cigarettes can affect their hearts
about 250 students at west brook senior high and 96 at the central high school ninth-grade campus signed the pledges on friday
the students themselves worked on promoting the day and gathering pledges. the program is similar to the annual great american smokeout that takes place in the fall
security agents sunday stopped retired gen. ruben d. paredes, the former commander of panama's defense forces and a leading government critic, from leaving the country
paredes, a vocal critic of the country's de facto leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega, was halted at panama city's international airport. he was trying to board a commercial flight to miami, where he planned to hire legal counsel for his son, ameth
ameth paredes was indicted on drug trafficking charges along with noriega and 14 others by a federal grand jury in miami on feb. 4. paredes has accused noriega of involvement in the death of another son, ruben jr., who was found dead in medellin, colombia, in 1986. noriega has denied any wrongdoing
another opposition figure, carlos gonzalez de la lastra, also was forbidden from leaving saturday when he tried to leave from the airport on a central american business trip
gonzalez is a leader of the national civic crusade, a coalition of business, civic, professional, labor and other groups that has been seeking noriega's ouster since last june
gonzalez has been charged with sedition by the government, but said he was carrying a court order allowing him to leave the country temporarily. security agents said the document was not in order
security forces sunday also expelled an american newsman, larry lamotte, a correspondent for the cable news network, for allegedly filing ``unobjective news reports'' from panama
lamotte said an agent came to his hotel room saturday night and told him to pack his bags. he was put on the first available flight to miami. he was the second cnn correspondent tossed out of the country in recent months
paredes, who preceded noriega as head of panama's military forces in 1982 and 1983, said he was told he could not leave the country because of a pending libel charge against him by the government
tickets were on sale here for three bruce springsteen concerts later this month. and then they weren't
all 34,000 were sold out in just over two hours saturday
i'm just glad it's over,'' said spokesman ed lavoie of the worcester centrum. ``it's been a rough week. maybe now i can sleep.''
lines formed quickly outside the centrum and at ticketmaster outlets for the 2 p.m. sale after noon release of the time by springsteen's promoter, tea party concerts
the tickets went only to those who received wrist bands a week ago to keep them from camping out overnight after the dates were announced
the feb. 25, 28 and 29 dates are the only ones springsteen plans in new england, and they kick off his tunnel of love concert tour
the waiting throngs did not complain despite a blustery wind in freezing temperatures
we were supposed to go skiing in waterville valley today, but my friend called and said we're doing something else,'' said ernie galipeau of waltham. ``here we are.''
former world champion boxer carlos monzon was charged sunday with killing his estranged lover during an early morning fight in which she fell to her death from an apartment balcony, police said
monzon, world middleweight champion from 1970 until his retirement in 1977, suffered two broken ribs and a broken clavicle during the fight and was hospitalized in this beach resort 250 miles south of buenos aires, interzonal hospital authorities said
police said alicia muniz, monzon's longtime companion, was pronounced dead at the scene of the fight, which awakened neighbors. the incident occurred at an apartment where muniz, a part-time actress from uruguay, was staying with television actor adrian martel, police said
monzon and muniz had one child, maximiliano, 7, who was asleep in martel's apartment during the fight, police said
police said the estranged couple argued loudly at about 6:45 a.m., exchanged blows and that ms. muniz fell from the second story balcony to the street below
since his retirement from the ring, monzon, 45, has appeared in two argentine movies, modeled professionally and has been involved in real estate
thousands of people weary of the cold, snowy minnesota winter put on shorts, kicked off their shoes and went barefoot at the beach ... inside the metrodome
barefoot children built sand castles in more than 400 tons of sand that was dumped on the stadium's floor saturday as part of beach break, billed as ``minnesota's midwinter beach party.''
we couldn't get to orlando this year, so this is our second-best bet,'' said alan frailich of new hope, who was with his wife, yvonne, and their three children. ``we deserve it.''
of course, it didn't matter that the grass was artificial turf, that the palm trees were plastic and that the ocean view was only a painted backdrop
it didn't matter because high temperatures over the past week were mostly in single digits with overnight lows below zero, and several inches of snow cover the ground in most places around the metropolitan area
the dome took on a carnival atmosphere, complete with ferris wheel, merry-go-round, 75-foot high-diving platform, music stage, volleyball courts, reggae bands and simulated windsurfing in front of a powerful fan
among the people wearing shorts were jan and bob riese of fridley, who took photos they intend to send to friends in florida
it's not quite as good as being there, but it's a lot cheaper,'' she said. ``we're having a ball.''
a restaurant employee at a five-star hotel poured fuel alcohol into a hot stove sunday and triggered an explosion that left six people dead, police said
the victims died of asphyxiation after they were trapped on the 31st floor of the hotel international in the zurich suburb of oerlikon, police spokesman heinrich laetsch told reporters
thirty people were in the restaurant when fire broke out, he said
it was not immediately known whether the dead were patrons or employees of the restaurant
police said the flames were fed by the synthetic carpeting in the restaurant. rescuers feared at first the swimming pool located on the top floor of the 32-floor high-rise might collapse
one fireman was hospitalized with respiratory complaints
witnesses said fire alarms at the hotel, owned by the swiss national airline swissair, sounded only after a delay
an elevator reserved for the fire department failed to work, so equipment had to be carried up the stairs, local fire official paul berner said
the restaurant, popular for its panoramic view, had no automatic sprinkler system, duty manager anton stadelmann said
about 180 people escaped safely from the hotel, including the employee apparently reponsible for the fire. police said he was in a state of shock and could not immediately be questioned
about 100 firemen using gas masks mobilized for the blaze, one of switzerland's most serious in recent years
firefighters needed two hours to bring the blaze under control. the victims were found under the smoking rubble of the restaurant
zurich authorities launched an investigation. officials estimated the damage at hundreds of thousands of dollars. complex</head>
the eldest of three hemophiliac brothers banned from attending elementary schools in a florida county because they carry the aids virus has now developed aids-related complex, court records show
ricky ray, 11, has begun to show some symptoms of the disease, but he does not have a severe or life-threatening illness stemming from acquired immune deficiency syndrome, his doctor said
ricky's arc is stable, and he is showing no signs of progression,'' said dr. jerry barbosa, a specialist in pediatric hematology and oncology at all children's hospital in st. petersburg. ``he should be able to continue performing daily activities
he never posed a threat (of spreading the aids virus) in the past, and he doesn't pose a threat to anyone in the present,'' said barbosa
ricky is taking the anti-aids drug azt, and barbosa said the boy is ``full of energy. his lymph nodes are no longer swollen.''
ricky's two brothers, 10-year-old robert and 8-year-old randy, remain in good health, barbosa said
gail lloyd, a spokeswoman for the federal centers for disease control in atlanta, said a diagnosis of arc does not automatically mean a patient will develop aids, a fatal disease that destroys the body's immune system and leaves victims susceptible to infections and cancer
arc is a condition caused by the aids virus and has a specific set of symptoms, barbosa said. those symptoms are often less severe than the symptoms of aids
the aids virus is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products and from pregnant women to their offspring. doctors believe the ray brothers were injected with tainted plasma-based medication they received to clot their blood
school officials in sarasota county, where the boys attend school, said friday they expected some mild reaction from parents once the news of ricky's condition spreads
every time there is a story about the rays or aids in general, there is some response from parents,'' said lee coose, principal of gocio elementary school, where the ray boys attend. ``but that reaction has always been minor.''
the boys' medical records are on public file as part of a lawsuit filed against the desoto county school board by their parents, louise and clifford ray. barbosa filed the results of the ray boys' feb. 2 physical examinations in federal court friday
the ray brothers were banned from regular classes in desoto county in august 1986 after they tested positive for aids antibodies. a federal judged ordered their return to the classroom
on the fifth day they returned, a fire destroyed their home. authorities ruled the fire was deliberately set, but no arrests were made
the rays moved to sarasota with the boys and their 6-year-old sister candy, who is not infected
artist and author dorothy kurgans goldberg, wife of former supreme court justice arthur j. goldberg, has died at the age of 79
mrs. goldberg died saturday at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center of lung cancer, said hospital spokeswoman ellen watson. the couple lived in washington
mrs. goldberg was well-known as an artist and writer
the creative woman,'' a feminist novel, was published in 1963. she also wrote ``a private view of a public life,'' and a story for children, ``lola and the moving stairs.'' she recently completed the manuscript of a fourth book, about international negotiations on human rights
a painter for most of her life, mrs. goldberg's work was exhibited in several one-person shows. in the late 1940s she helped found of the associated artists gallery in washington
in 1977-78 she served as a u.s. delegate to the belgrade conference on security and co-operation in europe, which reviewed the helsinki human rights accords
she was born in st. louis and graduated from the university of chicago in 1932, the year after she married goldberg
goldberg served on the supreme court from 1962 to 1965, when he became american ambassador to the united nations
in addition to her husband, mrs. goldbergs is survived by one son and one daughter
frederick loewe, who co-wrote the musicals ``camelot'' and ``my fair lady,'' remained in fair condition sunday after suffering chest pains last week, a desert hospital official said
loewe's condition was released by a nursing supervisor who would refused to be identified
loewe, 86, was brought to desert hospital late wednesday because of the pains and breathing trouble, according to his guardian, john f. morris
during an 18-year partnership, loewe and alan jay lerner wrote such hits as ``brigadoon'' in 1947, ``my fair lady'' in 1956 and ``camelot'' in 1960
the team reunited in 1973 for a broadway production of ``gigi,'' which they had done as a film in 1958
loewe retired in 1974. lerner died in 1986
classical clarinettist richard stoltzman played ``the ebony concerto'' with woody herman's thundering herd at carnegie hall in a tribute concert to the band's late leader
saturday night's concert sounded the way igor stravinsky undoubtedly meant it to sound when he composed it for herman and his band in 1946
herman always said that, in rehearsals with stravinsky above manhattan's paramount theater, and in the premiere at carnegie hall, he and the band didn't really do justice to ``the ebony concerto.''
herman had planned this carnegie hall concert, with stoltzman, not himself, playing in ``the ebony concerto.''
woody herman's thundering herd now is led by frank tiberi, who joined the band in 1969, primarily playing tenor saxophone and bassoon. tiberi, 59, called it ``a life-sentence membership.''
tiberi said that while herman was sick he had said that his band should continue _ ``and i'm going to continue with woody's pattern and his sound.''
the 15-piece band isn't afraid to step into the classics, like faure's ``pavanne'' or a flagwaving big-band arrangement of copland ``fanfare for the common man,'' played as the finale
tiberi, two other tenor players and a baritone saxophonist blended well on ``four brothers.'' the microphones weren't kind to the band's playing of ``it don't mean a thing if it ain't got that swing'' and ``woodchopper's ball.''
stoltzman also played a a medley arranged by band alumnus john otto which began with a solo ``amazing grace.'' stoltzman played that with exquisite, round tone and tenderness
after ``america the beautiful,'' stoltzman ended the medley playing loose, inventive improvisations while the band came alive and stomp-marched through ``the battle hymn of the republic.''
stoltzman also soloed on a bernstein medley called ``songs from the west side.''
president reagan went horseback riding sunday at his mountaintop ranch, relaxing after a weekend summit in mexico with president miguel de la madrid
after breakfast with his wife nancy, reagan saddled up for a ride along the trails of his 688-acre spread in the santa ynez mountains. skies were clear and temperatures were warm, in the 70s
the reagans, who left washington on friday, will remain at the ranch until wednesday when they return to the white house on the eve of the unveiling of the budget proposal being sent to congress for the fiscal year beginning oct. 1
as reagan relaxed, white house chief of staff howard baker flew back to washington, leaving deputy chief of staff kenneth duberstein, national security adviser colin powell and communications director thomas griscom as the senior officials with reagan
powell and griscom are to return to washington on tuesday, a day ahead of the president. the staff members stay at a santa barbara hotel, about 25 miles from reagan's ranch
reagan arrived here saturday evening after spending about four hours at a summit with de la madrid at the pacific coast resort of mazatlan
the annual meeting _ the sixth and final summit of the two outgoing presidents _ was marked by de la madrid's bluntly worded defense of mexico's campaign to curb the production and trafficking of illegal drugs
de la madrid said mexico's efforts were not appreciated, and that the united states must do more to curb the demand for drugs, which is at the source of the problem
reagan replied, ``the people in the united states are now turning away from drugs,'' a step he said should ``curb the demand that fuels the trafficking.''
as reagan flew to his ranch saturday evening, senior administration officials who accompanied him departed on their own, flying back to washington or other sites. secretary of state george p. shultz, attorney general edwin meese iii, treasury secretary james a. baker iii and trade representative clayton yeutter had joined reagan at the meeting. for transition; picks up 13th graf, ``i think</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson called sunday for shifting social security to a privately based system over a 40-year period
he also accused rep. jack kemp _ without naming him _ of ``demagoguing'' on social security
interviewed on the cbs show ``face the nation,'' the former television evangelist said, ``i am absolutely committed to preserving the benefits of our elderly citizens. ... i don't want to cut social security.''
but robertson said that for younger workers between ages 20 and 40 ``there isn't going to be any money. social security is going to be broke by the year 2015.''
to replace it, robertson said he would allow people to ``take a little bit of their social security and put it into an actuarially sound, interest baring account, tax-free, like an ira so that over a period of time they can build up gradually so they own their retirement.''
asked directly if he planned eventually to do away with the current, government-based system, robertson replied, ``over 40 years, moving into a private system.''
would that require a reduction of benefits, he was asked
you don't ever reduce benefits,'' said robertson
i've got one of my opponents right now in the republican party who's demagoguing all four of us on social security,'' he said. ``i'm not going to be demagogue.''
robertson refused to identify the candidate but it was an apparent reference to kemp who has criticized the others in advertising and debates on the social security issue
in contrast to robertson, kemp insists the system is sound

robertson talked to a congregation at the faith christian center in bedford, n.h., about his life and his campaign, both of which he said had been guided by god's messages
he suggested to the congregation that he might win here _ contrary to the polls that show vice president george bush and senate gop leader bob dole fighting for the lead in tuesday's primary
i want to have the satisfaction of seeing the television anchormen's faces when they have to report that pat robertson won new hampshire,'' the former television evangelist said
church ushers ordered reporters not to take tape recorders or pen and paper into the service, checking them at the door to enfoce the rule
later in the day, he was asked on cbs news' ``face the nation'' if he would finish ahead of bush, as he did in iowa
wouldn't that be a wonderful thing for the country?'' he said
in a two-page ad in the new hamsphire section of the boston globe, robertson compared himself to john f. kennedy, who faced challenges in 1960 because he was a roman catholic
in 1960, the opposition said this candidate wasn't fit to be president. why? because of his religion,'' said the ad under kennedy's picture
in 1988, the opoosition is saying the same thing about this man,'' the ad said under robertson's picture on the facing page, adding robertson ``faces the same kind of prejudice.''
robertson was asked about a recent interview in which he said american blacks didn't understand what was happening in south africa
i think that apartheid is absolutely repugnant,'' said robertson, adding that advocates of economic sanctions against south africa ``are grandstanding, all they are doing is playing american politics with foreign policy. ... they are grandstanding to get votes in this country.''
robertson also said the reagan administration hadn't gone far enough to get the south african government to change its policies
he didn't try it as successfully as i think it could be done,'' said robertson. ``he (reagan) called it constructive engagement, i think we can go farther than that
but robertson did not say what he would do differently. relations</head>
the meeting between president reagan and president miguel de la madrid showed that despite differences on foreign policy, trade and narcotics trafficking, u.s.-mexican relations are improving
the new atmosphere is due in large part to what one u.s. official called the ``excellent personal working relationship'' between the two leaders, who have met six times over the past five years
on the basis of personal friendship ... we have reviewed matters of interest ... overcoming delicate matters,'' de la madrid said in welcoming reagan to this pacific coastal resort saturday
the two chief executives, accompanied by high-ranking officials of their administrations, met for four hours saturday to discuss issues of common concern, including trade, narcotics trafficking and central american policy
it was the last officially scheduled meeting between the two presidents. de la madrid ends his six-year term on nov. 30, and reagan leaves his post in january
unlike some of his predecessors, de la madrid has avoided open confrontations with the u.s. government over foreign policy. instead, he tends to stress the positive
de la madrid has been a tempering influence among latin american leaders under domestic pressure to declare moratoriums on their enormous foreign debts, much of which is owed to american banks
in turn, the u.s. government has been instrumental in getting u.s. banks to agree to refinance portions of mexico's enormous foreign debt of $105 billion, and to lend this country the money it badly needs for development
mexico has drawn praise from the united states for drastically lowering its trade barriers and the united states has responded by opening up the u.s. market to mexican textiles, leather goods and other products
de la madrid has strongly pushed the market-opening moves as a way to help modernize the sickly mexican economy and pull it out of its lengthy economic crisis
a perennial source of irritation had been the u.s. attitude that mexico was not doing its best in the fight against illegal drug trafficking because of official corruption
but the mexicans now have practically forced the united states to admit that there is corruption on both sides of the rio grande and that the drug fight must be a joint effort
mexico is a large producer of marijuana and heroin for the u.s. market and a relay point for south american cocaine
secretary of state george p. shultz stressed the importance of the anti-narcotics campaign, saying colombia was an example of a situation where drug traffickers can become a powerful and disruptive factor in a society
colombia's attorney general was assassinated recently by drug dealers, responsible for the deaths of numerous judges and other government officials
high-ranking mexican officials have privately expressed the fear that mexico could become another colombia
but shultz and attorney general edwin meese avoided any references to official mexican corruption, a charge often made in the past by u.s. officials at lower levels
mexico is waiting for the u.s. congress to ratify the new mutual legal assistance pact that would enable police agencies in both countries to exchange information to track down drug criminals on both sides of the border
problems remain between the countries, but it is an indication of the new relationship that the two neighbors can talk about them without sounding like a debate
reagan openly spoke of his support for the nicaraguan contra rebels, who are funded by the united states. that is a sore topic for mexico, which backs a political, not a military, solution to the conflict in nicaragua
de la madrid also urged the united states to eliminate any further barriers to exports from mexico and said u.s. immigration laws must take into account the rights of mexican migrant workers
in the past five years, we have demonstrated that we can cooperate to achieve creative, mutually beneficial solutions,'' reagan told de la madrid. ``this is a valuable legacy that we leave to our successors.''
eloy o. aguilar is bureau chief for the associated press in mexico city and has covered mexican politics for the past eight years
iran said sunday its forces fired on u.s. navy helicopters flying ahead of a convoy of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti ships in the persian gulf. the pentagon said it had no evidence that the attack happened
an iranian naval commander, speaking in an interview reported by state-run tehran radio, said the incident occurred friday evening. the attack would have happened about the same time an iraqi warplane fired two cruise missiles at iran's sirri island that came within eight miles of the convoy
the commander, whose name was not given, said u.s. reconnaissance helicopters were fired upon as they operated over the islands of sirri and neighboring abu musa and the oil platforms of salman and nasr
navy pool reporters who were with the convoy that night said u.s. helicopters were aloft about the time that iran said it fired on the aircraft, and that the sound of anti-aircraft guns was detected from sirri after the iraqi missile exploded there
but they also said that the exchanges happened within a span of about 20 minutes and it was unclear whether the iranians were firing at the u.s. helicopters or in reaction to the iraqi raid
the iranian naval commander said iranian troops fired warning shots and issued radio warnings to the helicopters, then opened direct fire after the warnings went unheeded, driving the u.s. helicopters away
a pentagon spokesman, air force maj. randall morger, said sunday that u.s. officials had heard the reports, but ``at this point in time we just have no reports to indicate that anything like that occurred.''
the convoy completed its journey sunday when it arrived in international waters off kuwait, the u.s. central command in tampa., fla., said in a statement
the convoy, escorted by the cruiser uss chandler and the frigate reuben james, formed thursday in the gulf of oman. the navy began escorting 11 u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers in july to protect them from iran, which considers kuwait an ally of iraq
it was the chandler crew that reported that iraqi missiles came within eight miles of it on friday.although the convoy apparently was not the intended target, the chandler fired flares to warn the soviet-built badger bomber to change course, after which one of the projectiles passed close to the american ships, officers said
the disclosure that iraq had used c-601 missiles, the air-fired version of the silkworms that iran deploys on the ground, has led gulf shipping executives to believe that that was the same type of missile that struck the danish supertanker kate maersk the night before
the tanker was towed sunday to a port outside the gulf. a danish seaman was killed in the attack and three others were wounded
during their 7-year-old gulf war, iraq has attacked iranian oil tankers while iran has retaliated by attacking neutral ships in the gulf. saturday and overpowered sunday, raises reference to hijackers expressing no political allegiances. no pickup</note>
a tanzania airways pilot tricked four hijackers into believing he had flown them to kenya, then landed his plane at a tanzanian airport where troops overpowered and arrested the young men sunday
capt. dominic ngandile also managed to send a secret distress signal to the dar es salaam airport, which turned off its terminal and runway lights, making it look like a small kenyan airport, authorities said
after landing, the pilot stalled the assailants, telling them they would have to wait until daylight to refuel the plane. just before dawn army troops stormed the plane and arrested the hijackers
the hijackers stabbed ngandile in the neck and hands after they realized they had been tricked. his co-pilot, christopher mnika, suffered cuts on his hands. the injuries were not serious, said airline and security sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
among the 70 passengers on the saturday night flight were two senior government officials _ home affairs minister muhidin kimario and hamad rashid mohamed, deputy minister for finance, economic affairs and planning. none of the passengers was hurt
officials said the four hijackers arrested sunday made no political statements or claimed any affiliations and that their only demand was to be flown to london
the boeing 737 carried a crew of six on the internal flight between dar es salaam, the capital, and kilimanjaro, a northern town near the kenya border and the site of mount kilimanjaro, africa's highest mountain
shihata, the government-owned news agency, said the four hijackers were from zanzibar, the semi-autonomous indian ocean island nation that with the mainland forms the republic of tanzania. it said they were aged between 17 and 20
the hijackers carried two toy guns, a knife and a fake grenade,'' shihata reported
the hijacking occurred at 9:17 p.m. saturday, midway in the 50-minute flight
after takeoff, three youths stormed into the cockpit and announced that the flight had been hijacked and that they were going to london via addis ababa, ethiopia, and egypt,'' government-owned radio tanzania reported
ngandile told the hijackers that the plane did not have enough fuel to reach addis ababa and suggested he refuel instead at a small airport at ludwar, kenya, the sources said
the hijackers agreed
instead of heading for kenya, ngandile flew the plane in a wide arc and headed back to dar es salaam. after he sent the secret distress signal, airport officials turned off some airport lights
the boeing 737 landed about 10:30 p.m. and taxied to the old dar es salaam terminal
after a wait of several hours, army troops stormed the plane and arrested the hijackers
in 1984, four men claiming to be members of a group called the people's democratic movement of tanzania hijacked a tanzania airways jet on an internal flight from mwanza, a lake victoria trading center in western tanzania, to dar es salaam
the hijackers demanded the resignation of then president julius nyerere, blaming his socialist policies for tanzania's deplorable economic condition
they forced the pilot to fly the plane to london, where the four men surrendered peacefully. the tanzanians were tried and convicted and sentenced to prison terms in the united kingdom
nyerere retired from the presidency in 1985 but still holds the most powerful political position in the east africa country as leader of the ruling party
this little town of 260 people will have a community lunch complete with birthday cake, children's games and a lengthy bingo session on monday, washington's birthday
it's a big deal,'' said winnie davey, of the george exxon service station. ``the whole community is involved.''
george, near the columbia river in central washington, was apparently named after the first president, although some have disputed that
some assert the town was actually named after a dog belonging to one of the founders
you shouldn't believe everything you hear,'' said ms. davey, which may be a sad commentary on the birthday of a man who could not tell a lie
but there is no doubt the town has taken much of its identity from george washington. many of the streets are named after types of cherries, including royal anne, montmorency and bing, said ms. davey
businesses have names like the martha inn, the colonial market and the cherry tree
a highlight of monday's activities at the community center will be a large birthday cake created by glenda jenkins
the cake is in the shape of a mountain with george washington's face on it, said ms. jenkins, president of the organizing group known as the georgettes
the theme is george washington's head on mount rushmore,'' she said
the 18-square foot cake will be enough to feed 1,000 people, ms. jenkins said
george actually throws a bigger celebration _ including a parade _ during the fourth of july, because the weather is better, said carol michael, another organizer
at the martha inn restaurant, they'll be serving a noon special of ham and cherry pie for $4.25 on monday, said manager carl keppner
the exxon station will also have a special on pre-packaged cherry pies, selling them two for 89 cents, said ms. davey
but it will just be business as usual at george washington machinery
it's not a real big deal that i know of,'' said joann lewandowski, a co-owner. ``i'm just going to work.''
the street party named carnival delighted parade-goers sunday but caused trouble for florists delivering valentine's day bouquets
it hinders delivery and we can't make full service,'' said ronnie scheinuk, vice president and general manager of a company started by his grandfather. ``we're right on a parade route.''
three of the 11 parades scheduled sunday in new orleans and its suburbs roll down st. charles avenue, right past the store. scheinuk said his shop would close several hours before the third, a nighttime spectacular put on by the krewe of bacchus
it gets so crowded and hectic that our people would not be able to get home,'' he said. ``we have to think of them.''
sunday's deliveries weren't as hard as those on valentine's day 1973, he said. that day, the sweethearts' holiday coincided with fat tuesday
scheinuk said a delivery crew of 10 was on the street at 6:30 a.m. sunday and was finished by 11:30, a half-hour before the first parade rolled in front of his store
however, there were compensations for being on a major parade route. ``we've had tremendous walk-in business,'' scheinuk said
sequin- and feather-clad brazilians turned out in grand style sunday in the second day of carnival revelries that featured the first of the top ``samba school'' parades
in rio de janeiro, temperatures soared into the high eighties. the skies were sunny, a marked contrast to weeks of almost constant rain that left at least 205 dead and 13,000 homeless
revelers sunbathed on packed beaches and summoned forces for yet another all-night pre-lenten blowout
spirits appeared high, undaunted by the recent tragic flooding, the 16 percent monthly inflation and the country's $113 billion foreign debt
sunday's festivities featured the ``samba schools,'' made up of dancers from neighborhood organizations who compete for dancing prizes
the dancers, mostly from poorer areas, don skimpy rhinestone bikinis and elaborate feather headdresses and often dance for 16 hours at a stretch
each year the ``schools'' spend millions of dollars on extravagant floats and sumptuous costumes
this year many of the dances, performed before a crowd of 90,000, will poke fun at foreign debt worries, government corruption and poverty and racism in carnival's version of street-side democracy
the current champion mangueira planned to dance to the theme ``100 years since slavery: reality or illusion?'' slavery was abolished 100 years ago but racism still exists in brazil
the padre miguel school said it would to poke fun at economic worries and political chaos with the theme ``kisses, kisses, bye bye brazil.''
the first eight schools were to samba from 8:30 p.m. sunday until about 10:00 a.m. monday, with the second group parading during the same hours from monday to tuesday
tickets for the event went for as much as $1,000 a piece
carnival revelers with less to spend were satisfied with the all-night parties in exclusive nightclubs or out under the stars
one of these was the ``great gay ball,'' where men dressed as women frolicked to samba rhythms
other open-air parties took place along sprawling beach-front atlantic avenue and through ritzy ipanema, where thumping samba drums beat out rhythms as revelers in sequined costumes, tinsel wigs, masks and outrageous outfits danced the hours away
veja, the nation's largest circulation newsmagazine, reported that for the first time in recent memory hotels and charter flights were not full
aids and crime were blamed
brazil is second only to the united states in the number of aids cases, with an estimated 5,000. as of jan. 4, the centers for disease control in atlanta had received reports of 50,265 americans with acquired immune deficiency syndrome; 28,149 had died
brazil averages 16 murders a day and 2,500 muggings and 1,300 rapes throughout the year. the united state government recently threatened to class brazil with el salvador and beirut for tourists because of its crime problem
despite the bad image, police said in the first two days of carnival festivities there were no festival-related deaths
health officials have also distributed tens of thousands of pamphlets warning against aids in three languages
the aids virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers. it is most often transmitted through sexual contact
sen. paul simon on sunday turned his fire away from rep. richard gephardt and trained it on gov. michael dukakis, generally seen as the frontrunner in new hampshire's primary on tuesday
television ads that began airing sunday show simon describing himself as a candidate with compassion for people and dukakis as a bureaucrat
mike dukakis has accused me of being an old-fashioned democrat,'' simon says in the commercial. ``i plead guilty
it's not enough to have ambition, the fire in the belly to be president. you should also have vision and substance and conviction and the fire in the heart for working men and women and the less fortunate,'' he said
dukakis is expected to win the primary, with simon and gephardt fighting it out for second place
i think it is increasingly clear that paul simon is now ahead of dick gephardt,'' the illinois senator told reporters while campaigning in manchester. ``it is clear from the momentum, the phone calling we're making in new hampshire.''
simon said polls have always underestimated his strength. ``it was true four years ago when i ran for u.s. senate. not a single published poll showed me a winner. it was true for iowa last week.''
simon finished second, behind gephardt and ahead of dukakis, in the iowa caucuses last monday. he needs a strong showing in the new hampshire primary to stay in tne race and to put him in a better position to raise funds for his campaign which is a half million dollars in debt
simon said that making dukakis the focus of his new ads had nothing to do with gephardt's criticism of his television campaign against the missouri congressman. in the earlier advertising blitz, simon had accused gephardt of coming up with campaign themes that ran counter to his voting record
after the news conference, simon campaigned in the streets and one of his stops was the dukakis campaign headquarters, where he greeted workers
he also made a stop at a florist's to buy valentine's day roses for his wife, jeanne, who was accompanying him
earlier, at the temple israel, he telephoned elena keis-kuna, a soviet refusenik who has been on a hunger strike for 12 days in leningrad
i just want to wish you the very best,'' simon told mrs. keis-kuna, who has been trying to get visas to israel for herself, her husband and her son. ``we are grateful to you for your courage.''
tennessee sen. albert gore junior's quest for the democratic presidential nomination comes under the scrutiny of ``doonesbury'' cartoonist garry trudeau this week
beginning with monday's strip, trudeau takes a week-long look at gore's childhood, his tennessee political career and his bid for the white house
gore told the tennessean, nashville's morning newspaper, that he was a big trudeau fan
he's such a great artist and satirist,'' gore said. ``i think it's a lot of fun to be in the strip.''
in the strip, gore is called ``albert, prince of the tennessee valley.''
another presidential candidate, vice president george bush, has been savaged by trudeau in an off-again, on-again series. in the strips, bush is usually invisible
i don't think he sets out to be flattering,'' gore said of trudeau. ``he tries to give people a good laugh and make them think at the same time.''
gore reviewed the series before saturday night's presidential candidate debate in manchester, n.h
i think i like the frame best when i'm saying what a thrill to sit on the lap of richard nixon,'' he said. waning</head>
vice president george bush retained strong support in texas but the perception he could win the republican presidential nomination has plummeted since the iowa caucuses, according to poll results published in the houston chronicle on sunday
the poll's aim was to gauge changing voter sentiments following the iowa caucuses
on the democratic side, the newspaper reported that richard gephardt surged to the front of the democratic pack but pollsters warned the democratic race in texas remained volatile
of the 244 republican voters who said they would probably vote in the march 8 texas primary, 51 percent said they felt bush had the best chance of winning the republican presidential nomination. in october's poll, 72 percent of likely voters said they believed bush had the best chance
in october, 8 percent of likely voters said dole was the most likely republican nominee. that figure rose to 28 percent in the most recent poll
of the 304 democrats who said they were likely to vote march 8, 27 percent said they would vote for gephardt if the vote were now, compared to 8 percent in october
the poll, also conducted for the dallas morning news, was from surveys done wednesday and thursday. for the poll, interviewers contacted 690 of 1,017 registered texas voters first questioned in october. according to the newspaper, the margin of error for the poll was plus or minus 6 percent
new jersey election officials hope more presidential hopefuls will drop out before the state's primary, or they will be forced to rent voting machines to accommodate crowded ballots
although it is likely that some candidates will fall before the state's primary june 7, ``new jersey clerks can't afford to sit around and wait,'' said atlantic county clerk lori mooney
monmouth county clerk jane clayton is not so sure that the presidential slate will get any smaller
it's so easy for them to get matching federal funds today that they're just not as encouraged to drop out,'' she said
fitting the entire slate of those seeking the republican and democratic presidential nominations on the ballot _ plus congressional, senate and convention delegate candidates _ will be nearly impossible, most county clerks say
many county clerks in new jersey already have arranged to rent machines from other states to give each party a machine of its own at every polling site, ms. clayton said
that places on unconscionable burden on taxpayers,'' she said
maryland's republican presidential primary has become a tight two-man race between vice president george bush and sen. bob dole, while the democratic contest is a three-way virtual dead heat, according to a poll by the baltimore sun
rep. richard a. gephardt of missouri, who was far behind in a january survey of marylanders, has surged into contention after his victory monday in the iowa caucuses. he now holds a slim lead over massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis and jesse l. jackson
the sun poll published in sunday's editions gave gephardt a lead of only 2 percentage points _ 22 percent to 20 percent over dukakis. jackson was supported by 19 percent of those in the sun's sample
the three democrats fell within the margin of sampling error for the poll, meaning none was the clear leader. the margin is plus or minus 3.6 percent
iowa solidified my conviction that gephardt has viability,'' said william newman, a 61-year-old insurance broker from rockville. newman said he liked gephardt's honesty and his call for open markets overseas for u.s. goods, but he admitted to a deep skepticism about all the candidates, including his favorite
dole had 39 percent to bush's 37 percent among the 753 registered republicans surveyed, within the poll's margin of error. the leaders are neck and neck in the republican race, but they are far ahead of the other contenders, including pat robertson, who ran second in iowa. robertson was favored by 7 percent of those responding to the sun poll
trailing the leaders in the republican primary, rep. jack f. kemp of new york had 3 percent; former delaware gov. pete du pont had 2 percent; and alexander m. haig jr., who withdrew from the race friday, had 1 percent
the remaining 11 percent were undecided, supported no one or favored a candidate not on the ballot
in the democratic race, former colorado sen. gary hart had 9 percent; illinois sen. paul simon had 8 percent; tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 4 percent; former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, 2 percent; and lyndon h. larouche jr., 1 percent. of the respondents, 15 percent said they were undecided, supported no one or favored a candidate not listed on the ballot
kpc research of charlotte, n.c., interviewed 768 registered democrats and 753 registered republicans statewide by telephone for the sun poll
democrat richard gephardt on sunday dismissed as ``balderdash'' rivals' charges he was a supporter of president reagan's tax and economics program
two days before the new hampshire primary, the missouri congressmen paused for a valentine's day lobster-and-chowder lunch with his wife jane at a bayside seafood house, then greeted hundreds of shoppers at a nearby mall
but as he met lunchtime diners he was confronted by one man's question about his changes of position, and he defended himself anew against similar charges as he spoke to reporters
paul simon's charged in the democrats' televised debate saturday night that gephardt had changed positions to suit the electorate he next faced _ talking against ``reaganomics'' in iowa and in favor of it in this traditionally anti-tax state
that's just balderdash,'' he said. ``i have been the leader against reaganomics in the house,'' he said
gephardt defended his vote for reagan's 1981 tax-cut bill as cast only after the democrats' alternative was defeated _ and saying he differed with his rivals on the need for lowering taxes on middle-income people
once we lost, the question was clear _ were we for a tax cut for the middle class, or were we not,'' gephardt said
when we get to the south and the general election, we can't be the party of higher taxes on the middle class,'' gephardt said
gephardt focused mainly on taxes and lashed back at simon, saying: ``senator simon's record is clear _ he's resisted every measure to reduce the taxes on individual american families that's come along.''
gephardt, who edged simon in last week's iowa caucuses, is locked in what could be a political death-struggle with simon for second place behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in new hampshire's tuesday primary. heavily in debt, gephardt's campaign badly needs to finish no lower than second
he has been under attack from simon's television commercials and from the public comments of most of his rivals _ who say gephardt has flip-flopped on issues
speaking to reporters, gephardt maintained anew that simon's aids and rhetoric ``falsely accused me.''
gephardt denounced simon's lonely vote against the 1986 tax overhaul bill reflected ``total ignorance of what the bill was about.'' gephardt also sought to lump dukakis with simon on taxes, saying, ``he doesn't want to tell you what he's for on taxes.''
as he worked his way through the 300 or so people at newick's lobster house overlooking great bay, gephardt ran into a questioner who wanted to know why he had changed his position to oppose the mx missile
i watched the debate last night _ i thought they'd kind of nailed him on that,'' said the man, jack overall of los angeles, calif., who said he came to visit friends in new hampshire this week to watch the presidential campaigners
overall said gephardt stopped and told him he'd changed positions in an effort to reach a bipartisan position in the congress that would be supportive of arms control negotiations
i accept that,'' overall said
gephardt's appearance didn't create much of a stir, except for the disorder caused by the news media crush, at the restaurant. it is a traditional stop for new hampshire presidential campaigners
it's a little slow _ we're ususally full for lunch,'' said waitress susan miltner. ``we're not making any money either.''
new jersey election officials are hoping, for strictly nonpartisan reasons, that some of the 12 remaining presidential candidates will drop out before the state's june primary
many voting machines have room for only eight candidates on a line, and as of sunday, five republicans and seven democrats were seeking their parties' presidential nomination
things looked up on friday, when former secretary of state alexander m. haig jr. dropped out of the gop race. and other candidates may drop out after tuesday's new hampshire primary or after march 8, when voters will choose candidates in 20 states in the south and elsewhere
however, with the garden state primary scheduled for june 7, ``new jersey clerks can't afford to sit around and wait,'' said atlantic county clerk lori mooney
when one machine is used at a polling site, a lever is used to set it for one party or the other, depending on the voter's registration. but many county clerks have already arranged to rent machines from other states to give each party its own machine
in addition to the presidential candidates, new jersey officials must find space on their ballots for candidates in congressional primaries, the democratic nomination for a u.s. senate seat and candidates for delegates to the two major parties' national conventions
fewer presidential candidates would make life easier for elections officials, but monmouth county clerk jane clayton said she's not so sure that the slate will get smaller
it's so easy for them to get matching federal funds today that they're just not as encouraged to drop out,'' she said
we've been through this problem since 1976, and it's getting worse every four years,'' said union county clerk walter g. halpin
many other states do not have to worry about overcrowded ballots because their local and state elections are held later in the year or even in non-presidential years
that really eases the pressure on our ballot,'' said ron michaelson, director of the ohio state board of elections
in california, ballots were crowded in 1984 with long lists of delegates for the democratic national convention. this year, voters will vote directly for presidential candidates, and the number of delegates will be allocated in proportion to the popular vote
we have only 10 columns on our machines,'' ms. clayton said. ``there's no way i could make up a ballot for both parties to go into one machine.''
even atlantic county, which has new computerized voting machines, may be forced to look as far as louisiana or tennessee to rent additional equipment
ordinarily, we can play with our ballot across the whole spectrum, while other machines are usually confined by rows or columns,'' ms. mooney said. ``but we have burned the midnight oil trying to compose the current ballot in a way that fits.''
additional voting machines may cost as much as $700 each in rental, transportation and storage fees, she said
halpin said he warned the secretary of state's office last summer about the voting machine problem
it will cost union county $378,000 to rent extra voting machines, he estimated, ``and i would have extra costs involved _ more tabulating, more paper, more sample ballots.''
clerks in several new jersey counties are not worried about the upcoming primary, however, because they use voting machines that take computer cards
each voter gets a ballot card that they slide into the machine,'' said sussex county clerk helen ``honey'' ackerman. ``they use a stylus in the confines of the voting booth to punch out various numbers that denote the candidates.''
the director of the state election division, christine st. john, has warned county clerks to make preliminary arrangements to rent extra machines
but after tuesday's primary and the many ``super tuesday'' contests held march 8, ``i think you'll see some candidates drop out,'' she said
there's usually a lot of nervousness among county clerks at this point. it will phase out.'' detention; three gaza residents injured while preparing firebomb; reports of more golan residents injured and arrested. pickup 6th graf pvs ``an israeli...''</note>
military police detained two soldiers sunday after allegations that troops using a bulldozer buried alive four arabs after an anti-israeli protest earlier this month, the army said
further detentions are expected in the case, said an army official, speaking on condition of anonymity. he said the detainees are being questioned, but that no charges have been filed. he declined to give further details
in gaza city, army officials said three arabs were injured when a firebomb they were preparing exploded. they refused to provide further details. gaza residents reported hearing a loud explosion at about 7 p.m
it was the second such incident in two days. on saturday, two gaza city residents were injured while preparing a homemade bomb
in the golan heights, hundreds of druse pelted police with stones and sang patriotic songs to protest israel's annexation of the area six years ago. some demonstrators chanted ``with blood and fire we will liberate the golan.''
police fired tear gas and rubber bullets, israel television said. the report said more than two dozen druse were arrested, 32 injured by rubber bullets and scores overcome by tear gas. five police officers were hurt after being struck by stones and several others also were overcome by the gas, the report said
elsewhere, scattered palestinian protests were reported sunday in the west bank and gaza strip, territories captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. in gaza, assailants torched an israeli bus, and in jerusalem nine cars were set ablaze
the two soldiers were detained after news reports said troops used a a bulldozer to bury alive four arabs feb. 5 in the west bank village of kfar salem after violent anti-israeli protests there
an army official confirmed that soldiers ``misbehaved'' during an incident at the village, but refused further comment until the investigation is completed
an israeli reporter who visited kfar salem on sunday quoted residents as saying about 20 soldiers grabbed four men in their early 20s, ordered them to remove roadblocks, then beat them and forced them to lie on the ground
a bulldozer pulled up and covered the men with dirt, said the reporter of the daily yediot ahronot, speaking on condition of anonymity
the jerusalem post newspaper quoted villagers as saying the men were unconscious when they were dug out. the yediot reporter said three of the men were treated and released from a jericho hospital while the fourth was hospitalized for eight days
the jerusalem post quoted one of the men, abdel latif shtiya, as saying his shoes remained buried in the dirt
the army said it was checking reports of a similar incident near the shati refugee camp in the gaza strip. but a spokesman said he had no further details sunday
the army said a woman from the west bank refugee camp of arrub who died during anti-israeli protests feb. 6 was killed by bullets fired from a soviet-made kalashnikov assault rifle. the army said israeli soldiers don't carry such weapons
hundreds of druse youths, demonstrating to mark the sixth anniversary of israel's annexation of the golan heights, threw stones at police in the village of majdal shams
about 1,000 riot police were deployed in druse villages to quell the protests
army radio said several youths were hurt after police moved in despite pleas from local leaders for security forces to stay clear
people started to sing nationalistic songs and to show identification with our country, syria, and against the occupation,'' kansh abu sallah, a village leader, told the radio. ``then the police began to interfere, so it started to roll until it led to tear gas.''
israel seized the golan heights from syria during the 1967 war and officially annexed the territory on feb. 14, 1982. the druse, members of a mystical sect that is an offshoot of shiite islam, have marked each anniversary with demonstrations
a general strike continued sunday throughout the gaza strip, where an israeli civilian bus was burned by palestinian youths. in jerusalem, police spokesman rafi levy said nine cars were set ablaze in the jewish french hill neighborhood of the city
in the shufat refugee camp in jerusalem, about 60 rock-hurling arabs staged demonstrations. police fired tear gas and rubber bullets to disperse the crowd
according to the united nations, 54 arabs have died in the disturbances that began dec. 8. day</head>
sen. terry sanford, d-n.c., plans to work presidents' day as he continues a tradition of reading george washington's farewell address, but his colleagues and most of the country will be observing the holiday
presidents' day, which celebrates washington's birthday on feb. 22 and abraham lincoln's birthday on feb. 12, is a national holiday with most federal, state and local offices closed
there will be no regular mail pickup or delivery, except for express mail and special delivery service. the nation's stock and commodity markets and many banks and businesses also will be closed
congress has been on an extended, two-week vacation in observance of the holiday. the next session of congress officially begins at noon monday when sanford reads the address
other senators have been asked to attend the reading, but in what has become another tradition, the speech is annually made to an empty chamber
black activist virgil hawkins, who waged a 28-year battle to practice law in florida and helped break the color barrier at the university of florida law school, died after a lengthy illness. he was 81
hawkins had been in poor health for several months. he died thursday at munroe regional medical center in ocala after suffering acute kidney failure, his wife, ida, said saturday
hawkins, who was born in okahumpka, near leesburg, taught school and was a principal in lake county schools in the 1940s after graduating from bethune-cookman college in daytona beach
in 1949, at the age of 41, he applied for admission to the all-white law school at the university of florida in gainesville and was rejected because he was black
hawkins challenged the state's segregated school system and in 1956 the u.s. supreme court ruled that he should be admitted to the school
but the florida supreme court invoked states' rights to deny him admission and the state's board of control then adopted rigid entrance requirements that made it impossible for hawkins to enroll even if he won court approval
in 1976 the florida bar urged the state supreme court to allow hawkins to take the state bar examination even though he had attended an unaccredited law school in massachusetts 20 years earlier. the bar said he should be given special consideration because of his ill treatment while trying to enter law school in 1949
in november 1976, the florida supreme court ruled 7-0 that hawkins should be allowed to practice law and waived a requirement that he first take the bar exam
after a 28-year fight, hawkins opened his law practice in a tiny office off main street in downtown leesburg
but at the age of 77 he found himself before the state supreme court again in november 1983 because of complaints about his legal competence and allegations that he misappropriated $15,000 entrusted to him by a client
in january 1984, the florida supreme court censured hawkins and placed him on probation for two years because of errors he made in his first cases
hawkins, facing two additional complaints, was allowed to resign from the florida bar in april 1985. edits throughout to trim and conform</note>
three plo members were killed sunday when a bomb ripped through the car they were driving to lunch, authorities said
the wife of one of the three men saw the blast as she stood on a nearby balcony, cradling a baby, said state-run cyprus radio
police in this southern port city said the bomb went off around noon, killing the three instantly and destroying the automobile
the official cyprus news agency said it received an anonymous phone call from a man who said the killing was carried out by the group of martyrs of lt. col. rassem el-ghoul. officials said they had never heard of the group
the caller, speaking in broken english, accused the slain palestinians of having been involved in the fatal shooting of el-ghoul, a top commando in force 17
force 17 is the elite security apparatus of fatah, plo chief yasser arafat's guerrilla faction. plo officials had said the three killed in the blast were officers in fatah. there was no immediate plo comment on the claim of responsibility
el-ghoul, the force 17 area commander in sidon, southern lebanon, was kidnapped in august last year. his body was found two days later, but the motive for the slaying was never established
an associated press photographer who visited the scene of the blast said the car's roof was blown off, the vehicle was wrecked and two of the bodies were blown 60 feet from the car
in athens, palestine liberation organization spokesman bassam abu sharif, accused israel of being behind the slayings
sharif linked the deaths to israeli attempts to stop a ship filled with 133 palestinian deportees from sailing from greece to israel
israel started this open war after losing the secret war concerning the ship,'' he said. the plo has accused israel of waging a ``secret war'' to prevent the voyage. it now says the vessel will sail on monday
there was no immediate comment from israeli officials
in a later news conference, abu sharif backed off from his earlier claim that the attack was linked to israeli frustration over failing to stop the boat. but he called it ``clear proof'' that the israelis ``continue their terrorism not only against our population in the west bank and gaza, but also elsewhere.''
he was referring to more than two months of violence that has rocked the israeli-occupied territories
the director of the plo office in nicosia, samir abu ghazale, identified the victims as mohammed sultan; mohammed buheis, also known as abu hassan kassem; and marwan kayyali
kayyali was also a member of the plo's military council. sultan was in his early 40s, the other two in their late 20s
ghazale said sultan had lebanese nationality, buheis traveled under another name with a north yemeni passport and kayyali had a moroccan passport. he did not have details of the men's precise functions in the plo
police said they did not believe that the blast was not connected with presidential elections being held in the greek cypriot sector of this mediterranean island on sunday
police said the explosion did not disrupt the voting in limassol, the island's second largest city with a population of 121,000
ghazale said the three were on their way to lunch when the bomb exploded. eyewitnesses gave a similar account
that differed from the original police account, which said the car apparently was parked at the time of the blast. the discrepancies could not immediately be reconciled
a sizable number of arabs, mainly lebanese and palestinians, live in limassol
the plo is an umbrella organization for eight guerrilla factions who are the palestinians' military arm. the main group is arafat's fatah, which has an estimated 8,000 guerrillas, most of them in lebanon. waldheim comment</note>
socialist chancellor franz vranitzky said sunday he would consider resigning if the controversy over president kurt waldheim's world war ii conduct continues to hamper vranitzky's leadership
about 5,000 people, including actor klaus maria brandauer, gathered in central vienna outside the landmark st. stephen's cathedral to call for waldheim's ouster
about half of them marched to the hofburg palace, which accommodates the president's office, and chanted, ``waldheim must go!''
in an hour-long television interview, vranitzky, who heads a coalition government, launched a sharp attack on waldheim, whose duties as head of state are mostly ceremonial
the president ``did not deal exactly with the truth'' during the investigation into his activities as a soldier in the nazi army, vranitzky said. he stopped short, however, of urging waldheim to step down
veteran political observers did not recall a similar public confrontation between a chancellor and a president since the second austrian republic was established after world war ii
the vienna government appointed a historians' commission to investigate waldheim's wartime record last year after the u.s. government put the former u.n. secretary general on a ``watchlist'' of undesirable aliens. u.s. officials said waldheim was a lieutenant in a german unit that sent thousands of jews to nazi death camps
the historians released their report monday
the 202-page document established waldheim's ``close proximity'' to wartime atrocities in the balkans and seriously questioned his integrity as a german army officer
the tabloid kurier published on sunday an interview in which waldheim said he has no plans to resign because he enjoys the support of a ``great'' and ``silent'' majority
i feel the group who makes the demand that i should resign is relatively small compared to those who want me to stay in office,'' the president was quoted as saying
in a comment published in early monday editions of the kurier, waldheim was quoted as saying he continues to be ``interested in a constructive relationship with the federal chancellor.''
but vranitzky, when asked how austria could emerge from a situation in which the country faces a bad image abroad and division at home, said: ``we must try to get out of this situation by not satisfying ourselves with allowing the president not to face up to these things.''
vranitzky said it was not enough for the president to give newspaper interviews because ``interviews don't replace the question-and-answer game in a democracy.''
he warned that if his expectations about the president's conduct are not fulfilled and if a high percentage of his time continues to be absorbed by the waldheim affair, ``then the question arises if i can ... carry on this (government post).''
the socialists are the senior partner in the coalition with the conservative austrian people's party, which backed waldheim when he won his six-year term in 1986
heinrich keller, a chief socialist secretary, reported saturday that for the first time a majority of party members now want waldheim to resign
also on saturday, vranitzky told austrian radio that mere non-involvement in war crimes did not qualify one to be austria's president
vranitzky continued his criticism sunday by seriously questioning waldheim's ability to perform his duties
the federal president must be an integration figure, not a disintegration figure,'' he said
vranitzky also criticized waldheim and his advisers for trying to portray the attacks on the president as something orchestrated by jews and foreigners
on friday, former foreign minister karl gruber stirred outrage by claiming that members of the commission were waldheim's enemies because they were either socialists or jews
meanwhile, the swiss military historian who led the historians' commission said sunday he sensed that the austrian president felt a ``certain moral culpability'' for war crimes committed while he served in the german army
hans rudolf kurz, in an interview on swiss radio, said he asked waldheim why two biographies do not mention his wartime past
waldheim replied, ``i did much more important things,'' kurz said
but the better response would have been: `i was hesitant to talk about it.','' he said in the french-language interview. ``i am not saying he is guilty of war crimes. but he feels a certain moral culpability. it disturbs him.''
jack kemp on sunday said he was convinced that republican presidential rival bob dole ``has a secret plan to raise taxes,'' using a blue-ribbon study commission as the vehicle. dole said it wasn't true
kemp, whose third place showing in polls has been threatened by pat robertson, insisted he will beat the former tv evangelist in tuesday's primary because ``the people of new hampshire want a conservative who can reach out beyond just one segment of the population and win
electability is going to be an issue,'' he said
with the campaign heating up over the weekend, kemp raised the tax issue that is dear to the hearts of granite state voters who often hear candidates take a no-increase pledge
the new york congressman said having a bipartisan, blue-ribbon commission recommend how to balance the budget was first suggested by democratic gov. mario cuomo of new york but the idea went nowhere until dole _ the senate republican leader _ ``slipped it into'' recent legislation
i am convinced that senator dole has a secret plan to raise taxes on the american people,'' kemp said. ``that would totally frustrate the republican message that we are the low-tax party.''
kemp said dole ``is going to allow the commission to do a study, endorse it, and say, `hey, this is not my tax increase. this is the commission's tax increase.' that's what he did on the social security commission.''
dole, speaking on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' said he doesn't want ``our six (republican members of the commission) going in there with any thought of raising taxes ..
we just had tax reform. we took a lot of things away from a lot of people. my view is we ought to give the american people a rest from increased taxes.''
dole said he already has chosen one commission member, sen. pete domenici
asked why he waited until two days before new hampshire's primary to raise the issue, kemp said the campaign is only now turning to issues
speaking at a school later, kemp said he would ask former u.n. ambassador jeanne kirkpatrick to be his secretary of state if he is elected president
a cold front sent temperatures plunging across the plains on sunday and generated strong wind that whipped up blinding snow, causing traffic accidents and closing highways
temperatures had been very mild saturday with readings in the 50s, 60s and 70s across the central and southern plains. but the cold front dropped temperatures into the single digits and teens across the northern plains. and the high wind produced wind chills colder than 20 degrees below zero
blizzard warnings were posted across extreme eastern north dakota, northeastern south dakota and northwestern minnesota while snow fell with northerly wind blowing at 30 to 45 mph. in western south dakota, rapid city reported wind gusting to above 55 mph
wind-blown snow reduced visibility to zero at times in northwestern and western minnesota
we've got all kinds of accidents. ... it's a mess,'' said renard fritz, minnesota state patrol dispatcher in detroit lakes. ``i've got all my troopers available out in the area. we're swamped.''
the patrol closed interstate 94 and minnesota 210 at fergus falls and u.s. 10 from detroit lakes to moorhead, fritz said. earlier, minnesota 200 at ada was closed
north dakota authorities blocked off i-94 at fargo for a time and no travel was advised for all of i-29 during the afternoon
blustery wind also blew across much of nebraska into kansas and the texas panhandle, hitting 60 mph at sidney, neb.; and 59 mph at scottsbluff, neb., goodland, kan., and akron, colo
when the wind shifted to the northwest in downtown kansas city the temperature dropped 13 degrees within an hour from 47 degrees to 34
showers were reported across western missouri, but when the cold air struck the region the rain changed to snow across eastern and parts of central kansas
wind gusting to 25 to 40 mph east of laramie, wyo., producing blowing snow that reduced visibility to less then 500 feet at times
elsewhere, snow showers were scattered across upstate new york near lake ontario
showers were scattered across western parts of washington state, where quillayute totaled 1.40 inches of rain in 24 hours. a snow advisory was issued for the washington cascades and olympia mountains where up to 8 inches of snow was expected overnight
showers and a few thunderstorms developed across eastern texas
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 6 degrees at grand forks, n.d., to 78 at fort myers, fla. the low for the day was 9 degrees below zero at gunnison, colo
for monday, scattered snow was forecast from michigan and much of illinois and indiana into the northern half of new england. freezing rain or snow was forecast to change to rain from northern new york state across southern vermont into the southern half of maine. showers were forecast from the ohio valley and southern new england through the mid-atlantic states, the tennessee valley and the carolinas into the central gulf coast and northern florida. scattered thunderstorms were forecast across the central gulf coast into georgia and northern florida. scattered showers were forecast across the pacific northwest with snow showers across northwestern montana
highs in the teens and 20s were predicted from the eastern dakotas across the upper half of the mississippi valley and the upper great lakes into western parts of the lower ohio valley; in the 50s and 60s from oregon and the central pacific coast through the southern rockies, the high plains of colorado, the southern plains and texas, the central gulf of mexico coast, the central and southern appalachians into virginia and the carolinas; in the 70s from southern california into the desert southwest and across much of florida; and in the 30s or 40s across much of the rest of the nation. ^by patrick cruez</byline>
indian troops killed 12 tamil rebels in eastern sri lanka sunday, residents said. military officials said the unconfirmed report came hours after five soldiers died when a land mine exploded
the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the blast occurred in eastern batticaloa district, where indian troops have conducted search operations since thursday
batticaloa residents, contacted by telephone, said the slayings of tamils were ``in reprisal'' for the land mine explosion
the residents, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said they heard two blasts near eravur village, nine miles north of batticaloa, followed by gunfire
a spokeswoman at the indian high commission, or embassy, said she had no reports of any casualties in the area, about 140 miles northeast of the sri lanka capital of colombo
more than 15,000 of the 42,000 indian soldiers in sri lanka are involved in operations against the tamil insurgents in batticaloa district
india, where 60 million tamils live, sent troops to sri lanka under a peace accord aimed at ending the four-year guerrilla war waged by tamil rebels for a separate homeland
the rebels briefly accepted the july 29 accord but broke the truce last fall. more than 370 indian soldiers and 1,100 rebels have been killed in fighting since then
the mainly hindu tamils comprise 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. they claim they are discriminated against by the buddhist sinhalese, who make up 75 percent of the population and control the government and the army. charges that were dropped were preliminary in nature; formal charges never made because he was never arraigned. picks up 12th graf pvs, `because of...'.</note>
cereal factory worker david rouch says he's suffered years of gossip, malicious pranks and the cold shoulder because of a local newspaper's report of what turned out to be a unjustified arrest
he sued the police departments that took him into custody and settled out of court for $4,000 plus attorney fees. but he also contends the battle creek enquirer should pay
rouch is seeking $1 million in a suit that has triggered a major upheaval in michigan libel law
he presented his side of the case to a jury last week and the newspaper gives its side this week
the case has given michigan a new standard for determining when private citizens can sue over news reports on items of public interest, because the state supreme court decided that rouch's case should be heard by a jury
the court ruled that the fact that the newspaper didn't print false information knowingly or with reckless disregard for the truth was not enough to clear it of liability
the state's highest court said the right to report on official proceedings doesn't extend to arrests that fail to result in formal charges, and that the decision of whether damages are owed should be based on evidence of negligence, rather than malice, which is more difficult to prove
the enquirer is refraining from out-of-court comment on the case. but a year ago, after the state supreme court acted, newspaper attorney alice neff lucan suggested all michigan newspapers could have a more difficult time monitoring police activities
the power of arrest is the most serious power the government has over us,'' she said. ``if we are not able to cover that, it raises all kinds of ugly specters about what the police can do without it appearing in the newspapers.''
rouch's attorney, john jereck, rejects that reasoning. he maintains that the newspaper could have reported on the attack of a sleeping baby sitter without printing the name of the man taken into custody
he also faults the newspaper for failing to follow up and write about the dropping of preliminary charges against rouch and the arrest of a second suspect. the charges cited at the time of his arrest were never brought formally because the case was dropped before rouch was arraigned
they don't practice what they preach,'' jereck said. ``isn't the public interested in knowing when the police make a bad arrest? that wasn't reported.''
because of the appeals and high court deliberations, more than eight years have passed since the newspaper published what seemed to be a routine, six-paragraph account of the arrest of a man suspected of raping a teen-ager who was caring for his ex-wife's children
rouch was booked, fingerprinted, read his rights. he got out of jail on a personal recognizance bond and was told when to show up for arraignment
but the prosecutor's office opted not to press charges, and because his name was in the newspaper, rouch contends he's been branded a rapist
now the jury must determine whether the newspaper story was false and whether it was published without reasonable care
rouch's attorney tried to convince the jury that the story falsely accused him of raping a 17-year-old baby sitter
the newspaper, in presenting its side, will try to convince the jury that the 1979 article didn't accuse rouch of committing a crime, but merely reported accurately an arrest as reported by police
witnesses testifying in rouch's behalf said they had presumed him guilty because they saw his name in print
one woman told the jury she refused to let her daughter join friends at the rouch home. ``i connected him with the rape of a teen-age girl,'' sonya weiss testified
a former classmate testified he was startled to see rouch walking the streets and said he had assumed he was behind bars
that classmate never saw the story, printed nearly a year after the arrest, saying rouch had been cleared and another man arrested in the case. that article was published after a rouch's attorney threatened legal action
they thought i was a rapist,'' rouch testified, adding that he lost sleep and became more reclusive
i more or less just stayed home,'' he testified. ``i thought it was best for the children. i drank more for a while than i normally did.''
a pulitzer prize-winning journalist, washington and lee university professor clark mollenhoff, criticized the newsgathering practices of the newspaper's police beat reporter. he said the newspaper should have waited two or three days before printing the story
the newspaper will have its own expert witnesses this week: louisiana state university professor william giles and former university of missouri at columbia journalism school dean roy fisher. sted pyrz; subs 3rd graf to add woman's hometown.</note>
a high school teacher in suburban chicago has devised a computer service that produces a teen-ager's 10 most compatible classmates when they punch in answers to 33 questions
but sandra pryz says she does not guarantee fireworks and candlelight
it's just an icebreaker, an excuse to talk to someone. they're at an age when they're not sure of themselves,'' said pryz, who teaches at willowbrook high school in villa park and lives in nearby elmhurst
thousands of questionnaires are processed each year, she added, especially at this time of year
we kind of go crazy right around valentine's day,'' she said
the matchups produce some interesting reactions, according to students
my no. 1 was like a nerd,'' said kristin liszkowski, a senior at willowbrook
he's a real brain, and i'm more the average `joe schmo.' i would never go for him, but it made me feel good that i was matched up with interesting kinds of people,'' she said
julie synovic, senior class president at zion-benton high school, said she didn't know her top match and was not particularly interested once she found out more about him
but it was a good topic of conversation,'' she said, ``like, `you're on my list _ oh, wow, we must have something in common.'''
pryz and her partner, dan burgess, started computer daze five years ago as a way for schools to raise money. they charge 60 cents per list. schools charge students about $2 for the rankings and keep the profit, pryz said
the forms students fill out include questions like: what is the worst thing a teacher can do? what would you do if you found $100? what absolutely turns you off? and how do you feel when a teacher criticizes you in class?
the questions have no double meaning, pryz said. ``some kids have asked us to put in `what will and won't you do on the first date? first base? second base?' but we won't do that.''
pryz said computer dating has none of the stigma in high schools that it sometimes has with adults
the kids scream and shriek when they open the letters,'' said pryz
she offers the service on a nationwide basis, too, she said
it's a big thing for a few weeks,'' said synovic, who has participated in the computer matching program for the last four years
we joke about it,'' said wayne harrison, a junior at zion-benton. ``i never do anything with my list. i don't even know my no. 1 girl, but the whole thing does give you something to talk about during lunch.'' campaign, with gore campaign saying gephardt campaign manager apologized</note>
what happens in new hampshire may decide who among the democratic presidential candidates get to go south with jesse jackson and albert gore jr., while pat robertson is looking forward to the first republican contest in the south no matter what happens tuesday
analysts say that robertson, who in iowa pushed up between front-runners bob dole and george bush, will be on his friendliest turf when the presidential season moves into its southern phase. in new hampshire, polls put him in a dead heat for third place with rep. jack kemp of new york and former delaware gov. pete du pont
contests are scheduled in wyoming, south dakota and a handful of other states in the three weeks after tuesday's new hampshire primary
the next main event is the super tuesday primary across most of the south and in several other states on march 8, but the south carolina primary three days before that could emerge as a crucial gop test
there's tremendous potential for robertson to be a spoiler here,'' said earl black, political scientist at the university of south carolina. ``he's putting a lot of money and organizational effort into south carolina. he's thrown down the gauntlet, and i think he's in position to back that up.''
on the democratic side, the presidential race in the south will be shaped by new hampshire's results
iowa winner richard gephardt hopes that a second-place finish behind local favorite michael dukakis, governor of neighboring massachusetts, will propel the missouri congressman into a strong position to face the south's native son, gore of tennessee
a gephardt finish behind sen. paul simon of illinois and dukakis, however, could leave the field still muddled as it turns south _ a page right out of gore's script
former colorado sen. gary hart and former arizona gov. bruce babbitt have been polling at the bottom of the democratic pack in new hampshire, and are hoping tuesday for surprising finishes to keep their faltering campaigns alive long enough for super tuesday
already, there are signs of bad blood between the rival campaigns of gephardt and gore, who is competing in new hampshire but has reserved most of his money for the southern campaign. both democrats have designs on the white, moderate-to-conservative democratic vote in the south
gephardt's campaign manager william carrick used harsh language to the washington post last week about gore. he said: ``i can't wait. it's blood lust. let me at him. i hate him. i hate all of them.''
the gore campaign said sunday that carrick ``formally apologized today...for profane, personal attacks and comments critical of gore and and gore's campaign.'' the apologies were made to both gore himself and campaign manager fred martin, said arlie schardt, press secretary for the gore campaign
both gore and martin accepted the apology and agreed with carrick that the matter was over,'' schardt said in a statement
martin said the campaign remains convinced the influence of iowa and new hampshire will be diminished this year by gore's chosen battleground, the south
south carolina republicans, dominated by loyalists to bush, set up their primary on saturday march 5 in hopes it would give the vice president a boost in case he needed it before the super tuesday primaries in the rest of the south
but now robertson, a former tv evangelist who lives in west virginia, has targeted south carolina as his next best chance and predicted he will win it outright
robertson's strong iowa second-place finish behind dole, handing bush a humiliating third place, was explained in part by robertson's strong organization among fundamentalist and charismatic christian voters and the traditionally low turnout of caucus contests. in south carolina he has a primary rather than a caucus, but one with a history of low turnout and a bible-belt location favorable to his message
using those evangelical churches and his high-tech methods to get his people out, and rolling the church buses on saturday, he can find a lot of voters,'' black said
elsewhere in the south, republicans say robertson may demonstrate a strength not detected in the polls
robertson will probably come in second in georgia _ if he doesn't come in first,'' said bob bell, former georgia gop state chairman
this is the bible belt,'' he said. ``i think really there is something happening.''
bush is credited with a southern organization far superior to that of dole, and polls show him far and away the southern leader. but a loss in new hampshire to the senate majority leader from kansas could leave bush struggling to hang on to both his organization and his poll lead
bush has to look ahead,'' said norm ornstein, political analyst at the conservative american enterprise institute. ``he has crafted what may be a maginot line: `if we do badly in iowa, we've got new hampshire. if we do badly there, we've got south carolina ...' if pat robertson takes away a victory from him in south carolina, that's it.''
bush's southern co-ordinator lanny griffith, however, insists that bush can remain strong in the south even with another setback 
frankly, we don't have any bad states in the south,'' griffith said. ``we lead in every state. we lead in every demographic group, among conservatives and independents. there is no region (of the south) or demographic group where we don't lead.''
dole is at an organizational disadvantage in the south but has had his wife, elizabeth, a native of north carolina, working the region for him. her home state is considered a key strength for dole in the south
dole's southern spokesman, clark reid, claimed ``a groundswell of support'' following iowa. ``you have to take into account we haven't done any paid media (ads) yet in the south,'' reid said
soviet technicians will visit utah this week to review living arrangements for inspectors who will be stationed here to verify compliance with the intermediate nuclear forces treaty, an official said
at the same time, a three-member u.s. contingent will travel to the soviet union to conduct a similar tour, sen. orrin hatch said saturday. the visit of the soviet technicians is scheduled for wednesday and thursday
up to 30 soviet inspectors may establish a compound near the hercules bacchus west plant in western salt lake county under terms of the inf pact, which bans production of intermediate-range missiles
the treaty was signed in december by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev but still faces ratification by the senate
the soviet inspectors will monitor the hercules plant, which developed motors for pershing 2 missiles now banned under the treaty
the american team will be stationed in the soviet city of votkinsk where ss-20 nuclear weapons were made, said dave porter, an aide to hatch. votkinsk, about 600 miles east of moscow near the ural mountains, has been closed to foreign visitors
the two countries' advance teams will meet in moscow a week after the tours to discuss housing, travel restrictions and other arrangements for the inspectors, said hatch, r-utah
the inspection teams could be settled in each nation within 60 days of senate ratification of the treaty
state department officials will accompany the soviet technicians on a tour of the area within 31 miles of the hercules plant. soviet inspectors later could be allowed to travel within that zone
porter said this week's tours are the first of many such meetings planned before the inspection teams arrive
the treaty spells out few details of living arrangements, leaving them to the two host countries
hatch, who has said he believes ``virtually all'' of the soviet inspectors in utah will be spies, has asked for a secret study of security precautions for as many as 63 government contractors located within a 31-mile radius of the hercules plant
the senator also has called for restrictions on the inspectors to reduce the possibility of espionage. any limitations imposed would be reciprocal, he said
nine women competed for the title of miss garlic, but a 73-year-old woman who said she downs the stuff morning, noon and night walked off with the crown
i don't think i'd be able to live without garlic,'' said eileen knarr, who was named miss garlic at a weekend festival dedicated to the lily family's most aromatic relative. ``i have it for breakfast, lunch and dinner,'' she said
the judges compared notes saturday on the contestants while the festival's first miss garlic, helen lewin, sang ``me and my garlic'' to the tune of ``me and my shadow.''
after an accordion fanfare, mrs. knarr was named the winner and received the crown and sash from patricia gorrasi, the defending queen who said she sat out this year's pageant because because some of her family members sniffed at the title
my children said i was a source of embarrassment to them,'' she said
an estimated 400 people attended the fourth annual event, which left a distinct odor wafting throughout a restaurant in covington, across the ohio river from cincinnati
the participants lined up for garlic-peeling contests, wore headbands made of garlic cloves, and downed dishes spiced with 160 pounds of garlic imported from gilroy, calif., which calls itself ``the garlic capital of the world.''
what do i like most about it? i like the flavor a lot,'' said marlene steele of covington, who won the cooking competition with her version of garlic-stuffed mushrooms
her recipe is heavy on the garlic, light on the mushrooms
i make them a lot. i take them to people's houses,'' she said. ``they either eat them or they don't eat them _ i eat them then.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis called sunday for a 50 percent reduction in strategic weapons and a ban on nuclear warhead testing and weapons in space, coupled with a strengthening of the nation's conventional forces
if the next president is required to use force, it will almost certainly be conventional forces and not nuclear,'' he said
the democratic presidential hopeful, in what was billed as a major foreign policy speech, said ``the next president isn't going to be giving blank checks to the pentagon or to anybody else. if he did, the checks would bounce.''
but we can have the forces we need at a price we can afford if we are willing to make some tough choices and if we invest our limited resources wisely,'' he said
dukakis said he would seek ``to get a dollar's worth of security for every dollar we spend.''
in the speech, the massachusetts governor said he would not hesitate to use military force to defend vital interests
there is no room in this hemisphere for military bases from which the soviet union or any other power for that matter might project military force against ourselves, our allies or our friends,'' dukakis said. ``and if nicaragua or any other government in central or south america seeks to overthrow or subvert its neighbors, we have the right and the responsibility to stop them.''
but dukakis repeated his opposition to aid to contra rebels fighting the nicaraguan sandinista government. and he pledged to abide by the war powers act, which places limits on presidential use of military force
he also said he would observe the treaty of the organization of american states and the rulings of the world court. president reagan has violated all three, dukakis said
dukakis accused the reagan administration of bumbling and incompetence in addition to violation of international law
there's nothing strong about wandering around the persian gulf without a minesweeper,'' dukakis said, a reference to the navy's failure to send a minesweeping vessel to that region when reagan first ordered escorts of oil tankers
there's nothing strong about selling arms to terrorists,'' dukakis said. he said that as president he would never make concessions to terrorists although he said he would talk to them, if the situation warranted
and dukakis said that in his administration, ``authority in the executive branch will come, not from an admiral or a lieutenant colonel, but from the commander in chief.''
dukakis avoided comment on a new commercial by rival paul simon, which cites a recent editorial in the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune. the editorial says if elected, the governor would lead a bureaucracy, not the people
questioned outside the derry, n.h., knights of columbus hall, dukakis said he had not seen the advertisement
i'm not watching much television,'' he said
here are some comments sunday from some candidates for the presidency:
george bush, commenting during the republican debate on his relationship with president reagan: ``i don't jump away from the president when the going gets tough.''
bob dole, on this week's new hampshire primary: ``some of us would like to see it end tuesday here with someone winning.''
jack kemp, on bush's use of the phrase ``give peace a chance,'' during the debate: ``you're using the same language as jim wright,'' he said in a reference to the democratic speaker of the house. ``you should be embarrassed to use give peace a chance. we're the party of peace.''
pat robertson, disclosing that a source on the senate foreign relations committee had told him the soviets had placed missiles in cuba: ``somehow in all this brilliant negotiation which these gentlemen are so proud of they left that out of the treaty. and it seems like to me nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.''
pete du pont, saying the next president should be a man of clear vision and strong principle: ``that's not george bush's style and that's not bob dole's history.''
paul simon: ``i think it is increasingly clear that paul simon is now ahead of dick gephardt. what we want to make clear in these last few days her, there is a difference, and a clear alternative to mike dukakis.''
gary hart, defending his continued campaign as not just an ego trip: ``i'm not a dog in the manger. i'm not a spoiler.''
albert gore jr.: ``i don't want to say any democrat is unelectable. it is legitimate for democratic voters to ask who can best win.''
richard gephardt, on whether he was a supporter of reagan's tax and economics program: ``that's just balderdash. i have been the leader against reaganomics in the house.''
michael dukakis: ``if the next president is required to use force, it will almost certainly be conventional forces and not nuclear. ... the next president isn't going to be giving blank checks to the pentagon or to anybody else. if he did, the checks would bounce.'' primary looms</head> activity, new polls; edits to tighten</note>
front-runner michael dukakis became the focus of attacks from his democratic rivals sunday as the republican hopefuls traded barbs in one last debate in the increasingly bitter campaign for the new hampshire primary
less than 48 hours before the first votes will be cast in the first primary, gop candidate pat robertson called for the gradual abolition of social security. opponent jack kemp said the former television evangelist has ``some off-the-wall ideas.''
george bush and bob dole, running neck-and-neck for tuesday's primary, tossed charges back and forth in the hour-long league of women voters debate on sunday night
you were for it before you read it. i waited to read it first. that's the difference,'' dole said about the new arms control treaty with the soviets
i was for it when the president proposed it,'' bush retorted
later in the debate, kemp blew up at bush when the vice president used the 1960s phrase, ``give peace a chance.''
you should be embarrassed to use `give peace a chance','' kemp said. ``we're the party of peace through strength.''
kemp also went after dole
i am convinced that senator dole has a secret plan to raise taxes on the american people,'' kemp said in bedford, n.h., before the debate. ``that would totally frustrate the republican message that we are the low-tax party.''
on the democratic side, sen. paul simon of illinois switched to attacking dukakis, the clear front-runner in the democratic field. simon dropped his controversial focus on missouri rep. richard gephardt, with whom he is battling for the no. 2 spot
i think it is increasingly clear that paul simon is now ahead of dick gephardt,'' simon told a manchester news conference. ``there is a difference, and a clear alternative to mike dukakis.''
simon is emphasizing a new ad aimed at the massachusetts governor:
in endorsing paul simon for president, the lawrence eagle-tribune of massachusetts said `president dukakis would head a bureaucracy. president simon would head a nation of people,''' the ad said
simon denied that the ad change had anything to do with gephardt's harsh criticism of the commercials
for his part, gephardt has a television ad calling dukakis ``one of the biggest tax raisers in massachusetts history.'' the missouri congressman rejected suggestions he embraced reaganomics in 1981 as ``balderdash,'' saying the question was ``were we for the tax cut for the middle class or we were not?''
dukakis rejected the suggestion in simon's ad
we didn't have dozens and dozens of uaw members (united auto workers) up here working their heads off and dozens and dozens of firefighters working their heads off for me yesterday because they don't think i'm for working men and women,'' dukakis said in manchester
early in the debate, bush said the differences among the republicans were not what they seem
we're going to be together after this...so it doesn't have the deep decisions that you might think from the agony of the moment or the ad of the moment or from the charge and countercharge,'' bush said
but he and dole continued their charges about leadership outside the debate format
i don't think he has made any decisions in the last seven years,'' the kansas senator said of bush in a cbs news interview broadcast sunday
dole said he is pleased with his progress in new hampshire _ where bush once had a big lead: ``i have come a long way in the last 30 days.''
for his part, bush defended his campaign's ads that say dole has ``straddled'' making decisions on several major issues
the man is running on leadership,'' bush told reporters in nashua. ``i think it is fair to look at the results.''
robertson, who ran second in the iowa caucuses, still grabbed the attention as he said he might do even better in new hampshire
i want to have the satisfaction of seeing the television anchormen's faces when they have to report that pat robertson won new hampshire,'' the former television evangelist told a congregation at the faith christian center in bedford, n.h
church ushers ordered reporters not to take tape recorders or pens and paper into the service, checking them at the door to enfoce the rule. robertson gave a political speech in which he talked of how his life had been guided by god's messages, including his race for the white house
asked if he might best bush again, robertson said on cbs-tv's ``face the nation'': ``wouldn't that be a wonderful thing for the country?''
robertson said ``there isn't going to be any money'' available in social security in the next century when younger people retire. thus, he wants to gradually abolish the system, while paying current benefits, ``over 40 years, moving it into a private system.''
kemp, who is battling robertson for conservative hearts, minds and votes, lashed out at the former preacher
he has said some off-the-wall things about the economy, about foreign policy,'' kemp said on nbc-tv's ``meet the press.'' asked for specifics, kemp said robertson has said, ``credit cards are the mark of the beast and that we are going to hell in a hand basket because of the deficit.''
dole said he thought robertson would not do as well in new hampshire as in iowa
he broke a lot of china in iowa and he's working very hard in the state of new hampshire. who knows?'' dole said on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''. ``i think it is a lot more difficult for him in a state like new hampshire.''
kemp and robertson both distributed literature at churches, a tactic robertson used successfuly last sunday in iowa. kemp workers were in the church parking lots passing out brochures headlined, ``jack kemp _ the candidate for believers,'' while robertson forces once again handed out a ``biblical scoreboard.''
former colorado sen. gary hart said he would not end his born-again democratic campaign if he does not do well in new hampshire, the state that gave him a miracle victory in 1984
of course not,'' was his reply to the question on the nbc program
and hart said he is not just on an ego trip by continuing his campaign: ``i'm not a dog in the manger. i'm not a spoiler.''
new polls by abc news and cbs news showed bush and dole knotted at about 30 percent among republicans. kemp, robertson and du pont were tied at about 10 percent
on the democratic side, dukakis kept his big lead with around 40 percent in both surveys. simon and gephardt were fighting for second. they were tied in the abc poll, but gephardt held a tiny lead in the cbs survey. others trailed
lawyers for gen. manuel noriega said sunday the panamian strongman has ``dynamite'' information that could influence the u.s. presidential election, and they threatened to use the files ``if we have to.''
we were given access by general noriega to files which contain political dynamite _ files which could affect the upcoming presidential election in the united states and the positions of other nations,'' raymond takiff said after arriving at miami international airport. he refused to elaborate
right now, we're just going to sit tight with them (the files). if we have to use them, we'll use them,'' said frank rubino, another defense lawyer, later in response to a question
takiff added, ``general noriega told us that he has always been a friend of the united states and is still a friend of the united states.''
noriega was indicted on drug trafficking charges by federal grand juries in miami and tampa earlier this month
takiff, rubino and fellow lawyers neal sonnett and steven kollin conferred with their client, panama's de facto leader, friday. sonnett, the former chief of the criminal division in the miami u.s. attorney's office, and kollin returned to miami from panama city on saturday. takiff and rubino returned sunday
the defense attorneys also have ``material which portrays the long and intricate involvement of jose blandon, former panamanian consul general in new york, with the communist party in both panama and puerto rico,'' takiff said
blandon was a witness before the miami federal grand jury that indicted noriega, and has testified before a u.s. congressional subcommittee about noriega's alleged involvement in cocaine trafficking. he also alleged that the cia provided noriega with confidential information on sens. edward kennedy and jesse helms, which the cia denied
he (blandon) wants to be the next president of panama,'' takiff said
meanwhile, noriega's attorneys planned to meet with prosecutors on tuesday, but they declined to comment on the purpose of the meeting
sonnett plans to file motions this week in federal court asking for dismissal of the indictment as being politically motivated, takiff said. he said he also will ask for the minutes of the grand jury
also this week, law firms in philadephia, washington, and new york city are expected to be added to the defense team, takiff said
ninety-four chinese couples tied the knot in two mass weddings sunday. organizers said that while it was considered a lucky day to marry, it was only coincidental the ceremonies landed on valentine's day
this kind of wedding has special meaning. it is memorable because it is bigger and more exciting,'' said zhang yongling, one of 44 brides at the afternoon ceremony
the great wall sheraton hotel organized the two ceremonies, which fall three days before spring festival, or lunar new year
spring festival is considered an auspicious time for marriage, and chinese traditionally schedule weddings on even-numbered days, which are said to be lucky
valentine's day is not celebrated in china, but the master of ceremonies mentioned the western holiday and explained its origin and significance to the newylweds
the hotel's elegant ballroom was decorated with colored streamers and two large red hearts for the ceremonies
one bride wore a white wedding gown, but all the others were in red, the chinese color for weddings. a few wore traditional chinese cheongsams, a close-fitting dress
while friends and family threw colored confetti, the couples bowed three times, once to beijing vice-mayor he luli, once to their parents and once to each other
mass weddings have been encouraged by the government, which has been alarmed at the increasingly lavish weddings and receptions that couples are throwing
according to chinese reports, young urban couples in some areas spend about $2,000 on their weddings, the equivalent of three years' income
by comparison, the hotel charged about $27 per couple and $4 per guest
for that amount, the hotel provided a simple cake for each couple, snacks and soft drinks and entertainment
some parents prefer the traditional wedding feast, but ms. zhang said, ``my family is `80s-minded.'' reference to leaked gas being chlorine, provide details on cause of leak; picks up 5th graf, `ip spokesman ...'; subs 8th graf, `the commissioners ...' to delete now-redundant first reference to lyford; and subs 11th graf pvs, `the chlorine,'' to explain that chlorine dioxide, like chlorine, is used in bleaching.</note>
a hazardous gas leaked sunday for the third time since late january from an international paper co. mill that has continued operating during a strike, and seven people were taken to hospitals, officials said
ip officials said no one was exposed outside the mill. jay town manager charles noonan said no evacuation outside the mill area was necessary
a preliminary investigation indicated that the chlorine gas escaped from a chemical-sampling line when a bleaching plant in the mill shut down, ip said
the problem apparently resulted from the failure of a valve to shut off automatically after a cutoff of electricity halted the bleaching process, said willis lyford, a spokesman for gov. john r. mckernan jr
the leak lasted about 10 to 15 minutes and was largely contained within a mill building, lyford said
ip spokesman rick ouellette said the injured workers were ``outside contractors, and not androscoggin mill employees, who were working on a capital project in the pulp mill.''
he said the area was cleared within five minutes and workers returned to the affected area within 45 minutes
it wasn't a human error'' that caused the leak, said ouellette. ``it was a problem in the process and that is being investigated.''
the commissioners of maine's human services and labor departments toured the mill sunday afternoon with officials from the department of environmental protection, lyford said
the governor, who also sent his public safety commissioner to the mill, ordered ip to cease its bleaching operations, in which chlorine is used
mckernan called for a thorough inspection by the federal occupational safety and health administration after a leak of more than 100,000 gallons of chlorine dioxide feb. 4. osha said tuesday that it would assign inspectors to the mill in an effort to prevent future leaks
the leak of chlorine dioxide, which like chlorine is used in the bleaching process, forced nearly 4,000 people to leave jay and nearby communities for several hours
on jan. 28, eight workers were rushed to hospitals after a hydrogen sulfide gas leak at the mill
noonan said jay officials are worried about potential injuries to residents as well as mill employees
we remain very interested in what goes on at that mill,'' said noonan. he criticized legislators last week for doing too little to defuse what he sees as a volatile situation in a town already tense over an 8-month-old labor dispute at the paper mill
more than 1,200 members of united paperworkers international union and the international brotherhood of firemen &amp; oilers at the ip mill have been on strike since mid-june. ip has hired hundreds of what it calls permanent replacements
five workers were taken to franklin memorial hospital in farmington, and three were admitted in stable but guarded condition and two were released, said spokesman kevin flynn, who said chlorine gas can be ``extremely toxic.''
they are all conscious, alert and responsive,'' said flynn, adding that effects of chlorine poisoning can show up 12 to 18 hours after exposure
a spokeswoman at central maine medical center in lewiston said two people taken there were released sunday afternoon. captors, sted captives.</note>
about 150 valentine's day greetings addressed to american hostage terry anderson and other foreign captives were received from the united states on sunday by beirut's leftist newspaper as-safir
we received them by mail from all over the united states. we shall run samples in monday's edition,'' said as-safir's deputy editor mohammed mashmoushi
the letters, many emblazoned with red hearts, were picked up sunday morning in the newspaper's mailbox at the central post office
he said more than three-quarters of the messages were addressed to anderson, 40, the longest-held foreigner in lebanon, who was kidnapped march 16, 1985. anderson is the chief middle east correspondent for the associated press
one message came from his sister, peggy say of batavia, n.y. it said, ``terry, we love you so much and we'll never give up the fight for your freedom.''
one or two messages were addressed to american hostage thomas sutherland, 55, of fort collins, colo., acting dean of agriculture at the american university of beirut. he was kidnapped june 9, 1985
a few messages were addressed to missing anglican church envoy terry waite, 48 who disappeared jan. 20, 1987, after leaving a west beirut hotel for a meeting with anderson's and sutherland's captors
the two americans are held by islamic jihad, or islamic holy war, an underground group believed made up of shiite moslem zealots loyal to iran's revolutionary patriarch ayatollah ruhollah khomeini
there were a few messages addressed to american professors alann steen, 48, of boston, robert polhill, 54, of new york city, and jesse jonathan turner, 40, of boise, idaho
they were kidnapped from the campus of the u.s.-affiliated beirut university college on jan. 24, 1987
twenty-four foreigners, including eight americans, are being held in lebanon
in a videotape released by his captors on christmas eve, anderson said he had seen some of the christmas cards his friends and countrymen sent to him, published by as-safir
in other developments, the u.n. relief and works agency said thumbprints alleged to be those of two kidnapped scandinavian employees provided by their captors were sent sunday to forensic experts for verification
the thumbprints were on a note left at a western news agency in beirut saturday. the note failed to identify the abductors, but it said the two captives, swede jan stening, 44, and norwegian william jorgensen, 58, would be freed within a week if their current interrogation proved their ``innocence.''
the note carried no specific charges of which the two captives should be innocent, however
in larnaca, cyprus, a danish official said it was ``well known that arms were found'' on a cargo ship that was seized dec. 27 by christian militiamen in lebanon. the three danes, three poles, two sri lankans and a seaman from trinidad aboard the vessel were released saturday
ole neustrup, danish charge d'affaires to syria, said the arms were aboard the ship, which was carrying foodstuffs. neustrup accompanied the freed sailors from lebanon after negotiating with their captors, members of the right-wing lebanese forces militia
but uwe biel, captain of the frieghter ingawebb, said he knew nothing about arms aboard the ship
the christian militia had accused the crew of unloading arms for the druse progressive socialist party militia beirut before sailing into the lebanese capital's harbor, press reports said. the druse militia is the main foe of the christians in lebanon's nearly 13-year-old civil war
a rocket booster motor being tested for use in the titan iv space launch vehicle startled more than a thousand residents sunday with its sensational rumble and smoke, authorities said
officials at the san jose police department and santa clara county sheriff's office logged 1,300 calls after the two-minute demonstration firing in the mountains south of san jose at 12:30 p.m
most of them just heard the big noise and saw the smoke and wanted to know what happened,'' police officer david aguilar said
a plume of fire rose about 800 feet into the air, topped off by a spectacular smoke cloud rising several thousand feet before dispersing, according to united technologies chemical system, which is producing the seven-segment solid rocket booster motor
the thrust was created by propulsive gases from almost 600,000 pounds of propellant squeezed through a narrow nozzle, resulting in a low-frequency rumble heard in varying degrees around the san jose area. spokeswoman wouldn't confirm; subs last graf with 2 grafs to correct name of church to convent avenue baptist, sted convent baptist, and add comment from spokeswoman. rio is cq in 2nd graf.</note>
black, hispanic, american indian and asian students occupying a university of massachusetts building for the third day said sunday a church had pledged money and restaurants had donated hot meals
we haven't even had to leave the building to buy food,'' said rio gabriel, 21, a junior from toronto
the estimated 125 demonstrators have held the new africa hall on the umass campus since friday to protest an attack on two black students allegedly beaten by whites and other recent incidents at the school
protesters allowed reporters into a small room on the ground floor of the hall to answer questions. the building showed no signs of occupation, such as banners and pickets, and there were no police officers outside
protesters said they would occupy the four-story brick building until chancellor joseph d. duffey met demands including the suspension of five white students accused of the feb. 7 beatings
the third day of the takeover began with a worship service led by the rev. gary jenkins of hartford
a lot of people here are religious and did make a commitment to stay here until this is resolved,'' said roscoe robinson, 24, a senior from boston. ``along with sleeping accommodations and food, there are religious needs we have to take care of.''
other demonstrators left briefly for showers and breakfast at home, ms. gabriel said
group leaders talked with black administrators sunday in preparation for a meeting with the chancellor on their demands, which were being revised to include more funds for minority activities and increased hiring of minority faculty, she said
only 41 of the 1,339 faculty members and 5 percent of the 20,000 undergraduates are black, mirroring a nationwide decline in the number of black applicants in the last several years, according to the school
blacks at the university say an undercurrent of racism has not abated since october 1986, when blacks and whites clashed following the boston red sox loss to the new york mets in the final game of the world series. six white students eventually pleaded no contest to varying charges
duffey has acknowledged that racism continues to be a problem at the school. ``i think we've got a continuing problem with harassment and abuse,'' the chancellor said
duffey was trying to avoid a confrontation with protesters when school resumes tuesday, university spokesman james langley said
we're being as patient as we possibly can,'' langley said. ``i don't think you'll see any arrests. they are being very peaceful.''
this is not a mob,'' said roberto christian, 26, a graduate student from mayaguez, puerto rico
hostility breeds hostility,'' robinson said. ``we're almost in the 1990s and racial hostility is still happening. i'm sick of it.''
protesters have received $575 from students and faculty members, a pledge for $5,000 from the convent avenue baptist church of new york city, food from amherst restaurants, and blankets, sleeping bags and pillows, ms. gabriel said
a spokeswoman for the convent avenue church, who asked that her name not be used, confirmed that the church had offered support, including financial aid, but declined to confirm the $5,000 figure
leftist guerillas kidnapped five mayors of president virgilio barco's political party and three reporters to send a message about upcoming local elections, a columbian radio network said sunday
one mayor who was abducted later was released, the bogota daily el tiempo and other newspapers said
caracol radio network said it received a telephone call at its station in cucuta claiming the kidnappings friday were by the communist national liberation army
the caller, who did not identify himself, said the rebels planned to release all of those kidnapped and give them messages to give to the government about the march 13 nationwide election of mayors, caracol said
all five mayors belong to barco's liberal party. barco has pledged to fight the threat posed by leftist guerrillas in colombia
since jan. 1 the guerrilla group has bombed the country's main oil pipeline a dozen times, ambushed two army patrols, blown up electricity transmission towers and attacked a town
on feb. 5 the rebels set off a car bomb in front of the colombian headquarters of an american oil company, occidental petroleum. windows of the nine-story building were shattered and two guards were injured
kidnapped friday afternoon were mayors ricaute paez, of ocana, ramiro numa peinado, of teorama, and jorge suarez, of convencion, gov. eduardo assaf of the northeast state of norte de santander said in a news release
all three towns are in norte de santander
also kidnapped friday was mayor eduardo solano, of aguachica, in the northern state of cesar, and mayor daniel palacios of morales in the northern state of bolivar, the state governments said in a statement
palacios was later released, the bolivar news release said
three reporters were kidnapped in the eastern town of cucuta on friday, the news media said. two were reporters with radio stations and one was a correspondent for the bucaramanga newspaper vanguardia liberal, radio stations and newspapers said
about 4,000 troops backed by helicopters and warships stood guard monday as voters in sulu province chose local officials in the final stage of the philippines' violence-marred regional elections
on the eve of the balloting, armed factions loyal to rival mayoral candidates traded mortar and automatic weapon fire outside the town of maimbung, 600 miles south of manila
the military said at least four people have been killed and dozens wounded in clashes between rival factions in the largely moslem province since friday
about 214,000 voters in the southern island province were to elect three governors, 18 mayors and 126 members of town and provincial councils
col. romeo abendan, philippine constabulary chief in sulu, said the four were killed friday when about 50 armed men attacked maimbung on the southern coast of jolo island
on saturday, gunmen attacked kulasi village just outside maimbung, but no casualties were reported, he said. in nearby luuk, rival political groups traded fire with automatic weapons, but there were no reported fatalities, he said
most filipinos voted jan. 18 in an election that president corazon aquino said restored full democracy after the february 1986 ouster of president ferdinand marcos. voting was postponed in 11 of the 73 provinces because of fears of violence from communist rebels and regional warlords. hampshire</head>
jesse jackson took a 1930s-era train through new hampshire's lakes region sunday to tell voters to get the country ``back on track'' by choosing him in tuesday's presidential primary
standing on the back of the red caboose in plymouth, jackson told about 300 supporters, including 100 who came on school buses from concord, to stand up against what he calls ``economic violence.''
most poor people in america are not on welfare,'' he said. ``they work every day. and when they get done working, they're still poor.''
we, the people, can win,'' he said
the crowd endured 20-degree temperatures and a brisk wind as they stood in front of the station, its roof dripping with three-and four-foot icicles
it's worth all the cold feet,'' said holly anathan, who came from boston to ride jackson's train. she said she liked the way he addressed the problems of lower-income people
ten-year-old elijah proule held up a valentine that said ``i love jesse.'' he handed jackson the valentine and a red rose
supporters then got on the ``rainbow express,'' which chugged along at 10 to 15 miles per hour, to laconia
a retired teacher from nashua said, ``i like the way he says things and he's mature.... last night the others acted like children,'' she said
banjo player court dorsey went from chilly car to car singing ``it's a rainbow train a-coming.''
we are winning together, -gether, -gether,'' jackson sang with dorsey as the train passed lake winnipesaukee, which was covered with ice fishing huts and snowmobile tracks
and we are freezing here together,'' jackson added. the coal stove in one of the three cars went out several times on the trip
in laconia and tilton, jackson addressed crowds of between 200 and 300 people and asked them repeatedly ``who're you going to vote for?''
jesse,'' they responded
i've stood with you. on tuesday i want you to stand with me,'' he said
brenda wright, who had come to tilton from henniker, said she wouldn't be standing with jackson in the primary, although she thought he was the best candidate
i admire him greatly. he's done a lot for the underdog and it would be a thrill to see him in the white house,'' she said. ``i won't (vote for him), because i don't think he has a chance.''
the train, run by the winnipesaukee railroad co., cost the campaign $1,500 to use. its trips are normally limited to fall foliage tours and some freight hauling
daris dixon said he had come up with a group of 31 students from cheyney university in pennsylvania to canvass for jackson
this has been a great trip. i'd do it again in a minute,'' he said
a group of 10- and 11-year old girls, who shivered next to the stove near jackson's car, weren't so sure
we're never going to get home,'' said one
at the end of the line in concord, jackson spoke to a rally of workers from guilford railway co., who have been on strike since nov. 13. he has held numerous rallies throughout his campaign supporting workers on strike
kathy ramsey, east coast coordinator for the organization to reach acceptable condititions for railway workers, said she would back jackson because he ``supports workers rights over corporate greed.''
he's the only one addressing the issues at hand,'' she said
laotian gunners reportedly shot down a thai plane that was on a reconnaissance mission over an embattled border area, state-run radio thailand said sunday
it was the second plane the thais said they lost in the battle for remote hills over which both countries have claimed sovereignty
the radio said the american-made ov-10, a twin-engine turboprop used for counter-insurgency and night surveillance, was shot down saturday near hill 1428, one of the most fiercely contested areas
the other plane, an american-made f-5e jet fighter-bomber, was downed feb. 4
thailand has launched frequent air strikes to try to dislodge hundreds of laotian soldiers entrenched in the hills that lie along the border between thailand's northern phitsanulok province and laos' sayaboury province
a radio correspondent reporting from phitsanulok quoted reports that said the ov-10 was flying in thai airspace when it was hit by anti-aircraft rounds fired from laotian territory. the two crewmen parachuted to safety, the reports said
the thai government is preparing this week to receive a laotian military delegation for what would be the first talks on resolving the border dispute, the bloodiest since clashes over three border hamlets in 1984
prime minister prem tinsulanonda, responding to a proposal by laos' premier kaysone phomvihane, said friday he would welcome the delegation in bangkok on tuesday. kaysone proposed discussion of an immediate cease-fire and separation of the military forces of the two sides
former employees of a steel mill shut down eight years ago voted overwhelmingly sunday to accept a settlement with navistar international corp. that will give them $14.8 million in benefits
the vote by former wisconsin steel works employees was 583-75 to approve the settlement, which provides about $67 million less than the workers initially had sought, said attorney judith teeter, who represents the 2,700 workers
these are old people. they have been fighting this case for years and years, and they're very happy it's settled,'' ms. teeter said after the vote at a local union hall
the vote is not binding, said attorney leon despres, another workers' representative. but he called it ``highly persuasive.''
the plan has to be determined by a judge,'' he said. ``but the overwhelming vote makes his approval very likely.''
navistar, then known as international harvester co., sold the wisconsin steel works shortly before it went into bankruptcy and was shut down in 1980
the ``save our jobs committee,'' representing the mill workers, filed an $82 million lawsuit against ih, contending it sold the mill to escape the payment of termination benefits if the plant closed, despres said
the $14.8 million figure was suggested as a compromise by u.s. district judge james moran, after two months of mediation sessions, despres said. the settlement goes back to moran for final approval
if the settlement is approved, each employee could receive an amount ranging from $200 to $17,000, based on age and length of employment, he said
navistar offices were closed sunday and company officials could not be reached for comment
communist guerrillas bombed the offices of royal dutch shell and five other buildings in night attacks in the capital, police said sunday
the attacks late saturday destroyed doors and shattered windows of the buildings, but no one was reported hurt, according to police
bombs exploded outside the shell offices, a luxury furniture store, the warehouse of a supermarket chain, a pharmaceutical laboratory and two shops in plush shopping malls, police said
police said they arrested a young man and woman and were questioning them about the bombing attacks
police said the pro-cuba tupac amaru revolutionary movement took responsibility for the attacks in phone calls to newspapers
the tupac amaru group became active in 1984, four years after the maoist shining path, a much larger and more violent revolutionary group, began fighting to overthrow peru's elected government
more than 10,000 people have been killed in the political violence since the shining path launched its guerrilla war
a 16-year-old british chess prodigy on sunday defeated world champion garri kasparov, but kasparov defeated eight other players and managed a draw with another in a simultaneous 10-game match via satellite
michael adams said he was ``very pleased'' to defeat the soviet grandmaster, who played in cannes, france, against 10 young opponents in 10 countries
i don't think i was ever losing the game,'' said adams. ``i gained a positional advantage when he allowed me to swap bishops, and then had an advantage in space.''
kasparov, in cannes for the city's third international festival of games, defeated opponents in berlin, geneva, los angeles, paris, rome, sydney, tokyo and saint john, new brunswick
the soviet news agency tass said kasparov reached a draw with mikhail ulybin, the soviet junior chess champion, who was playing in moscow. news digest: concord, n.h. _ political rdp; goffstown, n.h. _ gop debate; wash _ political nerve; undated _ state-lotteries; cape town, south africa _ safrica-change; manama, bahrain _ tanker war; hawkins, texas _ exxon-royalties; london _ the stalker affair.</note>
what happens in new hampshire may decide who among the democratic presidential candidates get to go south with jesse jackson and albert gore jr., while pat robertson is looking forward to the first republican contest in the south no matter what happens tuesday
analysts say that robertson, who in iowa pushed up between front-runners bob dole and george bush, will be on his friendliest turf when the presidential season moves into its southern phase. in new hampshire, polls put him in a dead heat for third place with rep. jack kemp of new york and former delaware gov. pete du pont
contests are scheduled in wyoming, south dakota and a handful of other states in the three weeks after tuesday's new hampshire primary
the recent spate of skittish economic indicators is raising concerns that the next president will take office without the tools to combat a recession, even if an election-year downturn can be avoided
that's because the federal budget deficit has grown so huge that the historical remedies for jolting an economy out of a recession _ lower taxes and more federal spending _ simply will not be available to the next president, a growing number of analysts suggest
in fact, if anything, the next occupant of the oval office will be under extreme pressure to press for higher taxes to reduce the budget deficit _ a tactic that would become all but impossible during an actual recession
the meeting between president reagan and president miguel de la madrid showed that despite differences on foreign policy, trade and narcotics trafficking, u.s.-mexican relations are improving
the new atmosphere is due in large part to what one u.s. official called the ``excellent personal working relationship'' between the two leaders, who have met six times over the past five years
on the basis of personal friendship ... we have reviewed matters of interest ... overcoming delicate matters,'' de la madrid said in welcoming reagan to this pacific coastal resort saturday
the two chief executives, accompanied by high-ranking officials of their administrations, met for four hours saturday to discuss issues of common concern, including trade, narcotics trafficking and central american policy
socialist chancellor franz vranitzky said sunday he would consider resigning if the controversy over president kurt waldheim's world war ii conduct continues to hamper vranitzky's leadership
about 5,000 people, including actor klaus maria brandauer, gathered in central vienna outside the landmark st. stephen's cathedral to call for waldheim's ouster
about half of them marched to the hofburg palace, which accommodates the president's office, and chanted, ``waldheim must go!''
a tanzania airways pilot tricked four hijackers into believing he had flown them to kenya, then landed his plane at a tanzanian airport where troops overpowered and arrested the young men sunday
capt. dominic ngandile also managed to send a secret distress signal to the dar es salaam airport, which turned off its terminal and runway lights, making it look like a small kenyan airport, authorities said
after landing, the pilot stalled the assailants, telling them they would have to wait until daylight to refuel the plane. just before dawn army troops stormed the plane and arrested the hijackers
girls should be encouraged to exercise vigorously enough to delay their puberty, because this may help protect them from breast cancer and other diseases later in life, a researcher said sunday
grade school girls who play strenuous sports often have their first menstrual period, or menarche, later than usual. even after adolescence starts, they may miss periods if they work out regularly
although delayed or missing menstruation is often thought to be abnormal, some experts now say that it is natural and even desirable, because it may protect the body from the damaging effects of sex hormones
communist party activists proposed in an article on the front page of pravda on sunday that more than one candidate be put forward for top party posts and that all party members be allowed to vote
the suggestions, appearing in the party's main newspaper, came from party activists in the ukraine
although the proposals do not have the party's formal approval, their appearance on pravda's front page indicated the leadership is seriously considering them
paraguayans turned out in large numbers sunday to vote in national elections, with early returns showing president alfredo stroessner coasting to a landslide win and five more years in power
partial nationwide figures announced by his colorado party gave stroessner, 75, the western hemisphere's longest ruling head of state, with nearly 90 percent of the vote
the votes showed the colorado party with 41,462 votes, the radical liberal party with 3,023 votes and the liberal party with 1,260 votes
election officials said there were 146 invalid votes and 263 blank votes. opposition leaders had urged voters to cast blank votes to protest what they charged were rigged elections
as a 52-year-old divorced farmer, frank cook said he had little time left after caring for his cows, hogs, crops and children to find a date
so he has become one of more than 600 farmers, agribusiness workers or other people with rural backgrounds who look for friends and lovers through singles in agriculture, a nearly 2-year-old nonprofit group based in wisconsin
farm people are special people. they're busy and they don't have time to go to things,'' cook said in a telephone interview friday. ``it's hard to find someone when you're on the farm.''
jaymar-ruby inc., which popularized the no-belt look for men's slacks, has decided there's a future in belt loops
tired of battling the image that it's stretchy waistbands are only for pot-bellies, the company is readying a new advertising campaign to tell the world that sansabelt is an old name with new style
while conventional sansabelt _ beltless _ slacks will still be sold, jaymar also will be offering pants designed for belts in 1988, in a marked departure from its 29-year-old marketing strategy
elbert hand, then jaymar-ruby's acting president, said he got the idea for the change while watching the masters' golf tournament last april. hand, who is chief operating officer of chicago's hartmarx corp, (jaymar's parent company) says he remembers seeing a wide range of men wearing sansabelt
old guys and young guys and fat guys and skinny guys,'' hand said. ``and those who seemed like they cared about how they looked, and those who didn't.''
hand said there is a ``stereotypical image'' of the average sansabelt wearer _ slightly overweight, interested in comfort, uninterested in fashion
he decided it was time to wage war against that cliche
hand said that while jaymar had an impressive 20-to-25-percent share of the men's quality ($40 and up) slacks market, it embarked last summer on an extensive consumer survey to find out what men liked and disliked in fashion
the survey indicated a lot more men than the company had ever realized couldn't stand pants without belts, hand said
the answers there were fairly clear,'' said jerry mccann, jaymar's vice president for marketing communications. ``it's part of `the look.' it's like a white-collar guy not wearing a tie to work.''
steve mcgue, who took over as jaymar's president in october, says pro-belt customers were found to be ``an awesome segment of the better slacks business.''
at the same time, it was becoming apparent that jaymar's 1987 sales would fail to break records for the first time in 10 years, and that 1987 profits would lag behind those of 1986
sansabelt-with-a-belt was born last summer after jaymar executives searched their corporate soul and the idea was endorsed by mcgue when he took control
for five weeks now, sales people have been writing orders for the new-style slacks with considerable success, company executives say. the fall line will hit stores next summer
because sansabelt is a french and english amalgamation that literally means ``with no belt,'' an obvious risk is that the new strategy will confuse customers
i know it's a contradiction in terms,'' hand admitted
but jaymar executives predict they can retain the sansabelt customer who has sworn by beltless pants for decades. they also think they can attract a more trend-conscious, perhaps younger man who doesn't associate the brand name with ``no belt'' anyway
it's addressing a market that we've never addressed before that's a huge market,'' mcgue said
to spread the word about the new sansabelt line, the company will undertake the biggest advertising campaign of its recent history. ads, beginning in late august and september, will show younger-looking models wearing both beltless and belt-style sansabelt slacks. the new slogan will be, ``with a belt, without a belt _ sansabelt fashion, it feels great.''
magazine ads will appear in gentlemen's quarterly, sports illustrated, esquire, new york times magazine and other publications
sales at the dallas market center softened with the texas economy a few years ago, but officials devised new marketing strategies that have begun paying off for this nationally known wholesale complex
the market center, a 150-acre complex of wholesale showrooms contained in eight buildings, typically draws 500,000 buyers a year. the center handles about $6.5 billion worth of wholesale orders annually
last year, the number of buyers was down, but the number of stores represented was up
we look at two things when we're talking about the number of buyers: quality and quantity,'' said michael parks, president of the center's hardgoods division, which includes furniture, floor covering, lighting, jewelry and bath-bed-linen industries
in 1987, we had the healthiest year we've had in four years (in the hardgoods division). we held our own in the southwest. our growth came out of the other regions of the country. we have done a lot of marketing to those other regions.''
buyer attendance dropped 9.1 percent last year in the softgoods division, which includes men's, women's and children's apparel and related merchandise. however, the number of stores represented, a crucial denominator, increased 11 percent, said division president donna knox
fortunately, a number of years ago, we redefined our strategy on attracting retailers to dallas,'' said lucy crow billingsley, chief executive officer of the dallas market center
not only do we want to be what we've always been _ the best specialty store market in the country _ but we also want to expand geographically and reach much further than the 10-state area next to us. and we've done that.''
independent chains and small, home-owned retailers have been the traditional base of the dallas market center's buyers. by implementing a new retail buyer development program, complete with travel incentives, retailers outside the southwest and large department-store chains have become more aware of the dallas market center
in the soft goods area, center workers compiled a list of retailers that do more than $1 million in annual sales but don't come to dallas to buy. that list had more than 12,000 stores
