the nation's second-largest city, with its promised-land image of youth and opportunity, is starting to show its age. the effects of too many years of too much growth are increasingly evident in los angeles' streets and freeways, sewers and landfills
while in many u.s. cities the challenge is just to replace public works as they wear out, los angeles faces the added pressures of california-style growth
the stress has occasionally popped the city's overworked sewer system, causing raw sewage discharges into the pacific ocean and prompting mayor tom bradley last fall to propose restrictions on the number of new sewer hookups
on the region's streets and freeways, daily trips will increase 42 percent by the year 2010, according to a local planning agency. motorists' average speed of 31 mph systemwide today is expected to drop to 11 mph
and without more landfills, city and county officials say los angeles will produce thousands of tons more garbage daily than it can properly dispose
our infrastructure has reached the point that it requires massive infusions of resources to maintain, or to increase its capacity to deal with the population growth,'' said edward j. avila, president of the city's board of public works
i think los angeles has been lulled into a false sense of security,'' said delwin a. biagi, an engineer who joined the city's public works department 17 years ago and who now heads the bureau of sanitation
the city population is expected to swell 16 percent, to 3.6 million, by 2010, according to the southern california association of governments. in the surrounding six-county area, the predicted growth is 47 percent, to 18.3 million people in 22 years
over the next 25 years, we see a 50 percent increase in housing and jobs in the los angeles area,'' said roger riga, a scag transportation planner. ``that means it's going to cause some big problems with our transportation system. it's already overburdened. we know that. the question is what are we going to do about it?''
riga's agency, which predicted the growth in traffic, also prepared a study in february that sets out three alternatives, ranging in cost from $42 million to $110 million, to alleviate congestion: by locating jobs nearer to housing through growth management, or changing driving patterns by carpooling or re-scheduling office hours, or constructing new highways and other facilities
however, california department of transportation officials say the problems are so intractable that doubling the number of freeways would not appreciably reduce traffic
moreover, a statewide study done by the governor's infrastructure review task force indicates the pricetag would be billions _ not millions _ of dollars. the task force estimated the state's public works needs at $78 billion _ and projected a revenue shortfall of $50 billion to meet the demand
increasing traffic and other effects of growth have stoked the political fires of los angeles' anti-growth movement, said laura lake, an adjunct faculty member at ucla's school of public health, who heads a group called not yet new york
all the people who support slow-growth want to make sure that the infrastructure will still be there,'' ms. lake said. ``the system is hemorrhaging and they're coming up with very expensive band-aids.''
her group supported city council candidate ruth galanter last year, and the growth-control advocate was elected. ms. lake herself plans to run for a council seat in 1989
local concerns reflect a nationwide problem
last august, a study of public works funding done for the u.s. senate concluded: ``as the federal government shifted priorities away from infrastructure financing, new federal laws have mandated state and local compliance with new requirements for water pollution control, clean drinking water and the cleanup of hazardous wastes.''
another federal study concluded that as much as $90 billion a year is needed to pay for all types of public works repairs nationwide
the problems it identified _ neglected and dilapidated bridges, water systems, highways, mass transit systems and other facilities _ are consistent with what is happening in los angeles county, supervisor mike antonovich said recently
yet los angeles leaders postponed capital improvements to the sewer system for more than a decade while arguing over compliance with federal clean water standards
the city was running away from its responsibilities,'' said dorothy green, president of an environmental group called heal the bay
the dispute ended when the city agreed to stop dumping its treated sewage sludge offshore and to build a secondary wastewater treatment facility. the primary wastewater plant was built in 1950
the cost of compliance will be more than $2.3 billion over the next 10 years, officials said
los angeles also faces a looming crisis over its garbage, which is thrown away at the rate of 45,000 tons per day in the metropolitan area, said mike miller, manager of the city's solid waste task force
the city itself, which generates 18,000 tons per day of that total, already trucks 5,400 tons per day to outlying county landfills, miller said
we have to find additional landfill space and we have to start recycling efforts,'' miller said. ``that's all we've got.''
if no landfills are established, the excess garbage will amount to 6,400 tons per day by 1992, and 50,000 tons per day by the year 2000, miller said. by 1997, there will be no landfills remaining within the city
we haven't been able to site a new landfill since 1974,'' miller said, listing five ill-fated proposals, including trash-to-energy incineration plants
the city council is very aware of the situation. they just have no clear-cut plan as to what they're going to do.''
nineteen states have taken steps to change laws that govern the guardians who take on the personal and financial affairs of old people, aiming to close loopholes and prevent abuse of the elderly's rights
almost all the action has come since publication last fall of associated press stories about shortcomings in the little-known but powerful system of guardianship, under which hundreds of thousands of people deemed mentally incompetent have had their affairs turned over to someone else
the series, ``guardians of the elderly: an ailing system,'' which examined guardianship laws from a national viewpoint and in each of the 50 states and the district of columbia, found a network of overburdened courts that routinely fail to monitor wards under their jurisdiction, which often opens the door to physical and financial mistreatment
legislation to strengthen guardianship protections has been introduced in arizona, california, colorado, florida, michigan, new jersey, ohio, oklahoma and pennsylvania. u.s. rep. claude pepper, d-fla., has drafted a national reform law
in addition, studies of guardianship laws are under way in new york, virginia, mississippi and illinois, court procedural changes have been made in alaska, pennsylvania and washington state, and the idaho senate is considering a resolution for a study
five new laws in new mexico have already provided $755,000 to set up private guardianship services, adult protective services, social workers, in-home care and homemaker help for frail elderly and disabled adults, and a demonstration program for counseling the elderly on guardianship, medicaid and nursing home financial issues
the indiana general assembly this year amended the state guardianship law based on recommendations from a long-term review by the probate code study commission. the changes included requiring biannual review of a ward's personal status, in addition to his or her financial reports, and increasing legal representation for the ward
and earlier this month, utah gov. norm bangerter signed into law a package of guardianship reforms that was approved unanimously at the state house
the reforms will require, among other things, that proposed wards receive written notice of guardianship proceedings, that they be represented in proceedings by attorneys, and that ``clear and convincing medical evidence'' be provided to prove incapacity in lieu of such catch-all phrases as ``advanced age'' or ``confinement.''
betty tatham, chairwoman of the 21-member panel that overhauled utah's guardianship law, said the task force drew heavily on the ap's guardianship research, state and national, in identifying problems with the state's existing law and drafting the new one
we want the state of utah to be a good place for retired people to live. we think that this bill will have a positive impact on protecting the elderly in our society,'' bangerter said
in virginia, a house committee earlier this month defeated a proposal to remove ``advanced age'' from state law as a reason to place a person under guardianship. physicians, in general, disapprove of such terminology, saying that it makes it too easy to link advanced age with incompetency without other factors considered
but an opponent, delegate clinton miller, argued the change wasn't needed because virginia requires expert testimony on the person's mental or physical incapacity. the ap stories on guardianship in virginia, however, found that expert testimony was often nothing more than a one-paragraph statement from a doctor; in 85 percent of the cases examined, such brief statements were all that was used to establish incompetency
concerning the states with proposed legislation:
_ two bills to amend arizona guardianship laws received almost unanimous support in committee but have been delayed by the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham. one would require guardians to file annual reports on the well-being of wards; the other would remove ``advanced age'' as a reason to declare a person incapacitated
_ california lawmakers said the ap series prompted several new bills in the state assembly. they would variously certify professional guardians, require counties to educate guardians on their responsibilities and require petitions seeking guardianship to spell out what the elderly person is capable of doing and what the guardian would handle
_ colorado gov. roy romer is expected to sign a bill, which he received march 8, that would require guardians to supervise their wards more closely. its sponsors said the legislation was prompted by the ap state series on colorado's lack of required review of guardianship cases
_ both houses in florida are considering legislation to dramatically liberalize state guardianship statutes. it would require more accountability from guardians, attorneys, examining committees, doctors and courts
_ the michigan senate is considered two house-passed bills. one would require legal representation for proposed wards and periodic judicial review of cases to see if guardianship remains necessary. the second bill would prohibit nursing homes from requiring residents to have guardians
_ a new jersey senate committee has passed a bill that would require court-appointed attorneys to report every two years on what they have done for their wards. other legislation pending in the legislature would require annual reports
marie muhler, who runs the state's year-old public guardian office, said judges began clamping down after the ap series. ``i notice now that some courts are putting in strict guidelines for accounting,'' she said in an interview
_ the ohio senate may vote in may on its rewritten version of a house-passed bill overhauling state guardianship laws. the proposal would limit the definition of ``incompetent'' by removing the term advanced age and require the appointment of investigators to check each case of alleged incompetency and explain their rights to the proposed wards
_ an oklahoma joint conference committee is considering a bill that would change the state guardianship law to require more reporting and improve legal representation
_ in pennsylvania, legislation now in committee would refine the definition of incapacity, provide lawyers for incompetent people without them and set regular review hearings. the bill's sponsor, rep. allen kukovich, says similar legislation failed to reach the assembly floor in recent years, but that this bill has better chances because of the ap series and the attention it brought to guardianship
studies of guardianship laws are underway in several states
in virginia, such an overall study continues in the general assembly despite the defeat of the proposal to change wording in the existing law. the study will also cover other protective services for the elderly and incapacitated
the mississippi council on aging and the cook county public guardian's office in chicago report they are working on guardianship improvements. court officials in alaska, washington state and pennsylvania say they have made some changes in guardianship procedures since the ap series
a study of new york's guardianship system, called conservatorship, is ``rather well along,'' and findings may be available this summer, according to the state's top administrative judge, albert rosenblatt. the study was prompted by the attention the ap gave the issue, rosenblatt said
eight years after china's communes began splitting up and peasants returned to family farming, the 2,670 ``farmer-workers'' of cao tan state farm still live and tend crops collectively
they are still organized into pseudo-military work teams and brigades _ once the basic units of all chinese agriculture. like dairy worker wu jinlian who helps monitor milk quality, each has a strictly assigned role
i like it and i do it well,'' miss wu, 28, said proudly, expressing disinterest in farming her own small plot like the mass of chinese peasants
cao tan is one of 2,300 state-run farms established in the 1950s and 1960s in imitation of the huge food factories stalin created in the soviet union as vanguards of communist agriculture
most of china's state farms were set up in remote border areas or on reclaimed wasteland, as was cao tan, which means ``grass sands.''
gou xingwen, head of the farm's agriculture division, said the farm site in xian in arid northwestern china had been a dried riverbed. ``it's not fertile _ too much sand,'' he said
but it produces 20 percent more grain per acre than the average family farm in the region because of heavy capital investment, mechanization and guidance from the farm's own small scientific research laboratory
about 80 percent of agricultural production is mechanized,'' boasted gou
although state farms account for only 2.7 percent of china's farmland, they own nearly 8 percent of the rider tractors in the country and half the combine harvesters
they have become china's main producer of non-staple food items such as eggs and milk, and lead in agricultural exports
their healthy performance highlights what is wrong with most of chinese agriculture
by breaking up the communes, china restored the work incentive to peasants but also brought back the main weakness of traditional farming, plots too tiny for efficient production, mechanization or use of advanced scientific techniques
the use of tractors and other machines fell, as did investment. local governments now sink their funds into collective projects such as small factories, while peasants tend to use the profits they control for the first time to build better homes and buy televisions
as a result, agricultural production has stagnated or even _ in the case of grain _ fallen
at the state farms, however, collective control over profits has ensured steadier levels of investment. allowed under deng xiaoping's 1978 reform program to retain most of their profits, the farms have reinvested heavily in equipment and fertilizer
they have become showcases of what would be possible in chinese agriculture if tractors and technology were more widely used
at cao tan, for example, the 1,300 cows are fed a scientifically balanced diet that includes mineral supplements. they are milked by machines at the rate of one cow every two minutes
as a result, milk production is among the highest in the country
ten combines and nearly 100 tractors work the 9,677 acres of land. the dry sandy soil is treated with twice as much chemical fertilizer as that of individual farmers nearby, resulting in the high crop yields
the workers at cao tan also enjoy a higher standard of living than most family farmers nearby. they live in brick row houses with concrete floors and cold water taps, compared to the mud-block homes and packed dirt floors of nearby villages
the average per capita income is 1,270 yuan a year, the equivalent of $343, more than double the national average for peasants
cao tan has made some concessions to the new national policy of rewarding individual initiative. instead of paying workers equally as in the past, work teams now sign contracts with the farm and team members share bonuses when their production exceeds the contracted amount
nonetheless, some ambitious cao tan ``farmer-workers'' have left in recent years in hopes of getting rich as individual farmers or entrepreneurs
about 20 leave every year,'' gou said. ``the people who have ability want to break (the farm) up and leave to go on their own.''
the talented may leave, but gou and other farm officials are convinced the farm will never be broken up because of its most valuable asset, its machinery
the machinery is of no use if the farm breaks up. it can't be used by individual farmers,'' gou said. he predicted the movement to break up landholdings has run its course, and china will begin rebuilding large farms to modernize its agriculture
recent reports in the state-run media indicate a growing number of officials share that view
the xinhua news agency and economic daily both recently urged a return to large-scale farming. one mayor was quoted as saying his town was encouraging families to form farming cooperatives
in several counties, families that want to work in factories have been allowed to lease their cropland to the most skilled farmers, who accumulate large plots
rural development experts are observing the experiments ... with great interest,'' the china daily reported
u.s. and panamanian soldiers still patrol the panama canal side-by-side, but their once warm relations are strained by the prospect of a confrontation over strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
president reagan has said the united states will not act like ``a colossus of the north'' and take military action here. but the panamanian defense forces say if the americans do, their u.s.-trained and supplied troops are ready to fight back
the defense force is prepared,'' said martin paz, spokesman for the 15,000-man force under noreiga's command
paz says the united states is aggravating tension between the two forces. government-owned national radio daily blasts the united states and warns of military aggression
we are seeing a lot of maneuvers, maneuvers which do not comply with the treaty,'' said paz. ``it is my impression that they are doing it to frighten us, to terrorize us.''
the united states wants noriega, indicted by u.s. federal grand juries on drug trafficking charges, to resign and is tightening the economic screws on the country in support of a citizen's campaign to oust the general
the opposition hopes the defense forces will eventually turn on their discredited commander. those hopes were raised saturday when bankers rejected a government demand for the $70 million remaining in their vaults and the cash-starved government was unable to make the defense force payroll
there are growing pockets in the defense forces that are against noriega,'' said opposition leader jose mulino. ``but we don't know if they will act.''
panama is home to the u.s. southern command, headquarters for all u.s. military activity in latin america
about half the 10,000 u.s. army, air force and navy personnel are classified as combat troops. their air backup includes corsair fighters, blackhawk helicopters and c-130 transport planes
although the defense forces, panama's only armed authority, outnumbers the americans, it has virtually no air force
but the defense forces are not the ragtag affair they were before the 1977 treaty giving panama sole control of the canal by the year 2000
since 1981, the united states has spent more than $100 million to make panama capable of defending the canal alone. military observers say the panamanian troops are increasingly effective, especially the new, 800-man battallion 2000
the defense forces carry u.s.-supplied m-16s and wear battle dress uniforms virtually identical to the americans. when they hurled tear gas at striking dockworkers, the grenades were made in saltsburg, pa
enhancing the defense forces potential strength are paramilitary groups loyal to noriega
observers here believe the 25,000 automatic assault pistols the defense forces tried to buy in the united states this week were for the paramilitary groups
noriega's former pilot, who recently fled panama, has said that 16 tons of cuban arms were delivered to the mountains of panama for the general's last stand. paz refused to comment on the defector's claim
u.s. military aid to panama was suspended by congress last year as the political situation began to deteriorate
but under the treaty, u.s. and panamanian military police still patrol together, stand side-by-side at the gates of shared bases and sit on boards that authorize troop movements around the canal
there's a little tension,'' said one u.s. military policeman who asked not to be identified. ``but we get along. we're professionals with a job to do.''
until recently they also carried out joint training exercises, a practice stepped up by noriega after he took command in 1983
many panamanian officers are graduates of the u.s. army school of the americas, headquartered in panama city until it moved to fort benning, ga., in 1984. others trained at fort leavenworth. one close noriega aide is a graduate of west point
noriega began a massive shake-up of his forces after a failed coup on march 16. paz scoffs at the idea of another, larger, more successful mutiny and says only ``a few who wandered off the track'' were part of the abortive coup
osvaldo velasquez, head of panama's human rights commission, said the dissidents are being harshly punished. he said 11 arrested officers have been tortured
the defense forces have detained u.s. soldiers off their base at least three times since the failed coup. u.s. officials have ordered military personnel and their dependents not to go to panama city unless necessary
whatever happens to noriega, u.s. military officials are worried about whether the defense forces and american troops can now achieve the smooth transition aimed at having panama take over the canal in 12 years
moslem extremists are expected to increase their influence on the iranian government during a crucial parliamentary election next month
the april 8 vote also will prepare a new generation of leaders to take over after the aging ayatollah ruhollah khomeini dies
hardliners, such as interior minister ali akbar mohtashemi, who has close links to pro-iranian shiite moslem militants holding foreign hostages in lebanon, are expected to make some gains
extremists have ``been coming out of the shadows in the last eight months or so,'' said gary sick, a former u.s. national security adviser who specializes in iranian affairs
they're certainly being heard and are more prominent now,'' he said in a telephone interview from his new york home. ``it's not clear how dominant a position they now have in the decision-making process, but they have a tremendous impact and that could have an effect on the elections.''
the candidates who will run for the 270-seat single-chamber majlis, or parliament, will not be campaigning on party tickets in the western style because there are no formal political parties in iran
but they represent factions that reflect various shadings of islamic radicalism in a contest for control of parliament, which will play an important role in the post-khomeini era
any election in iran is important,'' sick said. ``the most important thing is that the iranians do have reasonably open elections.''
he added: ``there's always a certain amount of fixing, but considering they're in the middle of a war and all the in-fighting among the hierarchy, it's interesting that they're having an election at all.''
membership of the majlis, elected on a one-man, one-vote system, has become increasingly controlled by the regime and only approved candidates can run. about 20 million to 25 million people vote in iran
the elections, the third since khomeini's 1979 islamic revolution toppled the monarchy, will be held against a backdrop of the 7{-year-old war with iraq, the growing international isolation of khomeini's fundamentalist regime and worsening economic woes
but the main issues, in public at least, will be land and industrial reform, nationalization and social change
among the candidates announced so far are parliament speaker hashemi rafsanjani, hardline anti-american radical hadi ghafari, mohammed yazdi, a former central committee member of the now disbanded islamic republic party
tehran radio, monitored in nicosia, said that the candidates also included, for the first time, 34 women, mainly from tehran and the northeastern city of mashhad, one of the hotbeds of revolutionary islam
rafsanjani, prime minister hussein musavi, president ali khamenei, and chief justice ayatollah mussavi ardebeli, as heads of identifiable factions have been maneuvering for months to shape and dominate the next majlis
khamenei, 48, is serving his second four-year term as president and is constitutionally barred from running again in the next presidential election in 1989
his political base was seriously weakened last june when khomeini disbanded the islamic republic party, which the president headed
khomeini, 87 and reported in poor health, said he disbanded the party, the vehicle used by iran's clerics to seize political power in the early days of the revolution, because it was riven by factionalism
rafansjani, who also has strong support in the majlis, is looking ahead to the presidential election and wants to replace khamenei with one of his allies
with the non-islamic elements who helped put khomeini in power sytematically eliminated in bloody purges, the only opposition party permitted is the freedom movement, a tiny anti-war faction led by mehdi bazargan
the veteran liberal politician was iran's first post-revolution prime minister. but he quit in protest against the storming of the u.s. embassy in november 1979 by khomeini's loyalists
despite constant harrassment, he and his followers remain a faint voice of dissent
the majlis has wide constitutional powers, unlike the rubber-stamp body it became under the late shah mohammed reza pahlavi. but it has little decision-making power regarding the conduct of the war
the council of guardians, a 13-member body dominated by conservative clerics, has blocked parliamentary efforts to push through sweeping economic reforms, underlining the conflict between the radicals, led by musavi and others, and the more traditionalist factions
the traditionalist factions are linked to the ``bazaaris,'' the wealthy merchant class who have survived under the revolution and who retain considerable economic and political influence
but khomeini recently gave the majlis, and the radicals, a major boost with a series of edicts that widened state powers and control of the war-battered economy
legislation on land reform and nationalization blocked by the council will now be resubmitted to the majlis and is likely to be become law
this was a victory for the majlis and the radicals over the more conservative forces,'' sick commented. ``without saying so, khomeini's edicts changed the constitution. it wasn't coincidental that khomeini issued these edicts before the elections.''
ed blanche is the associated press' middle east news editor based in nicosia and has covered iranian affairs for two years
a rally to protest reagan administration policy in central america drew 1,900 participants and 250 counterdemonstrators sunday in st. paul, minn., while 600 people rallied in los angeles. there were no reports of violence or arrests
we must demand an end to intervention and we must demand our government to stop lying to us,'' anne winkler of the central america peace action committee told the st. paul crowd
after listening to speeches and singing songs for about an hour at the capitol, the group marched to the nearby cathedral of st. paul for a church service
the service commemorated the assassination of salvadoran roman catholic archbishop oscar romero, who was shot in a church march 24, 1980, the day after he called on the salvadoran government to stop repressive actions
capt. richard smith of capitol security said the anti-war protesters at the capitol numbered about 1,900. a group of about 250 counter-demonstrators was on hand and chanted pro-administration slogans from the capitol's side steps, but there was no trouble, smith said
in los angeles, a caravan of horn-tooting cars, decked out with protest posters, snaked 10 miles through city streets from downtown los angeles to the federal building in westwood, where more demonstrators greeted them with cheers
some passing drivers honked and flashed the two-finger ``peace'' sign in shows of support, while other motorists shouted curses at the protesters, estimated to number 600
speakers at the rally, sponsored by a coalition of los angeles-area peace groups, praised the cease-fire agreement signed last week by nicaraguan contra rebel leaders and the leftist nicaraguan government
but gary prevost of the nicaraguan solidarity committee told the st. paul rally that it was premature to celebrate the agreement between nicaragua's rulers and the contras
the united states government has not given up its goal; it has not decided the nicaraguans are to live in peace,'' he said. picks up 5th graf pvs, ``state police.''</note>
a leaking tank of propane gas ordered out of a pennsylvania town was safely emptied here sunday, but delaware officials complained they never gave permission for the tank to be brought into their state
we're very upset because they didn't notify us they planned to move it and (because of) the hour they chose to move it,'' john e. wilson iii, secretary of the state department of natural resources and environmental control, said sunday
herm bruce, spokesman for the state emergency response team, said amtrak officials had the tank and its explosive contents moved into delaware in the middle of the night. an amtrak spokesman said the transfer was done after 5:30 a.m. sunday
delaware state officials learned of the shipment only because fire dispatchers in pennsylvania told their local counterparts across the line in delaware that the shipment was en route, bruce said
state police then halted four other tanks before they entered the state, including two that also showed signs of minor leaks, he said. those four tanks were taken to eddystone, pa., where they were to be drained overnight, police there said
bruce stressed that the leaking tank problem was not a serious threat
but residents in a sparsely populated area near the amtrak railroad yard here were advised to stay indoors for about five hours sunday as workers transferred the propane from the leaking tank into an intact one, bruce said. nearby roads also were closed as a precaution
on friday, train traffic was disrupted around ridley park, pa., when the leak in the tank was first discovered. interstate 95, which runs over railroad tracks at the spot the tank and four others were being stored, also was closed for a time
the tanks, about 50 feet long and 6 feet in diameter, are used by amtrak to hold propane that fuels heaters during wintertime to thaw out track switches, said amtrak spokesman clifford black
it appeared the leak in the one tank was successfully capped friday evening, black said, but another leak was discovered late saturday afternoon and once again rail traffic and interstate traffic were suspended
he confirmed that the tank had been transferred to delaware on sunday but said he didn't know anything about the charges that state officials had not been notified. he said the tank left ridley park about 5:30 and arrived in delaware about an hour later
two of the four tanks that were returned to ridley park have small leaks but are not an ``imminent danger,'' black said sunday
ridley park fire chief raymond l. lonabaugh said saturday that he ordered amtrak to remove the leaking tank. the tank was disconnected from the other tanks and loaded onto a railroad car, lonabaugh said
lonabaugh said two amtrak employees were injured friday night when they tried to cap the leaking tank without donning protective clothing or respirators. but black said he didn't know about any workers being injured
state sen. greg tarver was shot and wounded saturday night, but refused to press charges after identifying the attacker as his wife, police said
the shooting happened at tarver's home less than an hour after he returned from a special session of the legislature in baton rouge. police learned of the shooting when tarver's mother phoned to report it, said police chief charles gruber
tarver, 41, a senator since 1984 and one of only a handful of blacks in the 39-member body, was taken to lsu medical center, gruber said. hospital spokeswoman elaine king said he was in stable condition, and a doctor said he was taken into surgery
gruber said tarver was shot once in the upper chest with a small caliber weapon about 6:45 p.m
he has identified his assailant as his wife, sabrina,'' said gruber, who disclosed no motive at a hospital news conference
there are no charges being filed at this time,'' gruber said. ``she is not in custody at this time. we are not looking for her at this time
sen. tarver requested that we not pursue anything at the moment,'' he said, adding that police would pursue an investigation in case tarver changed his mind about pressing charges
gruber would not say where mrs. tarver was, and there was no answer at the tarver home
dr. darryl williams, dean of the lsu medical school, said tarver was taken into surgery. and, though he wouldn't speculate on the risk, williams added: ``any injury in that area can be life-threatening.''
several of tarver's legislative colleagues and one of gov. buddy roemer's aides went to the hospital soon after he was shot
michael dukakis has laid out plans to establish himself as the democratic presidential front-runner by building up a lead of 250-350 delegates over his nearest challenger, targeting delegate-rich new york, pennsylvania and new jersey
in addition, the dukakis organization hopes to reap delegates from what it sees as two rival campaigns about to collapse, as well as pick up support from ``super delegates'' and others now counted as uncommitted
i think that there's a magic number in this process in terms of what kind of distance is going to be adequate to separate a front-runner from second- or third-place candidates in this process,'' said tad devine, who handles delegate selection for the massachusetts governor
that magic number is probably somewhere between 253, the unpledged number of delegates from congress, and 362, the number of votes on the democratic national committee.''
the strategy won't guarantee the nomination for dukakis, but a strong delegate lead would encourage party leaders and uncommitted delegates to rally round the leader to avoid the spectacle of a deadlocked convention in july
dukakis, with 597 delegates, currently is locked in a three-way race for the delegate lead in the democratic presidential race, holding a narrow edge over jesse jackson, at 585, and a wider margin over tennessee sen. albert gore jr., at 363
devine said he believed it was a ``real possibility'' that dukakis could pick up the 1,500-plus delegates he needs to clinch the democratic nomination as early as may
but an aide to gore, echoing the statements of other campaigns, said it was all but impossible for anyone to have the nomination won before the season's june 7 finale, the california and new jersey primaries
i don't think it's in the cards for any candidate to have anywhere near 2,082 delegates by june 7,'' said rick hutcheson, who follows delegate selection for the gore campaign
in private, dukakis aides are willing to discuss specifics, outlining how the campaign plans to do in each of the remaining states. however, neither the jackson or gore campaign want to talk about their prospects in such detail. jackson's campaign declined a request for an interview
we haven't designated any state as a make-or-break state for us and we're not going to,'' hutcheson said. ``instead, we're focused on a steady accumulation of delegates both by participating in the processes and by wooing, as we have done successfully to date, a good many of the super delegates.''
the dukakis campaign hopes to deliver a one-two punch by winning the new york primary on april 19 and the pennsylvania primary on april 26. a total of 359 delegates are at stake in those two northeast states
there are real opportunities for one candidacy, one candidate in this process, to move up from the pack,'' devine said. ``the break point in this process to put together a nomination is between april 19 and april 26.''
in addition, 253 members of the house and senate are to be chosen as super delegates in democratic caucuses april 19-20 on capitol hill. other super delegates, who hold seats automatically at the national convention because of their positions in the party or government, include members of the democratic national committee, democratic governors and former party leaders
that week is almost a `mini super tuesday,''' devine said. ``so i see that as a time when a candidate must put some distance between himself and his competitors.''
the only place where a competitor could make up a lot of ground in one spot is new jersey, with 109 delegates at stake, but dukakis is strong there, devine said. california, with 314 delegates at stake, is the largest single primary for the democrats but the rules are structured that big delegate gains there by any candidate over another are unlikely, he said
a total of more than 300 national convention delegates now committed to missouri rep. richard gephardt and illinois sen. paul simon would be up for grabs if those two candidates, whose campaigns are fading, drop out of the race
i'm not predicting that either simon or gephardt is going to get out of this race in the immediate future,'' devine said. ``i'm just saying that i think that the pressures to sustain a candidacy, without putting on the board delegates, are going to be substantial and maybe insurmountable.'' kills 22</head>
president corazon aquino swore in a commission saturday to prepare for moslem autonomy in the southern philippines and criticized moslem separatists and other rebels fighting the government
even now, the forces which nearly destroyed our country continue to harass our efforts to rebuild the country and bring it peace,'' mrs. aquino told the 44 members of the regional consultative committee
in fighting friday, military officials in manila said troops killed 10 communist new people's army guerrillas in luzon island's albay province. they said one soldier was killed in the encounter. other rebel violence thursday and friday left at least a dozen other people dead
mrs. aquino flew to mindanao island to inaugurate the commission after the largest moslem rebel group failed to win full membership in the organization of islamic conference but obtained assurances of continued support from the influential bloc
communist insurgents, fighting the government for 19 years, are reported to have struck alliances with some moslem extremists on mindanao
hundreds of soldiers armed with automatic rifles and grenade launchers guarded the saturday's inauguration ceremonies, held in a government complex on the outskirts of cotabato city, a mixed moslem-christian city 560 miles southeast of manila
at least six people were killed in clashes friday between members of the rival moro national liberation front and the moro islamic front south of the city. the two groups, which split in the mid-1970s, have been fighting for moslem rule on mindanao and other southern islands for more than 15 years
on thursday, about 200 moslem rebels attacked two villages in the mindanao province of zamboanga del sur, killing six militiamen and burning hundreds of houses, military officials said
through decades of migration from luzon and the visayas islands, christians now outnumber moslems in 17 of the 22 provinces on mindanao and the sulu island chain. the region is the homeland of the philippines' estimated 5 million moslems
the commission is to hold public hearings to determine the extent of autonomy to be granted the region. it will also help lay down the administrative framework that will govern the region
of the commission's 44 members, 21 are christians. the rest are moslems or members of tribes belonging to neither faith. rebel groups are not represented in the body
the moslem separatist revolt broke out in the southern philippines a few weeks after then-president ferdinand marcos imposed martial law in september 1972. the fighting peaked in 1974 and, according to official estimates, claimed more than 50,000 lives by 1976. edits pvs to tighten. no pickup.</note>
president reagan delivered a nostalgic valedictory to the gridiron club annual dinner saturday night, poked fun at vice president george bush's many ``home'' states and jokingly applauded his wife's surprise on-stage performance with the quip: ``raisa, top that.''
the president, traditionally the last speaker on the program at the press organization's satirical banquet, also took shots at some other presidential aspirants
it was the eighth year in a row that reagan had attended the show and dinner and it was the last he will attend as president. he is the 17th consecutive president to attend the event and second only to franklin d. roosevelt for the numer of dinners attended
but it was nancy reagan who stole the show with her unexpected singing solo to the tune of ``thanks for the memories.'' one verse referred to that ``soviet mona lisa, otherwise known as raisa, who said, `would you like to see my mastercard and visa?'''
when her husband followed her to the podium, he said: ``before i refuse to take questions, i have an opening statement. i thought nancy's performance was absolutely wonderful. raisa, top that ....'' raisa gorbachev is the wife of soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
reagan later observed that if republican presidential hopeful pat robertson ``made it, there'd be no more `hail to the chief.' it would be `when the saints go marching in.'''
referring to bush's place of birth (massachusetts), his state of family connections (connecticut), his state of political activity (texas) and the state where he spends a lot of time (maine), reagan said bush could win the presidential race ``if he carried his own states.''
looking out over the 700 guests _ the men wearing white tie and tails and the women formal attire _ reagan said he had not seen such a dressy group ``since the grosse pointe republican caucus,'' a reference to the affluent detroit suburb
before the reagans took the stage at a downtown hotel, new york gov. mario cuomo delivered the traditional speech for the democrats and sen. al simpson, r-wyo., spoke for the republicans
cuomo's 15-minute recitation of one-line quips concluded with a fond remembrance of president john f. kennedy and a warm expression of best wishes to president reagan, wishing him ``health and happiness and many years.''
earlier, cuomo brought the audience to rapt silence when he referred to the issue of whether reagan should pardon lt. col. oliver north and former national security adviser john m. poindexter for their roles in the iran-contra affair
one option, cuomo said, would be to ``swap poindexter and north for (panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio) noriega and a dictator to be named later.''
simpson asserted that ``people who take the high rode of humility in this town are not bothered by heavy traffic.''
he also said that ``it was so cold in casper, wyoming, the other day, i saw a lawyer going down the street with his hand in his own pocket.''
during the show, a chorus of washington journalists thanked reagan ``for the memories'' _ the memories ``of stockman and jim watt, the iran-contra plot, of ollie and bill casey, the diversions you forgot.''
oh, thank you, so much,'' sang gridiron members in a musical spoof that also took aim at democratic and republican presidential candidates, administration officials and television evangelists
organizers allowed no live broadcast of the event by radio or television
the ``thanks for the memories'' tune lampooned former budget director david stockman, the late cia director casey, ex-interior secretary james watt and former white house aide oliver north
the club also ``thanked'' mrs. reagan for ``banishing (former secretary of state) al haig and bloodying up (former staff chief) don regan's nose.''
the 103-year-old club also presented a spoof to the tune of ``to all the girls i've loved before'' by show members playing former sen. gary hart and television evangelist jim bakker
responding to the tune were show members playing the parts of ``donna rice'' and ``jessica hahn,'' who sang: ``our men are on the ropes and they say we're the dopes.''
a skit member playing bush sang to the tune of michael jackson's ``bad.'' among the lyrics: ``they know by now that i'm no wimp... i'm a pit bull from kennebunkport (maine) and i'm ready to bite again.''
a satirical version of ``america, the beautiful'' made fun of democratic candidate richard gephardt's focus on trade as a campaign issue: ``o beautiful for subaru, and datsun, now nissan,'' the song went. ``america, america, god shed his grace on these: thy tiny cars and sushi bars, and all things japanese.'' update with missouri state party leader saying gephardt told him he plans to file for re-election to congressional seat; updates vote counts with 94 percent returns; picks up 12th graf pvs bgng, `jackson won'</note>
jesse jackson won michigan's primary-like caucuses on saturday, blowing past michael dukakis for an industrial state victory that tightened the democratic presidential race. for richard gephardt, third place meant the end was near for his white house hopes
jackson defeated dukakis by almost 2-1 by running strongly across the state and winning huge majorities in detroit. that broad support meant the preacher-turned-politican scored a delegate plurality as well
today is a message of hope,'' jackson said in milwaukee. ``people are responding to authenticity and message and soul over just money and mechanics...
this is not my night alone,'' he said. ``when we, the working people, stand together, we win and we make america stronger.''
it was a disappointing night for dukakis, who has been tried to break away from jackson to become the front-runner for the 1988 nomination
i don't think i did very well in michigan,'' the massachusetts governor said as he congratulated jackson
the news was not all bad for dukakis as he picked up a win saturday in north dakota and was gaining strength in the iowa county conventions
for gephardt, the ``michigan miracle'' did not happen. aides had said the missouri congressman probably would withdraw from the presidential race and file for re-election to his house seat with such poor results
we're going to go home tomorrow and meet with our family and we'll have some word for you the first of next week...,'' gephardt said in milwaukee. ``we haven't decided anything. we're going to go home and have a family meeting.''
however, a missouri state party leader _ state rep. anthony d. ribaudo _ said he spoke with gephardt by telephone late saturday and that ``dick gephardt has informed me he'd like to proceed with his career in congress. the congressional seat becomes (his) no. 1 priority.''
ribaudo, the missouri house majority leader, said he was told gephardt would fly monday to jefferson city, mo., to file for re-election even while keeping his presidential candidacy alive in some form
with returns from 94 percent of the voting sites in michigan, jackson had 107,689 or 55 percent to 55,337 or 28 percent for dukakis. gephardt had 24,995, or 13 percent
sen. paul simon of illinois had 4,069 for 2 percent and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had 3,818 for 2 percent. neither man put significant resources into the state
jackson won enormous majorities in detroit. in the 1st congressional district, jackson beat dukakis 25,427 to 1,808 and in the 13th, the margin was 17,715 to 1,536
the michigan raw votes translated into national convention delegates. initial calculations gave jackson 61, dukakis 43, gephardt 22, and 12 undecided among the 138 pledged delegates
in north dakota, the precinct caucus results made this the preliminary split for national convention delegates: dukakis, 5; jackson, 3; and gephardt, 2. five would go as uncommitted delegates
these results tightened the delegate race a bit. in the ap delegate count, dukakis has 596.55 to jackson's 584.55. gore had 362.8 delegates, gephardt 178, simon 171.5 and uncommitted 371.6
now we can talk about twin bills, double headers, and that sort of thing,'' said joel ferguson, jackson's state coordinator. ``i think we're going to take the majority of congressional districts, which we consider a major victory.''
we've got lots and lots of contests up ahead,'' dukakis said. ``this is a marathon and it's going to continue to be a marathon. there's much to do and there are many miles to go.''
dukakis won in north dakota's precinct caucuses, where the process of picking 15 delegates to the national convention was just beginning
he picked up strength in the iowa county conventions, while gephardt slipped. gephardt won the feb. 8 precinct caucuses there, but he was trailing dukakis in returns from the county meetings, the next step in the complicated delegate-selection process
turnout in michigan was much higher than in 1984, when about 123,400 democrats voted. democratic party chief rick wiener said the total would top 200,000
gephardt's hopes for a win were hurt by the refusal of national labor union leaders to fall in behind his candidacy. he particularly felt the failure to win an endorsement from the united auto workers, big supporters of gephardt's trade policies and the biggest union in the state
dukakis built an impressive organization in this industrial state, where he hoped a win would give him a lion's share of the delegates as well as a popular vote victory. the organization, a heavy dose of television advertising and backing from detroit mayor coleman young helped give the massachusetts governor the lead in the polls
you just tell them to go with the guy with the eyebrows and we'll have a very good saturday,'' dukakis told the polish-american century club in hamtramck, mich., referring to his distinctive, heavy eyebrows
jackson whipped up fervor across the state with large enthusiastic rallies and a bit of television advertising
the talking is over. it's time to work,'' jackson said in pontiac. ``everybody who even looks 17 or older, they are eligible to vote.''
michigan residents who are 17 but who will turn 18 by the general election may vote in the caucus
the caucus was actually a limited primary. voters merely had to show up at the poling places, provide michigan identification, declare their democratic allegiance and then vote
michigan republicans split up their 77 delegates at their state convention two months ago, giving the lion's share to george bush. update with a missouri democratic leader saying gephardt plans to file for re-election to congressional seat</note>
democrat richard gephardt, who had tried to restart his presidential campaign in michigan, said saturday he would meet with his family sunday to decide whether he would pull out of the race and run for re-election to congress
gephardt, running in third place in returns from michigan's caucuses behind jesse jackson and michael dukakis on saturday, had said he needed to do well in michigan to sustain a candidacy that took off in iowa but stumbled in the south on super tuesday
we're going to go home tomorrow and meet with our family and we'll have some word for you the first of next week...,'' gephardt said late saturday. ``we haven't decided anything. we're going to go home and have a family meeting.''
however, missouri state rep. anthony d. ribaudo, the missouri house majority leader, said late saturday that gephardt will file monday for re-election to his congressional seat although he will keep his presidential candidacy alive in some form
ribaudo said he spoke to gephardt who ``informed me he'd like to proceed with his career in congress. the congressional seat becomes (his) no. 1 priority.''
tuesday is the deadline for gephardt to file as a candidate for re-election to congress from missouri. although aides said he could file for re-election and remain a candidate for president, his showing in michigan increased the chances he would drop out of the presidential contest
gephardt joined the other democratic presidential candidates in speaking to wisconsin democrats at the party's annual statewide jefferson-jackson dinner in milwaukee
he said there was ``no question'' that his long bid for the presidency was worthwhile _ a quest that he said throughout the day had taken him to 49 states in 24 months of campaigning
campaign manager bill carrick said no decisions about the future of his campaign would be made before sunday. the mood among gephardt's forces was somber, and there appeared to be a feeling of resignation to events that had not gone gephardt's way
asked whether he would decide sunday, gephardt said, ``i really don't know....''
gephardt leaped to the top of the democratic field when he won iowa's caucuses feb. 8. he forged a plurality victory in that lead-off event through widely acclaimed television ads and a strong populist message that prompted critics to charge he had switched positions on an array of issues in an effort to appeal to disaffected voters. gephardt based his campaign on his call for tough trade policies with foreign countries
he finished second in new hampshire and won south dakota, but won only his home state in the 20-state voting on march 8
earlier saturday, gephardt crossed paths with three other presidential candidates _ dukakis and sens. albert gore jr. and paul simon _ in wausau, wis., as they campaigned toward wisconsin's april 5 primary
the four _ attending an outdoor rally in less than 20 degree weather _ ddressed several hundred union workers for marathon electric who are engaged in a labor dispute and have taken wage cutbacks
gephardt said: ``we're here because we care about wages in this country, not going down but going up.''
gore and gephardt crossed paths earlier at a democratic meeting in merrill, wis., where gephardt streuck an optimistic note: ``i'm going to give my inaugural address jan 20, 1989. i invite you to be there.'' traffic jam. picks up 6th graf pvs, `larger problems ...'.</note>
an estimated 50,000 young people jammed the streets of this desert resort saturday for traditional spring break revelry, watched closely by a reinforced police presence
at least 15 arrests occurred during the day, mostly for trespassing in hotels or public drunkenness, on top of roughly four times as many arrests friday night
another 15 arrests, mostly for public drunkenness, were reported in the evening as the young visitors took to their cars and created gridlock
the traffic right now is backed up past the (aerial) tramway, which is several miles out of town,'' said sgt. ron starrs, adding that no major disturbances were reported
the 100-degree heat kept many partying high school and college students indoors earlier. those who chose to saunter under clear skies wore ``bathing suits, shorts, tanks tops, as little as possible,'' said police officer karen holtz, who estimated the number of visitors at 50,000 in a city with a population of 36,000
larger problems took place friday night when police made about 60 arrests, mostly for public drunkenness and disturbing the peace, and wrote about 200 citations, lt. lee weigel said
there were a couple of disturbances, but nothing out of hand,'' ms. holtz said. ``when you have alcohol involved, mouths start getting bigger and guys start thinking they're tougher than they are.''
police have beefed up their forces with the help of the california highway patrol and riverside county sheriff's deputies to prevent a recurrence of the rock- and bottle-throwing melees of two years ago that ended with nearly 600 arrests
in addition, sheriff's jail and transportation officers have been hired for the week, and 10 agents from the state alcoholic beverage control board will be on the lookout for liquor sales to minors, officials said
during the 1986 spring break, hundreds of vacationing youths went on a good friday rampage, hurling bottles at police, tearing clothes off young women and briefly taking over the main street of town
to prevent a recurrence last year, palm springs distributed 45,000 pamphlets to local schools and colleges warning that visitors were expected to obey the law. a strengthened police force awaited vacationers, including 40 officers from the riverside county sheriff's department and the california highway patrol
the result was 708 arrests and 4,943 misdemeanor citations issued for such infractions as stepping off the sidewalk into the street and riding a bicycle without reflectors. but crowds were generally well-behaved, officials said, despite one episode of bottle-throwing that dented a police car. reported</head> deaths, more clashes reported. edits to conform, no pickup</note>
israeli troops shot and killed three palestinian protesters sunday in a pre-dawn raid on a village in the occupied west bank, hospital officials and an arab news agency said
soldiers raided the village of maythalun, about 8 miles north of nablus, at 2 a.m. sunday, said the arab-owned palestine press service. protests broke out and soldiers opened fire, killing three, it said
an army spokesman confirmed the clashes but not the deaths, the reports of which he said were being investigated
troops opened fire after arabs attacked them with axes and stones and tried to run them over with two cars as they were leaving the village after making arrests, the army spokesman said
a nurse at al ittihad hospital in nablus identified the dead as omar mahmoud rabaiyeh, 23, who died of a gunshot wound to the heart, sahim mahmoud noerat, 27, who died of a wound in the neck and ghassan qassem noerat, 16, who was shot in the chest
two other protesters were admitted with gunshot wounds, said the nurse, jehad alawni
in other developments, an israeli bus carrying arab workers to their jobs in israel was set on fire in the west bank town of halhoul, israel radio said. the arsonists evacuated the bus before setting it ablaze, the radio said
the palestine press reported additional clashes in bet ummar, near the west bank city of hebron and said the army closed hebron itself to some traffic. no further details were available
in taibe, an arab village in northern israel, police arrested six arabs who allegedly threw five firebombs at a police station, israel radio said. it was not clear whether the motive was criminal or political
before sunday's incident, the palestinian death toll stood at 114 in unrest that began last december, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed
on saturday, two arabs were killed and at least nine wounded in clashes in kafr thulth, 28 miles northwest of jerusalem. advance in iraq</head> iran claims 700 iraqi casualties, details on advance in northeastern iraq. edits to trim. no pickup</note>
iran and iraq lobbed long-range missiles into each other's capitals sunday and iran said its forces punched deeper into northeast iraq, moving closer to a key hydroelectric plant and oilfield
shipping officials reported iranian gunboats on sunday attacked the 24,529-ton indian tanker jainarayan vyas in the southern persian gulf, wounding one crewman and setting it on fire
the iraqis fired a long-range al hussein missile into tehran, a city of 6 million, the official iraqi news agency reported
another missile was launched on tehran and two into the central city of isfahan, ancient capital of the persian empire, said ina, monitored in nicosia
the iranians said the missiles hit residential neighborhoods, causing unspecified civilian casualties
the official islamic republic news agency in tehran said revolutionary guards fired two missiles at baghdad, which has a population of 5 million
the agency, also monitored in nicosia, said the missiles were aimed at ``two military targets'' in retaliation for iraqi missiles that hit tehran saturday, killing at least seven civilians and hitting an orphanage
baghdad radio reported one iranian missile hit a residential district of the iraqi capital sunday, demolishing houses, shops and cars. it said there were ``many civilians killed or wounded, including women and children.''
the radio made no mention of a second iranian missile
hundreds of civilians on both sides have been killed in missile, air and artillery attacks since feb. 29
tehran radio reported iran also fired four missiles at ``industrial and military installations'' in the strategic southern iraqi port of basra, and two other border towns further north sunday
in northeastern iraq, irna said revolutionary guards killed or wounded 700 iraqi soldiers to seize the southern shore of lake darbandikhan, high in the kurdistan mountains
it said an iraqi infantry brigade and an artillery battalion were severely mauled in a three-pronged attack in the 12-day-old offensive
the agency said the iranians destroyed 20 tanks and armored vehicles and captured 15 in annihilating the iraqi armored column when the iraqis made an abortive counter-attack
the fighting flared as the iranians broke out of their bridgehead on the eastern shore of the 10-mile-long lake in the strategic region east of iraq's kirkuk oilfields
iraq had no immediate report on the reported fighting
kirkuk accounts for 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, more than half iraq's oil production and vital for its war effort
irna said the revolutionary guards stormed the shaakh shamshir heights overlooking a big hydroelectric dam on the lake's southernmost point
the facility provides most of the power for the region as well as the capital baghdad, 120 miles to the southeast
by iranian account, the revolutionary guards control more than 40 square miles of iraqi territory east and south of the lake
iraq said saturday that the iranians had pushed 10 miles into kurdistan
the iranians claim they have killed or wounded 11,500 iraqis, captured 4,500 and destroyed 200 tanks and armored vehicles since they launched the offensive march 16. with details of sentencing. pickup 4th graf pvs ``defense attorney...''</note>
an israeli court on sunday sentenced mordechai vanunu, the former nuclear technician who spilled his country's atomic secrets to a british newspaper, to 18 years in prison for treason and espionage
a three-judge panel announced its sentence in a closed-door session at jerusalem's district courthouse shortly after hearing sentencing arguments from both sides
vanunu's trial has been shrouded in secrecy since it began in september. officials said an open trial would harm state security
the crimes for which vanunu was convicted carry a maximum death penalty in israel. however, prosecutors said earlier they would ask for a life sentence, which in israel is limited to 20 years. the court lightened that sentence by two years but its reasons were not made public
according to israeli law, vanunu could be released on good behavior after 12 years. legal commentators said early release was unlikely, given the nature of vanunu's crimes
defense attorney avigdor feldman said he plans to appeal to israel's supreme court
vanunu, 34, was convicted last week of treason and espionage for telling the sunday times of london israel had nuclear weapons
a jewish-born convert to christianity, vanunu worked for 10 years at israel's nuclear facility in the southern desert town of dimona. he then left israel, smuggling out photographs he took from inside the facility
in october 1986, vanunu handed over the photographs and details about israel's nuclear program to the sunday times. based on his information, the newspaper reported israel stockpiled the world's sixth largest nuclear arsenal
israel never responded directly to allegations of its nuclear capacity, saying only it would not be the first country to introduce such weapons into the middle east
several days after the newspaper published his revelations, vanunu disppeared from london
how he returned to israel was never revealed but his family said he was lured to rome by an american woman named cindy, then kidnapped by israeli agents and spirited home to stand trial
during a pre-trial appearance last year, vanunu managed to flash waiting reporters a message scribbled on his hand. in the message, he said he had been kidnapped in rome
after the incident, security precautions around vanunu increased. he was transported to the courthouse in a white van with painted-over windows, and police sirens blared as he was hustled indoors to prevent contact with reporters
vanunu's brother, asher, said following the sentence that his brother had been done an injustice
the trial was not conducted as it should have been,'' asher was quoted as saying by israel army radio. he said an international campaign for vanunu's release would put pressure on the israeli government to release vanunu
during sentencing arguments sunday, judges refused to allow an american expert on international law testify for the defense
the expert, richard falk of princeton university in princeton, n.j., said he was shocked the court refused to let him testify and criticized vanunu's convictions on treason and espionage charges
individual conscience is more important in the nuclear age than the security of the state,'' falk told reporters. ``the state can be wrong.''
vanunu has testified he made his revelations to alert the middle east and the world to the dangers of nuclear weapons, not for personal gain or out of a desire to harm his country
regulars at jd's circle in weren't about to stand by idly when armed robbers burst into the bar and demanded money from owner donna hannum
three or four robbers, one armed with a sawed-off shotgun, entered the bar saturday and ordered about 20 customers to stand back, mrs. hannum said
but some customers got riled when one of the robbers seized the 46-year-old woman, shoved her toward the cash register and grabbed some cash
the guys got mad and they started throwing tables and chairs at the robbers, beer bottle and ashtrays and anything else they could get their hands on,'' mrs. hannum said
a couple of customers wrestled with one of the men
the robbers fired one shotgun blast and a pistol shot into the ceiling to quiet the crowd, she said, before fleeing with an undetermined amount of cash
no injuries were reported among customers, police sgt. don osterhaus said
she's a nice lady and the customers didn't want them messing with her,'' he said
mrs. hannum said she wasn't shaken by the robbery, the first in the three years she and her husband, jerry, have owned the bar
i've got good customers,'' mrs. hannum said. ``i'm glad they stood behind me.''
a troop of monkeys roaming the southern desert attacked a motorist who ran over one of its members, jumping on his car and smashing the windows, a newspaper reported sunday
the okaz newspaper said a man was driving to work when he killed the monkey on a highway in the khamis mesheit region. the newspaper, which did not identify the man, quoted him as saying the other monkeys chased his car but couldn't catch it
but when the man drove home later on the same road, he found the monkeys still gathered around the dead animal's body, according to the report. when they spotted his car, they jumped on it and smashed the windows with their fists, the paper said
the driver sped off and saw the troop dragging the dead monkey into the nearby mountains, okaz said
residents of the area say monkeys roam about the desert expanses and sometimes spill over onto the highways
a retired air force general was shot dead and a bomb exploded in central madrid on sunday, injuring two people. police blamed both attacks on the basque separatist group eta
police said the bomb was left on a motorcycle parked on general peron street in front of an office building when it exploded at 2:45 p.m
two women walking by were injured by glass flying from broken windows, but police said the injuries were not serious
in salvatierra, retired brig. gen. luis azcarraga perez-caballero, 81, was shot three times in the head by two men who approached him as he left a church, police said
salvatierra is a town near the basque city of vitoria, about 100 miles north of madrid
no one claimed responsibility for either attack, but officials said they believed eta, which seeks independence for the three-province basque region of spain, was responsible for both incidents
since taking up arms in 1968, eta has claimed responsibility for killing more than 600 people, mainly police, military and civil guards officers
government troops killed 1,688 insurgents in fighting with rebel groups in the past year, and 592 burmese soldiers died, the government said sunday
in the 12 months that ended march 20, burmese forces captured 378 insurgents and 569 others surrendered, the announcement said. it said 1,666 soldiers were wounded
the rangoon government has been battling a dozen insurgent groups demanding greater independence, autonomy or separate states
they include the burma communist party, the kachin independence army in the north and northeast, the shan rebels in the east and the karen national union in the southeastern and central region
a new beirut newspaper went on sale sunday, raising to 14 the number of dailies in the war-battered lebanese capital
we are stepping in to light a small candle in the 13-year-old darkness of the lebanese civil war,'' said an article on the front page of the first edition of ad-diyar, which is arabic for ``the homeland.''
the newspaper is owned by a group of christian journalists and is based in christian east beirut, but the article pledged ad-diyar would be ``independent, unbiased and for all lebanon.''
pope john paul ii announced sunday that he will travel to spain in 1989 to celebrate the next international youth day
the pope visited spain in 1982 and 1985. he announced his august 1989 trip to a group of youths after delivering palm sunday remarks to about 100,000 people in st. peter's square
john paul noted that it was the third international youth day and called on youth people to discover a more ``profound vocation'' in the church
about 20,000 youths carrying palm or olive branches marched into st. peter's square just as the pope, also carrying a palm branch, led a procession out of st. peter's basilica
the uncertainties of youth are normal. but they can be defeated. ... what is important is to believe that he (god) wants to make each and every one of us free and responsible participants in his plan to save the world,'' the pope told them after the mass
a three-page manuscript by ludwig van beethoven containing a large part of the ``ode to joy'' from his ninth symphony will be sold to the highest bidder, a researcher at sotheby's auction house said sunday
beethoven's untidy brown ink and pencil writing appears to be a draft of alterations to the first, second and last movements and were made after the first performance, said stephen roe, the manuscript expert at sotheby's
nothing was publicly known of its existence until now and it is an astonishing find,'' stephen roe, the manuscript expert at sotheby's, said sunday
roe said the manuscript is privately owned by a collector in another country. he asked not to be identified
it's very much a collector's piece as the `ode to joy' is the composer's most famous passage,'' said roe, who researched the document at beethoven's birthplace in bonn, west germany, now a museum
they didn't know about it there,'' he said
roe said he thought the manuscript would be bought by a collector at the london auction may 6 and could fetch up to $180,000
autograph manuscripts relating to beethoven's symphonies are very rare. complete manuscripts of his 1st, 2nd and 3rd symphonies are lost. his autograph manuscript of the ninth symphony, which he completed in 1824, is in the german state library in east berlin
the changes were incorporated in the first printing of 1826 by schott and sons, the german music publishers
there is another beethoven brown-ink manuscript in the may 6 sale, a sketch-leaf of his early ideas for the slow movement of the ``hammerklavier'' piano sonata, the longest he wrote
the item is estimated at $36,000 to $55,000, roe said
it could be one of those which beethoven amplified and extended from one of the notebooks he carried around on his walks in the countryside around vienna, jotting down ideas in pencil,'' roe said
tamil youths looted and torched at least 25 moslem-owned shops and businesses in the eastern town of kalmunai, police and residents reported sunday
a police officer at the kalmunai police station, speaking on condition of anonymity, said members of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest tamil militia, were responsible for the attack saturday about 125 miles northeast of colombo
but a roman catholic priest in nearby batticaloa said the looting was done by unemployed tamil youth who were released late last year from jails after being detained as political suspects
there are scores of these tamil youths in the east. they are jobless and penniless,'' said the priest, who also spoke on condition he not be identified. ``they grab every opportunity to make a fast buck. this is a growing problem in the entire area.''
the police official, however, claimed the attack on moslem establishments was a part of ``a grand design of tiger rebels to drive sinhalese and moslem civilians out of the eastern province.''
he said that more than 1,500 moslems fled kalmunai after the attack and sought refuge in mosques and schools in nearby areas
tamil militants have been blamed for killing more than 125 people, most of them sinhalese civilians, in the eastern province since march 2 when the latest round of violence erupted
officials say tamil militants are engaged in driving away sinhalese and moslem residents of the eastern province to ensure complete dominance in the region
most of the tamils are hindus. sinhalese are mostly buddhists although some of them are moslem
tamil rebels claim the government is deliberately resettling members of the majority sinhalese community in the east to upset traditional tamil control of the area
tamils, who make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people, say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese, who control the government and the military. tamil rebels are fighting for a separate homeland in the northern and eastern provinces, where most of them live
india and sri lanka signed a peace accord last july to end the tamil ethnic crisis but tamil tigers have not honored the pact. more than 50,000 indian peacekeeping troops are in sri lanka to disarm the rebels and enforce the peace accord that grants some autonomy to the tamils
yasser arafat's fatah guerrillas have taken control of lebanon's largest palestinian refugee camp after a two-day wave of violence left five people dead, police said sunday
the latest victims were a fatah guerrilla and a palestinian woman killed saturday in a shootout at the ein el-hilweh camp on the outskirts of this southern port city, police reported
they said guerrillas of abu nidal's radical fatah-revolutionary council opened fire on the fatah fighter, identified as haitham diab, when he failed to stop at an one of their checkpoints in the sprawling shantytown
diab's killing touched off a brief firefight between arafat's supporters and abu nidal's guerrillas in which the woman passer-by, badea oweida, was killed, police said
there have been frequent clashes between supporters of arafat's palestine liberation organization, including fatah, and rival syrian-backed factions as well as abu nidal's group
police said the latest wave of violence that flared friday prompted the plo's pro-arafat military police, known as the ``armed struggle corps,'' to take charge of ein el-hilweh's security
on friday, gunmen ambushed the motorcade of farid hourani, fatah's military commander in the camp, killing him and two of his bodyguards. nine other hourani aides were wounded
police said there was no link between friday's ambush and saturday's shootout
but the two incidents have led to an agreement to turn over the camp's security to the `armed struggle corps,''' a police spokesman said
units of the force patrolled the camp's narrow alleyways on foot and in jeeps sunday without challenge from arafat's rivals, police said
the agreement was reached during a meeting late saturday between arafat's representatives, abu nidal's aides and the ``popular committee'' which runs the day-to-day affairs of the camp's 60,000 refugees
less than a month before the filing deadline, fewer than half of americans have finished their tax returns. but refunds are bigger, the irs is doing a better job answering questions, and taxpayers are making fewer mistakes than had been expected
i'm happy to report that so far, the filing season is going much as we had predicted and hoped,'' irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs tells audiences
the internal revenue service is almost 3 percent behind last year's pace in processing returns, but blames that chiefly on taxpayers' slowness in filing this year. officials say there is nothing to signal a repeat of 1985 when faulty computer programs set off a chain of events that resulted in the worst filing season in modern times
through march 18, 47.6 million returns had been logged at the 10 irs service centers. just under 35 million had been processed
more than seven of every 10 returns are qualifying for refunds: 25 million refunds totaling $20 billion, an average of $809 apiece. the number of refunds is down slightly and the average is up a bit from 1987
so far this year, about 44 percent of the 107 million expected individual returns have been filed. at the same stage last year, the irs had received almost 46 percent of the 104 million that eventually were filed
the irs has come under heavy criticism for having given the correct answer to only 74.8 percent of taxpayers' calls for assistance earlier this year. but in recent weeks, gibbs says, the accuracy rate has crept up to nearly 78 percent as telephone ``assistors'' become more familiar with the new law
perhaps the most surprising statistic is that taxpayers are making only 2 percent more mistakes than they were at this time last year. according to the most recent estimate, that's nearly 5.5 million errors _ a number that had been expected to be far higher since this is the first year that returns reflect the massive 1986 tax revision
the low error rate comes despite reports that many taxpayers are finding some of the changes much more confusing than congress anticipated
one possible explanation is that most of the confusion comes from tax changes that affect more-affluent taxpayers, such as complicated new forms for calculating passive losses and taxes on children's income
these taxpayers are less likely to qualify for refunds and, thus, are in no hurry to file. their mistakes likely would come later in the filing season
the new law cut tax rates, increased the personal exemption to $1,900, boosted the standard deductions for non-itemizers, and reduced or eliminated several deductions
but most of the mistakes are not resulting from those changes. taxpayers instead are having problems with their arithmetic, misreading the tax tables and misunderstanding a new provision that prevents one person from being claimed as a dependent on two tax returns
one of the most common mistakes on the single-page form 1040ez, which may be used only by single taxpayers whose taxable income is under $50,000, is on the bottom line. many users of this form _ as well as some who file the longer form 1040a _ are unable to subtract actual tax liability from the amount withheld and get the correct answer
a common error among itemizers is incorrect addition or subtraction on schedule a, where deductions are listed. on 1040a and 1040, some are unable to multiply the number of personal exemptions by $1,900 and get the correct answer
some mistakes are clearly a result of carelessness. many filers of 1040a are neglecting to write how much tax was withheld. other taxpayers use the wrong income figure for determining how much tax they owe
but the most common mistake is a misunderstanding of the standard deduction and personal exemption allowed a taxpayer who can be claimed as a dependent by someone else. this affects a student with some income whose main support is provided by a parent, or a parent supported by a son or daughter
a single person who cannot be claimed by another gets the full $2,540 standard deduction and the full $1,900 personal exemption. but a student, for example, who can be claimed by a parent gets no exemption and may be entitled to a standard deduction of as little as $500, depending on income
some taxpayers are neglecting to answer whether they may be claimed by another. others are taking the wrong standard deduction
if the irs can correct your errors _ such as arithmetic or failing to take the correct standard deduction _ it will
but the irs will put your return aside and write you for more information if, for example, your schedule a deductions don't add up; you neglect to say whether you may be claimed as a dependent by another; you don't sign your return or your neglect to attach your w-2
the recent elections have further polarized politics in el salvador and handed a major defeat to the political center, cultivated by the united states as an antidote to extremism
the rightist victory in legislative and municipal elections march 20 sets the stage for the escalation of leftist guerrilla conflict in this country already ravaged by eight years of civil war
the nature of pre-election violence, which included car bombs and club-wielding masked youths rampaging through the capital, augured badly for those who had hoped that six years of civilian rule by the christian democrats would promote moderation in the search for solutions to el salvador's problems
no country in the hemisphere gets more u.s. assistance than el salvador, which president reagan has held up as an example of success in washington's avowed policy of fostering democracy in latin america
this massachusetts-sized country of 5 million people received about $550 million in u.s. military and economic aid last year. u.s. assistance has totaled $3.5 billion since 1981
a rightist party, linked in the early 1980s to death squads responsible for thousands of political murders, won a landslide victory in the municipal and legislative elections
liberty is written with blood. ... el salvador is the tomb where the reds will meet their end,'' goes the party anthem of the republican nationalist alliance, or arena
the party captured a majority in the 60-seat national assembly and most of the country's municipalities
sigifredo ochoa perez, a retired army colonel and one of the party's ideologues, wednesday called for a crackdown on leftists active outside guerrilla ranks
in the 10 days before the vote, left-wing university groups and labor organizations staged several anti-government marches in the capital. the marchers, their faces covered with bandannas and carrying two-by-fours studded with nails, commandeered buses to block side streets, burned telephone exchange boxes and set fire to several vehicles
police exercised restraint, resorting only once to tear gas to disperse the demonstrators
we cannot allow this to continue, the destruction of state property, private property,'' ochoa said on a morning tv news program. ``we have to impose law and order.''
for their part, marxist guerrillas waging the stalemated war against the centrist christian democratic government plan to broaden their campaign, according to rebel documents captured by government forces
the documents outline a plan the guerrillas call ``fire.'' it calls for formation and indoctrination of ``mass organizations'' _ mostly among students and labor union people _ ``to deepen the crisis.''
its authors, reportedly members of the guerrilla general command, said the government's options _ to increase repression or continue allowing the demonstrators to act with relative impunity _ both favored the revolution
if they crack down on a big scale the insurrection will increase in response to the repression, and if they do not, insurrection will advance as a result of the crisis and hunger,'' it says
it says if ``fire'' succeeds in forging a mass front, 1988 provides circumstances propitious for ``the seizure of power.''
guerrilla commander joaquin villalobos predicted last tuesday that as a result of the election, ``the country will become ungovernable.''
speaking on radio vencermos, the rebels' clandestine station, he said the rightist victory favored the rebels by giving the people ``a clear choice.''
alfredo cristiani, president of arena, told the associated press his party would try to hammer out with other parties in the assembly a peace proposal to submit to the guerrillas
if the guerrillas do not accept the proposal, which will be the result of a national consensus, they do not leave any other way out but a military solution,'' he said. he indicated that would mean stepped-up combat
ruben zamora, vice-president of the democratic revolutionary front, told the ap wednesday he did not believe the vote indicated the electorate's shift to the right. the revolutionary front is allied with the guerrillas and declined to take part in the elections
what happened was that the electorate punished the christian democrats for all the promises they did not fulfill,'' he said
president jose napoleon duarte was elected in 1984 on a platform of ending the war and improving the average family's lot. the war continues, unemployment is about 40 percent and inflation is running at about 40 percent annually
the victory improves arena's prospects in presidential elections set for next march
adolfo rey prendes, the front-runner for the christian democratic presidential nomination, told reporters: ``if arena takes power, other parties' possibilities will be diminished. the democratic process will be restricted.''
douglas grant mine, formerly news editor in argentina, now covers central america for the associated press
in roman catholic areas of west belfast, british soldiers with rifles cocked patrol grimy streets whose graffiti-filled walls boast of irish republican army killings
a five-minute drive away, the center of the city bustles with shoppers. after nightfall dozens of bars, restaurants and nightclubs come alive with northern irelanders determined, despite 19 years of conflict, to enjoy themselves
like beirut, belfast is a city compartmentalized by sectarian strife and shadowy armed factions calling themselves ``paramilitaries.'' the front lines are the street junctions where working-class catholic and protestant neighborhoods adjoin
murderous rampages this month at two ira funerals, in which five people died, inflamed the nerves of a city that has lived with violence for nearly 20 years of the so-called ``troubles.''
on both sides of the sectarian divide, there is frustration, anger, and a longing for peace. for some years, with the violence in a sharp decline and signs emerging of economic rejuvenation, optimists dared to hope belfast was getting a fresh chance. but with the latest violence, and no sign of a political solution, many people now talk of leaving
the outlawed ira and its legal political wing, sinn fein, remain committed to ending british rule and uniting the protestant-majority province with the overwhelmingly catholic republic of ireland 
the protestants, under the banner ``no surrender,'' are equally determined to keep northern ireland in the united kingdom
a cartoon in dublin's irish times noted that while cease-fires were being discussed in nicaragua and afghanistan, ``in northern ireland, after almost 20 years of fighting, we are discussing the policing of future funerals.''
the sense of conflict never-ending is shared by young people who have known nothing else
i'm really fed up with the trouble _ on both sides,'' said gail mccann, 23, a student at queen's university in belfast
when i get my degree, i think i'll go away and work if things keep going like this. there's no future here.''
ms. mccann was part of a huge and mainly protestant crowd which thronged the grounds of city hall on thursday for a memorial service for two british corporals who were beaten up and stripped almost naked by mourners at an ira funeral on march 19 and then shot dead by ira gunmen
the murders climaxed two weeks of rising tension after british commandos shot dead three ira guerrillas who were unarmed but allegedly plotting a bombing in gibraltar
on march 16, a protestant gunman attacked mourners at the guerrillas' funeral in the catholic milltown cemetery, killing three people and wounding 68. the soldiers were murdered at the funeral for one of the milltown victims, an ira man
i don't want to be called irish anymore,'' a government architect who identified himself only as ivan said at the memorial service where some people brought british flags and wreaths bearing the initials of queen elizabeth ii
it's savage _ bestial. i can't see any future,'' ivan said. ``i think until children are educated together, it won't change.'' most northern ireland schools are segregated according to religion
bring back capital punishment for both sides,'' shouted a middle-aged man. ``but start with sinn fein,'' chimed in a young man
three miles away in the heart of catholic west belfast, an elderly man stood at the door of the andersonstown social club, an irish nationalist haunt overlooking the garbage-strewn parking lot where the soldiers' bodies were dumped
it's just another day to us. there's still plenty of tension,'' he said
on andersonstown road, where the soldiers were seized, two unemployed catholics objected to the fuss about the murders
to them the real outrages were in gibraltar when commandos reputedly from the elite special air service unit opened fire on unarmed ira members, and in milltown when the protestant let loose with pistol and grenades
the sas men who killed the three will get a medal, so why don't they give a medal to the men who killed them two soldiers?'' asked one, who gave only his first name, liam
it's been the same for the last 20 years _ depression and frustration,'' said francis mccann, 29. ``there's nothing they (catholics) can do about it, but they won't take abuse anymore.''
on the catholic falls road, the latest graffiti makes sas stand for ``stripped and shot.'' on the adjoining protestant shankill road, a fresh slogan says, ``three dead with one stone.'' the milltown gunman's name is michael stone
in prosperous north belfast, where middle-class protestants and catholics live peacefully side by side, 26-year-old karen mccomish said, ``you can forget about it here to a certain extent.''
but after the events of last week, it's hard to deal with, but it's either that or get out,'' she added
big-name london stores have moved in to central belfast, nearly 200 new restaurants and several dozen nightclubs have opened in the last three years and tourism is up 14 percent
but the fear endures. ``it's so bad, i want to go away,'' says mary eakin, a public relations executive. ``but my husband says, `mary, i love ireland.'''
police charged a third man sunday in connection with the slayings of two british army officers who were beaten by mourners at an irish republican army funeral and shot
shop manager thomas hawkins, 35, of belfast, appeared in belfast magistrates court where he was charged with withholding information about the murders and allowing his premises to be used by terrorists
he did not enter a plea and was ordered held in custody until his next court appearance in 14 days
cpls. david howes, 23, and derek wood, 24, were killed march 19 after they drove up to the funeral procession of ira member kevin brady. mourners dragged them from their car and beat them unconscious. they were later shot behind a wall in a soccer stadium
two other men, alexander murphy, 30, and henry maguire, 28, were charged friday with the soldiers' slayings and ordered saturday to remain in custody until their next court appearance on april 22
the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, said it was still holding two other men for questioning
details of the charges against hawkins were not revealed
the detective in charge of the investigation told the court saturday that police have evidence, including bloodstains, clothing fibres and footprints, linking murphy and maguire with the march 19 killings
comedian bob hope joined a host of celebrities to raise funds to combat aids in his first public appearance since having prostate surgery a week ago
i think that we can use all our talent, all our money in the world to help win this war,'' said hope, who performed a five-minute comedy routine at the event, ``hollywood's salute to broadway,'' saturday
hope joined actress susan anton, comic jay leno, broadway choreographer tommy tune and others to raise funds for 14 programs and organizations dealing with acquired immune deficiency syndrome
surgeon general c. everett koop, who received an award in recognition of his efforts to promote awareness of the disease, said the nearly 700 children born with aids represent the biggest tragedy of the epidemic
of all the things in this whole miserable mess, this is the thing that is most depressing to me ... profoundly depressing to me,'' he said
reviewers concurred. despite the years, rudolf nureyev's still the greatest
nureyev, who turned 50 on march 17, performed for the last time the role of siegfried in tchaikovsky's ``swan lake'' at the vienna state opera on friday and saturday
it was a sentimental end to the vienna dance '88 festival. nureyev first performed the role, which he choreographed, on oct. 15, 1964, at the state opera
the russian-born star and his illustrious partner, dame margot fonteyn, got a record 89 curtain calls for that premiere
the official newspaper wiener zeitung called this weekend's performances a ``farewell to a legend.''
there is no reason to mourn the golden era of the ballet star. for what nurev has (of course) forfeited in terms of power, elegance and precision, he compensates for with stage presence, personality and radiance,'' the government daily said
donald j. trump told a newspaper he plans to make new york's famed plaza hotel ``the most luxurious hotel in the world,'' but, uncharacteristically, the eponymous developer will keep his name off the landmark building
it's got the most important name in the world and it's going to remain that way,'' the new york times quoted trump as saying in its sunday editions
trump outbid two other manhattan developers and bought the posh hotel for $390 million from texas multimillionaire robert m. bass and aoki corp. of japan, the times reported
trump, whose other properties include the glitzy trump tower in manhattan and trump plaza in atlantic city, n.j., said he signed a contract for the hotel friday and would take possession in 120 days
the hotel's new president will be trump's wife, ivana, who will be paid ``$1 a year plus all the dresses she can buy,'' trump said
debi thomas, the u.s. figure skating champion and olympic bronze medalist, sunday announced her march 15 marriage to a university of colorado student
i did not want to this news to detract from my focus on the world championships (last week),'' thomas said. ``now that the world championships are over, i want to let all my friends and supporters know how happy i am.''
thomas' husband is brian vanden hogen, 23
the two met at the university of colorado when thomas moved there last year to train with her coach, alex mcgowan, and they were married in boulder
my husband will travel with me to some of the upcoming skating exhibitions. i am thrilled.''
there will be a tour of europe following the world championships and then there will be another tour in the united states until june
thomas, of san jose, calif., celebrated her 21st birthday friday but came in third in the final standings of the women's event saturday. katarina witt of east germany, the olympic gold medalist, won the championships
edward zwick and marshall herskovitz, creators and executive producers of abc's ``thirtysomething,'' said they wanted to deal with mundane concerns like in-law troubles and choosing baby sitters that most other television shows ignore
it was our aim to explore these more delicate concerns of life. i wanted to deal with smaller issues that don't get explored,'' said zwick, who joined herskovitz and several of the show's writers and cast members to discuss the program before about 600 fans thursday at the los angeles county museum of art
the show, which explores the lives of seven aging baby boomers, has been praised by some critics for its realism but criticized by others for its ``yuppie whining.''
to some degree, whining and moaning is a celebration of life,'' zwick said
herskovitz admitted the program's situations don't appeal to everyone
if it doesn't go along with someone's existence, it will turn them off,'' he said
actress audrey hepburn said sunday she thinks of her famine-relief work as a ``mission _ and one i do out of great love.''
the actress, who returned recently from a tour of ethiopia as a special ambassador for unicef, said the scenes of famine she encountered there were ``heart-breaking.''
it will get better if we all help,'' she told reporters at london's heathrow airport upon her arrival from toronto, canada
what the people need more than anything is rain, she said. ``but in the meantime, what they need is continued relief, food and the means to preserve and contain their water
they don't have enough reservoirs or wells. the day they have that will be the day that drought won't mean famine anymore.'' battles</head>
iranian gunboats rocketed an indian tanker in the persian gulf sunday, setting its engine room ablaze and wounding a crewmen, gulf-based shipping executives reported
iran and iraq fired missiles into each other's capitals in a brutal long-range duel. in northeast iraq, iran said its troops punched deeper into enemy territory, occupying strategic heights that overlook a key hydroelectric dam
both countries reported extensive civilian casualties in the missile war
shipping officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the 24,529-ton jainarayan vyas, owned by the shipping corp. of india, was en route to the saudi arabian port of jubail to load petrochemicals when it was hit
they said salvage tugs and the crew struggled for three hours to extinguish a fire in the engine room
the tanker was attacked just before noon about 40 miles from the iranian-held abu musa island. the island serves as a base for revolutionary guards who attack neutral ships in armed speedboats in retaliation for iraqi air raids on iranian tankers
the jainarayan vyas was hit in apparent retaliation for iraqi air raids on iranian tankers overnight friday
a danish supertanker, the 337,700-ton karama maersk, was initially believed to have also been attacked near abu musa
but shipping sources said the vessel had only relayed a distress call from the stricken indian vessel
iran and iraq, at war since september 1980, have attacked about 500 ships of various nationalities in the gulf in the ``tanker war.'' about 300 seamen have been killed
iraq fired a long-range al hussein missile sunday into tehran, a city of 6 million, at 7.30 a.m. after vowing to ``level iran's cities,'' the official iraqi news agency reported
minutes later, another missile was launched on tehran and two into the central city of isfahan, ancient capital of the persian empire, ina said
the iranians said the missiles hit residential neighborhoods, causing unspecified civilian casualties
the islamic republic news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said revolutionary guards fired two missiles at baghdad
the agency said the missiles were aimed at ``two military targets'' in retaliation for iraqi missiles that hit tehran saturday. iran said the missiles killed at least seven civilians and hit an orphanage
baghdad radio reported only one iranian missile hit baghdad, home to 5 million. the missile exploded in a residential district and demolishing houses, shops and cars. it said there were ``many civilians killed or wounded, including women and children.''
iraq has fired 120 long-range missiles into tehran, isfahan and the holy city of qom, seat of iran's religious hierarchy, since feb. 29
the iranians have reported firing 45 long-range missiles into baghdad and dozens of short-range projectiles into other iraqi cities in that period
tehran radio reported that the iranians also fired four missiles at ``industrial and military installations'' in the strategic southern iraqi port of basra, and two other border towns further north sunday
the iranian broadcast reported 1,500 iraqi soldiers were killed and 350 wounded in fighting with revolutionary guards for control of lake darbandikhan, high in the kurdistan mountains
the iranian agency said 20 tanks and armored vehicles were destroyed and 15 captured when iranian troops beat back an abortive iraqi counter-attack
it said revolutionary guards captured the shaakh shamshir heights overlooking a big hydroelectric dam on the southernmost point of the 10-mile long lake darbandikhan
the facility provides most of the power for the region as well as the capital baghdad, 120 miles to the southeast
tehran's communiques said revolutionary guards had battled to within three miles of the dam. irna said the revolutionary guards used speedboats to outflank iraqi forces on the southern shore of the lake while artillery and fighter-bombers pounded iraqi positions
iraq acknowledged saturday it has lost ground to the iranians, who say they have pushed 10 miles into kurdistan
if iranian claims are true, they are now 70 miles from iraq's kirkuk oilfield, which accounts for 1.5 million barrels of oil a day, more than half iraq's oil production, vital for its war effort
in baghdad, the official newspaper al-jumhouriya said in an editorial: ``iraq is determined to utilize all capabilities and means to decimate the invaders and purge the land inch by inch.''
al-thawra, another government newspaper, said: ``we defend ourselves with all available means.''
the editorials and a declaration saturday by the ruling revolutionary command council hinted that iraq had used chemicals weapons that iran claims killed about 5,000 iraqi kurds
the rebellious kurds have long fought the baghdad government for autonomy
security forces shot and killed four people believed to be kurdish guerrillas during a clash sunday in southeastern turkey, the anatolia news agency reported
the agency said the four were hiding in a cave and opened fire on government troops searching the area near bahce hamlet in adiyaman province
security forces found one g-3 automatic rifle, one soviet-made kalashnikov rifle, two pistols, three hand grenades and ammunition in the cave, the agency said
most guerrillas in the region are affiliated with the kurdish labor party, which seeks to establish a marxist state in parts of southeastern and eastern turkey
about 700 civilians and military personnel and an equal number of kurdish rebels have been killed since the group began attacking military targets and villages in august 1984
ethnic kurds make up one-fifth of turkey's population of 52 million
an unexploded bomb was found early sunday outside the brussels office of the african national congress, the banned south african opposition movement, police reported
the neighborhood was isolated while bomb disposal experts neutralized and removed the explosive device, which police only described as ``strong.''
a few weeks ago, two shots were fired at the same office while anc representatives were inside. nobody was injured and no one was arrested
the anc is the main guerrilla group fighting south africa's white-led government
april fools day was the date of the first two save the pun dinners, but good friday falls on april 1 this year, causing ``mass'' confusion among punsters
instead, the dinner is sharing april 4 with the `oh! punning day' of the chicago white sox,'' joked joyce heitler, the dinner's organizer. ``we'll both have a ball.''
heitler is head of the chicago chapter of the international save the pun foundation
why save the pun? because it's in danger of extinction,'' she said
but heitler made it clear during an interview saturday that the pun still is very much alive, at least in her conversation
we'll have everything on the menu from soup to nuts, but we promise not to serve soup to nuts,'' heitler said
we would have had alphabet soup but we didn't want guests groping for words,'' she added
more than 200 punsters are expected to attend the dinner at which the foundation will celebrate its 10th anniversary and present its first punster of the year award
we asked members to send us their votes, and there were a great many votes for president reagan. they feel america is safer with a `ray gun' in the white house,'' said john crosbie, founder and chairman of the ``bored'' at the foundation, which he says has 78,000 members worldwide
reagan didn't win, but the identity of the award's recipient is being kept a secret until the dinner
crosbie, a toronto writer and marketing consultant, said in a telephone interview saturday from his canadian home that there also is a serious side to puns
statistics tell us that one in five people in the united states and canada is functionally illiterate, and if we can get kids to see the fun there is with words, we can get them interested in reading,'' he said
teachers and professors are using our newsletters in the classroom and getting students to enjoy reading,'' said crosbie, who publishes a newsletter for punsters that costs $19 a year
heitler, who teaches kindergarten at a roman catholic school on the city's north side, said her pupils like puns and she uses them in the classroom
heitler, who also works as a clown, magician and publicist, thinks english is the best language for punsters because almost every word has a double meaning and punsters delight in twisting the language
while she acknowledges many people cannot stomach puns or punsters, heitler notes that punning has been around for centuries and says the ranks of famous punsters include groucho marx, shakespeare and queen elizabeth i
shakespeare had 1,062 puns in his plays,'' noted crosbie
more than 7,000 residents were evacuated and 14,000 ordered to stay indoors sunday while dutch army explosives experts defused a huge bomb from world war ii
no one was injured in the operation in a densely populated residential district. life returned to normal after authorities removed the bomb's ignition shortly after 4 p.m
sunday's $3.15 million operation involved more than 2,000 police and city officials. it was the largest evacuation since 1953, when massive floods in the southwestern netherlands killed more than 1,700 people
at least 14 people were arrested for ignoring the order to stay indoors
authorities also vacated an indoor skating rink to accomodate up to 700 pets whose owners insisted on their evacuation. but only four cats, a dog and a handful of birds were taken there, said city hall spokesman ben van der schaaf
the 1,000-pound bomb was dropped by a typhoon bomber of the british royal air force on nov. 29, 1944, during what was meant to be a precision raid on the local headquarters of the nazi security service, or sicherheitsdienst
the building, 500 yards from the site of sunday's operation in a densely populated inner-city district, was only slightly damaged in the raid, and most of the 61 killed were local residents
the raf bomb tore into a back yard only a few yards from an apartment block. it was soon forgotten and lay buried more than 30 feet deep until a resident reminded city hall of its presence during renovation work last may
all residents living within 300 yards of the bomb were evacuated. police searched their homes to make sure they were empty, shut off gas and water mains and sealed front doors
all residents living 300 to 600 yards away were ordered to close their doors and windows, draw their curtains and stay indoors
two army explosives experts using a 50-yard rope then unscrewed the ignition of the 5{-foot-long bomb, said their chief, maj. adriaan sprangemeijer
the tensest moment of the defusing operation came as the pair had to leave their heavily armored cabin to pull out the ignition with a pair of forceps, sprangemeijer said
it's scary,'' said 16-year old daniella barto as she leafed through a magazine at the energy hall sports center, where about 350 evacuees were spending the day
daniella's father, jozef barto, said he remembered the 1944 bombing raid by four typhoon squadrons of the raf's 14th wing
it was terrible (but) at least i came through o.k.,'' said barto, a 69-year-old retired bicycle repairman
although the authorities had launched a massive media effort weeks in advance of the operation, police said they had to break open more than 100 homes of people who were not there and had not handed in their keys in advance. burglars</head>
as they fight a 23-count indictment, the key figures in the iran-contra affair may take a cue from two watergate burglars and assert a ``good faith'' belief that the white house gave them a lawful covert mission to perform
bernard l. barker and eugenio r. martinez paved the way for this defense by winning reversal of their convictions for a burglary they conducted on assignment from the nixon white house
the 1976 appellate court ruling said the trial court erred by preventing the two watergate foot soldiers from putting forth the ``good faith'' defense at their trial
daniel e. schultz, the lawyer who represented barker and martinez, said in an interview that iran-contra defendants richard v. secord and albert hakim would have the best chance of asserting the defense
secord and hakim were private businessmen recruited by a white house aide, oliver l. north, to secretly arm the nicaraguan contra rebels when such assistance was banned by congress and to arrange for covert arms shipments to iran, which were authorized by president reagan
schultz said north also might be able to use the ``good faith'' defense because he has asserted that he received lawful directions from his superiors _ his boss at the national security council, john m. poindexter, and the late cia director, william j. casey
i never carried out a single act, not one ... in which i did not have authority from my superiors,'' north told the congressional iran-contra committees last july 7
the fourth defendant, poindexter, would have a difficult time using the defense, schultz said. as north's boss at the nsc, poindexter was at a level where he was making decisions rather than taking orders
in fact, poindexter told congress july 16 that he ``personally approved'' the diversion of profits from the iran arms sales to the contras and kept the decision from the president
secord and hakim have excellent arguments on a good faith belief'' of participating in a lawful activity, said joseph digenova, the former chief federal prosecutor for the district of columbia and now a private attorney
their orders were from high government officials. it's clear in cases like this that hakim and secord will be able to argue they had authority to do this
the independent counsel will want to show their perception of authority was skewed by their desire to make money.''
the indictment accused the defendants of embezzling more than $17 million from the arms sales to iran _ the difference between the $30 million paid by the iranians and the $12.2 million turned over to the u.s. government
the grand jury said the defendants conspired to ``secretly and deceptively'' divert millions of dollars from those profits. the indictment said that secord, hakim and north personally profited from the diversion and that the nicaraguan contras received assistance in violation of a congressional ban on such aid
barker and martinez were convicted in the september 1971 burglary at the office of daniel ellsberg's psychiatrist, dr. louis j. fielding. ellsberg was a former defense department official who leaked the secret pentagon papers that were critical of the vietnam war
the two burglars were part of a secret white house unit _ known as the plumbers _ that was established to investigate leaks of classified information. they also were among the men who broke into the democratic party offices in the watergate building in washington
barker was a former cia operative, and martinez was on a cia retainer when they were recruited for the fielding burglary by a white house official, e. howard hunt
after their conviction, they appealed successfully to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia. they argued the trial judge erred when he refused to admit the defendants' claim of a good faith reliance on hunt's authority to assign them to a lawful operation. after the reversal, the government declined to retry the defendants, who had pleaded guilty and served time for the watergate break-in
in the 2-1 appellate opinion, judge malcolm richard wilkey wrote, ``there was abundant evidence in the case from which the jury could have found that the defendants honestly and reasonably believed they were engaged in a top-secret national security operation lawfully authorized by a government intelligence agency.''
schultz said that successful use of the good faith defense must depend on the background and knowledge of the defendant asserting it
in the barker-martinez case, the appellate court recognized that the assignment from hunt was entirely consistent with the defendants' prior covert missions
both testified at trial that they had no reason to question hunt's credentials,'' the appeals court said. ``he clearly worked for the white house and had a well-known background with the cia. during the entire time they worked for the cia, neither barker nor martinez was ever shown any credentials by their superiors. not once did they receive written instructions. ..
nevertheless, they testified, their understanding was always that those operations had been authorized by the government of the united states
hunt's instructions and actions were in complete accord with what their previous experience had taught them to expect.''
in the iran-contra case, secord _ a retired air force major general _ had expertise in covert missions. that prior experience, including the way he received assignments, could determine if ``there was a red flag for him'' in the iran-contra affair, schultz said
schultz said poindexter would have a problem with the good faith defense because the higher someone rises in job responsibility, ``the more suspect your claim of lack of knowledge'' about legality
north is somewhere in the upper middle,'' schultz said. ``he's not the legal adviser, he's an operational man. he can present a very credible picture of someone who had every reason to believe'' the iran-contra decisions were lawful
if hakim was not accustomed to covert operations, in which the authority of the supervisor is rarely questioned, he may actually have a weaker case, schultz said. without having received such assignments, he could be expected to raise questions about lawfulness, schultz said
abraham lincoln paid just $1,500 for the only house he ever owned, but nearly 150 years later $2.2 million has been spent to fix it up before it's reopened to the public this summer
back at that time, he got a good buy for his money,'' said gentry davis of the national park service. ``it was a corner lot and a prime location with easy access to downtown.''
a three-year renovation of lincoln's two-story frame house will enter its final phase wednesday when workers remove a vinyl polyester shroud that cloaked the structure and allowed restoration to continue through the winter
workers then will put the finishing touches on the exterior and begin grading and landscaping
at this point, we're on budget, on time and on schedule,'' said richard a. lusardi, the park service's maintenance chief for the project. ``it will be ready for the grand reopening june 16.''
once it reopens park service officials expect a tourist boom, with the number of visitors swelling from the 500,000 average of past years to as many as 1 million annually
lincoln was 35, a prosperous lawyer and a former state legislator considering a bid for congress when he moved his family into the house in 1844, five years after it was built
he and his wife, mary todd lincoln, and their four sons lived in the house until 1861 when he moved to the white house
the house, administered by the park service since 1972, has undergone several renovations, most recently in the 1950s, but the current effort stresses historical accuracy
features added after lincoln left for washington have been removed. the park service has installed fire detection and suppression systems, burglary monitors and humidity controls, but they are neatly disguised
the exterior has been painted in an authentic color for the time _ mocha brown. insulation and a vapor barrier were installed in the walls, which were replastered
the interior is being refurnished with exact reproductions of wallpaper and rugs
the furniture had suffered ultraviolet light damage, and the house had no air conditioning prior to the restoration, causing glue joints to dry out and separate,'' said larry blake, the park service's site chief for visitor services
some additional period pieces are being added to fill out the house. they are mostly knick-knacks and accessories on bureaus, for example, to add a lived-in look.''
to ensure the restoration is as accurate as possible, restorers analyzed paint and reviewed records of shops where the family bought household goods
it's almost like trying to solve a mystery,'' blake said. ``you have to do a lot of detective work.''
the finish on the woodwork, for example, was a very dark varnish. but a paint analysis showed it should be off-white, and the change has been made
every day a new question comes up that doesn't have an easy answer,'' said davis, superintendent of the lincoln home for the park service
one of the biggest surprises for restorers was the discovery of a cache of documents inside a kitchen wall. the items, which will be displayed at the house, date to the 16th president's days as a congressman and include part of an envelope addressed and signed by lincoln, four letters to him and a printed anti-slavery speech
the cost of the renovation is being borne by taxpayers, not by tourists. a stipulation in the will of robert lincoln, the president's oldest son, who deeded the property to the state of illinois, prohibits visitors from being charged
the reagan administration has spent more than $70 million since 1981 trying to persuade america's teen-agers to abstain from premarital sex _ a small sum in an era of trillion-dollar budgets
but there's a problem, says american civil liberties union attorney janet benshoof. she charges the money from the adolescent family life act is going to religious organizations to promote their beliefs, a clear violation of the constitutional separation of church and state
our position is this is a statute which funds religious organizations to teach sex education,'' said benshoof, head of the aclu's reproductive freedom project
since you can't fund these organizations to teach math, this is unconstitutional. ... they're blatantly funding religious groups to teach not only religion, but anti-abortion propaganda.''
the federal department of health and human services disagrees, and the case goes before the u.s. supreme court on wednesday. the arguments indirectly pit the aclu against president reagan, an outspoken proponent of what he once called ``my adolescent family life program.''
a decision in the case is expected some time before the court's july 3 summer break. it should provide a first look at newly appointed justice anthony m. kennedy's views on family life questions
currently 82 organizations split $10 million in federal money under the program. each applicant's program is reviewed for religious content before funds are shipped; more than half is spent to assist pregnant teens
at least one organization has lost its funds in the past three years for crossing the bounds out of the secular domain
the adolescent family life program has been under fire since 1983, two years after the bill was sponsored by former alabama sen. jeremiah denton and quickly approved by congress
denton, a staunch reagan republican, believed it provided an alternative to planned parenthood and could reduce teen-age pregnancies, but opponents derisively termed it the ``federal chastity act.'' denton said he feels the act's goals are still valid
there should be a place, if the federal government gets involved as it has with planned parenthood, which permits a church-affiliated group to work with a child,'' he said, adding he was disheartened the case had gone this far
it's ok to say no,'' denton continued. ``i don't think it's a right-wing nut idea. i just hope the idea doesn't go away.''
the program's impact around the country is uncertain. figures from the national institute for adolescent pregnancies indicate the number of annual teen-age pregnancies remained at about 1 million for 1986 and again in 1987
in legal briefs filed in the supreme court action, the government acknowledged some ``serious problems'' in the church-state area of the family life program, but claimed they have been corrected. there was no further on-the-record comment from the government
it is in litigation, and we have a policy about not commenting on cases in litigation,'' said nabers cabaniss, deputy assistant secretary for population affairs in health and human services
through it all the bill has never lost the support of reagan, who called a u.s. district court decision which struck down the program as ``a perversion of the first amendment,'' which mandates separation of church and state
benshoof, in turn, blames reagan for much of her organization's busy schedule over the past eight years
since 1980, reagan has obviously used his power over executive agencies to implement anti-abortion laws, whether or not congress has approved them,'' she said
as evidence, she pointed to a case still in litigation involving health and human services regulations issued jan. 29 which limit access to information about abortion at more than 4,000 federally funded family planning clinics
the changes violate the first amendment and turn health officials into ``mouthpieces for the reagan administration's anti-abortion ideology,'' she charged when filing suit against the regulations. law</head>
this northeastern florida city has a booming economy, a revitalized downtown and an active community leadership. and now a new ordinance may help reduce its stench
if there's one issue that transcends this city, rich and poor, black and white, it's the odor issue,'' said first-term mayor tommy hazouri. ``odor is the only issue keeping us from being a world-class city.''
few of the city's 610,000 residents, who've lived with the industrial odor for four decades, would argue that the air needs cleaning
i'll tell you exactly what the air smells like. it's like being locked in a port-o-let at the county fair. there's no escape,'' said homeowner jeanne oster
you never get used to it,'' said yellow cab driver joe greene. ``i pick people up in my cab at the airport and coming down (interstate) 95 the smell hits them, and it gets real quiet and i think to myself, `... i wonder if they think i belched wrong.'''
hazouri has made a stink about the stench in his eight months in office, demoting the city's pollution control chief, hiring eight more odor fighters, pumping up his legal staff to take polluters to court and forming a smell strike force with duval state attorney ed austin
and last tuesday, the city council passed hazouri's anti-odor bill
violations of the law can be criminal offenses punishable by up to 60 days in jail and a $500 fine, or civil cases with penalties of up to $10,000. the law also levies $50 fines for 41 other offenses
this ordinance will get the job done,'' the mayor said
the mayor blames the lion's share of odor on two pulp mills _ seminole kraft and jefferson smurfit _ and three chemical plants _ scm-glidco organics, reichhold and union camp
but the companies say they have spent millions on odor control and are being picked on
the administration has zeroed in on the pulp mills and chemical plants as the bad guys,'' said seminole kraft general manager frank lee, adding that the firm has spent $7 million at the plant to control odors. ``but there are other contributors, including landfills and sewage plants
the mayor's concept is so motherhood and apple pie. no right-thinking person would ever say, `i'm for odor.' but pulp mills have always had odor problems and always will,'' lee said. ``if the mayor has his way completely, i don't think the pulp mills and chemical companies could stay open.''
under the new law, if five people in five households complain of a smell and an inspector can validate the complaints and track the odor down, the city can impose fines
you may as well call it the lawyer's relief act of 1988,'' george robbins, president of scm-glidco, said of the new ordinance. ``what's `objectionable' odor? if you get five guys together and they complain about the smell of hamburgers coming out of a mcdonald's, is the city going to fine mcdonald's $10,000?''
a survey of college presidents indicates women may have trouble combining marriage with a climb to the top of the academic ladder
in a survey released sunday by the american council on education, 90 percent of male college presidents but only 35 percent of the female presidents said they were married
excluding nuns, priests and other members of religious orders, it said, ``the difference ... narrows somewhat. among the lay presidents, 93 percent of men but 49 percent of women were married.''
the women presidents were more likely to be divorced _ 11 percent compared with 3 percent of the men
the survey indicated the typical college president is white, male, married and 53 years old
the council sent questionnaires in 1986 to all 2,822 accredited higher education institutions and got replies back from 2,105 presidents
two hundred, or 9.5 percent, were women and 148, or 7 percent, were minorities, including 100 black presidents, 37 hispanics, eight asians and three american indians
the council's report on its survey, called ``the american college president: a contemporary profile,'' concluded, ``the image of who shall occupy the chief executive office is clearly still a traditional one.''
madeleine green, vice president of the council and director of its center for leadership development, said the data raise interesting questions that will be addressed in future studies
are family and career at the highest levels incompatible for women? are married women less likely to be selected or less likely to want a presidency?'' she asked. she also questioned whether it is harder for single men to become college presidents
other findings:
_four out of 10 women were presidents of women's colleges
_only 2 percent of predominantly white institutions were headed by blacks
_fourteen percent of the presidents were over 70 years old. only 4 percent were 40 or younger
_more than half were protestants. twenty-three percent were catholic and 3 percent jewish. thirteen percent said they were something else; 5.5 percent gave no answer
_husbands of college presidents were twice as likely to be employed as compared with wives of college presidents
_more than three quarters of the presidents held doctorates
a wild bash celebrating the 100th anniversary of the cherished cable cars 15 years ago was so much fun, san francisco is doing it again
any excuse for a party goes in this town, and the excuse monday is the centennial of the powell street lines, the picturesque junior circuit to the older california street line
the city marked 100 years of tipsy trolleys in 1973 with 11 days of parades, nightly parties, speeches and plenty of jazz. in these more austere times, the occasion will be marked by a single parade, a $40-a-plate benefit lunch for the homeless, 15,000 balloons and a giant birthday cake
presidents on the campaign trail, movie stars on location and millions of tourists and san franciscans have rumbled up and down powell during the past century, enjoying breathtaking vistas on some of the city's steepest slopes. one of the lines climbs past chinatown to fisherman's wharf, with a view of famed alcatraz island
during the years, there were spectacular accidents and annoying breakdowns, and dramatic changes as neighborhoods shifted from one ethnic group to another and buildings went up and came down
through it all, the cable cars groaned and squeaked along the hills at 9{ mph. the two powell street lines now carry about 41,000 passengers a day
you could have seen a lot of change from these cars over the past 100 years,'' says gripman phillip shaw, who's seen his share in 26 years plying powell. ``only the hills stay the same.''
shaw worked the gears and clanged the bells for presidents eisenhower and nixon, but wasn't around when soviet leader nikita khrushchev came for a ride in 1959
fellow gripman john shipman, a 15-year veteran, says the job ``never gets dull. it's the same line but every trip is different because of the people. it's an adventure. besides, i'm a skier so i love the hills. the steeper the better.''
hyde and mason streets, where the two lines run, are just right for him, with 12-degree grades in some spots
powell street is where perennial bell-ringing champ carl payne chimes through town, delighting riders with his melodies. at night, when fog creeps over the city, there isn't a more soulful sound than the muffled peals of a cable car bell
the powell-mason line opened a few months before incandescent lamps made their debut in the city at the bijou theater. today the path of the maroon, gold and white trolleys is aglow with lights
in earlier days, humphrey bogart hopped aboard the powell-hyde line as the man with the new face in ``dark passage,'' and author dashiell hammett stepped on near john's grill
the great earthquake and fire of 1906 destroyed most of the tracks and the lines' powerhouse and barn, but 27 cars outside the fire zone survived unscathed and the line was restored
the cable cars became symbols of this frontier city's eccentric and indefatigable spirit, enchanting tourists and winning the hearts of many san franciscans
when bureaucrats, bus companies and unenchanted citizens complained over the years about accidents and inefficiency, cable car boosters have joined to save the lines from destruction
the most vocal and earnest was freidel klussman, a neighborhood mover and shaker who will be remembered monday when mayor art agnos proclaims it ``freidel klussman day.''
domino's pizza promises delivery in 30 minutes or less, but some of the nation's neighborhoods are so violent the company won't let its drivers venture into them
it's not worth risking a driver for a $10 pizza,'' said robert rutick, night manager for the domino's store in irvington
at least three domino's drivers were killed last year
recent incidents such as a driver being robbed of a pizza at gunpoint and the throwing of rocks and bottles at cars led to the cutting off of night service to parts of irvington, just west of newark, where some neighborhoods are so dangerous they've never had any service
the only times we stop delivery to an area is when there have been a number of incidents,'' said rutick
delivery constitutes the majority of domino's pizza sales, with only a small amount of take-out business. many domino's outlets around the nation do not offer any eat-in service
in camden, across the delaware river from philadelphia, service is limited to only a few well-lighted areas with round-the-clock security like hospitals and the rutgers university campus, said robert lermanis, night manager for a store that serves parts of camden and burlington counties
many drivers are leery of delivering into camden because it's a high-crime area,'' lermanis said. ``we couldn't get anybody to work here if we went into camden.''
customers whose areas are cut off are told they can always come to the store to pick up a pizza, said dennis obert, security director for the domino's region that includes southern california, hawaii, arizona and nevada
one driver was killed in obert's region last year when three gang members confronted him after he delivered a pizza in san bernardino, calif
john gomez, night manager for a store in san bernardino, said the crime rate in the city 50 miles east of los angeles is ``staggering,'' even compared with his native new york city
most of my drivers are scared anyway,'' gomez said. ``but i understood myself coming from a low-income family that those people deserve the same service as the rest of the city. we just have to tell them because of the area we can't deliver at night.''
domino's policy is not shared by at least one of the national parcel delivery services, but they would not normally deliver at night
we have no company policy against not delivering to certain areas,'' said betty todd, a customer service agent at federal express' regional headquarters in memphis, tenn. ``our couriers deliver to the address on the package
our couriers don't carry money. it's not like pizza deliverers who might have $25 on them to make change.''
united parcel service offices in newark and new york city were closed sunday and officials could not be reached for comment
in chicago, domino's manager donnie crown said he won't allow drivers in certain large areas
the cops didn't tell us not to go there _ it's just common sense,'' crown said, citing incidents where delivery people had been robbed at gunpoint
ron hingst, a spokesman for the main domino's office in ann arbor, mich., said there was about one security-related incident for every 400,000 deliveries last year
domino's has a 3-year-old program of having a security director in each of its 13 regions to teach delivery people and managers ways to avoid becoming a crime victim
such advice includes being wary of telephone numbers with a fourth digit of eight or nine, which usually indicates the call was placed from a telephone booth
in some instances, police have posed as drivers to capture would-be assailants in areas where a rash of attacks and robberies have occurred
however, obert said, ``most departments don't have the time.''
two people were killed in the company's southeast region last year, said larry jerue, regional head of security in atlanta
in one case in vicksburg, miss., a delivery man was killed after being robbed of two pizzas and $4. five people apparently disposed of the body and spent the money on beer to go with the pizza, investigators said
we kind of mirror society,'' jerue said. ``violent crime is going up and, unfortunately, we've had drivers shot and killed.''
shepard nevel's opponents to be national convention delegates for michael dukakis from florida's 18th congressional district had the name recognition and experience. but nevel had the energy, the buses and the chicken salad on rye
the 28-year-old assistant dade county attorney won a trip to the democratic national convention in atlanta in july with a landslide margin in a 14-candidate field
florida democrats met in caucuses saturday in the state's 19 congressional districts to select people to represent the presidential candidates who earned delegates in the march 8 primary. the low-key atmosphere of the caucuses was in marked contrast to the excitement and media hype of super tuesday
there's not the same adrenalin and excitement about this that there was about super tuesday,'' nevel said, comparing the caucuses to the mixed doubles coming after the men's championship at wimbledon
nevel, president of the dade county young democrats club, had some secret weapons _ veteran miami beach get-out-the-vote organizer harry mildner and his father joseph nevel, a civic activist and owner of the famed wolfie's delicatessen
the number of delegates for each presidential candidate was decided by the popular vote march 8. but delegates weren't listed on that ballot
the popular vote in the 18th district _ which includes miami beach, heavily latin hialeah and a predominantly black section of miami and is represented by 87-year-old rep. claude pepper _ gave dukakis two delegates and jesse jackson one
nevel, who has been doing volunteer work in political campaigns since 1976 but had never been a delegate, faced opponents for the dukakis slots including hialeah mayor raul martinez, two state legislators, a popular former lawmakers and two city commissioners
they will win on name recognition. i'm hoping that i'll be more motivated than they are,'' nevel said as he ate breakfast early saturday
nevel had picked dukakis a year earlier. although he disagrees with dukakis on foreign policy issues such as not aiding nicaraguan contra rebels, he admires the massachusetts governor's progressive social record
nevel hosted a $30-a-head fund raiser for dukakis and co-hosted a $250 fund raiser later. he also volunteered six to eight hours a week, organizing and working telephone banks
soon after the super tuesday results were known, nevel shifted his attention to the delegate race. one problem was most of his fellow young democrats and professional colleagues live in more-suburban districts
he, miami beach activist evelyn manset and ray zeller, head of the south dade democrat club and running to be the district's one alternate, formed a coalition to run as a slate
next, nevel enlisted mildner, president of the miami beach retirees inc. with whom nevel worked closely in turning out beach voters for dukakis on march 8. they worked the telephones, contacting some 200 potential supporters
nevel and ms. manset each chartered a bus, costing some $200 each. they had paper ``palm cards'' with their slate printed up to hand out
nevel's father made up buttons and stickers for his son
and he threw in several dozen deli sandwiches
the buses began pickups at six elderly-dominated apartment buildings across miami beach at 9 a.m
a few stops later, with 45 supporters on board, nevel took the bus intercom to explain the caucus system. the supporters would be asked to produce proof they were registered democrats, fill out a form stating they supported dukakis, then proceed to an auditorium for the actual voting
at the auditorium, delegate ballots were handed out and marked. afterward, nevel's supporters got their lunch
mayer levy, a retiree from new york's east side, recalled the tammany hall era. ``they (the big-city political bosses) would get us cock-eyed on all the beer we wanted, then they told us to vote early and vote often.''
lillian alderson, also from new york, said she liked nevel, but she also liked the free lunch. ``i waited an hour for the bus. shows how greedy we are,'' she said, laughing
then the results came in. nevel won in a landslide with 92 votes, 68 ahead of his nearest competitor. ms. manset and zeller also won
nevel reflected: ``when i think back to what a longshot dukakis was a year ago and then to what a longshot i was, and now to be going to the convention...''
a moderate earthquake rocked northwestern greece and southern albania, causing panic and some damage but no injuries, authorities said sunday
a spokeswoman for the athens seismological institute said the quake measured 5.2 on the richter scale and was centered on the western albanian coast, 236 miles northwest of athens
it struck at 9:35 p.m. saturday
the official albanian news agency ata said the quake was felt in seven albanian districts and caused unspecified damage
the earth really moved. most people stayed indoors, but some panicked and ran into the streets expecting a second quake,'' said a police spokesman on the western resort island of corfu
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs.an earthquake of 5 can cause considerable damage and 6 severe damage
the navy's trident ii program to build a newer, more deadly submarine-launched missile is ``sound, stable and disciplined,'' according to a review released sunday by the house armed services committee
in rare praise for a u.s. nuclear weapons program, the democratic-controlled panel said the trident ii, scheduled to enter service in about 18 months, appears to be on time and under budget
the other programs we've looked at had a variety of problems, so this is kind of a man-bites-dog story, but it is important to give credit when it is due,'' said rep. les aspin, d-wis., chairman of the panel
the committee's report was the latest in a series of studies on u.s. nuclear weapons programs, but it was the first in which the panel praised the pentagon
the trident ii, also known as the d-5, is a submarine-launched weapon that will be put aboard trident submarines starting next year. it has a longer range and is more accurate than the trident i weapon it will replace
although the trident weapons comprise a growing portion of the u.s. nuclear arsenal, they have generally escaped the controversy that has enveloped president reagan's programs to build new land-based nuclear missiles and long-range bombers. after a series of cost overruns early in the trident program, few problems have surfaced
the committee's review singled out for praise the navy's strategic systems program office (sspo), saying it has ``a well-run program.''
we've some elements of what the sspo is doing in other programs, but not as many as we're seeing in this one program,'' aspin said
for instance, aspin said, the office is managing weapons-building programs longer and has more wide-ranging authority than other pentagon offices
the trident ii will cost at least $36 billion, but the eventual cost is unclear because the navy hasn't finally decided how many of the trident missile-firing subs it will build
congress has already authorized 15 of the boats, which each carry a dozen missiles that can carry up to eight warheads each
the trident ii missile is now being flight-tested at cape canaveral, fla. eight of the nine scheduled tests have been finished and the results show seven successful shots, one failure, and one delay. the failure has delayed the program, but there is enough flexibility in the schedule so that the missile is still expected to be completed on time, the report said
while the house report praised the navy, it said that technical difficulties have been discovered in the inertial measurement unit, the part of the guidance system that directs the weapon to its target
aspin has been sharply critical of the air force because of inertial measurement unit problems in the mx nuclear-tipped missile, but the situation is not as serious in the case of the trident, he said. the two weapons use different units
more than 12.3 million cars, trucks, vans and motorcycles valued at $52 billion were stolen over a 13-year period, the federal government estimated sunday
after recovery of about 65 percent of them, losses were estimated at $29 billion in 1985 dollars
insurance payments reduced actual losses to vehicle owners to an estimated $16.1 billion, according to an analysis of the bureau of justice statistics national crime surveys for the years 1973 through 1985
the number of thefts per 1,000 registered vehicles fell 33 percent over the surveyed period, from nine to just six, the bureau concluded in an analysis of its semiannual surveys of more than 40,000 households nationwide
over the period, the number of estimated vehicle thefts per 1,000 households also declined, by 21 percent, from 13.3 in 1973 to 10.5 in 1985
in addition to the vehicle thefts during the period, there were an estimated 7 million attempted thefts, said bjs director steven schlesinger. about 64 percent of those were not reported to police, he said, and 13 percent of the actual vehicle thefts also went unreported
half of the thefts involved a loss of $2,455 or more before recoveries and insurance payments. about 10 percent involved losses of $10,000 or more
the vehicle stolen in 76 percent of the cases surveyed was a car. the rest were trucks, vans and motorcycles
in 7 percent of the completed thefts, the vehicle was in a garage at home. thefts most often took place at night and in parking lots, on the street or near the victim's home
the most likely to be victimized by car theft were blacks, hispanics, households headed by people under age 25, people in multiple-dwelling units, central city residents and low-income households
those least likely to be victims were people 55 years and older, homeowners and rural residents
stu smith, bureau spokesman, said the report was based on a new computer analysis of the extensive crime surveys the statistics bureau conducts every six months
he said officials believe the statistics are more accurate than police reports because they are based on actual interviews with people in the households surveyed and cover crimes not reported to the police
renato salvatori, the former lifeguard who became a star of the italian cinema, died sunday at his home in rome after a fighting a liver disease for a year and a half. he was 55
the italian news agency ansa said salvatori, who had retired from acting, suffered from cirrhosis of the liver, the same disease that afflicted his father
salvatori was working as a lifeguard on an italian beach in 1951 when he was discovered by director luciano emmer and given a role in ``the children of piazza di spagna.''
that movie began a film career that included, among many others, dino risi's ``poor but pretty,'' luchino viscoti's ``rocco and his brothers'' and francesco rosi's ``the peddlers.''
salvatori will be buried wednesday in the tomb of his family in the cemetery of querceto. he is survived by two children
it was strictly a borderline affair, but the newlyweds didn't seem to mind. after all, the bride hails from arkansas and the groom from texas
saturday night's wedding of gayle nichols, 31, and wayne burkland, 40, took place in front of the downtown post office, which straddles the border between the two states
a couple of steps down the aisle, er, sidewalk, and the knot would have been tied in texas
both burkland and his new wife are postal employees
we always wanted to get married here,'' burkland said after the ceremony
under the stars,'' his bride added
ms. nichols is a native of el dorado, ark., 90 miles east of this border town. burkland hails from new boston, texas, 25 miles to the west
miller county, ark., justice of the peace h.q. russell was unflappable as he officiated. russell said it was the third wedding he's performed on the state line
soon, boston cab riders will be able to ``reach out and touch someone'' even while sitting in traffic
nynex mobile communications corp. will begin installing the first 20 car phone units in independent taxi operators association cabs monday, nynex vice president peter harrigan said
another firm, downer communications, also reported similar negotations with the red &amp; white cab association and the boston cab co
with a half-hour trip facing him, we think that a stockbroker on his way to work may well want to place a call to hong kong on his way to execute an early trade,'' said president charles w. downer
the cost of a two-minute local call will start at $3.50 to $3.70, well above the 10-cent charge on a boston street pay phone. and long distance connections will cost more. charges will be payable by credit card
nynex and downer plan to pay cab operators a percentage of the local call charge. the cabs will be marked so prospective riders can tell they are equipped with telephones, which will carry only outgoing calls
similar telephones were tried last year in a few british cabs, and several were installed in ``black car'' taxis in new york city, which are barred from picking up fares on the street
each unit costs $1,500 to $2,000, but downer believes they could make a profit on a few calls a day
key west has the best blow-hards in the business, judging from results of the island's 26th annual conch shell blowing contest
tooters from 3 to 58 competed saturday, and when the noise died down, the hometown favorites had swept the contest over visiting tourists
as legend has it, conch blowing dates back hundreds of years in the florida keys, to the days when calusa indians and pirates who lived here used the shells for communication. a toot was a signal of survival or distress
the best blowers of the tightly coiled shells, all from key west, were joshua gabbard, 5; christopher vargas, 8; jeffrey roberson, 11 and steve hoyt, 35
conch, a food staple from northern brazil to bermuda, is found throughout the caribbean and lower florida keys. they are most popular in fritters, chowders and salads
the race for the white house focuses for a week on wisconsin, as democrat jesse jackson rolls into the traditionally liberal-voting state on the heels of a stunning triumph in next-door michigan and michael dukakis urgently needs to ignite some excitement
george bush looked on the verge of sweeping the republican primary almost by default as bob dole's campaign withered
wisconsin's primary is a week from tuesday, on april 5, and the state has an importance outstripping its 81 democratic delegates at stake
connecticut's primary tuesday was the next event on the presidential calender. but bush, in another of his ``home states,'' had it sewn up in the gop balloting. dukakis' strength in a state that borders his home of massachusetts reduced the stakes there for the other democrats
for democrat richard gephardt, the road to the white house may have ended in milwaukee, where he spoke to state democrats late saturday night knowing that his poor third-place finish in michigan hadn't come close to the showing he had needed to sustain a credible candidacy
he went home to washington by private jet, accompanied only by his wife and a few aides, to consider his next move
all things considered, i'd rather be back in des moines,'' said gephardt, who won iowa's lead-off caucuses seven weeks ago but was unable to capitalize on it elsewhere
aides said beforehand that without a victory in michigan he would drop out and seek re-election to congress from missouri
wisconsin presents a contest of major importance for the two other democrats, paul simon and albert gore jr
gore was investing heavily in television ads in wisconsin and has already been on the air in the state for a week. the tennessee senator has yet to break out of single digits since the campaign left the south, and his strategists were hoping the state would return him to the top ranks of contenders just before the giant new york primary on april 19, when 255 democratic delegates are at stake
i need your help and i'm here to ask for it,'' gore said as he stumped in the state over the weekend
for simon, wisconsin offered a perhaps final chance to get back into the race. his hopes turn on whether the state, whose history of liberal primary winners includes eugene mccarthy in 1968 and george mcgovern in 1972, will embrace simon's campaign as the unapologetic, traditional liberal
there was little sign that it would, however, as simon was out of money and jackson emerged from michigan with a major win as the liberal candidate. although wisconsin is only 4 percent black, jackson was likely to exceed the 10 percent he gained in the state in 1984
jackson's virtual 2-1 victory in michigan over dukakis was a strong blow to the massachusetts governor, heretofore the frontrunner, who many democrats had been depicting as the inevitable nominee once the race moved into the ethnic and industrial northern states where he should do well
that argument of inevitability became harder to sustain after a third place finish in illinois and a distant second in michigan
in some sense, it's a lot of poetry,'' jackson said in milwaukee, the results still coming in from michigan where george wallace won 16 years earlier. ``it's a lot of history. we also have the numbers, and it's a lot of reality.''
republican dole had looked to wisconsin as a chance to recoup, and he stumped the state last week. but he also was hinting he may quit before wisconsin's primary and said bush's nomination was ``a foregone conclusion.''
the only recent poll, conducted by the milwaukee journal 11 days ago, gave bush the lead over dole by better than 2-1. among democrats, dukakis had 38 percent to jackson's 30 percent, with the rest far behind
wisconsin's primary is an open event, so republicans could cross over to vote in the more competitive democratic race. it has been unkind to frontrunners, as walter mondale lost here to gary hart in a 1984 popular vote that did not award delegates
samuel c. koupchik, a fixture in the massachusetts statehouse for generations and the basis for a character in the novel ``the last hurrah,'' has died at the age of 89
koupchik, who died friday after suffering a heart attack, spent his days around the document room of the statehouse, handing out legislative calendars to reporters and lobbyists, working as a runner for lobbyists and occasionally giving free political advice
he was an honorary member of both the house and the senate, where a memorial service was planned monday
a native of russia, he began working as a 10-year-old errand boy for a city political leader. he went on to a series of city and state jobs _ including interpreter, ferry worker, constable and member of the boston election, street and law departments
he spent 25 years as a mail carrier for the registry of motor vehicles and had been an aide to the late gov. james michael curley
in the novel ``the last hurrah'' by edwin o'connor, the character of ditto was based on koupchik
sammy represented a bygone era of politics when loyalty was the most valued of all principles,'' house speaker george keverian said through a spokesman. ``he like to tell and repeated often stories recalling acts of loyalty by the political kingpins of his day. he'll be missed. there are no more sammy koupchiks.''
koupchik was never married and is survived by six nephews and a niece
nicaraguan exiles bowed their heads in a special outdoors palm sunday mass and prayed that last week's contra-sandinista cease-fire pact is not sandinista treachery
the general feeling is confusion, what will happen now in nicaragua,'' said roberto serrano, an engineer who has worked as a medley wine importer since leaving his homeland. ``we have to wait and see.''
he and more than 300 nicaraguan exiles gathered in ronselli park in this nicaraguan exile enclave, to pray with exiled monsignor pablo antonio vega
we want peace in nicaragua, but we don't believe we have enough guarantees to go back, for we believe the sandinistas don't like to be at peace inside nicaragua,'' said eduardo salgado
the nicaragua civic union, which represents some nicaragua exile groups, called the mass to show solidarity, salgado said
the gathering in this western dade county city, home of ``little managua,'' came a day after about 200 peace demonstrators applauded the cease-fire pact in downtown miami and a handful of demonstrators blasted it outside a miami hotel where contra leaders were holding closed-door meetings
under the agreement, which declares a cease-fire until june 1, the contras have agreed not to accept any more u.s. military aid. in return, the leftist sandinistas promised a gradual amnesty for contras and unrestricted freedom of expression that would allow them a role in nicaragua's political process
no matter what we (as individuals) believe in, there's only one ideal that prevails _ to keep on the struggle of the nicaraguan people until the soviets and communist cubans leave nicaragua,'' said manuel molina. ``the sandinistas are no problem to us because they are a very small group of criminals. but the soviet force, that's a whole different ball game.''
the peace pact also has divided the 54-member nicaraguan resistance assembly. in a special six-hour session saturday, it created a commission to monitor its five directors when they resume negotiations with the sandinistas this week
the assembly, which represents nine nicaraguan political opposition groups, was formed last year and has the right to overrule its directors
assembly leaders said the 60-day cease-fire pact, signed wednesday in nicaragua by directors adolfo calero and aristides sanchez, is only the first step in ending the seven-year civil war
if we don't get (freedom) through negotiations, we'll get it through war,'' calero said sunday on nbc's ``meet the press.''
we will not disband and we will not lay down our weapons,'' he said
at saturday's meeting, former nicaraguan vice president silvio arguello said the formation of the negotiation watchdog committee was not meant to rebuke the directors who completed the cease-fire pact. its purpose will be to see that exiles' hopes to reclaim a life in nicaragua are not compromised
however, arguello said the contra directors have lost touch with the exile community
a man wielding an ax and knife burst into a worship service sunday and seriously wounded three congregation members, police said
the attacker slit a woman's throat, sliced another woman's hand and bashed a man over the head with the ax, according to lbc, a london radio station. he then sped away in a car and set fire to his home before he was arrested, police said
police were unsure of a motive in the attack on the pentecostal service in central reading, 35 miles west of london
about 20 worshipers, some in blood-splattered clothes, escaped harm as they dived to the floor, witnesses said
worshiper golburne vaughan said the attack came without warning after the group had gathered at a community center for the church of god and christ united service
suddenly, a man came in carrying an ax and went straight to one man, hitting him on the head,'' he said. ``most of the people were middle-aged, and we all dived under chairs and tried to hide. there was blood everywhere as three people were chopped with the ax or stabbed. it was all over very quickly.''
a 54-year-old woman whose throat was slit was reported in critical condition at a local hospital. the other victims, a 31-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman, were reported in stable condition. authorities did not identify them immediately
police were questioning a 46-year-old suspect, said inspector jim reilly of the thames valley police force. the man had not been charged
reilly said he didn't know if the attacker knew his victims
the friends of a missionary slain in south africa say his commitment to justice and dignity will be remembered best where it is needed most
the rev. wayne steinert is not dead,'' menardo gomez, bishop of the lutheran church in el salvador, said at a memorial service here saturday at riverside community church
he lives in africa, swaziland. in paraguay and in el salvador, where we will remember him and follow his example, wayne peter steinert is present.''
steinert, 41, was shot and killed march 2 in piet retief, a city just across the border of swaziland in the south african province of transvaal, while traveling to meet a group of church members in lesotho. a south african was held for questioning, but few details of the incident have come to light
the rev. stephen lusk, minister of riverside and a friend of steinert's, said steinert was a victim of the anger and paranoia of those who fear social change
steinert was a minister of the united church of christ and the disciples of christ denominations and served as an intern at riverside more than a decade ago. since then, he worked at missions in paraguay and el salvador before being assigned to swaziland with his wife, terri, less than a year ago
gomez, one of four salvadorans at the service, called steinert a ``martyr, a hero of faith, a soldier of christ.''
the first man to invoke colorado's ``make my day'' defense in a shooting, arguing he was protecting his family, has been convicted in a separate case of murdering his estranged wife and wounding her boyfriend
david guenther, 35, sat emotionless saturday when adams county district court judge harlan bockman read guilty verdicts for first-degree murder, attempted first-degree murder and first-degree assault
bockman set a may 6 sentencing date. a person convicted of first-degree murder in colorado must serve 40 years in prison before becoming eligible for parole. prosecutors said earlier they would not seek the death penalty
it made my day,'' co-prosecutor bruce levin said of the verdict, referring to the so-called ``make my day'' law which allows residents to use deadly force in their homes against intruders. it was nicknamed after a line in a clint eastwood film in which a cop invites a criminal to ``make my day'' and give the cop an excuse to shoot
guenther was the first person to invoke that defense, saying he could not be charged with the fatal shooting of a neighbor and the wounding of two other people outside his home in 1986 because he was protecting his family
guenther was acquitted but that was overturned by the colorado supreme court. the charges were reinstated, and a jury acquitted guenther in the second trial last oct. 22, but on the basis of self-defense rather than the ``make my day'' rule
on march 1, 1987, guenther shot and killed his wife, pamela, 30, and wounded her boyfriend, stanley stinson, outside a commerce city restaurant
the guenthers' two children, christopher, 13, and jennifer, 11, saw the shootings and were key prosecution witnesses along with stinson
when the trial opened tuesday, both sides agreed there was no question that guenther killed his wife and wounded stinson. at issue was whether he acted with deliberation, as the prosecution contended, or whether he fired eight shots in the ``heat of passion'' when he saw his wife kissing stinson
prosecutor tim meinert reminded jurors of a pattern of threats and violence by guenther against his estranged wife, who took her children and left him about a month before she was killed
testimony showed he took his wife hostage at their home one week before her death, releasing her unharmed after a standoff with police that lasted several hours
the jury deliberated for three hours
stinson said of the verdict: ``they gave this guy exactly what he deserved. i can get a good night's sleep now. i haven't slept for about a year.''
amiram nir, prime minister yitzhak shamir's counterterrorism adviser involved in the iran-contra affair, has resigned, the government announced sunday
the government also announced the resignation of yosef harmelin, head of the shin bet secret service for more than 11 years
shamir accepted nir's resignation two weeks ago and it will take effect on april 1, the government announcement said
the government gave no reasons for the resignation. media reports said the reasons were political and not related to the iran-contra affair
nir, a former journalist, was appointed by labor party leader shimon peres, who became prime minister after the inconclusive elections in 1984
in january 1986, nir became involved in the iran operation and took over from three israeli middlemen _ foreign ministry director david kimche, businessmen yakov nimrodi and al schwimmer
before nir's involvement, the three mediated a secret 1985 arms deal between iran and the united states in exchange for the freedom of u.s. hostages held by pro-iranian shiite fundamentalists in lebanon
israel then shipped 508 u.s.-made tow anti-tank missiles and 18 hawk anti-aircraft missiles to iran. the united states took over the shipments in february 1986 but continued to use israel as a transfer point for the arms
in testimony before congressional investigators last july, former u.s. national security council aide lt. col. oliver north listed nir as a main mover behind the weapons deals
north alleged nir was one of the first to propose diverting funds from the arms deals to nicaragua's anti-government rebels, the contras
north recently pleaded innocent in federal court in washington, d.c. to a series of charges in connection with the iran-contra affair
since news of the iranian deals broke, israel has mantained that it only acted in cooperation with the united states and denied any knowledge of alleged diversion of funds to the contras
nir has been sought for questioning by special u.s. prosecutor lawrence e. walsh. in exchange, israel has insisted on an agreement that nir be granted immunity from prosecution
shamir had planned to dismiss nir in 1986 under a power-sharing agreement with peres
peres, who is currently foreign minister, served as prime minister from 1984-1986 under the accord with shamir's right-wing likud bloc. shamir took over as prime minister in october 1986
news reports said that shamir could not fire nir in 1986 because he feared his dismissal might be interpreted in the united states as punishment for nir's involvement in the weapons' deals
harmelin, 65, joined israel's secret service soon after the jewish state came into being in 1948
he held various intelligence posts before becoming chief of the secret service in 1964
harmelin was responsible for building israel's intelligence network in the west bank and gaza strip after israel captured these lands from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
he left the post in 1974 to become israel's ambassador in iran and south africa. in july 1986 he was called back to the secret service as a temporary replacement for avraham shalom-ahituv, who resigned after the so-called shin bet affair
in the affair, shin bet agents were accused of fabricating evidence to conceal their role in the beating deaths of two palestinians who hijacked an israeli passenger bus in april 1984. apart</head>
the baby m surrogate motherhood case is to draw to a close in a courtroom here monday, but elsewhere problems will be just beginning for two people who look and act like mary beth whitehead and william stern
by coincidence, producers are to film a scene for a upcoming two-part tv miniseries on the baby m case in a new jersey turnpike rest area at the same time the real-life litigants are to be in court for a visitation hearing
the hearing was ordered by the state supreme court to determine how much mrs. whitehead may visit baby m, now legally known as melissa stern
to some extent it's a sad coincidence,'' said ilene berg, executive producer of the film, which is scheduled to be broadcast in may on abc. ``it's sad that this is still not resolved, that it's never going to be perfect.''
the producers were scheduled to film one of the early meetings of stern and mrs. whitehead, now known as mrs. whitehead-gould after her second marriage, at a rest area about 8 miles south of the bergen county courthouse
the two used to meet there before they would drive together to a clinic in new york city where mrs. whitehead-gould was inseminated with stern's sperm as part of a $10,000 surrogate contract
the scene is part of a four-hour miniseries that covers the introduction of the sterns and whiteheads, the birth of baby m, the surrogate mother's flight to florida with the child after she decided she couldn't give up the baby, and the lower court custody trial which mrs. whitehead-gould lost
at the end of the film, an update will tell of the state supreme court decision that reversed most of the lower court ruling, granting custody of the baby to stern but restoring mrs. whitehead-gould's parental rights
the highway rest area scene is the last to be filmed. the rest of the movie was shot in a van nuys, calif., soundstage where producers built a replica of the bergen county courtroom where the baby m case was played out
ms. berg said the coincidence of the new jersey filming on the same day as the visitation hearing was a bit of good fortune for the miniseries
it shows, if anything, that our movie is still very timely,'' she said
since neither side in the baby m dispute agreed to take part in the movie, producers wrote the script from court documents and news reports. they said they tried to take no sides in the battle, letting the facts speak for themselves
i expect people will be arguing about this after it (the movie) is over,'' said producer gordon freedman
actress jo beth williams, seen in ``the big chill'' and ``the day after,'' plays mrs. whitehead-gould, while actor john shea plays stern and soap opera actress robin strasser plays stern's wife, elizabeth
hill street blues' bruce weitz plays the surrogate mother's first husband, richard whitehead; actress anne jackson plays baby m's legal guardian, lorraine abraham; and dabney coleman of ``the slap maxwell story'' plays the sterns' attorney, gary skoloff
ms. williams said she studied for the part by reading court documents and newspaper clippings, and watching television news reports
in playing mrs. whitehead-gould, the actress said, she found that the surrogate mother was neither a victim nor a heroine
it's difficult to put a single label on her,'' ms. williams said. ``she's a woman who was put in a very difficult situation. some of what mary beth did was impulsive. but it was out of desperation
i feel very strongly for both sides of this story. they both have been through tremendous pain.'' monday</head>
four consecutive days of torrential rain left at least 18 people dead and forced the evacuation of 55,000 residents of the buenos aires-la plata area, officials said sunday
the latest victim was a 4-year-old boy from villa soldati who was swept away by floodwaters sunday, authorities said. weather forecasters said the heavy rains that have pounded buenos aires and central argentina since thursday would continue monday
families have been forced to flee to the roofs of their homes to escape floodwaters in some low-lying areas. firefighters and police have used boats, makeshift rafts and horses to help evacuate families to temporary shelters in schools, sports clubs and office buildings
the dead included seven children who drowned and two women electrocuted while crossing flooded streets where live cables had fallen. 6th pvs, ``it is...'</note>
anti-apartheid clergyman allan boesak said sunday that if he is killed, the government and police should come under suspicion
over the last week there have been more death threats,'' said boesak, leader of the mixed-race branch of the dutch reformed church and president of the world alliance of reformed churches
i want the world to know the light of suspicion should fall on the south african government and the police if something like that should happen,'' he said at a news conference
one doesn't say these things to create an atmosphere of martyrdom. it has happened before in this country. people have died mysteriously.''
capt. j.l. barnard, a spokesman for national police headquarters in pretoria, said boesak had made ``a totally unfair, untrue and malicious statement.''
it is another example of how untested, unsubstantiated, one-sided allegations are made in public in a bid to discredit the south african police as well as the south african government,'' he said
boesak said volunteer student guards had seen a police car drive by his home early tuesday. a passenger in the back seat pointed a gun out the window, but the guards shined lights and the car sped away, he said
this is a very sinister development,'' boesak said. he said police later denied dispatching a car to the area
barnard said he could not comment on the facts of boesak's allegations about the car
boesak and other south african church leaders have vowed to take a more confrontational approach since the government banned the 17 leading anti-apartheid groups last month. among the protesting clergymen are anglican archbishop desmond tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize; and the rev. frank chikane, head of the south african council of churches
authorities arrested 25 of the church leaders feb. 29 when they tried to march to parliament with a petition protesting the bans. the government also banned a new committee for the defense of democracy set up to take over activities of the outlawed organizations
boesak on sunday lamented statements by the white branch of the country's dutch reformed church saying he and tutu don't represent the church
the white dutch reformed church is saying to the state, `these people are not the church and do not represent the church; therefore, when you act against them, you are not acting against the church,''' said boesak. ``once you create that kind of atmosphere, almost everybody out there who is angry with us could feel justified in threatening our lives because the church said they were not acting against people of god.''
boesak's news conference was attended by a delegation from the world alliance. it had come to express solidarity with south african clergymen who are challenging the government and its apartheid segregation policies
leaders of the alliance, based in geneva, said they represent 164 churches with a worldwide membership of 70 million. sunday's cape town delegation included a swiss minister, edmond perret, general secretary of the aliance; and joachim guhrt, president of the reformed churches of west germany
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
police raids that began last week have netted at least six people suspected of spying in this country for the soviet kgb, a leading newspaper said sunday
the bonn-based newspaper die welt, quoting unidentified security sources, said the suspects include russian emigres placed in west germany by the soviet intelligence and secret police agency
die welt said one suspect was arrested in switzerland and that the others were nabbed by west german federal police
authorities have not confirmed the report. it was to appear in die welt's monday editions and was telexed in advance to other news organizations
other west german newspapers reported sunday that eight to 15 suspected spies had been caught in raids that began thursday
federal officials have refused to release details on the operation until it is over. gerhard boeden, president of the watchdog federal agency known as the ministry for the protection of the constitution, was quoted in the mass-publication bild am sonntag sunday newspaper as saying the investigation was open
he also said communist espionage has increased since relations between the kremlin and western countries have thawed
in times when political tensions are relaxed, eastern intelligence agencies ... become much more active,'' boeden said in a sunday radio interview
he said most of the communist agents working in west germany have been sent by east germany
newspapers, quoting security sources, said the suspects include government employees with access to key information. among reported suspects were an engineer with access to top-secret plans for the nato defense alliance's jaeger jet fighter
gov. evan mecham, attempting to convince the arizona senate that his $80,000 loan from a protocol fund was on the up-and-up, suggests that if he hadn't borrowed the money others might have spent it
you know, money is like honey,'' mecham said during his impeachment trial. ``honey attracts bees and money attracts people
people heard there was money, and they came in with ideas to spend it. `can we do this with it? can we do that with it?'''
he said during his testimony last week he had the best idea for the funds that had been raised by his inaugural committee to pay off campaign debts. when a state law blocked use of the money for that purpose, mecham said he proposed the protocol fund
other governors had such funds, he said, and the purpose was to make sure the governor ``wouldn't have to go into the hole'' for incidental expenses
for instance, he said, the fund could pay for his wife, florence, to accompany him to official events out of town
it was my understanding this was to keep me from having to spend my own personal money for things for my office,'' said the governor
he conceded there were items for which he knew he couldn't use the fund: politics and living expenses. but he said he never suspected that loaning the money to his own car dealership was forbidden. and he never considered the fund public property
i never heard the words discussed, `public funds,''' said the first-term republican governor, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades
in the second of three impeachment charges, mecham is accused of misusing state funds by borrowing the $80,000. earlier in the trial, senators heard evidence on a charge that he tried to halt an investigation of an alleged death threat by a member of his staff
on both charges, the governor's basic defense is ignorance of the facts. on the first count, he contends he was never fully informed of details of the alleged threat and had no idea a crime might have been committed. on the second count, he argues he was never told the fund had become public money and wasn't aware that borrowing the $80,000 might violate conditions of a legal agreement for its use
he said he received instructions about the money from william long, his inaugural chairman, who signed an agreement with the maricopa county attorney's office to avoid a lawsuit over use of the proceeds from mecham's inaugural ball
mr. long said, `we have gone through all of this rigamarole and you can spend it for any damned thing that you want, except you can't spend it for politics or living expenses,''' mecham testified
long is ill and has not testified. he submitted an affidavit that seemed to support mecham's position
at no time was governor mecham informed that these monies were a gift to the state of arizona or a gift to anyone other than evan mecham ... to be used for the lawful purposes which had been agreed upon,'' long said
with the trial entering its fifth week, the senate has yet to take up the charge considered most critical, the allegation that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan from developer barry wolfson. it is the only one of the three counts which also is the basis of a criminal felony case set for trial april 21
meanwhile, the governor continues to campaign for re-election in a recall election scheduled for may 17. a poll released sunday showed that mecham would still be one of the front runners if the election were held now, but 54 percent of voters said mecham would be ``unacceptable'' as governor. the poll was commissioned by the arizona republic and kpnx-tv
here are the latest unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses in michigan

582 of 622 precincts - 94 percent

hart 326 - 0.2 percent
jackson 107,689 - 54.7 percent
simon 4,069 - 2.1 percent
dukakis 55,337 - 28.1 percent
gephardt 24,995 - 12.7 percent
gore 3,818 - 2 percent
jesse jackson's victory in michigan forces the democratic party to take a more serious look at his presidential bid and increases his chances of winning in the high-stakes new york primary, political analysts said sunday
jackson defeated front-runner michael dukakis by almost 2-1 in michigan's primary-like caucuses saturday, infusing new momentum into an already strong campaign that is within striking distance of first place in the national delegate count
there are still some in the political establishment who think 1988 is an inevitable replay of 1984,'' said ann lewis, a democratic strategist and an informal adviser to jackson's campaign. ``the day after michigan a new world has dawned.''
with returns from 94 percent of the voting sites in michigan, jackson had 107,689 or 55 percent to 55,337 or 28 percent for dukakis. jackson won enormous majorities in detroit. in the 1st congressional district, for example, jackson beat dukakis 25,416 to 1,809. in the 13th, the margin was 17,725 to 1,539
jackson, treated as a fringe candidate in 1984, has won in eight states, michigan, alabama, georgia, louisiana, mississippi, virginia, south carolina, alaska, and puerto rico's non-binding contest. the victories are forcing the party to re-examine the theory that a black cannot be nominated for president in 1988
jesse is running to win the nomination,'' ms. lewis said. ``what does the democratic party give him? the morning after michigan he earns the right, it's not what we give him.''
paul maslin, pollster for illinois sen. paul simon's campaign, said jackson's michigan victory and possible wins in wisconsin and new york could give him the most national delegates
a real extraordinary endgame is presenting itself to the democratic party ... they have to be seriously thinking about the prospect of a jackson nomination,'' maslin said
jackson's win also puts greater pressure on dukakis, who has failed to win in major contests in illinois and michigan, and faces a serious challenge in new york, which has 255 delegates at stake in its april 19th primary
new york is going to be a major test,'' ms. lewis said. ``michigan greatly raises the stakes in new york.''
the stakes could not be more critical,'' said maslin. ``he (dukakis) can't just finish second to jesse jackson. he can't say i'm the leading white candidate. it's not going to work this year.''
a new york daily news poll published sunday shows dukakis favored by 45 percent of the 528 democrats surveyed to 29 percent for jackson. the poll, conducted between monday, march 21 and thursday, march 24, had a margin for error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points
however, new york gov. mario cuomo has said that if two or three candidates are left in the democratic race prior to the primary, jackson has a chance of winning
missouri rep. richard gephardt was expected to drop out of the race to run for re-election to his congressional seat
in addition, a marist college institute for public opinion poll found that 57 percent of 459 democratic voters surveyed earlier this month gave jackson a favorable rating, to 30 percent unfavorable. the same survey, conducted in january, gave jackson a 44 percent favorable rating to 41 percent unfavorable
new york is a fairly volatile state,'' said david garth, a media consultant who is working for tennessee sen. albert gore jr.'s campaign. ``there is a strong potential jewish vote.''
in the marist college survey, 36 percent of the jewish voters gave jackson a favorable rating, an increase from 17 percent in january. forty-three percent gave jackson an unfavorable rating to 62 percent in january. the poll has a margin of error of 5 percent
garth said jackson can win in new york because ``dukakis has proven he can't stop him.'' but the consultant said the party has become more conservative in recent years
new yorkers have generally moved from the left to much more moderate democrats. they got to have somebody to win the election,'' he said. ``it used to be the ndc (national democratic committee) was `novemeber doesn't count.' the old new york is not the same. it's a wide-open race.''
president hussain muhammad ershad announced a new 32-member cabinet sunday, replacing prime minister mizanur rahman choudhury but retaining other aides in important positions
named to succeed choudhury was deputy prime minister maudud ahmed, a british-trained lawyer, who also will have the industries ministry. political observers said choudhury may become speaker of the 300-member parliament
foreign minister humayun rasheed choudhury and finance minister maj. gen. abdul munem will remain in their posts in the cabinet, known as the council of ministers
cabinet changes had been expected after ershad's jatiya party won the march 3 elections that were boycotted by the major opposition groups. jatiya won 251 seats in parliament
kazi jafar ahmed, a political advisor to the president, was promoted to deputy prime minister replacing maudud ahmed. the two other deputy prime ministers are shah moazem hussain, who also heads the rural development and local government ministries, and abdul matin who is in charge of the home ministry
political analysts said no major shifts were expected in ershad's policies of non-alignment and a free-market economy
alliances headed by two major opposition leaders, sheik hasina and khalida zia, have organized scores of demonstrations since nov. 10, demanding that ershad resign
ershad, a 58-year-old former army general, declared a state of emergency on dec. 6 to curb the anti-government protests. he seized power in a coup in march 1982, asssumed the presidency in 1983 and was elected president in 1986
residents of a neighborhood here say they are afraid to park on the streets after an arsonist torched as many as seven cars last week
this whole world is going kaput,'' said one resident, josephine piotrowski
the arsonist burned five cars and is believed to be responsible for at least two other car fires since march 23, said david kessinger, the city's deputy fire marshal. all of the fires occurred in the same north city neighborhood, he said, but who started them and why are unknown
he finds a car that's unlocked _ bam,'' kessinger said
larry graves said he woke up about 1:30 a.m. saturday as firefighters were putting out the flames that destroyed his two-door 1965 mercedes-benz
you go to bed, your car's sitting there fine. then you get woken up and your car's a lump of nothing,'' he said
egypt on sunday welcomed the scheduled return to the middle east of secretary of state george p. shultz, who will be trying to gain support for a u.s. plan aimed at settling the arab-israeli conflict
foreign minister esmat abdel-meguid told reporters egypt hopes shultz's visit will ``add momentum to the peace process and to the search for a lasting, just peace.''
shultz is scheduled to arrive in jerusalem on april 3 for talks with israeli leaders and then go to jordan, egypt, syria and saudi arabia before returning to washington april 8
he was on a shuttle tour of the region earlier this month and presented the leaders of israel, syria, jordan and egypt with the u.s. proposal
egypt is the only arab nation that has diplomatic relations with israel
syria and israel have expressed strong reservations about the american plan. jordan has not given a definite reply
the plan calls for an international conference as early as may 1 to launch talks on a type of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians living in the israeli-occupied west bank of the jordan river and gaza strip
negotiations on the final status of the occupied territories would start next december
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir is opposed to an international conference, which would include the five permanent members of the u.n. security council _ america, the soviet union, china, britain and france. shamir has said such a conference could attempt to force israel to make concessions that would jeopardize the nation's security

lcesoviet union and kc bgng, `people are,' with 2 grafs to update with recent jackson comment.</note>
if ever a campaign day forecast the vote, it was friday in michigan
jesse jackson drew thunderous crowds from east detroit to flint and saginaw, while michael dukakis ended a muddled day on the road before a small audience at a polish-american hall in hamtramck
crowds waited patiently for jackson to appear, but in comstock park, the grumbling was evident when dukakis arrived about half an hour late due to logistical problems that wiped out many of his planned events
make them wait _ we did,'' yelled one older man as dukakis cut short his town meeting in the grand rapids suburb to hold a news conference and rush to a fund-raiser
speak english _ this is america,'' said another as dukakis spoke in greek and spanish with those in the uaw hall who addressed him in those languages
on saturday, the fervor of jackson's backers became a tidal wave of votes that gave the civil rights leader his biggest victory yet, defeating dukakis by almost 2-1
campaign events are an extraordinarily unreliable guide to election results. jackson drew big crowds in 1984 and still finished third in the democratic presidential race that year
but the rallies and town meetings and handshaking tours can be a window into the reality of the campaign and into how the voters are reacting
in michigan, the view through that window was accurate
jackson worked this industrial state hard, even delaying his departure from the state on saturday to travel by motorcade and on foot through mostly black neighborhoods, encouraging his supporters to turn out
dukakis, in contrast, spent relatively little time in the state. he flew in monday night for a quick visit, held a pair of news conferences wednesday night and then struggled through the day friday
part of the difference in schedules came from dukakis' commitment to return to boston to work as governor, part from dukakis' greater attention to fund-raising and part from campaign judgments about allocating candidate's time among the various states
and when dukakis was in the state, he found himself explaining over and over again that he had not flip-flopped on the trade issue, that his backing for a trade bill by sen. don riegle of michigan was not just a political ploy. rep. richard gephardt grabbed the front pages by pounding away at dukakis on trade. it didn't help gephardt _ he finished a dismal third _ but the blows kept dukakis on the defensive
jackson steadfastly refused to be drawn into a democratic trade war, sticking to flowery, positive phrases about expanding exports and knocking down walls
the messages from the two candidates were also substantively different. dukakis talked of competence and compassion, as his televisions ads mentioned balancing budgets and creating jobs
jackson hit over and over again at his theme of hope for those who are down, who are jobless, who are out of luck
in a state where the auto industry has put thousands out of work, jackson's more optimistic message was the stronger one _ as dukakis came close to admitting saturday night in defeat
the people of michigan have been through a very difficult time, there is great unhappiness, great concern, great uncertainty. there are laid-off workers. workers today who have jobs are worried they are going to be next,'' dukakis said. ``jesse has strong feelings about that _ as i do.''
dukakis relied on an impressive organization in michigan, as he has in other states, plus endorsements from detroit mayor coleman young and riegle
dukakis congratulated jackson for his win, but the victor took something of a swipe at dukakis
it was the message of the soul and authenticity of jesse jackson versus money and technology _ and the people prevailed,'' jackson told about 40 supporters sunday at westchester county airport in new york
everybody won something in detroit _ dukakis won mayor young's endorsement. i won the people's votes,'' jackson said late saturday night
two stories from the campaign trail highlighted the differences in michigan
at dukakis' final event in hamtramack, his staff was desperately trying to round up people to fill the half-empty hall as the governor was about to arrive. when dukakis did finally show up, the hall had filled up a bit more, but news people and plainclothes policemen made up at least a quarter of the audience
that same day, when jackson was holding a rally at a union hall in detroit, two plainclothes policeman stopped their car about a block from the event to ask a reporter what was going on
told jackson was speaking at the hall, the policemen parked _ and went in to listen to the candidate speak
a windy snowstorm blew out of canada and into the northern rockies and northern plains on sunday, and blizzard warnings were posted over north-central montana
snow fell from the idaho panhandle and montana across northern wyoming, and showers were scattered over the pacific northwest
earlier in the day in alberta, the storm whipped wind up to 67 mph at calgary and 58 mph at lethbridge. gusts to 63 mph were measured at pocatello, idaho
overnight advisories for snow with blowing and drifting snow were posted over central through south-central wyoming, the northern and western wyoming mountains, and the northwest plateau of colorado
watches for snow and gusty wind were posted into monday over the mountains, foothills and southwestern section of colorado as well as across southeastern wyoming
elsewhere, rain was scattered from northern maine into eastern new york state and northern new jersey, and snow was scattered from western new york state across western pennsylvania
temperatures over the west-central plains were unseasonably warm and records were set at denver at 77 degrees; goodland, kan., at 82; and valentine, neb., at 83. colorado springs, colo., tied its record of 72
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 23 degrees at west yellowstone, mont., to 96 at palm springs, calif. the low for the day was 12 degrees at international falls, minn
for monday, snow was forecast over the northern and central rockies, changing to rain across the northern plains, the upper mississippi valley and wisconsin. rain and occasional thundershowers were forecast from the central plains across the central missouri valley
high in the 30s and 40s were predicted from much of new england across the great lakes, northern minnesota, north dakota, western south dakota, the west-central plains, the rockies, and into utah and nevada; in the 50s and 60s from southern new england across the central atlantic states, the ohio valley, the remainder of the upper half of the mississippi valley, the remainder of the northern plains, and along the northern two-thirds of the pacific coast; in the 80s over much of florida, and over the western two-thirds of texas and the desert southwest; and in the 70s over the remainder of the nation. swaggart appearance in baton rouge, picking up 5th graf, `the assemblies...'. adds 2 grafs with detail.</note>
the assemblies of god hopes to lay the jimmy swaggart scandal to rest after the church's highest governing body meets monday to discipline the television minister for an alleged relationship with a prostitute
the pentecostal denomination's 250-member general presbytery is charged with resolving the conflict between the executive presbytery, the church's 13-member national board of directors, and church officials in louisiana who have proposed what some say is too lenient a punishment for swaggart
swaggart, the denomination's most prominent minister, confessed feb. 21 from his baton rouge, la., pulpit to unspecified sins. swaggart did not elaborate publicly, but reports have linked him to voyeurism involving a prostitute
swaggart, who addressed his congregation briefly in baton rouge on sunday, as he has done several times since formally relinquishing the pulpit, is not expected to appear at monday's meeting, said church spokeswoman juleen turnage
in response to reporters' shouted questions as he drove from the service, swaggart said he wasn't planning to leave the ministry, adding, ``why should i?''
the assemblies' louisiana presbytery recommended a two-year rehabilitation and a three-month suspension from the pulpit for swaggart. mrs. turnage has said that all other assemblies ministers who have confessed to moral failure were barred from preaching for at least a year
the executive presbytery discussed the matter for 11 hours feb. 25 and 26 before asking louisiana officials to reconsider. the executive presbytery, headed by general superintendent g. raymond carlson, apparently wanted tougher penalties for swaggart
but after gathering again feb. 29 for what was described as an emotional nine-hour session, the louisiana presbytery stood by its original decision
the louisiana presbytery has close ties to swaggart _ for instance, state superintendent cecil janway also sits on the board of jimmy swaggart world ministries
reports were circulating that swaggart would leave the denomination if church officials suspended him for longer than three months, but a spokesman for swaggart's ministry said the preacher has made no decision on how he might react. mrs. turnage said she did not believe the general presbytery would be swayed by ``rumors heard through the media.''
mrs. turnage said the church's national officials have the final say, but until now have always been able to work out an agreement with state leaders
the general presbytery, whose members include representatives from each of the church's state councils, is a court of last resort on ministerial credentials. generally, a minister would appeal his case to the group after his course of rehabilitation had been decided by the executive presbytery. the executive presbytery short-circuited that process when it decided march 3 to turn the swaggart case over to the larger body
the two-day meeting at the denomination's headquarters is to open at 2 p.m. monday. the group will debate according to parliamentary rules of order and a majority vote will decide swaggart's fate, mrs. turnage said. she expected a decision to be made late tuesday afternoon
jimmy swaggart world ministries, with television broadcasts that reach several foreign countries, took in an estimated $150 million in 1986. the group contributes $12 million a year to the foreign missions program of the national church
donations have fallen off since swaggart's confession, forcing his ministry to lay off about 100 workers and suspend construction at the jimmy swaggart bible college
but swaggart, who addressed his congregation last week, seems undaunted and apparently is counting on the general presbytery to follow the louisiana district's recommendation of a three-month suspension
swaggart told his congregation wednesday that he was going out of his mind but ``when i'm back in the pulpit on may 22, i'll be back in my mind.''
may 22 would be three months from the start of swaggart's voluntary abstention from preaching
on sunday, swaggart introduced a speaker and led some hymns. later, as he drove away with his wife and son, he said in response to a reporter's question that there was no reason for him to leave the assemblies of god
but he declined to answer further questions, responding to a male reporter who asked him to ``come over here and talk to us'' by shouting back, ``you're not pretty enough!''
with the new york primary less than a month away, a poll published sunday suggested massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and vice president george bush were the clear favorites among democratic and republican voters across the state
the daily news poll had dukakis favored by 45 percent of the democrats surveyed. his closest rival was jesse jackson, preferred by 29 percent of the democrats
none of the three other active democratic candidates was favored by more than 6 percent of the voters who participated in the survey. missouri rep. richard gephardt was favored by 6 percent, illinois sen. paul simon by 5 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore by 5 percent
on the republican side, voters surveyed favored bush by 68 percent, kansas sen. bob dole by 23 percent and former television evangelist pat roberson by 4 percent
although dukakis was strongly favored by the democrats polled, it is still clear that new york democrats would like to see gov. mario cuomo in the race for the nomination
when those surveyed were asked about a presidential race that included cuomo, the support for dukakis sharply diminished. cuomo was favored by 59 percent and dukakis dropped to third place in the standing with 13 percent. jackson was still in second place among new york democrats, but his support dropped to 16 percent
the poll was conducted for the daily news by chilton research services of radnor, pa. it surveyed 528 democrats and 496 republicans who said they intended to vote in the primary. the poll was conducted between monday, march 21 and thursday, march 24 and has a margin for error of plus or minus 4.5 percentage points
the new york primary is april 19
vice president george bush and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis have made dramatic gains in recent weeks in utah, a poll suggests
the change came after both bush and dukakis had wins to point to on super tuesday, march 8, which featured a big round of primaries and caucuses
dukakis leads rep. richard gephardt 32 percent to 8 percent and bush leads bob dole 47 percent to 29 percent, according to a survey by pollster dan jones &amp; associates, which conducting the poll taken march 18 for the deseret news and ksl-tv
an earlier poll by the same organization, on february 24-25, found that dole was favored over bush, 39 percent to 32 percent. on the democratic side, gephardt was behind dukakis, but by a much smaller margin, 30 percent to 20 percent
the polls of 605 utahs have an error margin of plus or minus 4 percentage points. michigan, jackson comment; subs 9th graf pvs with more on popular vote and percentage breakdowns; subs 11th graf pvs, bgng: the delegate, to update with new delegate figures; inserts 2 grafs after 15th graf pvs, stallworth said, on white vote for jackson</note>
jesse jackson parlayed his built-in core of support _ the potent black voice of the michigan democratic party _ into a landslide victory in the state's democratic caucuses
jackson galvanized the black community, which responded with a highly organized get-out-the-vote effort for saturday's caucuses
but jackson's commanding 55 percent of the vote far outstripped the state's black population. according to 1980 census, michigan is 13 percent black
jackson himself, campaigning in connecticut on sunday, downplayed the racial breakdown of the balloting, saying his first concern was to ``count the votes, not the color.''
it's a campaign of growth, a campaign of hope,'' he said
i think the major factor was the level of intensity of jackson supporters and the lack of intensity of other supporters,'' michigan house speaker gary owen said sunday
owen, who supports tennessee sen. albert gore jr., said early sunday that he'd gone out campaigning several days and found ``an overwhelming lack of enthusiasm'' for all of the candidates except jackson
i know there was excitement in seeing a presidential candidate and hearing a presidential candidate, but i never felt that degree of intensity among the crowds for those other candidates,'' he said
zolton ferency, a former state democratic party chairman, said organized labor leaders liked rep. richard gephardt's tough trade stand, but ``his campaign was dying. they didn't want to back a loser.''
michael dukakis, on the other hand, wasn't well-known in michigan and had to introduce himself to the state's democrats then try to get them to go out an vote for him, ferency said
dukakis, he added, wasn't ``the kind of candidate that can generate instant enthusiasm.''
jackson buried dukakis in vote totals with 107,689 votes or 55 percent to dukakis' 55,337 or 28 percent, while gephardt came in third with 24,995 or 13 percent. sen. paul simon had 4,069 or 2 percent; gore had 3,818 or 2 percent
those totals represented 94 percent of the vote counted. the state democratic party said it wouldn't have full figures until monday
the delegate projections from those results showed jackson getting 74 of the state's 138 committed delegates, while dukakis would get 50, gephardt 11, and uncommitted 3
another 12 delegates are michigan members of the democratic national committee who go to the national convention not pledged to any particular candidate
jackson particularly swamped dukakis in the predominantly black 1st and 13th congressional districts, which cover detroit. in the 1st, jackson had 25,416 compared with 1,809 for dukakis, while in the 13th he had 17,725 to dukakis's 1,539
state rep. alma stallworth, a democrat from detroit, said those figures represent ``a lot of young people and new voters who got involved for the first time.''
stallworth said the highly organized jackson campaign also got a boost from black churches, which urged people to vote
but jackson also did well in mostly white districts covering the western, southern and eastern lower peninsula
he was saying what people wanted to hear,'' said state sen. david holmes, d-detroit. ``it all boils down to bread-and-butter issues regardless of race, color or creed. he outworked, outtalked and outcampaigned the other candidates in all 18 congressional districts.''
organized labor, which carries great weight in blue-collar michigan, didn't make any endorsements, unlike 1984 when it was solidly behind walter mondale
stallworth said although labor took no formal action, some union members worked for the jackson campaign. include sella's first name and title</note>
a judge's unusual decision removing attorney general edwin meese iii from investigating an fbi agent's harassment charges adds to a string of cases involving potential conflicts of interest by the nation's highest law enforcement officer
in some cases, meese has disqualified himself, leading congressional critics to suggest he is not in command at the justice department. meese's aides say there haven't been enough cases to have an effect
in other cases, meese's failure to remove himself has brought him legal difficulties as well as criticism from political foes that he is insensitive to the high ethical standards to which an attorney general should conform
chicago federal judge john f. grady disqualified meese from the criminal civil rights investigation involving black fbi agent donald rochon
grady said meese and assistant attorney general william bradford reynolds would not be able to remain impartial in a federal grand jury investigation because they are defendants in a civil suit brought by rochon last november
rochon says he was the victim of death threats from white colleagues in the chicago fbi office and that justice department and fbi officials engaged in a cover-up of his complaints
the judge called for a ``chinese wall'' between justice department attorneys conducting the criminal investigation and meese and reynolds, who heads the department's civil rights division
in one instance where the question of conflict has arisen, meese decided not to request appointment of an independent counsel to investigate two former justice department officials involved in an environmental protection agency controversy. his decision overruled department subordinates. meese had earlier attended a white house meeting where aspects of the epa controversy were discussed
his behavior casts ``a pall of favoritism'' on the office of attorney general, declared sen. carl levin, d-mich
this is absolute nonsense,'' responded terry eastland, a justice department spokesman. ``the attorney general has made a diligent effort to recuse himself from matters in which there might be a conflict and he has kept himself in cases where he doesn't have a relationship that would give rise to questions.''
when meese came under criminal investigation last may 11 in the wedtech scandal, he hired private washington legal counsel who represent other clients in criminal investigations and prosecutions before the justice department
under a process put in place because of the criminal probe of meese, his washington lawyers regularly provide client lists to the justice department
we advise justice and they advise his office so that the matters are screened,'' said meese lawyer nathan lewin
lewin said that ``there may be a couple of dozen'' cases involved. meese has removed himself from these matters, even though only ``rarely do our criminal cases merit the attention of the attorney general,'' said lewin
on that basis, meese is excluded from the espionage case against an israeli air force officer _ brig. gen. aviem sella _ who recruited navy counterterrorism analyst jonathan pollard as a spy. lewin represents sella
also on that basis, meese was recused from the bid-rigging and kickback probe of the international telecommunications satellite organization, intelsat
in his previous job as white house counselor, meese helped round up political support from the teamsters and the union's president jackie presser
because of the potential conflict, meese has removed himself from any role in proposed justice department efforts to place the teamsters union under trusteeship. he also disqualified himself from reviewing the criminal investigation of presser, who was indicted in 1986
meese disqualified himself last year when the reagan administration opposed renewing the federal law which created independent counsels to investigate top government officials. the criminal investigation of meese is being conducted by one of those counsels
meese has been criticized for continuing to involve himself in other matters that might represent conflicts
for example, meese first gave grand jury testimony in the scandal surrounding wedtech corp., the bronx, n.y., defense contractor, in march of last year. despite his grand jury appearance, meese didn't recuse himself from the wedtech investigation being conducted by u.s. attorney rudolph giuliani in manhattan until the second week in april
in his march grand jury testimony, meese was appearing only as a witness and he said that he quickly removed himself in april when he was told that his financial adviser, w. franklyn chinn, and a longtime friend, e. robert wallach, were under investigation by giuliani. both were indicted last december for allegedly extracting payments from wedtech in an attempt to influence meese and other public officials to assist wedtech
the timing of meese's recusal from the wedtech case was of concern to independent counsel james mckay, who investigated whether meese may have passed along sensitive law enforcement information about giuliani's probe to wallach, sources familiar with the mckay probe have said, speaking on condition of anonymity
meese also owned $14,000 in stock in the regional bell telephone companies at a time when he met at the justice department with executives of four of the companies in 1985 and 1986. the executives sought _ and ultimately succeeded in getting _ a reversal in the justice department's position on whether the baby bells ought to be allowed to expand into several new types of business. the department now favors expansion into several new areas
mckay's office has been examining meese's baby bell stock holdings to determine whether he may have violated federal conflict-of-interest laws
on another matter, meese attended a dinner party in switzerland paid for out of a fund maintained by ambassador faith whittlesey. later, meese turned down appointment of an independent counsel to investigate alleged misuse of the fund and obstruction of justice by whittlesey
a fire apparently started by a kerosene heater spread through four row houses early sunday, killing five people and forcing 17 others to flee, authorities said
the two-alarm blaze started on the first floor of the house in which the people died and extended to three other houses before it was declared under control about 1:15 a.m., just under an hour after it was reported, said charles maier, supervisor of fire communications
all four houses were extensively damaged, he said
oh, lord, there were terrible flames,'' said evelyn carson, who lives across the street from the homes
maier identified the victims as raymond smith jr., 37; erma hilton, 35; 2{-year-old twin sisters elishvia and efrona jefferson; and freda garland, 1{. the two adults were sister and brother; the twins were the woman's great-nieces and the youngest child was the woman's daughter, relatives said
virginia coverson, a neighbor, said the smith family had lived on the block for years and raymond jr. was an invalid. ``i think he crawled to the door, but he couldn't get out,'' she said
evelyn smith, the mother of smith and ms. hilton, escaped the fire
the american red cross opened a temporary shelter at a nearby recreation center for the five families who were evacuated, spokeswoman susan snyder said
helicopters carrying tired, dirt-smeared u.s. soldiers swarmed back to this military base sunday and the troopers prepared to return home
we accomplished what we came here to do _ put the nicaraguans back in their place,'' sgt. matthew west said as he climbed out of a helicopter at the end of a flight from training exercises in juticalpa, about 40 miles from the honduran-nicaraguan border
now we just want to get clean,'' said west, 21, from dallas
soldiers from the 82nd airbrone division based at fort bragg, n.c., are expected to begin returning to the united states at about 5 p.m. est monday. they will be the first to arrive home after an 11-day training exercise meant as a show of u.s. military strength in the central america region
units of the 7th light infantry division headquartered at fort ord., calif., also were flown here in the show of force
president reagan sent the 3,200 soldiers to honduras on march 17-18 after honduran president jose azcona hoyo asked for help. azcona said an estimated 2,000 nicaraguan troopers had entered honduran territory in the bocay region
honduran military officials said the invading sandinistas were after a major supply depot the u.s.-backed nicaraguan rebels maintained just inside honduras
american soldiers said their mission was a success
our presence here definitely made a difference,'' said sgt. dale taylor, 22, of red springs, n.c. ``it proves how serious we are about what we are doing and that we can get here in 18 hours if the need arises.''
the reagan administration called the military action a training exercise, but it also was meant as a warning to the sandinistas against further action inside honduran territory
and despite a few tense days during which the honduran air force twice bombed sandinista positions in the bocay region of western olancho province, the u.s. soldiers were involved only in training maneuvers
the sandinistas, while claiming their soldiers had never entered honduran territory, withdrew their troops from the area about two days after the american troops arrived
taylor said he is one of the ``lucky ones'' who will be among the first to parachute into a training field at ft. bragg monday
it's going to be a sis-boom-bah occasion. they're going to have a band and our families will be there. it's great to be going home,'' he said
pfc. edward broker, 27, of denver, said he is going to ``kiss the ground'' when he gets back to ft. bragg and then drink a beer ``and have my wife take me out to a restaurant.''
we're all glad to be going home,'' said spec. 4 michael greco, 21, of pittsburgh, pa. ``this makes you appreciate what you have at home,''
maj. gary hovatter, the u.s. military spokesman for the forces here, said all of the soldiers from fort bragg and fort ord should be home by wednesday
he said some training continued sunday at bases in jamastran, in eastern honduras, and tamara in south-central honduras
some of them will be leaving monday night late. but then the last guys probably won't be getting out until wednesday,'' he said. ``they want to make maximum use of all their training time.''
richard gephardt's tough trade message was a winner in chick's rooster lounge here _ just as it was in iowa. but gephardt never found the momentum from his iowa caucus victory and ended up a loser after michigan's caucuses
gephardt finished a distant third to jesse jackson and michael dukakis here, a state that should have been receptive to his trade message. but the auto industry-dominated state handed the missouri congressman his 28th defeat in 31 events this year and doomed his bid for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination
he is expected to formally withdraw from the race. gephardt scheduled a news conference monday afternoon in washington to announce his plans
gephardt's clear and consistent message _ a tough trade policy designed to protect american jobs _ resonated with workers worried about foreign competition
i like his enthusiasm, his `buy america' ideas. ... we have to take care of ourselves first,'' said bar owner chick mahoney, looking over a restaurant full of workers cheering gephardt
well-known on capitol hill as a leader in the house, but little-known across the country, gephardt never could transform enthusiasm about his message into victories
gephardt worked iowa hard with the message and won a narrow victory on feb. 8. but it wasn't much of a boost
gephardt got very little momentum out of iowa,'' said democratic party professional elaine kamarck. his win over paul simon was narrow and pat robertson's surprise second-place finish on the gop side over george bush dominated the news
once robertson mucked up the republican race, the democrats lost their best chance to have a giant among the candidates,'' she said
dukakis won his backyard primary in new hampshire the next week, but then gephardt went into south dakota and won the primary there feb. 23 with his trade message
but that was it for gephardt, except for a homestate win in missouri on super tuesday
bob squier, a democratic media consultant, said gephardt didn't freshen his message for the southern primaries on super tuesday and apparently didn't have the money to get his message out
if the hyundai had become a pickup truck as it crossed the mason-dixon line, it might have worked,'' squier said, referring to gephardt's centerpiece trade ad that singled out the korean car
squier said gephardt's campaign was guilty of ``kamikaze attacks in the south'' _ running a lot of ads in parts of florida, for example, where dukakis was very strong
gephardt's message also triggered counterattacks that he seemed unable to answer adequately
everywhere i go, they say he's the protectionist candidate. that is a great way for the opposition to smear you and get rid of your issue,'' gephardt told reporters at lunch one day in new hampshire
he strongly denied his policies were protectionist, but it was a charge that he could never shake
gephardt also had strong competition from the other candidates for his message
jackson, for one, has a powerful message to those worried about their economic situation. but jackson is an eloquent speaker of genuine force, while gephardt's rhetoric has been honed in the rarified halls of the capitol
and jackson says over and over again his message is one of hope and the future, while gephardt's emphasis on trade protections seemed to emphasize what cannot be done, not the possibilities to come
in addition, the missouri congressman was not known well outside of washington. kamarck said that poses a problem in laying out a strong message that some may not like, since the voters do not know enough about the candidate to trust him, even if they may have doubts about his message
gephardt's populist, anti-establishment themes also met with skepticism from reporters and others who knew him to be the consummate washington insider
his message also never brought him the organizational support he needed
the united auto workers stayed officially neutral, a major blow to his chances
in iowa, the state affiliate backed gephardt and gave him troops he used to win. in michigan, the uaw was badly splintered
uaw president owen bieber, appearing at a news conference two days before the caucuses in michigan, would not even say he was personally going to vote for gephardt. the missouri congressman stood at bieber's side grim-faced as the union leader ducked reporters' questions
i came here today because i want to pay my respects to dick and the union wants to pay its respects to him,'' beiber said
beiber sounded as if he was saying good-bye to gephardt's presidential campaign. and the results on saturday suggested that was exactly what was happening. up 5th graf pvs: the release...</note>
the sandinista government freed 100 political prisoners sunday under an amnesty program, fulfilling the first part of a cease-fire pact with nicaraguan rebels
interior minister tomas borge called the gesture ``possibly the beginning of the end of the war.''
tearful family members embraced their loved ones who were released from the zona franca jail on the outskirts of managua. but amid the joy was an air of doubt
they say i don't have anything to fear,'' said feliz pedro chavaria gomez, 32, holding a plastic sack containing his belongings. ``i'm happy, but i hope it doesn't fail.''
chavaria said he was arrested in 1980 and charged with being a counter-revolutionary
cesar augusto flores mireando, 25, was arrested more than two years ago in managua. ``the majority of the peasants here are innocent,'' he said
the release of the prisoners was the first step in an amnesty plan the sandinistas agreed to wednesday when they signed a cease-fire accord with leaders of the u.s.-backed rebels known as contras. the sides declared a truce march 21 and a a 60-day cease-fire is to begin april 1
in another development, president daniel ortega suggested the united nations send a multi-national peacekeeping force to the nicaraguan-honduran border to stabilize the area
of the prisoners freed sunday, 24 were workers arrested for joining illegal strikes
the release was ordered under an amnesty law the national assembly approved by a margin of 82-2 saturday night. the law could result in the release of about 3,300 political prisoners jailed since the sandinistas seized power in a 1979 revolution that overthrew right-wing president anastasio somoza
sandinistas hold 61 seats in the 96-member assembly
according to the legislation, another undisclosed number of contras taken prisoner during the six-year civil war will be released at an unspecified later date. the government also plans a general review of the cases of about 1,800 members of somoza's now-disbanded national guard, ortega said
speaking to reporters saturday night, ortega said the former guardsmen all have been accused of human rights violations or crimes against humanity _ such as the indiscriminate shooting of civilians _ during the one-year revolution that brought the sandinistas to power
many of them have been sentenced to the maximum penalty of 30 years imprisonment, ortega said. the downfall of somoza, a rightist pro-american strongman, ended 42-years of iron-fisted rule by his family, usually enforced by the national guard
ortega said the case of each guardsmen will be sent to the organization of american states' interamerican human rights commission for review before a release is ordered to safeguard the sandinista government from criticism that it acted unfairly
on saturday, ortega said he had told gilberto schilittler, head of the u.n. delegation, that ``it is important to achieve the stabilization of the border zone with honduras and this is only possible with a multilateral force.''
ortega said that without a peacekeeping force, ``the united states can continue heating up the border ... provoking conflicts, increasing its presence to threaten nicaragua.''
the u.n. team inspected the border thursday and friday, scene of a reported incursion into honduras by sandinista army troops pursuing contra rebels
the sandinistas pardoned and released 900 political and rebel prisoners in october and november as a goodwill gesture in an unsuccessful effort to bring the contras to the bargaining table
but in a surprise move, leaders of the contra umbrella organization, the nicaraguan resistance, met with the sandinistas last week and agreed thursday on a 60-day cease-fire beginning april 1. further negotiations will follow to reach a more permanent truce
an informal cease-fire both sides had agreed to while the negotiations were in progress continued to hold sunday
an estimated 50,000 people have been killed or wounded since the contra war against the sandinistas began in november 1981
ortega said the two sides will meet again on monday in the little southern village of sapoa, near the costa rican border, to continue talks
the negotiations will now center on so-called ``truce areas'' where the contras can gather, and later turn in their weapons
sunday's amnesty was demanded by the contras as a condition for further talks. it is also called for under a regional peace plan that ortega and the four other central american presidents signed last august
the plan aims at negotiating an end to the contra war and to leftist guerrilla wars in el salvador and guatemala
in honduras, about 3,200 american troops, sent in two weeks ago by president reagan when sandinista troops allegedly entered honduras in pursuit of contra rebels, prepared to return home on monday
the reagan administration said they were sent both to bolster the honduran government and as a warning to the sandinistas against further incursions
court records scheduled to be unsealed this week may cast some light on death threats authorities say a prosecutor apparently fabricated
u.s. magistrate ronald j. hedges last week gave the government until wednesday to object to his decision to unseal about eight of 29 pages of transcripts of conversations he had with special assistant u.s. attorney judy g. russell about the threats
the discussions, from which defense attorneys were excluded, came during hearings feb. 1-5 on a request to extradite two sikhs accused by the indian government of terrorism in that nation
the hearings, which resulted in a decision to allow the pair to be extradited, took place amid extraordinary security because of alleged death threats to ms. russell and an anonymous letter to hedges. u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. disclosed last monday that the threats apparently were manufactured by ms. russell
no charges have been filed in connection with the alleged threats. alito said an internal affairs division of the justice department is investigating. he hasn't suggested any motive for the threats
alito has alleged that ms. russell cut out words from magazines to form threatening messages and mailed them to herself
in part of an affidavit hedges already released, ms. russell mentioned four mailed threats in requesting tight security at the extradition hearing
ms. russell also allegedly told fbi agents a threat was hand-delivered to her feb. 4 when she was staying in a secret hotel location under 24-hour guard. an fbi affidavit released last monday said none of the guards noticed anyone enter the area during the time she claimed to have received the threat
ronald kuby, attorney for sikh defendant sukhminder singh, also said ms. russell told the fbi a fabricated story about a suspect who allegedly shouted at her in a mall. a federal official, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed kuby's statement
her former colleagues in the u.s. attorney's office have refused to comment publicly, as has ms. russell's attorney robert fettweis. fettweis has said only that ms. russell is in seclusion in a ``private hospital.''
ms. russell left the u.s. attorney's office to enter private practice before the extradition hearing, and returned to handle it as a special assistant u.s. attorney
singh and the second sikh, ranjit singh gill, have asked a federal judge in new york to review hedges' extradition decision
alito has said he does not think the threats affected the extradition decision, but he wants a new hearing to avoid the appearance of impropriety. his office and defense attorneys are deciding how to proceed with the case. judge</head> 5th graf, ``pierce was xxx, to include his age; subs grafs 20-26 pvs (last seven grafs) with 11 grafs to add background on pierce, another comment from sheriff, and background on court race and county</note>
julian pierce was a rarity in racially troubled robeson county, respected by blacks, indians and whites, but many of his supporters believe he was slain because someone didn't want a lumbee indian to be a judge
there is absolute shock,'' the rev. mac legerton said sunday. ``there is a feeling among people that `oh my god, we tried to seek change through the electoral process, and look what happens ...
we are hoping that all the citizens will choose non-violent means to resolve our massive difficulties here.''
pierce's death early saturday from three shotgun blasts at point-blank range appeared to be the first time in the state that a candidate for political office had been murdered, said robert morgan, director of the state bureau of investigation. no one had been arrested sunday
pierce, 42, was running for a superior court judgeship and would have been the first lumbee indian to serve in the post in robeson county if he had been elected
pierce had been alone in his brick ranch house, which is flanked by farmland and another small house
someone was at the (kitchen) door and when he went to the door, they were waiting for him,'' robeson county sheriff hubert stone said
it just looked like he was actually assassinated,'' stone said saturday
the indians are going to have to take the law into their own hands ... to protect their selves, family and friends,'' a local resident, earl moore, said saturday at pierce's home
moore, who said he had known pierce for 15 years, said the candidate ``knew that something could happen'' to him. moore said he knew of a threat against pierce, but said he would talk only to federal officials in washington, not to county, state or federal officials in north carolina
there's a lot of leads that are being pursued,'' state investigator cuyler windham said sunday, declining to elaborate. ``we've interviewed numerous people, and we will continue to follow every lead that comes up.''
robeson county, which borders on south carolina, is 37 percent white, 37 percent indian and 26 percent black. it is one of the state's poorest counties, and has long been torn by racial animosity
activism, particularly by lumbees, has thrived since november 1986 when an unarmed lumbee was shot and killed by a sheriff's deputy
anger at what the indians call corrupt local government and entrenched racism boiled over most recently feb. 1, when two lumbees took hostages at the robesonian newspaper in lumberton, the county seat. eddie hatcher and timothy jacobs said they engineered the siege in order to attract attention
in a telephone interview from prison with the winston-salem journal saturday night, hatcher called on gov. jim martin to appoint a special prosecutor to investigate both his allegations and the pierce killing
how many dead indians and execution-style killings of our people shall it take before you, governor martin, bestow upon our people the long overdue justice we deserve?'' hatcher asked
about 100 people stood quietly outside pierce's home saturday
he didn't have any enemies,'' gladys freeman, a lumbee, said of pierce, a lawyer who resigned from his post as director of a legal-aid organization for the poor in january to run for the judgeship. ``who could hate him? no one could.''
it makes me think there's no hope for the indians,'' said janice locklear, also a lumbee. ``i'm so mad i could fight.''
people questioned outside pierce's home said they thought he would have won the election against joe freeman britt, a white who has been district attorney in the county for 14 years
they cited a vote earlier this month to consolidate the county's five school systems, which had been divided along racial lines. advocates of consolidation, largely lumbee and black, narrowly won the vote in this rural, underdeveloped county of 100,000 people
an impromptu news conference outside pierce's house by stone and morgan brought heckling from members of the crowd, who asked as many questions of the law enforcement authorities as did reporters
stone, a white, said he considered pierce a friend, and britt called the murder ``sad and tragic'' in a statement
pierce grew up in neighboring hoke county and worked in a virginia shipyard after graduating from college. he returned to north carolina and attended north carolina central university law school, then worked for the u.s. securities and exchange commission from 1976 to 1978
he then moved to robeson county to serve as the first director of lumbee river legal services, representing those too poor to afford lawyers and practicing public interest law
he was an easygoing guy. he never had no problem with anyone that i heard tell of. people liked him,'' stone said
the election effectively was to be decided may 3 _ the date of the democratic primary _ since no republicans were in the race. britt and pierce were the only candidates, and community leaders said they weren't sure if another candidate could be entered at this late date
robeson county had been given its own judicial district in order to give minorities a better chance of electing a judge. the county had previously been part of a larger district
at a rally in february, pierce said he was running for the post because minorities were not respected by the criminal justice system that they were not a part of
i promise you one thing _ if i'm elected judge, i'll be a just judge because i think we need that, but i won't see color,'' he said. say</head>
a state senator who told police he was shot by his wife after he returned home from a special legislative session improved from critical to serious condition sunday, a spokeswoman at lsu medical center said
greg tarver, 41, a second-term senator, told police that his wife, sabrina, shot him and that he didn't want to press charges, police chief charles gruber said at a news conference late saturday
she is not in custody. ... we are not looking for her,'' he said
mrs. tarver could not be located for comment sunday. nobody answered at the tarvers' home number. sam jones, who answered the telephone at the funeral home tarver runs, said the whole family was at the hospital. reporters there did not see mrs. tarver
tarver was in intensive care after 4{ hours of surgery, said hospital spokeswoman elaine king
doctors said they repaired blood vessels damaged by a .25-caliber bullet that tore through tarver's chest saturday
it's up to tarver whether to have his wife arrested, gruber said: ``if a victim doesn't wish to pursue a case, then you have no case. although we will try to put our case together in case he should change his mind.''
i feel sure that once we get everything together we will turn it all over to the district attorney and let him look at it and see what he thinks,'' said detective sgt. rick ware
charges often are not filed in domestic violence cases, said district attorney paul carmouche
the shooting happened less than an hour after tarver, one of a handful of blacks in the 39-member louisiana senate, returned from the special session in baton rouge. gruber said tarver's mother, balistine hopkins, reported the shooting
tarver, who will be 42 wednesday, was one of three blacks elected to the shreveport city council in 1978 _ the first blacks ever elected to the council
he became the city's first black state senator in 1984 after a bitter campaign against incumbent bill keith, who ran a television commercial showing police mug shots of tarver and listing 14 arrests from 1967 to 1973. most of the arrests were on charges of disturbing the peace and resisting arrest during civil rights protests
tarver was sworn in for a second four-year term march 14
the rain-swollen danube river burst through dikes along its banks in bavaria sunday, forcing the evacuation of hundreds of people. flooding throughout west germany has taken at least two lives
water was up to a foot deep in niederachdorf, a bavarian hamlet 25 miles east of regensburg
radio reports said about 2,000 people were being evacuated from niederachdorf and other communities in that area
officials said the danube swept away sections of earthen dikes 15 feet high
many rivers in west germany, including the rhine, mosel, donlau and neckar, are flooding from heavy rains and rapidly melting snow in the alps
a 61-year-old coblenz man perished sunday after going to his flooded cellar to check the fuse box, police reported. they said he received an electrical shock, fell into the water and drowned
on saturday, a 3-year-old-boy in bamberg drowned in flood waters, according to police
delegates at a greens party convention in ludwigshafen near heidelberg had to find another place to stay saturday night when water from the rhine flowed through the youth hostel where they had gathered
in lower saxony state, sections of 29 roads were under water sunday
premier turgut ozal said sunday that turkey might fire at iranian and iraqi warplanes to stop them from violating turkish airspace, state radio reported
ozal made the statement to reporters during a weekend vacation in this northwestern resort
he was quoted as saying, ``we will take measures against planes violating our airspace. these measures may include opening fire at them if necessary.''
turkey borders iran and iraq, which have been at war since september 1980, and has remained neutral
on friday, the foreign ministry announced that turkey had protested to iran over the bombing of a border post on the turkish-iraqi frontier
the ministry said the attack by an iranian warplane on thursday appeared to be aimed at destroying the habur bridge on the main highway connecting iraq and turkey
five bombs failed to hit the bridge and there were no casualties, according to the ministry
iran denied the incident and called on turkey to stop iraqi combat jets from crossing through turkish airspace to attack iran
convicted killer robert chambers forged $7,000 in stolen checks just before his murder trial began and used much of the money to buy cocaine, the prosecutor at the trial has charged
chambers' lawyer, jack litman, angrily denied the allegations by assistant district attorney linda fairstein, made in published reports sunday. litman said she had made them ``in an obvious effort to save face'' because the trial did not end with a murder verdict
in a surprise ending to the so-called ``preppie murder'' trial friday, chambers pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter in the august 1986 death of 18-year-old jennifer levin
the 21-year-old college dropout had maintained throughout the 12-week trial that miss levin's death had been an accident, caused when he grabbed her and threw her off him after she hurt him during a sexual encounter in central park. but he acknowledged in his guilty plea to manslaughter that he had intended to hurt her
ms. fairstein said saturday that her office received a tip from an informant that chambers had stolen the checks in october and used the money for ``drugs and petty cash.'' she did not identify the victim, but the daily news said court sources described the victim as an elderly woman who possibly was senile
our belief is that he stole and forged $7,000 worth of checks,'' the prosecutor said. ``we knew he was buying drugs, but at first we didn't know where he was getting the money. it went straight up his nose.''
as part of the plea bargain that brought the trial to an end, chambers pleaded guilty to one unrelated burglary charge, one of three that had been brought against him. under the bargain, he is immune from prosecution from any other past crimes
prosecutors had said that the burglaries were committed to support chambers' cocaine habit, for which he was institutionalized twice
ms. fairstein said the check theft was ``minor stuff,'' that probably would have ended up as a misdemeanor
litman called the allegations ``scandalous.'' he said ms. fairstein was upset that chambers pleaded guilty to manslaughter ``when they proclaimed from the rooftops that he intentionally murdered jennifer levin.''
chambers entered the plea friday as jurors remained deadlocked on their ninth day of deliberations in the highly publicized case. both sides feared a hung jury that would have required another emotionally draining trial
chambers entered the rikers island jail on saturday to await sentencing april 15. under the plea bargain, he faces a five-to-15-year prison term. journalists... with meir vanunu's statement. pick up 20th graf: before a pre-trial...</note>
mordechai vanunu, the former nuclear technician who said he acted as a spy for the common man when he gave israeli atomic secrets to a newspaper, was sentenced sunday to 18 years in prison. he was convicted of treason and espionage
the sentencing climaxed a seven-month closed-door trial that focused worldwide attention on israel's nuclear capability
the 34-year-old israeli, who told a british newspaper his country possessed nuclear weapons, was convicted thursday
the charges can carry a death penalty. but the prosecution requested a life term, which israeli law limits to 20 years. the court then reduced the term by two years, citing vanunu's cooperation with investigators, apparent signs of regret and the difficult conditions of his 18-month solitary confinement
under israeli law, vanunu could be released on good behavior after 12 years. but legal commentators said his early release was unlikely given the severity of the crimes
defense attorney avigdor feldman has said he will appeal his client's case to israel's supreme court
the sentencing ended an affair shrouded in secrecy that began when vanunu, a 10-year employee of israel's dimona nuclear facility, gave photographs and details of the facility to the sunday times of london
based on that information, the paper reported israel had stockpiled the world's sixth largest nuclear arsenal
israel has never confirmed or denied that it has nuclear weapons. it has said only it will not be the first country to introduce such weapons into the middle east
vanunu, a jewish-born convert to christianity, testified during his trial that he made his revelations to warn the world of the dangers of nuclear weapons, not for personal gain or out of a desire to harm his country
in a poem quoted by his attorney on israeli television after the verdict, vanunu called himself a ``spy for the common man.''
he had negotiated a lucrative contract with the sunday times pending publication of a never-completed book and earlier approached several news organizations offering to sell his story for large sums
vanunu made a final appeal at sunday's court session, but his remarks were not made public and his attorney refused to talk to waiting reporters
vanunu's family, however, expressed bitterness
the trial was not conducted as it should have been,'' said vanunu's brother, asher vanunu. he said he would try to galvanize international support to press authorities for his brother's release
meir vanunu, another brother who lives in london, said in an interview with british broadcasting co. television, ``israel wasn't able to give justice to mordechai.''
he said israel was trying to shield its nuclear capability ``in all the kinds of games that they played about it for the last 25 years.''
meir vanunu faces arrest in israel for leaking details of his brother's journey to israel from london in october 1986, several days after the sunday times published vanunu's revelations
he told journalists his brother was lured from london to rome by an american woman named cindy, presumably an israeli agent, who promised him sex. then he was abducted by israeli agents and spirited back to israel for trial, he said
meir vanunu, 32, read a statement sunday night to the associated press
this trial began by kidnapping, continued in total secrecy and ended by putting the narrow interests of the state before the interests of humanity,'' the statement said
legally, it is only the end of a chapter; our struggle to free him continues. politically, by this trial, israel has admitted that it has the bomb. it was my brother's wish to make the middle east nuclear free. it is up to the rest of the world to pick up this challenge.''
in response to a question, meir vanunu said he had asked the italian and british governments to intervene. ``it's the responsiblity of the british and italian governments to take some diplomatic steps, or any kind of action, to clear up this situation and demand the return of mordechai to europe, where he was taken from,'' he said
before a pre-trial court appearance, mordechai vanunu managed to flash reporters a message scribbled on the palm of his hand saying he had been kidnapped in rome. the incident embarrassed authorities and led to increased security precautions
vanunu has received almost no support from israelis, many of whom view him as a traitor
but his cause has been adopted by international groups including anti-nuclear activists, scientists, politicians and the london-based amnesty international human rights group. british peace activists and legislators nominated him for the nobel peace prize last summer
during sunday's sentencing hearing, defense attorney feldman presented a petition from noted american scientists, including 18 nobel prize laureates, asking for leniency, israel radio said
the judges, however, denied a defense request to allow an american expert on international law to testify at the hearing
the expert, richard falk of princeton university in new jersey, said he was shocked the court refused to let him testify and criticized vanunu's conviction
individual conscience is more important in the nuclear age than the security of the state,'' he said. ``the state can be wrong.''
a truck driver convicted of gunning down two men found slain in a wildlife area should die in the gas chamber, a jury recommended sunday
donald edward reese, 44, coolly listened as a court clerk read the jury's recommendation that he receive the death sentence
the jury friday convicted reese in the sept. 9, 1986, deaths of james r. watson, 54, of jefferson city, and christopher griffith, 38, of columbia. they and two other men were found dead in the marshall junction wildlife area in central missouri
prosecutor weldon perry jr. claimed reese had stalked the wildlife area ``looking for money.''
a first-degree murder charge was filed friday in the death of another of the victims, john c. burford, 57, of sedalia. a charge in the slaying of the fourth man, donald a. vanderlinden, 64, of independence, was dropped last year but can be re-filed later
sentencing was set for may 6. jefferson county circuit judge john anderson can either adopt the jury's recommendation or sentence reese to life in prison without probation or parole
the trial was moved to jefferson county because of extensive pretrial publicity in saline county, where the killings occurred
after the killings, reese directed law officers to the wallets of vanderlinden, burford and watson, as well as to $1,200 in cash stuffed into a soup can hidden by a tree, according to testimony
after the sentence was read in the packed courtroom, watson's daughter, kathy watson, 26, wept quietly. tears also streamed down the face of reese's sister, elsie smith. having aids, to avoid implying that it was raised by prosecution during trial to establish motive.</note>
a trial in the slashing and stabbing death of a worker at an atlanta fine arts center ended with life sentences for the victim's wife and a man who claimed he was trying to aid a friend's suicide
nora ventura broomall, 52, of clarkston, and cecil eugene booher, 36, of atlanta, were convicted of murder saturday and sentenced for the oct. 9 slaying of mrs. broomall's husband, george, 50, a maintenance worker at the callanwolde fine arts center
throughout the two-week trial, prosecutors contended that mrs. broomall arranged her husband's death, hiring booher for $25,000 in hopes of collecting $100,000 in insurance money
broomall's throat was slashed and he had been stabbed twice in the chest when he was found in an upstairs hallway at callanwolde, located in a 1920s tudor-style mansion in atlanta's stately druid hills neighborhood
booher, who says he has acquired immune deficiency syndrome and called himself ``a walking dead man,'' also was found guilty of two counts of burglary for taking stereo equipment and liquor from the arts center after the slaying
defense attorneys contended broomall planned his own death, getting booher to help him commit suicide in an attempt to leave the insurance money to his wife
chief assistant district attorney steve roberts said he was pleased with the convictions
i think it's a pretty heinous thing to hire someone to kill your spouse for money,'' roberts said. ``this puts to rest the theory and speculation that mr. broomall wanted to commit suicide, which we never believed for a minute.''
booher's attorney, darel mitchell, said he was unsure if his client would appeal, given his medical condition
a life sentence in this case may have a whole new meaning,'' mitchell said. ``he will receive treatment while he is in custody, where if he were free, he has no insurance for medical care.''
al hartley, attorney for mrs. broomall, said she probably will appeal
the case already has attracted the attention of people interested in securing book and movie rights, both defense attorneys said
the facts of this case just happen to be bizarre enough to attract a movie producer's attention,'' said assistant district attorney mike mcdaniel. ``but i certainly would not like to think that anyone would benefit from criminal conduct.''
judith somogi, one of the first women conductors, died wednesday after a bout with cancer. she was 50
miss somogi was the first woman to conduct the new york city opera, making her debut in 1974 with ``the mikado'' and ``la traviata.'' in 1981, she became first kapellmeister at the frankfurt opera in west germany. she left last year
the brooklyn-born miss somogi, who earned degrees at the juilliard school, made her last appearance six months ago conducting ``das rheingold'' in frankfurt
an american woman attempting a solo hike to the north pole and a british team making a similar trek without sled dogs or snowmobiles abandoned their dreams sunday because of foul weather
pam flowers of willow, alaska, gave up her second bid to become the first woman to travel alone to the pole after facing unstable weather, losing her glasses in a fall and two uneasy confrontations with a polar bear, according to rudy kellar. he is base manager for bradley air service at resolute in canada's northwest territories
kellar said that also on sunday, three members of a british team led by sir ranulph fiennes were picked up by a plane after traveling only 36 miles in more than three weeks,
fiennes, 43, and his companions were attempting to become the first people to walk to the pole without the aid of sled dogs, motorized transport or airlifted supplies. it was his second attempt
fiennes, suffering frostbite in two toes, gave up because ``weather conditions were absolutely horrific,'' penny studholme, a spokesman for the expedition, said in london
she said storms and extreme swings in temperature loosened pack ice, making it ``like glue'' for the the team struggling with sleds loaded with supplies
the adventurers had set out march 10 to walk the 410 miles to the pole from their base camp at ward hunt island, 1,200 above the arctic circle. fiennes was accompanied on the hike by mike stroud and oliver shephard
ms. flowers, 43, had been traveling a route parallel to the british team's, using sled dogs
she was picked up by a plane after traveling 12 miles north of ward hunt island at the northern tip of ellesmere island. she had abandoned a similar attempt last year
kellar said a polar bear wandered into her camp twice, ripping up her tent at one point, and her three sled dogs drove off the bear with their howling
radio messages received by the british base camp said ms. flowers fell from an ice ridge on thursday, and she was knocked unconscious and broke her glasses. kellar said the loss of the glasses was a factor in her decision to call off the trip
after stopping in dublins in indiana, north carolina, maryland, pennsylvania, virginia, georgia and kentucky, six firefighters from the oldest dublin of them all came to the newest city of dublin
this is the biggest dublin we've been to in the united states and the most modern,'' said seamus o'connor, 44, station officer of the dublin, ireland, fire department and coordinator of the three-week visit. ``but it's very irish-connected.''
this columbus suburb, population 14,000, dates to the 19th century, but it assumed city status under state law only last september. by contrast, dublin, ireland, is marking its 1,000th birthday this year
mary margaret mclernon, coordinator of the dublin-irish celebration in dublin, ohio, said a mid-19th-century planner born in dublin, ireland, gave the town its name. ohio's rolling hills, trees and greenery, and the scioto river reminded him of the irish countryside and the liffey river that flows through ireland's dublin, she said
the firefighters, nearing the end of their 4,000-mile tour of american towns named dublin, spent sunday shopping with escorts and planned to present mayor michael l. close with dublin crystal at a concert of irish folk music. they arrived in dublin, ohio, in a motor home on saturday from dublin, ind., and were expected to leave monday morning for new york city and return to ireland on thursday
the purpose of our trip was to share greetings of native irish with the offspring dublins and to encourage people to come visit us during our anniversary year to take part in the festivities,'' o'connor said
the irish tourist board arranged for the firefighters to get the motor home free of charge, he said. and aer lingus _ the irish airline _ gave each firefighter a round-trip ticket to new york
o'connor said the visitors have received letters from schoolchildren during their travels and will give them to irish children when they return home. they've also met fellow firefighters along the way _ and even helped a few of them
while in dublin, georgia, we helped out the local fire station with a bad car accident,'' o'connor said. ``that's the beauty of it. firemen all over the world have a basic connection.''
washington township firefighter rick aston said he enjoyed swapping fire stories with the visitors
you always do that with a bunch of firefighters,'' he said. graf pvs: in armenia...</note>
the official soviet press reported sunday that most business had halted and militiamen were blocking central streets in a city at the center of a dispute between armenians and another soviet ethnic group
dissidents described the stoppage in stepanakert, in a region that armenians want transferred from the control of the republic of azerbaijan to the neighboring republic of armenia, as a general strike
soviet reports said more than 1,500 civilian auxiliary police had moved into the azerbaijani city of sumgait and that similar forces patrolled the azerbaijani capital of baku
stepanakert is in the disputed region of nagorno-karabakh. sumgait, the scene of ethnic clashes that left at least 32 dead in late february, is in the sumgait district of azerbaijan
in armenia, troops with attack dogs were deployed saturday in the capital of yerevan to crack down on street rallies calling for nagorno-karabakh's annexation by armenia, the official press said
a moscow dissident, alexander ogorodnikov, on saturday described yerevan as a ``dead city'' with most people staying inside in silent protest
armenians began strikes and street rallies feb. 13 in stepanakert, nagorno-karabakh's main city, demanding that the region be united with armenia
armenians make up more than three-quarters of nagorno-karabakh's population, but they say they suffer racial, cultural and economic discrimination in azerbaijan. most armenians are christians, while azerbaijanis are mostly shiite moslems
the government newspaper izvestia said sunday that authorities blocked the central streets of stepanakert and that militiamen were patrolling saturday
the communist party newspaper pravda reported sunday that 1,500 civilian auxiliary police had been deployed in sumgait and in baku
only reinforced voluntary public order squads, made up of workers with red armbands who assist militia in the streets, indicate that some tension still persists in baku,'' pravda said
the armenian nationalist protests subsided after soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed feb. 26 for restraint, promising social and economic improvements
but on wednesday, the presidium of the supreme soviet, the country's highest executive body, brushed aside the annexation demand
armenians in nagorno-karabakh then called for a general strike. it began wednesday, moscow dissident sergei grigoryants said sunday
izvestia said sunday in a report from stepanakert: ``enterprises in the city today (saturday) aren't working, except for essential services such as bread and milk factories, transport, water supply.''
pravda said: ``there is a relative lull in nagorno-karabakh .. . but the majority of enterprises of the regional center, stepanakert, are idle.''
none of the articles, however, attributed the disruptions to a strike
andrei bavitsky of the dissident journal glasnost had said in moscow that 15,000 local policemen were patrolling stepanakert saturday
grigoryants, a former political prisoner who is half ethnic russian and half armenian, said the stepanakert strike was scheduled to last through friday
bavitsky and grigoryants said they received their information from telephone contacts in the region. the government has barred foreign correspondents from the area and prevented phone calls to the region sunday
armenian and azerbaijani media have warned activists of ``unpredictable consequences'' if they carry out demonstrations or strikes. at least four armenian activists have been arrested in yerevan
at least one of those arrested, paruyr ayrikyan, was charged under a law which gorbachev's administration has said was under review, according to dissidents
press club glasnost, an unsanctioned moscow group of human rights activists, said sunday it learned from ayrikyan's relatives that he was charged under a law barring the defamation of the soviet union
the very fact of ayrikyan's arrest and charge represents a serious step backward, a retreat to the times of repression against every independent opinion, every free word,'' press club glasnost said in an appeal to gorbachev to free ayrikyan
ayrikyan, 38, headed an underground armenian nationalist group called the national unification party and was jailed for 17 years beginning in 1969 for his political activities. he is chairman of a nationalist group called alliance for national determination
eleven singers were selected as winners sunday at the 34th annual finals competition of the prestigious metropolitan opera national council auditions
some 2,000 contestants, ages 19 to 35, competed in the auditions, which began on the district level in august in the united states, puerto rico, canada and australia, said anne porter, a council spokeswoman
the 11 winners, chosen from 26 finalists, won a grant of $5,000, as well as the coveted opportunity to sing in the annual winners concert on the stage of the metropolitan opera house on sunday, april 10
the finalists on sunday were judged by 12 members of the metropolitan opera artistic staff, including conductors, singers, artistic directors and language experts, mrs. porter said
the winners are: renee fleming, 28, soprano, of new york; richard drews, 34, tenor, of chicago; leroy villanueva, 25, baritone, of altadena, calif.; lynda keith, 27, soprano, of cincinnati; heidi lynn grant, 22, soprano, of bloomington, ind.; and carolyn g. james, 25, soprano, of new york
also: ben heppner, 32, tenor, of scarborough, ontario in canada; wendy hoffman, 27, mezzo-soprano, of san francisco; haijing fu, 30, baritone, of brookline, mass.; helen smedley carter, 30, soprano, of collingswood, n.j.; and susan graham, 27, mezzo-soprano, of new york
each of the 26 finalists received a $1,000 award and one week of training in preparation for the finals. in addition to the prize money and the chance to participate in the april concert, the winners are to receive two more weeks of training by the met artistic staff to prepare for the concert
during 34 years of auditions, the metropolitan opera national council has heard more than 50,000 young singers, mrs. porter said
police capitalized on heavy betting during the ncaa basketball tournament to raid 17 suspected gambling houses in two cities and arrest 25 people, authorities said
the arrests saturday in philadelphia and new york city's staten island capped a four-month investigation that started with a tip from the los angeles sheriff's department, said new york police capt. thomas j. richardson
we feel it's an enormous operation,'' he said
among those arrested was joseph w. landmesser, 43, of wallingford, pa., who police said coordinated gambling operations between the two cities and was a leader of a coast-to-coast network
he was held for arraignment on charges of possession of gambling records and promoting gambling, police said
it's a nationwide sports betting operation,'' said philadelphia police sgt. jesse strange. ``it's very sophisticated. they have entered the electronic age. the old way was to write bets down on paper; now, they're into computers and toll-free numbers.''
philadelphia police, along with irs agents and members of the pennsylvania crime commission, raided 12 houses saturday, taking 14 people into custody. the suspects were charged with either bookmaking or running an illegal lottery and conspiracy
strange said the raids netted records for 11,192 sports bets valued at $3,387,450, records for $1,378,600 in other bets and records for 8,246 illegal lottery bets valued at about $7,200. police also seized $8,107 in cash, he said
the raids were timed to capitalize on betting related to the national collegiate athletic association basketball tournament, strange said
in new york, 11 people, including eight from california, were arrested at five locations on staten island, police said. the out-of-state suspects had moved to staten island after operations elsewhere had been uncovered, lt. john costello said
police had no estimate of the yearly intake of the operation, but one bettor had an account of over $57,000 in a one-week period, said richardson. seized ... with two grafs on israeli soldier convicted; picks up 8th graf pvs: soldiers entered...</note>
israel said its troops killed three arabs in the west bank on sunday after palestinians attacked with iron bars and a car, but villagers accused the soldiers of firing at cars carrying wounded
israeli soldiers killed a fourth palestinian in another west bank town while trying to rescue an israeli tour bus that blundered into the arab community
left-leaning labor party ministers, meanwhile, accused prime minister yitzhak shamir of the rightist likud block at sunday's cabinet session of exaggerating the success of his u.s. tour that ended tuesday, israel radio reported
they said the proof came in u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz's meeting saturday in washington with two university professors linked to the palestine liberation organization
shultz met with edward said and ibrahim abu-lughud, american citizens who belong to the plo's legislative arm. the meeting prompted protests from israel, which views the plo as an illegal terrorist group
sunday's deaths raised to 118 the number of palestinians killed in 15 weeks of violent protests against israel's 20-year occupation of the west bank and gaza strip, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed
israel seized the territories in the 1967 middle east war
in jaffa, a military court on sunday convicted israeli pvt. ron almog of abandoning his post at a base in northern israel when a palestinian guerrilla flew a hang glider into the area on nov. 25. the court sentenced almog to three years in jail and suspended 1{ years of the sentence
almog fled his post and the guerrilla rushed through the base's abandoned gate, killing five soldiers and wounding six before he was killed
soldiers entered the west bank village of meithalun about 40 miles north of jerusalem before dawn to arrest arabs suspected of anti-israeli activities, an army spokesman said
the overnight raids are israel's latest tactic to try to quash the palestinian unrest
as the soldiers were leaving, the army spokesman said, arabs attacked them with rocks and iron bars. when a car tried to run the soldiers down, the commander of the force fired and three arabs were killed, the spokesman said
but villagers denied the soldiers were attacked and accused soldiers of shooting at cars taking wounded to hospitals. one of the wounded, 16-year-old ghassan qassem noerat, was in a car bound for a hospital when soldiers shot and killed him, a relative said
hospital officials said he died of a bullet in the chest
the relative, his jeans heavily stained with dry blood, refused to give his name. but villagers displayed a car with a bullet hole in its radiator and a shattered windshield
ahmad abdul-rahman, a village leader, stood near the cemetery with its three fresh graves and said he came home to find soldiers who ``asked me to guide them to the wanted men.'' he said troops arrested 10 to 12 men before shooting broke out
pharmacist ahmed rasmi pointed to a rock wall on the eastern edge of the village and said omar mahmoud rabaiyeh, 23, was shot there while waiting for his ride to work in israel
rasmi said rabaiyeh's relatives inside a nearby house heard his cries, discovered him wounded and crawling on his hands and knees, and took him to rasmi's pharmacy nearby, where rasmi and doctors failed to save him. hospital officials said he had been shot in the chest
in the middle of town, rasmi and other villagers pointed to the home of sahim mahmoud noerat, 27, a third fatality. they said he was shot in the neck at the door to his home as he was leaving for a nearby mosque for the day's first prayers
yes to the plo!'' was spray-painted on a nearby wall, and at least four bullet marks were visible in doors and limestone walls near the house. three red, green, black and white plo flags fluttered beside the mosque a few steps from noerat's home
several villagers said troops fired glass marbles as well as rubber bullets and live ammunition. they displayed one of the transparent, steel-colored marbles
hospital officials in the west bank cities of jenin and nablus said they treated three other meithalun residents for bullet wounds. the army said it could confirm only one wounded
the fourth arab was shot to death when palestinians attacked troops who came to the rescue of an israeli tour bus in salfit, 20 miles north of jerusalem, the army spokesman said
the spokesman said the driver mistakenly entered the arab village, and arabs stoned the bus. troops that arrived to help were also attacked with rocks and bottles, forcing the commander to fire, he said
the arab-run palestine press service identified the victim as 14-year-old yasser al-khirbawi
arabs in the west bank city of halhoul, meanwhile, attacked and burned another israeli bus carrying arab workers to jobs in israel. israel radio said the arsonists evacuated the bus before setting it ablaze
in taibe, an arab village in northern israel, police arrested six arabs who allegedly threw five firebombs at a police station, israel radio said. it was not clear what their motive was
high winds and dry tinder fueled a fire that was burning uncontrolled sunday night in the black hills national forest, authorities said
it is a very large fire,'' said dick hawthorne, a dispatcher at the u.s. forest service's pactola office. ``at one time one of our fellows called in and said it was about a mile long.''
the fire was 60 percent contained by fire breaks sunday evening after burning an estimated 350 acres, said forest service spokeswoman dianne reimers. winds were expected to kick up again monday, but officials did not expect the fire to get much larger, ms. reimers said
about 140 firefighters were working to contain the blaze, which they hoped to have under control by monday afternoon, she said
no one had been evacuated, she said
earlier sunday, when the forest service measured winds at 40 mph and gusts at 50-60 mph, hawthorne said about a dozen homes along sheridan lake road southwest of rapid city were being monitored
temperatures reached 80 degrees around noon in the rapid city area sunday before a cold front came through and dropped readings to 50 degrees by 3 p.m
the fire-danger index for all of south dakota was rated ``extreme'' sunday because of high temperatures, winds and low relative humidity readings, the national weather service said. scheduled to resume monday. picks up 8th graf pvs, ``a third.''</note>
a man gave up his life preserver to save his son after a boating accident and was missing and presumed drowned sunday in the swift-flowing sandy river
george earl trenkel, 40, tossed a seat cushion to his son, george edward, 18, after their boat hit a submerged log and threw them into the frigid water saturday, said multnomah county sheriff's deputy bob boertien
he said the younger trenkel used the cushion to make his way to shore, then tried unsuccessfully to throw it back to his father
i threw the thing to him, but i was so tired, it really didn't go that far,'' the younger trenkel said sunday in a telephone interview from an uncle's house in salem
i could just see his head as he went around a bend,'' he added. ``i yelled `dad!' a couple of times, and he said he would be ok.''
the elder trenkel, of blackfoot, idaho, was lost about 30 feet from the bank, boertien said
a search for his body was called off sunday but was to resume monday, authorities said
a third man with them, roland parkhurst, 40, of gresham, was wearing a life jacket. witnesses pulled the younger trenkel and parkhurst, who is a paraplegic, from the river, boertien said
on the river's bank, mike owens of gresham saw the three men floundering in the water
i knew when i saw one guy riding on top of the boat and two others coming behind them that something was wrong,'' owens said. ``then later, i saw what i was sure was a person in the middle of the river. i thought, `that guy is in real trouble.'''
the boat was found overturned and washed ashore about a half-mile downstream from where it hit the log. the bow had almost been completely broken away
the younger trenkel said his father was rowing when the current pulled them over a log
we tried to balance the boat to go over the log, but it cracked; we lost an oar, and the boat filled up with water. we tried to dump water out, but ended up jumping out of the boat,'' he said
he said he managed to climb onto the overturned boat for a time, while his father held onto the boat and parkhurst held his foot
then we hit the rapids, and we all separated from the boat,'' he said
he said he was under water ``for quite a while,'' until his father pulled him to the surface and gave him a seat cushion he had found
the survivors were taken to a hospital in nearby gresham, where they were treated and released
the younger trenkel, a senior at blackfoot high school, said his father worked as a fireboss for the federal bureau of land management, and was in portland for a business meeting. he said his father and parkhurst had known each other since high school
gunmen ambushed the two-car convoy of a mayor monday, wounding the official and killing seven of his bodyguards, police reported
they said prospero oreta, mayor of the manila suburb of malabon and related by marriage to president corazon aquino, suffered several bullet wounds
the acting governor of metropolitan manila, efren cruz, told reporters oreta was hospitalized and ``out of danger.''
police cpl. mario odullo said at least six men armd with automatic rifles and revolvers opened fire as oreta and his guards were en route in two cars to the malabon town hall at about 8 a.m. he said seven bodyguards were killed in the attack and an eighth was hospitalized in serious condition
odullo said the ambush was at an intersection of narrow streets flanked by fish farms, and the the killers escaped aboard a van and a jeep
police suspected the killers were members of a sparrow unit assassination squad of the communist new people's army
military units are on full alert in anticipation of increased rebel activity on tuesday, the 19th anniversary of the founding of the new people's army. comment</note>
a jubilant jesse jackson, fresh from a knockout victory in michigan's primary-style caucuses, vowed sunday his democratic presidential campaign would continue to ``win and grow.'' michael dukakis, meanwhile, acknowledged he had suffered a setback, but told supporters: ``the sweetest honey is made only slowly.''
rep. richard gephardt, whose third-place finish in michigan may have dealt a fatal blow to his democratic bid, spent sunday with his family deciding what his next move would be. if the missouri congressman wants to seek re-election to his house seat, he must file by tuesday afternoon
gephardt scheduled a washington news conference monday afternoon to announce his plans. aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, had already said a loss in michigan would finish his campaign
jackson asserted that his michigan showing had put new punch into an already-powerful campaign
it was the message of the soul and authenticity of jesse jackson versus money and technology _ and the people prevailed,'' jackson told supporters at an airport news conference in new york's westchester county. ``it's a campaign of hope ... that will continue to win and grow.''
but dukakis said it was too soon to say how the democratic race is shaking out
anyone that thinks that this race is over or even that it's narrowed down to a two-person or a three-person race doesn't understand the unpredictability of american politics,'' said dukakis, who had hoped to seal an image of ``inevitablity'' with a michigan win. ``there are no front-runners.''
jackson ran well across michigan, but racked up enormous majorities in detroit. in one of the city's congressional districts, jackson's victory margin was better than 12-1. overall, he outpolled dukakis by a nearly 2-1 margin
the civil rights activist quickly turned to the next battleground, heading for connecticut, which holds its primary on tuesday
with returns from 94 percent of the voting sites in michigan, jackson had 107,689 or 55 percent to 55,337 or 28 percent for dukakis. gephardt had 24,995 or 13 percent. sen. paul simon had 4,069 or 2 percent, and sen. albert gore jr. had 3,818 or 2 percent
when jackson got word of his michigan victory, he was already campaigning in wisconsin, which holds its primary on april 5. a statewide poll being published in monday's milwaukee sentinel suggested jackson and dukakis were in a dead heat in the state
the poll indicated dukakis had the backing of 28 percent of democratic respondents, while jackson had 27 percent, and another 22 percent were undecided. simon had 10 percent, gephardt 8 percent and gore 3 percent. the margin of error in the telephone survey, conducted march 17-22, was 5 percentage points
dukakis was in wisconsin when he heard the michigan results. he flew home to boston, then started stumping again in connecticut
this is a long race,'' he told backers in new haven on sunday at a greek celebration. ``we'll have good days and not-so-good days...but this race is only half over.''
dukakis was looking ahead to races like the new york primary on april 19, with 255 delegates at stake. a poll published sunday in the new york daily news indicated he was the clear favorite, trailed by jackson
the daily news poll had dukakis favored by 45 percent of the democrats surveyed, to 29 percent for jesse jackson. none of the three other active democratic candidates was favored by more than 6 percent of the voters who participated in the survey
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.5 percent
the massachusetts governor won precinct caucuses in north dakota, which was just beginning its process of selecting 15 delegates to the national democratic conventions. and he also was winning iowa's county conventions, the latest step in that state's complicated delegate-selection process
but dukakis has been trying to break away from the rest in the national delegate count, and jackson's michigan victory _ which netted him a plurality of delegates from the state _ left him hot on dukakis' heels
in the latest ap delegate count, dukakis had 603.55 to jackson's 597.55. gore had 362.8, simon 171.5, gephardt 167 and uncommitted 362.6
gore and simon did not seriously contest the michigan caucuses, staking their hopes instead on the wisconsin primary
gore was in connecticut sunday, suggesting dukakis' disappointing finish could help him by keeping the race ``wide open.''
we're building momentum steadily...we're gaining speed,'' he said said after a speech at an italian-american club in the industrial city of derby. ``this race has a long way to go. it is wide open, even more so after the results in michigan.''
simon, stressing his ties to wisconsin, attended services sunday at a church in the tiny community of zachow, where his late father was ordained as a lutheran minister 62 years ago. simon later traveled to a site where his grandparents once farmed, then to a family reunion with some of his cousins
gephardt, who has spent the last two years campaigning, had said a ``michigan miracle'' could rejuvenate his campaign, which had a strong start in iowa but has since racked up a string of losses
we haven't decided anything,'' gephardt said. ``we're going to go home and have a family meeting.'' on sunday afternoon, spokesman mark johnson said no decision had been made
but signs were pointing to a quick exit. a missouri state party leader, state rep. anthony d. ribaudo, said he had spoken with gephardt saturday night, and said gephardt indicated he would run for his house seat
dick gephardt has informed me he'd like to proceed with his career in congress,'' ribaudo said
gephardt could file for his house seat, however, and still keep his presidential campaign alive in some form for the time being
sen. bob dole, who has conceded he has little chance of getting the gop nomination, had no campaign appearances sunday. he was giving a speech on monday in washington on the future direction of the republican party
vice president george bush was in california sunday, taking a day off. he planned to spend at least three days campaigning in wisconsin this week
pat robertson, who trails far behind bush and dole, had no campaign appearances scheduled this week
the mayor-elect of medellin was quoted as saying sunday that he would ``search for a dialogue'' with the notorious cartel in his city that dominates the cocaine trade to the united states
juan gomez martinez, who was elected mayor of medellin on march 13 and takes office june 1, also was quoted as saying the united states has become hostile toward colombia
colombia is a poor country where there are no resources for fighting drug trafficking,'' gomez said in an interview published by the bogota morning daily el tiempo
last year, the u.s. government gave $14 million aid to colombia for fighting drug trafficking. most of the aid came in the form of training colombian security forces
asked if he would meet with the drug traffickers, gomez was quoted as saying: ``dialogue with them has been needed. i would search for dialogue
the united states limits itself to criticizing us and thwarting our trade. i think that they have failed to consider colombia as a friendly country,'' gomez said
gomez, who has controlling interest of the medellin daily el colombiano, has said he will resign as director of the newspaper when he becomes mayor
medellin, with about 2 million people, is colombia's second-largest city. a group of gangsters known as the medellin cartel controls most of the cocaine trafficking to the united states
earlier this month, gunmen believed to have been hired by drug traffickers killed gomez's chief of security. also this month a bomb was hurled into the entryway of el colombiano
a guard heaved the bomb into the street, where it exploded, killing a passerby. in november, gunmen trying to kidnap gomez shot up his house
el colombiano had supported government efforts to stop drug trafficking, including extradition. but asked if the answer was extraditing colombians to the united states to face drug charges, gomez said, ``i thought so at first, but it has caused so many problems that it should be examined.''
a houston opera company will present in scotland ``nixon in china,'' a contemporary opera about the former president's visit to communist china in 1972, it was announced sunday
the houston grand opera association will present the john adams opera at the edinburgh festival, an international arts festival held in august
festival director frank dunlop called the houston company's scheduled visit a ``fantastic coup'' and said ``nixon in china'' is the ``most startling contemporary opera.''
the opera premiered in houston last october
we are delighted to act as a catalyst in rescuing the major operatic centerpiece to this year's festival,'' said roger ridley-thomas, managing director of the scotsman publications
he said the scotsman daily newspaper would underwrite the $109,800 required to help bring the houston company to edinburgh
as late as friday it appeared there would be no opera at this year's festival because of a shortage of money. ridley-thomas said directors of the scotsman felt they had to do something to maintain edinburgh's reputation for holding one of the world's most important international arts festival. news digest: meithalun, occupied west bank _ slug am-israel. managua, nicaragua _ slug am-nicaragua. belfast, northern ireland _ slug am-belfast mood. moscow _ slug am-soviet-armenia. san salvador, el salvador _ slug am-salvador. new york _ slug am-family life. washington _ slug am-tax returns. brownstown township, mich. _ slug am-gephardt's fall. washington _ slug am-iran-contra defense. ^by the associated press</note>
a jubilant jesse jackson, fresh from a knockout victory in michigan's primary-style caucuses, vowed sunday his democratic presidential campaign would continue to ``win and grow.'' michael dukakis, meanwhile, acknowledged he had suffered a setback, but told supporters: ``the sweetest honey is made only slowly.''
rep. richard gephardt, whose third-place finish in michigan may have dealt a fatal blow to his democratic bid, was spending sunday with his family, deciding what his next move would be. if the missouri congressman wants to seek re-election to his house seat, he must file by tuesday afternoon
jackson asserted that his showing had put new punch into an already-powerful campaign
the race for the white house focuses for a week on wisconsin, as democrat jesse jackson rolls into the traditionally liberal-voting state on the heels of a stunning triumph in next-door michigan and michael dukakis urgently needs to ignite some excitement
george bush looked on the verge of sweeping the republican primary almost by default as bob dole's campaign withered
wisconsin's primary is a week from tuesday, on april 5, and the state has an importance outstripping its 81 democratic delegates at stake
mordechai vanunu, the former nuclear technician who said he acted as a spy for the common man when he gave israeli atomic secrets to a newspaper, was sentenced sunday to 18 years in prison for treason and espionage
the sentencing climaxed a seven-month closed-door trial that focused worldwide attention on israel's nuclear capability
the 34-year-old israeli, who told a british newspaper his country possessed nuclear weapons, was convicted thursday
an ``eyes-and-ears'' adviser to house speaker jim wright tried to sell weapons to the contras through lt. col. oliver north's private network three months before the iran-contra disclosures ended the north operation
richard m. pena, a former house foreign affairs committee staff member, contacted north associate richard miller in 1986 offering materiel from two south american companies. one would sell grenades, bombs and mines, and the other had boots at $33 a pair, according to a letter proposing the sale
such activity would appear at odds with the objectives of wright, who has opposed military aid to the contras and has taken an active role in efforts to get a negotiated peace agreement between nicaragua's warring factions
a judge's unusual decision removing attorney general edwin meese iii from investigating an fbi agent's harassment charges adds to a string of cases involving potential conflicts of interest by the nation's highest law enforcement officer
in some cases, meese has disqualified himself, leading congressional critics to suggest he is not in command at the justice department. meese's aides say there haven't been enough cases to have an effect
in other cases, meese's failure to remove himself has brought him legal difficulties as well as criticism from political foes that he is insensitive to the high ethical standards to which an attorney general should conform
julian pierce was a rarity in racially troubled robeson county, a friend to blacks, indians and whites, but many of his supporters believe he was slain because someone didn't want a lumbee indian to be a judge
there is absolute shock,'' the rev. mac legerton said sunday. ``there is a feeling among people that `oh my god, we tried to seek change through the electoral process, and look what happens ...
we are hoping that all the citizens will choose non-violent means to resolve our massive difficulties here.''
the assemblies of god hopes to lay the jimmy swaggart scandal to rest after the church's highest governing body meets monday to discipline the television minister for an alleged relationship with a prostitute
the pentecostal denomination's 250-member general presbytery is charged with resolving the conflict between the executive presbytery, the church's 13-member national board of directors, and church officials in louisiana who have proposed what some say is too lenient a punishment for swaggart
swaggart, the denomination's most prominent minister, confessed feb. 21 from his baton rouge, la., pulpit to unspecified sins. swaggart did not elaborate publicly, but reports have linked him to voyeurism involving a prostitute
eight years after china's communes began splitting up and peasants returned to family farming, the 2,670 ``farmer-workers'' of cao tan state farm still live and tend crops collectively
they are still organized into pseudo-military work teams and brigades _ once the basic units of all chinese agriculture. like dairy worker wu jinlian who helps monitor milk quality, each has a strictly assigned role
i like it and i do it well,'' miss wu, 28, said proudly, expressing disinterest in farming her own small plot like the mass of chinese peasants
moslem extremists are expected to increase their influence on the iranian government during a crucial parliamentary election next month
the april 8 vote also will prepare a new generation of leaders to take over after the aging ayatollah ruhollah khomeini dies
hardliners, such as interior minister ali akbar mohtashemi, who has close links to pro-iranian shiite moslem militants holding foreign hostages in lebanon, are expected to make some gains
abraham lincoln paid just $1,500 for the only house he ever owned, but nearly 150 years later $2.2 million has been spent to fix it up before it's reopened to the public this summer
back at that time, he got a good buy for his money,'' said gentry davis of the national park service. ``it was a corner lot and a prime location with easy access to downtown.''
a three-year renovation of lincoln's two-story frame house will enter its final phase wednesday when workers remove a vinyl polyester shroud that cloaked the structure and allowed restoration to continue through the winter
april fools day was the date of the first two save the pun dinners, but good friday falls on april 1 this year, causing ``mass'' confusion among punsters
instead, the dinner is sharing april 4 with the `oh! punning day' of the chicago white sox,'' joked joyce heitler, the dinner's organizer. ``we'll both have a ball.''
heitler is head of the chicago chapter of the international save the pun foundation
copper once was king in montana. but the monarch has been dethroned _ by gold
while few would conjure visions of a ``gold rush'' on par with those of the last century, there's no doubt that gold is fueling the state's fastest-growing industry
we are looking at a period of major upswing,'' said edward ruppell, head of the montana bureau of mines and geology. he expects a healthy amount of mining activity to continue as long as gold prices remain above $400 an ounce
jim jensen, executive director of the montana environmental information center, believes, ``we've got an old-fashioned gold rush on our hands.''
while the state may not be experiencing a flood of major mining companies, he said hordes of small one- or two-man placer mining operations are tucked away in the backcountry. ``they're up every gulch and coulee in the state,'' jensen said
the scope of the mining is hard to measure because, unlike the once-thriving copper industry centered in butte's huge open-pit mines and anaconda's giant smelter, the search for gold is scattered out of sight in the hills and mountains
people don't see in one spot the major impact mining has on the economy,'' said gary langley, executive director of the montana mining association
montana has four major precious metal mines operating now, employing about 900 people and producing more than 5 million ounces of gold and silver annually. seven more projects in some stage of planning could more than double both employment and yearly production
also, exploration is booming. the department of state lands, which reviews all major mining applications, estimates there are 450 exploration projects under way. the agency issued 111 exploration permits last year, twice the number recorded in 1982
with so much exploration and so many projects on the drawing board, ``i don't see that it's going to turn around,'' said kit walther, chief of the department's hardrock bureau
of the existing projects, the pegasus gold operation at zortman and landusky is the state's largest gold producer and the third largest supplier of silver. opened in 1979, it produces 100,000 ounces of gold and 200,000 ounces of silver per year
the state's largest underground mine near troy, operated by american smelting and refining co. since 1981, is the state's largest silver producer at 3.6 million ounces annually
the montana tunnels project south of helena, started in april 1986 and operated by pegasus, expects to mine 85,000 ounces of gold this year. the golden sunlight mine east of whitehall began in 1982 and produces up to 100,000 ounces of gold per year
the jardine joint venture, planned for three miles north of yellowstone national park, received state approval earlier this year and hopes for full production of 42,000 ounces of gold per year by mid-1989
u.s. borax and asarco inc. have proposed large silver mines in the cabinet mountains of northwestern montana that together would produce 11 million ounces of silver per year
langley said many of the mining ventures are centered on the same claims scoured by miners in montana's territorial days. new technology in the use of cyanide makes it easier to separate gold from rock and more elaborate machinery smoothes the task of moving 14 tons of earth to process one ounce of gold, he said
but the lure of gold is not without its problems
jensen said the department of state lands does not have the experienced staff necessary to monitor all the mining projects properly, especially those exempt from state review because their plans call for disturbing no more than five acres
who knows what these people are doing until some problem occurs,'' he said
jensen also complains that mining companies take too lightly the danger of cyanide leaking into rivers and streams, and that the state department is reluctant to require extensive environmental impact statements on projects. he also said the state needs reclamation standards to govern open-pit mines that dominate the precious metals industry
dennis hemmer, state lands commissioner, denies his agency shies away from environmental reviews. and langley said environmentalists' opposition to mining projects is based on admittedly poor mining practices of the past. the industry is more conscious of the environmental effects of its work than before, he said
but jensen is suspicious, noting the state has yet to reject a single mine application
maybe there should be a day when the state said, `here is a proposal to mine where the risk to other values clearly outweighs the benefits,''' he said. ``is mining something that can always go on and always has the highest value no matter what? i don't think so.''
if you don't agree with one oil-price forecast for the 1990s, just flip the page
projections of per-barrel future prices are ranging from as low as $12 to as high as $46. with oil markets currently volatile and uncertain, the future appears anything but clear
some forecasters see a continuing market glut, others see tightening oil supplies. the organization of petroleum exporting countries is viewed both as on its way back to defining oil prices and as a fading force
perhaps never before has the crystal ball of oil price forecasting been so buried in a blizzard of logic, numbers and ultimately, guesses
since late 1985, prices for west texas intermediate crude _ the benchmark gauge of u.s. prices _ have fluctuated from below $10 to above $20. in recent months, the figure has gyrated between $15 and $20 per 42-gallon barrel
although opec members agreed in december to keep the cartel's official price at $18 per barrel, reports of overproduction and price discounting by opec members have kept the market soft
that picture could change dramatically in a few short years, according to some experts. chuck strain, director of energy research at lovett, mitchell, webb &amp; garrison inc. in houston, projects that oil prices will rise from current levels to about $27 in 1991, hitting a level that will last, with fluctuations, throughout much of the decade
we're basically more optimistic about crude than most other people,'' strain said. ``the kuwaitis and saudis will regain control of pricing in 1989-1990.''
saudi arabia and kuwait are two of the cartel's leading producers
he believes increasing demand for opec oil will enable the cartel to enforce a firmer pricing line due to strong gasoline appetite and the limited attractiveness of energy alternatives
the reason we level it off at $27 is that the saudis will raise the level of price to where it is below what would encourage alternate (non-opec) forms of energy,'' said strain, who also forecasts neither strong growth nor deep economic retrenchment during the next several years
richard s. pzena, senior research analyst for sanford c. bernstein &amp; co., inc. in new york, believes oil prices will reach $30 in 1992, rising to $36-$37 in 1995, gauged in 1988 dollars
in my mind the issue is that the world needs opec oil and opec ought to try to charge the highest price it can get away with if it is being rational, which is the highest it can charge without losing market share,'' said pzena
prices can probably keep going up to about $30 before you see a whole new category of (non-opec) oil become economic,'' pzena said
richard gordon, director of market research for petroleum finance co. in washington, says he anticipates oil prices rising to $29 to $46 per barrel in 1988 dollars in the first half of the 1990s
we believe it (the price rise) is going to come in first half of 1990s, most probably in 1992,'' said gordon, who says his research has been based on examination of oil prices over more than a century
he estimates oil prices are subject to economic cycles of roughly 20 years from peak to peak and trough to trough
we believe there are fundamental market factors that create this cycle and make it keep recurring, and those factors are not related to opec, (and) they are not a function of market shock,'' gordon said. ``they are related to long-term shifts in market fundamentals in the oil and gas sectors.''
he believes the oil industry currently is focusing on trying to gain returns on safe projects, rather than exploring new oil sources
the industry has in effect begun a long-term strategic depletion of its reserves,'' gordon said
but joseph stanislaw, managing director of cambridge energy research associates, believes oil prices are unlikely to rise past $24 per barrel over the next seven years. he even has gone so far as to say prices could drop as low of $12 per barrel at some point in the 1990s
stanislaw said in a recent speech that the oil industry should pay more attention to the individual motives of pivotal oil-exporting countries such as saudi arabia, iran and iraq, and less attention to opec as a cartel
forget opec _ i can't emphasize that enough,'' stanislaw said, adding that growth in non-opec production has diluted opec's influence. ``every time we look, we find oil.''
another price bear is dale steffes, founder of houston-based planning &amp; forecasting consultants, who believes oil prices in 1995 are unlikely to be any higher than $14, measured in 1988 dollars
why somebody thinks we are going to have high prices is beyond me,'' he said. ``there is too much oil in the world, it's overpriced and there is not enough demand.''
a prominent arab oil expert, describing the present oil market as ``very weak,'' warned sunday that the failure of opec members to abide by their output quotas could lead to a collapse of oil prices
abdel-aziz al-watari, acting secretary-general of the organization of arab oil exporting countries, said a recent arab energy conference held in baghdad, iraq, concluded that ``the oil market is very weak at present because of the absolute slowdown in oil demand and because projections of increase in demand have failed to come through.''
in an interview with the kuwait news agency, watari said this situation could last for five years. he called for ``a profound commitment and high degree of credibility on the part of opec states to retain the present reference price of $18 a barrel.''
the situation, he said, also required ``a high degree of cooperation'' from producers outside the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries. seven of oapec's members, including influential saudi arabia, also are members of opec
on friday, crude oil prices firmed slightly in response to reports that members of opec's pricing committee would meet next month to discuss ways to stabilize the market
on the new york mercantile exchange, the may contract for west texas intemediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, settled at $17.03 per barrel, up 7 cents from thursday's close
saudi oil minister hisham nazer on wednesday called for an emergency meeting of the pricing committee amid reports some of the cartel's members have been violating production quotas and prices decreed by opec
the failure of states in opec to stick to the production sharing will set the stage for a price decline, and any extraordinary increase in production could lead to the collapse of the price system in the foreseeable future,'' watari warned
in riyadh, nazer discussed cooperation between opec and non-opec members with malaysian foreign minister datu al-haj abu al-hasan ibn al-haj omar, whose country is not a member of the cartel
the official saudi press agency quoted nazer as saying that during the meeting, the two ministers ``reviewed the role of non-opec producers in helping stabilize the oil market.'' out</head>
corporate merger specialists, tired of subsidizing co-worker salaries, quit and create their own company. one of the country's biggest law firms splinters in a feud over money and expansion. an advertising giant teeters when executives join a newly formed rival, wooing valued clients
from madison avenue to wall street, disgruntled managers are jumping ship with increasing frequency, a trend that reflects their frustration at working for someone else and fear of getting victimized in an uncertain climate of corporate takeovers, experts say
companies are going to have to do more to give individuals the ability to function as entrepreneurs,'' said frank palma, senior vice president of executive search at goodrich &amp; sherwood co., a management consulting firm. ``if they don't, we'll see more people venture into their own businesses.''
to some extent, management analysts say, many talented executives feel they have a better survival chance if they start their own companies, rather than remain loyal to employers that could suddenly become takeover targets
instead of being the swallowee, why not do the swallowing?,'' palma said. ``i just see a change in the perspective of good many people, because of all the insecure aspects of being a member of the corporate environment. going into your own business is not perceived as such a big risk as it was 20 years ago.''
denise rousseau, associate professor of organizational behavior at northwestern university's kellogg graduate management school, said the urge to jump ship also is a result of a growing service economy, in which the products are largely thoughts and ideas
we just simply have a greater portion of the population in knowledge- based businesses,'' she said. ``people can more readily take with them the wherewithal of their work.''
some of the most visible departures came after the october stock market collapse, which shrank wall street profits and forced austerity upon securities firms that had grown fat and complacent. many takeover specialists grew annoyed over directives to take salary cuts, especially when their dealmaking remained one of the few post-crash moneymakers
at first boston corp., co-heads of the investment banking unit quit and formed their own firm. the co-head of shearson lehman hutton's mergers department quit after a reported clash with the chief executive
last week, salomon brothers inc. lost one of its celebrities, former white house budget director david stockman, who joined the much smaller blackstone group as head of corporate acquisitions. in addition, merrill lynch &amp; co. and kidder peabody &amp; co. have suffered defections by some of their brightest stars
the splintering also has affected the legal profession, an area in which up until recently mergers and the growth of super-sized firms had been common. one of the biggest examples came last year with the demise of the nation's fourth-biggest law firm: finley, kumble, wagner, heine, underberg, manley, myerson &amp; casey, which once had 700 attorneys in offices nationwide
greed, excessive expansion, salaries paid with borrowed money and a management struggle at the top caused lawyers to start resigning en masse starting last summer, according to press accounts of finley kumble's collapse
another publicized episode of ship-jumping came more recently when the chairman, president and more than a dozen other key people at advertising giant lord, geller, federico, einstein inc. quit to form a new agency
the mass departures stemmed from an autonomy dispute with lord geller's british parent wpp group plc. fearing the exodus would collapse the firm and send clients over to the new rival, wpp went to court to sue the defectors
this type of litigation, which centers around an area called intellectual property rights, likely will increase as the number of employees who quit to form their own companies rises, experts say
there's a fine line between what is owned by a company and what is owned by the individual who works for it,'' said edith weiner, a partner at the management consulting firm of weiner, edrich, brown inc
in the service business, we're finding more problems with intellectual property. it's expanding beyond the issue of taking clients, into technical knowledge and ideas,'' she said
the technological revolution itself has erased some of the physical impediments of quitting and starting your own company, she said, particularly because of the vast sources of information available via computer
it's very easy to walk out the door. all you have to do is walk out with it on a (computer) disk,'' she said. ``you used to have to take file cabinets.''
steve florio talked to his longtime advertising agency nearly every day, but says he was as surprised as anyone when lord, geller, federico, einstein inc. began to unravel 10 days ago
it was a friday afternoon and florio, the president and chief executive of new yorker magazine inc., called to discuss some minor changes in an ad layout
he asked for arthur einstein jr., a founding partner at the highly regarded agency that has been making new yorker ads for 17 years
einstein wasn't there. ``his secretary told me arthur and dick lord had resigned _ that six of them had walked out,'' florio said
the walkout on march 18 was followed by other defections, and within a week florio had decided he would drop lord geller as his ad agency. other clients, including giant international business machines corp., said they are reassessing the situation, too
the events have been the talk of madison avenue, where business and personal relations often seem inextricably bound
einstein said he and his five colleagues left to start a new agency because they felt they couldn't operate as they wanted to under the management of wpp group plc, which acquired lord geller last summer
since the six top executives left, an estimated 30 of lord geller's 325 employees have quit, some joining their old colleagues at a new agency called lord, einstein, o'neill &amp; partners
lord geller has gone to court, charging that the departed executives breached fiduciary duties and conspired to take business from the agency. the firm asks that the defectors be enjoined from soliciting lord geller clients and employees. a state supreme court hearing has been set for monday
wpp, which is headed by the financially-adept martin sorrell, bought lord geller as part of its $566 million purchase in july 1987 of jwt group inc., which also owned the advertising giant j. walter thompson co
lord geller and j. walter thompson had been operated independently since lord geller was acquired by thompson in 1974
einstein said he and his partners grew increasingly disaffected under wpp's ownership, but sorrell refused to discuss selling the agency to them
they objected to wpp's reported plans to set up a network of agencies in europe that could boast an affiliation with lord geller
they bristled when sorrell prohibited lord geller from competing for general motors corp.'s new saturn automobile account, reportedly for fear of offending ford motor co., j. walter thompson's biggest client
the new yorker's florio said einstein had never mentioned that he and his colleagues were having problems under wpp management. after being told einstein had left the agency, florio said, he phoned einstein and told him that he wanted to continue working with him
sorrell stopped by on monday to talk with florio and asked him to defer a decision on moving the account because two respected admakers, dick thomas and chuck griffith, would be staying on it
but when florio called griffith the next day to discuss the changes he had in mind for the ad, he was told griffith ``had left for good.''
he asked for thomas, was switched over and then told thomas had ``left the agency an hour ago.''
florio asked to talk with sorrell, who told him there were plenty of talented people at the agency to get the ad done. but florio didn't like the idea that you could ``just slap somebody on the account,'' and told sorrell to ``freeze my campaign for the time being.''
florio said he was now genuinely worried about the ad deadline, and called the lord geller executive who normally placed the new yorker ads. he was told she had left the agency as well
all the creative people and the media people that i had dealt with had resigned. i literally don't know anybody there,'' florio said
on friday, florio said he planned to send a letter next week dismissing the agency and would take the account to lord einstein
the new yorker is a relatively small account, spending about $1.5 million on advertising this year. lord geller handles billings of about $245 million a year, which in turn is dwarfed by the $3.2 billion that thompson bills
the walkout touched off a scramble by other agencies for lord geller's accounts. florio said he heard from six other agencies in the past week
jerry della femina, who heads della femina travisano &amp; partners, is among them. he bets most clients won't move to the new agency given the legal challenges that lord geller has raised
della femina said some lord geller clients may say ``a plague on both their houses'' and look for a new agency
bowing out of the fight to take over american standard inc. hasn't left black &amp; decker chairman nolan d. archibald on the ropes
he's still on the lookout for another good acquisition and won't rule out another hostile takeover bid. and in the eyes of wall street, walking away from the bidding war may have raised his standing a notch or two
we have a list of companies we've been looking at for more than a year,'' he said in an interview. ``american standard was at the top of that list; when another company hits the top we'll go after it. it could be a week or six months.''
archibald wants to make black &amp; decker a home-related-products powerhouse. the plan is to take advantage of the towson toolmaker's worldwide distribution network and marketing skills by adding new products, a process that began with its acquisition of general electric's home appliance group
we don't want to be a conglomerate, but we do want to become a much bigger company than we are now,'' he said
he won't say how big, but taking over american standard would have created one of the baltimore-washington area's largest companies, with sales approaching $5 billion
he has enlisted the corps d'elite of investment banking shearson lehman hutton, goldman sachs, morgan stanley and first boston, among others to beat the bushes for a suitable match
had the run at american standard been successful, archibald envisioned weaving its strong plumbing and fixtures lines into black &amp; decker's consumer-oriented building product lines. the merger would have made black &amp; decker a key player in the new housing market and complemented its strong position in professional power tools
archibald said black &amp; decker has its eye on several companies and added that its next acquisition target could be smaller than american standard. it could also be a friendly one
there are a lot of companies out there up for sale due to past mergers and spinoffs. a lot of the opportunities we're looking at fall into that category,'' he said
however, a few public companies are also being considered, and archibald doesn't rule out the possibility of making another hostile bid
archibald said he's not chagrined at losing american standard to kelso &amp; co., which beat out black &amp; decker with a $2.5 billion offer the towson-based power tool maker wasn't willing to match. he said there is nothing he would have done differently from a tactical standpoint
we could have bought the company, but the bidding got to a level that wasn't in line with our financial objectives,'' he said
though the towson manufacturer lost the contest for american standard, archibald walked away from the possibility of overpaying and diluting near-term profits and pocketed a $25 million payoff from kelso _ which looks good to wall street
they played a good, well-orchestrated game, but in the end decided it wasn't worth risking diluting earnings. knowing when to walk away and getting paid for it demonstrates the maturity of this company's management team,'' said bentley offutt, president of offutt securities inc. in towson
people were relieved,'' said robert o' grady, a securities salesman for alex. brown &amp; sons in new york. ``they were loading up with debt to purchase a $36 stock. now the company has returned to what it was two months ago, a beautifully run company with great earnings potential.''
