ivered; new grafs 6-9 to update with new material from news conference</note>
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis said thursday the reagan administration has ``walked away from the american dream'' with policies to help the rich at the expense of working people
i'm running for president because during the past seven years i've seen too many people thrown out into the streets after decades on the job. ... i've talked to too many local leaders who've seen their communities become ghost towns of boarded up hopes and foreclosed dreams,'' the massachusetts governor said
his speech at serb hall, a traditional rallying spot for presidential hopefuls in wisconsin, came with polls suggesting dukakis is in a virtual dead heat with jesse jackson heading into tuesday's primary
jackson has been making a strong pitch in wisconsin to blue-collar workers, asking them to support him as he supported striking meatpackers and paperworkers as well as kenosha autoworkers about to lose their jobs because of a plant closing
while hitting hard at the reagan administration, dukakis refrained from criticizing other democratic candidates. one day earlier, he had spoken in general terms of his differences with jackson and then had criticized gore for demanding he be more specific
at a news conference after the speech, dukakis, responding to questions, said he felt he was better qualified than jackson to be president because of his experience as a governor of massachusetts. but he stopped well short of criticizing jackson
dukakis also called for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii
asked why he felt he was better qualified than jackson, dukakis said: ``i think i am going to be a better president because i think i have the strength, the experience and the values to lead this country, because i am somebody who not only believes in good jobs and good wages for people, i've helped to create them.''
in his speech, dukakis reserved his criticism for the reagan white house
this administration has walked away from the american dream,'' dukakis said thursday. ``they've walked away from the basic contract that says if you work hard and pay your taxes and live within the law, you have a right to a good job; and the right to a life where you don't have to go to bed every night worried about whether that job will still be there in the morning.''
dukakis said the reagan administration has done nothing to move people from welfare to jobs, to fight adult illiteracy, to preserve good-paying jobs or to provide adequate health care to the needy
he said he is running for president ``because i believe that every american should have a house _ not a slab of concrete or a heating grate _ that they can call home.''
dukakis also promised what he called a real war on drug and alcohol dependency and asked, ``how can we tell our children to say no to drugs when this administration can't say no to one of the largest drug peddlers in this hemisphere?'' _ an apparent reference to panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega. bgng: ``forty makes</note>
democrat albert gore jr. defended his criticism of rival jesse jackson on thursday and took issue with michael dukakis for being ``afraid to say a single word about jesse jackson.'' later, he called for the removal of attorney general edwin meese
at a florida fundraiser, gore said the attorney general should step down because it is ``time to remove the cloud over the department of justice.''
how long will it take this administration to understand the importance of integrity in government?'' gore asked a crowd at the posh grove isle resort. ``we cannot tolerate a situation where the nation's chief law enforcement officer is constantly testifying as a suspect before grand juries, constantly operating under a cloud of suspicion.''
the tennessee senator pointed to the departure of top justice department officials and reports that they had quit because they believed meese was hurting the department by staying on
president reagan and vice president bush say, `oh, it's no bid deal. there are resignations all the time.' what insensitivity! what contempt for the american people!'' said gore
the gore campaign raised about $108,000 at the florida event, said mitchell berger, one of the organizers
earlier, gore commented after a capitol hill celebration marking his 40th birthday, an event that came as a relief to the candidate who has grown weary of answering questions about running for president while still in his 30s
forty makes all the difference,'' he said
gore reacted to questions at a news conference about his remarks on monday in new york, when he criticized jackson as without experience and said he was dismayed by the candidate's associations with plo leader yasser arafat and cuban president fidel castro
gore said that by his criticism he was holding jackson, the civil rights activist, to the same standard as other candidates
i've said exactly the same thing i've said over the last year, and all of a sudden it's a big deal,'' gore said. ``well, the only reason it seems to some people like a big deal is that mike dukakis is afraid to say a single word about jesse jackson.''
dukakis, however, began cautiously speaking of differences between himself and jackson on the middle east and domestic policy on wednesday. dukakis said ``from time to time differences will arise ... and those will come out over time.''
dukakis and jackson have won the most democratic delegates so far, with gore in third place
the tennesse senator spoke to reporters in the sunshine in front of the capitol after joining in a birthday celebration in a senate office building
you know, jack benny was perpetually 39,'' gore said. ``i've been doing a kind of reverse jack benny in this campaign _ i've been trying to turn 40.''
gore planned to spend the next four days campaigning in wisconsin before tuesday's primary there
his campaign began airing a new television ad in that state attacking chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca for closing the chrysler assembly plant in kenosha. it shows gore stating that iacocca was paid $20 million in 1986. ``i'll make these corporations pay their share of the taxes and create jobs here in america,'' gore said in the ad
gore was asked about his criticism of jackson a day after his rival said gore's comments amounted to a personal attack and canceled a meeting between the two. gore called that characterization ridiculous, and he faulted dukakis for what he termed a ``ludicrous'' hesitancy to engage jackson in debate or criticism
gore is still trying to restart his campaign in the north, where he has failed to duplicate his southern success _ or even to register in double-digits in the illinois primary and michigan caucuses
he reacted strongly when asked by a questioner whether he has been privately encouraged to rop out of the presidential race in order to stop splitting the white vote _ a question that suggested jackson was profiting by the battle between gore and dukakis
gore said the ``question has a racial if not racist premise.'' he said he had not been so urged and called it inappropriate to talk about such racial divisions. update with report on fried asking meese to resign and being rebuffed. inserts 3 grafs after 21st graf pvs bgng: the criminal ... to update with rappaport now apparently not cooperating with investigation. deletes last few grafs to tighten.</note>
republican sen. strom thurmond met thursday with attorney general edwin meese iii and expressed ``deep concern'' on behalf of congress about problems at the justice department in the wake of the resignations of two of meese's top aides
meese's meeting with thurmond, the ranking republican on the senate judiciary committee, was the strongest signal to date of growing bipartisan concern in congress over whether the attorney general, the focus of an 11-month criminal investigation, can continue to run the justice department
a number of people on capitol hill have expressed deep concern about the problems at the justice department,'' thurmond said in a statement after the meeting. ``i went today to talk to the attorney general to convey these concerns to him.''
minutes after the meeting, meese refused to answer reporters' questions about the resignations when he attended a news conference at fbi headquarters on a drug bust
meanwhile, the new york times reported in friday's editions that solicitor general charles fried, the justice department's fourth-ranking official, this week urged meese to resign but was rebuffed
according to the newspaper, fried told meese in a meeting wednesday that the attorney general's legal problems were creating turmoil within the department
after the meeting, meese said he hoped and expected that the solicitor general would stay on. department officials told the times that fried had stressed that he was making no judgment on whether meese was guilty of a crime. they said fried told meese that the mounting dispute over his leadership and ethical standards was hindering the department's work
charles feels strongly that meese has to go for the good of the department,'' one official told the times
fried, reached at home thursday night by the associated press, refused to discuss any aspect of the story
i'm not going to comment on that,'' he said
the times also reported that lewis f. powell jr., the retired supreme court justice, said fried called him monday evening ``very upset and concerned, and very perplexed about what he should do.''
meese, who said wednesday ``there's no reason'' for him to resign, said he would answer questions on the resignations of his aides ``within the next several days'' when ``i hope and i fully expect ... to be announcing various appointments to fill those vacancies.''
the business of law enforcement is going forward energetically and without interrupton,'' meese said. ``our strong management team is on the job.''
the attorney general, a longtime confidant of president reagan, stood somberly next fbi director william sessions as the fbi chief praised deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld, who quit tuesday because they felt meese's continuing legal troubles were hurting justice department operations
i think they're very fine gentlemen, served their government well, are to be commended for the service that they performed,'' sessions said when asked about burns and weld, who oversaw all federal criminal investigations
meese, in response to a reporter's question, said he had no plans to meet with thurmond later in the day, neglecting to mention that he had already done so
after the news conference and after thurmond already had issued his statement, justice department spokesman terry eastland issued a clarifying statement confirming that the meeting had occurred before the news conference
thurmond said at a senate judiciary subcommittee meeting in the morning that he wouldn't ``countenance any corruption in any way, shape or form in the justice department or any other department.''
the washington post reported thursday, and justice department sources subsequently confirmed, that weld had told meese during a meeting tuesday that the criminal investigation of the attorney general was a close call in terms of whether the attorney general should be prosecuted
weld went on to say that if he were the independent counsel investigating meese, he would present the case to a grand jury seeking indictment, according to the sources, who spoke only on condition of anonymity
sen. arlen specter, r-pa., said thursday that reagan should meet with weld and then reconsider whether meese should stay on the job. specter said weld's reported remarks require a presidential inquiry and decision
on wednesday, sen. bob packwood, r-ore., said flatly that meese should resign. senate democratic leader robert byrd of west virginia also called for his resignation, saying meese was ``the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history.''
sen. daniel evans, r-wash., told reporters thursday that if meese encounters difficulty in finding capable replacements for burns and weld and there is evidence the department is not functioning well, and ``he ought to step aside.''
but sen. alan simpson, r-wyo., the senate's deputy gop leader, said he was ``appalled'' at the hue and cry over meese
they've never laid a glove on him yet,'' simpson said, adding there is no indication meese is guilty of anything
nancy reagan's press secretary, elaine crispen, said reports that the first lady was campaigning for meese's removal were ``absolutely not true.''
she hasn't talked to anyone and no one has talked to her about the issue,'' mrs. crispen said by telephone from los angeles, where mrs. reagan was visiting before joining the president at their california ranch friday for an easter vacation
the criminal investigation of meese launched last may 11 by independent counsel james mckay is continuing, and so far has delved into his involvement through longtime friend e. robert wallach with scandal-plagued wedtech corp. and a proposed $1 billion iraqi pipeline project
a partner in the pipeline project, swiss financier bruce rappaport, had been scheduled to give a deposition about the case to mckay last month but backed out and has apparently decided not to cooperate with the investigation, the washington post reported in friday's editions
the newspaper, quoting unidentified sources in washington and abroad, said rappaport was scheduled to give sworn testimony at a meeting in london with mckay and his aides but changed his mind at the last minute because he was afraid he might not remember everything accurately
rappaport was to have been given immunity from prosecution in the case
mckay widened the probe this week by subpoenaing payroll records and other documents of the washington chapter of the multiple sclerosis society in connection with a $40,000-a-year job meese's wife, ursula, got with the charity in 1985. investigators are examining wallach's role in helping mrs. meese get the job. suggests</head>
comets do not deserve a reputation as pure samples of material from the birth of the solar system, because they have been altered in deep space, suggests an analysis published today
heat from very bright stars and star explosions called supernovae has altered their characteristics, researchers from the university of colorado at boulder propose
there's no such thing as a pristine comet,'' said j. michael shull, who presented the analysis with colleague s. alan stern in today's issue of the british journal nature
comets are essentially dirty snowballs that formed at the birth of the solar system. scientists study them for clues to the conditions surrounding the formation of the sun and planets
trillions of comets are thought to orbit the sun some 10,000 to 100,000 times as far away as the earth's orbit, shull said. those comets have never been seen, but astronomers do spot comets that have left that orbit and swung in toward the sun
while still in their distant orbits, the analysis contends, the comets have been heated to differing extents by passing stars and by supernova explosions. that caused boiling that obliterated the original structure and chemical composition of the comet surfaces, the analysis says
paul feldman, professor of physics and astronomy at johns hopkins university in baltimore, called the proposal intriguing
comets that return to view on a regular schedule have certainly been heated and modified by repeated trips near the sun, he said, but comets making their first trip to the inner solar system are thought to contain pristine material
their hypothesis is not likely to be easily tested by remote observations from the ground or from earth-orbiting observatories, but will await future missions to comets which can actually measure the composition and structure of the ice directly'' he said. scheme</head>
the nephew of kenya's founding president has been fined $5,000 and credited for time served for his role in a 1,900-pound marijuana importation conspiracy
for your greed, you ... have failed your government and certainly your family,'' u.s. district judge alfred m. wolin said wednesday in sentencing samuel muigai, 36, nephew of kenya's first president jomo kenyatta
muigai walked away a free man after paying the fine and serving more than five months in jail since his arrest in october on charges of conspiring to import the marijuana. three co-defendants were sentenced to prison
muigai pleaded guilty to conspiring to import an unspecified quantity of the drug, which carries a maximum term of five years in prison
wolin, who sentenced two kenyan co-defendants to six years in prison and a third to nine years for their guilty pleas, found that muigai played a ``truly passive'' role ``limited to greed,'' in the scheme
a fifth kenyan, millionaire arms dealer and land developer stephen mwangi, 49, was found innocent after a trial earlier this month. a ugandan defendant, mpigi kabasha mbogo, 39, is to be sentenced monday
the six men were arrested after they traveled to gloucester city, where the pot had just arrived aboard a ship. they were to be paid $1 million in the deal, negotiated through undercover agents in telephone calls to kenya
though muigai's crime was an ``affront to the people of the united states,'' wolin said he was satisfied muigai was remorseful and had learned a ``bitter lesson.'' he also took note that muigai was the first to plead guilty
muigai, dressed in a gray pin-stripped suit and white loafers, apologized for his involvement in what he called an ``unfortunate incident.''
i would like to assure you, sir, that i don't intend and i don't think i will ever stand in another court of law for charges of any sort of criminal activity,'' he told the judge
muiga's his attorneys argued that muigai's co-defendants invited him to meet with wealthy american businessmen interested in developing some of his property
even after learning the discussions with the ``businessmen,'' who turned out to be federal agents, concerned marijuana, muigai went along, hoping still to discuss the land deal, the court papers said
the stiffest sentence, nine years, went to steven thuku, who wolin determined was the principal in the deal for making the contacts with the sources of the marijuana and the other defendants
wolin found that geoffrey m. tumbo, 45, and daniel m. githegi, 36, had less culpability and gave them six-year prison terms
they pleaded guilty to conspiring to import more than 110 pounds of marijuana, a charge carrying a 20-year maximum penalty. impropriety</head>
attorney general edwin meese iii's friend e. robert wallach says he should have been more sensitive to an appearance of impropriety in helping meese set up a financial partnership with an investment manager who wound up on the board of wedtech corp
in an interview published thursday in the san jose (calif.) mercury news, wallach said that he ``missed the boat completely'' on the potential conflict of interest in linking meese with the investment manager, w. franklyn chinn of san francisco in may 1985
meese knew at the time that chinn was doing work for wedtech. chinn subsequently become a member of wedtech board of directors
wallach and chinn were indicted in december on racketeering charges for allegedly extracting payments from wedtech as part of a scheme to influence meese and other public officials to assist the defense contractor
in 1981 and 1982, wallach wrote meese a dozen memos urging the then-white house counselor's support for the bronx, n.y. defense contractor. meese interceded on wedtech's behalf in connection with the company's efforts to get a $32 million no-bid contract to build small engines for the army. wedtech ended up wining the contract in 1982
i just missed the boat completely on the wedtech connection,'' wallach said, referring to the potential for a conflict of interest. ``wedtech at the time was just an irrelevancy
i knew that my memos (to meese) had had nothing to do with the award of the (wedtech) contract in 1982. ... we (wallach and meese) were trapped by our own honest conduct. we never thought of wedtech. ... our state of mind in april '85 was, we had not played a major role in wedtech.''
wallach also insisted that neither he nor meese was aware of memos in 1981 and 1982 from then white house counsel fred fielding warning meese's top deputy and other administration officials not to intercede in wedtech's military contract discussions because of ethical and procedural considerations
on reflection, a more cautious approach on my part would have been wise,'' said wallach. ``a more cautious approach on his (meese's) part would have been wise.''
in the interview with the san jose newspaper, wallach also said meese had ``nothing absolutely'' to do with a $150,000 payment to wallach in 1985 in connection with a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline deal
the $150,000 was a legal fee to wallach by one of his clients, swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the pipeline project
the $150,000 wound up in a stock trading account owned by chinn and the money was, in effect, pooled with that of other investors, including meese, to generate profits in highly speculative stock trading of brand new stock issues which were bought and sold on the same day
under this arrangement, chinn turned a $40,000 profit for meese on a $50,000 investment in just 18 months
the pooling of money from chinn's various investors, including meese, helped the financial manager obtain the funds to get new stock issues. it would have been difficult for chinn to obtain the new issues of stock with meese's money alone
wallach said that when all of the facts are known, his and chinn's handling of the $150,000 originally paid to wallach will emerge as ``the classic bureaucratic error.'' he declined to elaborate
wallach said the main reason he introduced meese to chinn was because meese stood to make more money investing with chinn than with more conventional institutions
i probably was influenced disproportionately by frank's offering a high return,'' wallach said
should i have been more prudent and recommended him (meese) to a more major investment firm?'' wallach asked. ``in retrospect, yes.''
a recent survey shows that while about 70 percent of u.s. adults indicate they watch television during the evening hours, only 12 percent said it is their principal activity
we found that most people are not just simply couch potatoes, but do a number other things with their free time,'' said carol hess, a research consultant for lexington-based decision research corp
most adults reported they combine television viewing with other activities, such as cooking, cleaning and doing crafts, hess said wednesday
the drc survey, a follow-up to a previous leisure time poll released last year, asked 1,000 adults during october, november and december to describe how they spent the previous evening from 5 p.m. to 1 a.m
reading was the second most popular activity, particularly among older respondents, with 22 percent reporting books or magazines as part of their evening
men comprised the majority of the 18 percent saying they worked during the evening, while the 9 percent reporting they shopped were mostly women, according to the survey
other top activities included dining out, 12 percent; with sports or exercising, going to a meeting or having sex each noted by 2 percent of the respondents. one percent went to a movie
we had a lot of other responses from knitting to spent last night in jail to skinning a raccoon,'' said hess
yet only 15 percent rated their evening as ``great,'' with satisfaction higher among older or married respondents or people with annual incomes above $50,000
the recent survey was launched after drc researchers last year found that many respondents felt their leisure time was diminishing
we thought this was curious considering all the labor-saving equipment and that, in theory, people have a five-day work week,'' said hess
drc research, however, indicates that people perceive they have less leisure time because of the trend toward highly structured activities outside of work, said hess
when i ask you what are your favorite leisure activities, you might say sailing or something,'' said hess. ``you are not likely to say you love going swimming at the health club five mornings a week, although that is something you chose to do. it's not a question that people have less leisure time. it's that people are losing their discretionary time; time that is for myself.''
hess noted that the low percentage of inveterate ``couch potatoes'' suggest people are seeking to gain more control over their free time
i think we are looking here at people exercising more freedom of choice,'' said hess. ``it shows they can exercise their discretionary power to pick what gives them pleasure rather than accepting what's out there in a passive way.''
ronald james says he drove with a radar detector in his car for years without an accident. but his insurance company dropped him anyway and eventually hit a roadblock that forced it to restore his coverage
the maryland insurance commissioner two weeks ago, citing data that drivers like james are no more likely to crash than drivers who don't carry radar detectors, threw out geico corp.'s rule against underwriting drivers who own radar detectors
it was under that rule that geico canceled james' policy, but a trade association called radar won him reinstatement and filed a complaint with state officials
i've never had an accident,'' said james, 45, who commutes to work in washington from suburban maryland. he said he bought the detector after speeding unintentionally and getting a ticket. ``i don't speed anymore, i outgrew that years ago.''
an estimated 4 million people nationally use radar detectors, and advocates hope the ruling in maryland will help keep them legal
this is the first ruling of its kind in the country,'' said janice lee, president of the cincinnati-based radio association defending airwave rights inc., the trade group
the devices, which alert drivers that police may be tracking them by scanning for certain radar frequencies, are illegal in virginia, connecticut and washington, d.c
legislation to ban the detectors was introduced this year in 12 states and still has a chance of passing in michigan, new jersey, new york, mississippi and massachusetts, said ms. lee, whose organization represents about a dozen manufacturers with an estimated $300 million in yearly sales
geico tried to make law, and the commissioner told them they had to play by everybody else's rules,'' ms. lee said
the ruling, written by associate deputy insurance commissioner thomas p. raimondi, criticized geico's ``vision (of) itself as the good witch of the north who, alone among the 800 property and casualty insurers, is pointing the magic anti-radar wand of the good corporate citizen in condemnation of the use of radar devices by the citizens of this state.''
highway safety groups say the detectors ought to be illegal because they are used primarily to break the law
speed is not a function of emotion or economics or politics,'' said robert w. o'brien, spokesman for the national safety council. ``speed is a function of physics: the faster you go, the more likely it is that you'll have an accident.''
companies such as state farm insurance co., the nation's largest auto insurer, and aetna insurance co. said they have no detector rules because most states recognize the devices as legal
insurers also cited the dearth of direct evidence. the insurance industry does not know how many accidents or how many claims are related to detectors, said harvey seymour of the industry-funded insurance information institute
we oppose speeding and the use of radar detectors. (but) it's very hard to statistically support that people with radar detectors have more accidents,'' said richard doran, director of automobile underwriting for allstate insurance co., the nation's second-largest auto insurer
allstate has concluded that, although it might lose money on drivers with radar detectors, its data would not support a ban in court, doran said
(geico's) guideline was a little arbitrary,'' doran said
geico, based in washington, d.c., last week failed to win an injunction against the maryland order, but says it will appeal in baltimore circuit court
and a study in texas may show whether speeders are likely to be using radar detectors
the federally financed study by the texas transportation institute at texas a&amp;m university is slated for completion late this year. it will use two radar units to clock car speeds in four states. one undetectable radar _ using a specially licensed frequency _ will observe speeds before and after a detectable signal is turned on
using the same method last year in maryland and virginia, the industry-backed insurance institute for highway safety found that 29 percent of cars going faster than 70 mph, and 19 percent going 66 mph to 70 mph, slowed down abruptly when they encountered the second radar
we know the effects of speed, and we know that these (radar detectors) cause drivers to go faster. therefore, our conclusion is that people who use radar detectors would cause higher'' numbers of fatalities, said john cook, vice president of the institute
arguing before the commission, geico used that study and others to calculate that drivers using detectors are equal to drivers ``with two more more violations and would have 2.41 times as many accidents.''
radar, on the other hand, cited a survey showing that drivers using detectors were involved in fewer accidents and were more likely to wear seat belts than drivers as a whole
there are at least four men in new york prisons who have something in common with a new inmate, robert chambers: they all killed somebody in new york city on aug. 26, 1986
but the similarities end there. unlike the killer of jennifer levin, they are serving their time in obscurity. no camera-wielding mobs hounded them when they surrendered, no tabloids splashed their names in headlines
all four cases were in the impoverished south bronx, uptown from the grassy spot in central park where the former prep school student killed miss levin, from the bar on manhattan's east side patronized by chambers, miss levin and other affluent young people
it isn't fair,'' said angel traverso, 16, a neighbor of one of the victims, rosa dueno, 44. ``they make such a big deal out of jennifer levin's death and rosa's death means nothing.''
chambers, 21, started a five- to 15-year sentence saturday for killing miss levin, 18, during what he initially called an episode of ``rough sex.'' the day before, while a jury deliberated murder charges against him, he pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter
chambers and the other defendants all killed people they knew, and they were arrested quickly. three of the four bronx killers pleaded guilty after bargaining with prosecutors, as chambers did
but none went through the protracted litigation that chambers did, and all but one are serving longer sentences
the one who received a lighter term was ms. dueno's killer, juan enrique. he had a history of beating ms. dueno, who was his girlfriend, and on aug. 26, 1986, he stabbed her to death
he was never charged with murder. he pleaded guilty to second-degree manslaughter and was sentenced may 19 to two-and-a-third to seven years in prison
in a city that averages about five homicides a day, the deaths of ms. dueno and the others were largely unnoticed. the disposition of the cases went unnoticed as well:
_ santos cuello valdez, charged with second-degree murder for shooting daniel alvarez to death, pleaded guilty last may 14 to first-degree manslaughter. justice elbert hinkson sentenced him on june 26 to seven to 21 years in prison
_ a grand jury charged juan quinones with second-degree murder in the stabbing of rachel pajooh, 48. she allegedly had shot at him once when he tried to rob her and had reported him to police. after a non-jury trial, justice lawrence bernstein convicted quinones of first-degree manslaughter and sentenced him on oct. 7, 1987, to 12{ to 25 years in prison
_ ronald matthews, indicted on a charge of second-degree murder after he smashed his father's head with a sledgehammer, pleaded guilty to first-degree manslaughter and was sentenced by justice ivan warner on oct. 13 to six to 18 years in prison
there is no indication as to whether the families of the victims were consulted when the guilty pleas were negotiated; prosecutors gave the levin family the right to veto their agreement with chambers
and no news conferences were called when the bronx cases were wrapped up
ed mccarthy, a spokesman for the bronx district attorney's office, said the assistant district attorneys who prosecuted the cases were not available to discuss them, or to compare them with the more celebrated case in manhattan
it's apples and oranges,'' he said. ``what happened there, happened there. what happens here, happens here.''
for $2 or so, you can hungrily cradle a barrel of popcorn while watching characters in ``babette's feast'' ravish blini with black caviar, quail stuffed with foie gras and other magnificent morsels in what has to be one of the most inspiring meals ever shown on the screen
for $88 more, you can follow this feast for the eyes with one for the body
one thing will happen after you see this movie: you will be starving,'' said dro e. proudian, general manager at petrossian inc., whose restaurant is one of several around the the country serving the seven-course feast during the run of the movie, denmark's entry for an academy award as best foreign film
when you see the film, how complicated the meal is, how expensive, all the marketing,'' there will be a greater understanding of the art of preparing a great meal, said yannick cam, chef and owner at le pavillion in washington, which begins serving the feast in april
the movie, based on a story by isak dinesen, tells of two unmarried and pious sisters who take a french political refugee, babette, into their home on the bleak coast of norway, in return for housekeeping. fourteen years later, when babette wins 10,000 francs in the lottery, she repays them with a feast so strange to them that one sister, in anticipation, compares it to a witch's sabbath
but babette fills the hearts, as well as the bellies, of her 12 guests, mostly members of the sisters' religious community
it was a whole experience, that's why we did it,'' said stella geller of west orange, n.j., who with her husband followed the film with dinner recently at petrossian. ``i didn't leave a bite of anything. i ate every bite.''
so far, plans have been made for the feast at restaurants in philadelphia, miami, los angeles, washington, san francisco and laguna niguel, calif., according to alfred rosenthal, orion classics' gastronomic consultant for the dinners. prices will vary slightly, with $80 the lowest, without wines, he said
that will buy: turtle soup; blini with black caviar; quail stuffed with foie gras baked in a pastry nest with truffle sauce; salad; cheeses; rum cake with candied fruit; fresh fruit; coffee. add $35 for four wines
as the movie opens in more cities, theater owners and restaurateurs can use a guide written by rosenthal to help them present the feast and find such ingredients as turtle meat
while the meal is expensive, proudian called it a bargain, noting the normal prices of just three ingredients: 30 grams of fresh russian sevruga caviar ($21); 2{ ounces of fresh foie gras ($15); three-quarters of an ounce of black truffle ($30)
the people who come here are adventurous, a lot of romantic people,'' proudian said in a recent interview at petrossian, a mirrored and marbled restaurant near carnegie hall
to meet their expectations and recreate the sense of abundance evident on babette's table, he said, ``the caviar has to be heaping, you have to see the truffles, not just a speck here, a slice there. when you put your knife into the quail, you have to feel the foie gras.''
it was extraordinarily difficult, because we had to recreate a visual image on a plate,'' he said
petrossian's chef, michel attali, said he encountered one problem. in the film, the quail is served sitting in its pastry nest with the head on. believing that would not be acceptable here, attali fashioned pastry ``heads'' for the tiny game birds
but no matter how faithful, diners will not experience the same mood as in the film, cam said: ``first the house in the film, and it was a little religious dinner. i don't think we can reproduce that.''
still, proudian said, ``the star of the movie is the food. so if you are in this business, it's nice to see all of this dignity and respect given to the preparation of food.''
it looks more and more as though president reagan will leave office without achieving his stated goal of making daniel ortega say ``uncle.''
in the view of many latin american experts, reagan's policy of keeping the pressure on ortega's nicaraguan government to bring about peace and democracy has failed
you have peace, but you don't have freedom,'' says neil pickett, an expert on national and international security affairs at the hudson institute in indianapolis
they're about to leave office, and they've got a contra program that's falling apart on them,'' says ed king, latin american adviser to senate majority leader robert c. byrd
as g. pope atkins, senior associate specializing in south american affairs at the center for strategic and international studies, sees it, the stated goal of the policy has kept shifting
the first one was simply to interdict nicaraguan arms to el salvador,'' atkins said. ``then it was rather strongly implied that the idea was to bring down the regime. and now the idea is that if they (nicaragua's leaders) will change, everything will be all right.''
marlin fitzwater, the president's chief spokesman, says the administration's goal remains the same: ``the situation is that we need aid to the contras in the worst way.''
but questions remain whether wednesday's house vote to continue non-lethal aid and leave the door open for military aid, and the expected senate vote today, will help further reagan's objectives
reagan has said his goal is to keep pressure on the sandinistas so they will live up to the promises of democratic reform that they made when they took over from dictator anastasio somoza in 1979
at a news conference feb. 21, 1985, reagan was asked whether he was advocating the overthrow of the nicaraguan government. his reply was: ``not if the present government would turn around and ... say, `uncle. all right, come back into the revolutionary government, and let's straighten this out and institute the goals.'''
now that the two sides have agreed on a cease-fire, will nicaragua's marxist-led sandinista government reform? and if it doesn't, can the contra rebels the reagan administration has backed survive as an effective force?
many think not
i think it would be awfully difficult to reorganize them,'' said atkins. ``i doubt if they would be particularly interested in that. i don't think they would want to go through the convolutions of u.s. policy again.''
king added that ``it's over for the time being unless the sandinistas back up on what they say they are going to do, and have done, and the contras change their orientation from where they are, which is: let's get some kind of political opening going.''
pickett, too, sees ``the end of the resistance'' in the latest developments, ``barring some miracle or barring some violation before the truce is signed.''
if the sandinistas do something stupid before that, the contras can be saved,'' he said
king, the adviser to byrd, said: ``the objective of the whole exercise in the beginning was to protect u.s. security concerns in the region. u.s. security concerns in the region are removal of the soviet and the cuban advisers, guarantees of no bases, reduction of soviet weapons and guarantees of no border crossing
now they are at a point where they don't have any of those things arranged, they're about to leave office, and they've got a contra program that's falling apart on them,'' king said. ``i think the whole thing is a disaster, frankly.''
the less partisan sources are not calling it a disaster, but they aren't proclaiming it a success either
w. dale nelson covers the white house for the associated press
alaska continues to lead the nation in per capita federal spending, but virginia is closing in, new federal figures show
the u.s. government spent about $5,421 per resident in alaska last year, making it the leading state in per capita spending
but second-place virginia _ which moved up from third a year earlier _ wasn't far behind at $5,317 per capita, according to the census bureau
that $104 per capita difference in spending between the states was down from a $246 spread in 1986
maryland, which had been second in 1986, dropped to third place with 1987 spending of $5,113
both maryland and virginia benefit from their location adjacent to the nation's capital. many federal agencies have offices in the suburbs, which also are home for consultants and suppliers of goods for the government
if it were a state, the district of columbia would easily lead in per capita spending, averaging $23,360
nationwide, federal spending averaged nearly $3,433 per american last year, about $41 more than the year before
the report, ``federal expenditures by state for fiscal year 1987,'' broke down spending totaling $848 billion, covering virtually everything except interest on the national debt
direct payments to people was the largest share, totaling $384 billion. that includes social security, medicare, food stamps and other such programs
buying goods and services was second, with $196 billion spent. salaries for federal employees totaled $127 billion, with $108 billion sent out to state and local governments and $33 billion spent on research grants, agriculture subsidies and various other purposes
per capita, that amounts to $1,555 paid to individuals; $795 in procurement; $514 in salaries; $437 in grants to state and local government and other spending of $133
alaska's top finish included high levels of aid to state and local governments as well as pay for federal employees, but it was way down the list in payments to individuals
florida topped that category, with social security and medicare benefits for its large elderly population raising the state's average
california was easily the leader in total federal spending, with its large population, military bases and industry helping bring in $100.7 billion. even so, the golden state finished only 14th in per capita spending
congressional investigators say the defense logistics agency should tighten controls over its ``fast-pay'' program to avoid paying for supplies that are never delivered
according to a general accounting office report released today, one dla purchasing office failed to take action to ensure collection of more than $7 million in overpayments
i'm appalled that dla is paying money for supplies that it never received,'' said sen. john glenn, d-ohio, who, along with sen. pete wilson, r-calif., released the gao report. ``we need sound business management at dla.''
the agency purchases food, clothing, fuel oil and other supplies for the armed services
under the fast-pay program, the agency pays vendors based on shipping invoices instead of verifying receipt of the supplies. the procedure is designed to expedite payments for small purchases
internal controls established by the dla purchasing offices do not prevent possible fast-pay program abuse,'' said the gao, the investigative arm of congress. ``potential missing depot shipments are not always detected for timely follow-up and resolution.''
the gao said that in 52 fast-pay shipments valued at $71,267 to the defense electronics supply center in dayton, ohio, the center could not document the receipt of 16 shipments valued at $18,618. in addition, the center failed to notify some of the vendors of the missing shipments within 90 days
it also said action had not been taken as of last may to collect more than $7 million in previously identified overpayments owed the defense personnel support center in philadelphia
the gao also said that vendors with performance problems on previous contracts have continued to receive fast-pay awards and that controls have not been established to ensure the receipt of supplies sent directly from vendors to overseas locations
in 1985, the office of management and budget issued instructions to limit the use of fast pay, saying it should not be used to replace stocks in depots or when timely payment can be made. the gao said dla believes it is not required to follow the requirements until they are incorporated into the federal acquisition regulations
however, dla spokesman larry wilson said the agency plans to be in compliance with the omb requirements by the end of the year even though it is expected to cost an additional $2.5 million to process the extra paperwork
legislation calling for the rehiring of 1,000 air traffic controllers fired nearly seven years ago has won strong approval in the house, although the senate has yet to consider a similar bill
the reagan administration has steadfastly refused to rehire any of the 11,400 controllers who were fired after they walked off their jobs in 1981. the transportation department has urged that such legislation be vetoed by president reagan if it clears congress
the 234-180 house vote wednesday calling for some of the fired controllers to return to the federal aviation administration came two years after similar legislation was defeated by a 193-226 margin
supporters of the legislation argued that there are too few controllers to handle air traffic needs, especially at some of the busiest towers and traffic control centers, and that the former controllers could become fully trained more quickly than trainees off the street
rep. guy molinari, sponsor of the house resolution, said a selected number of fired controllers should be rehired by the faa ``for the sake of safety and the convenience of the flying public.''
today it's clearer than ever that the air traffic control system is still severely strained,'' molinari, r-n.y., said during floor debate. the legislation calls for selectively hiring 500 of the fired controllers this year and another 500 next fiscal year
the general accounting office, the investigative arm of congress, has estimated that as many as 6,000 of the 11,400 former controllers still have an interest in returning to the faa. under the legislation the faa would be free to select the controllers it wants to rehire
the faa has steadily been increasing its controller workforce and now has 14,450 controllers at various experience levels, compared with 16,375 before the 1981 strike. the transportation department plans to hire another 1,350 over the next 1{ years
while support for rehiring at least some of the fired controllers was widespread, some congressmen continued to have deep concerns about such a move
putting the strikers and their replacements in the same control tower is sure to create animosity between the two factions,'' suggested rep. john paul hammerschmidt, r-ark
rep. gerald solomon, r-n.y., said the legislastion is ``sending the wrong message'' to government workers and their unions. ``the right to fire illegal strikers must not be compromised,'' solomon declared
the reagan administration is being urged to lead the industrialized world into new, tougher action against the chemicals that scientists say are destroying the earth's stratospheric ozone layer
the call for strict international controls on chlorofluourocarbons, or cfcs, is coming from senators, scientists and two quarters that often are in deep disagreement: environmentalists and chemical companies
we need a massive diplomatic mission,'' sen. john chafee, r-r.i., said wednesday as two environment committee subcommittees heard renewed warnings that cfc's are depleting the ozone that shields humans from the sun's cancer-causing ultraviolet rays
committee members and witnesses took turns saying that the united states must take the lead to push other industrialized nations into taking stronger measures against cfcs than contained in last year's montreal protocol
that agreement could lead to a freeze on global cfc production in 1999 at a level of 50 percent of the cfcs manufactured in 1986. to take effect, the protocol needs ratification by nations representing two-thirds of cfc production. so far, only the united states and mexico have acted
cfcs are widely used as refrigerants and industrial solvents and in the production of foam products. they also serve as propellants in aerosol cans, although such use was banned in the united states in 1977
witnesses said the administration should not only be pushing for ratification but also be lobbying for an emergency international gathering to consider a larger production freeze or even a ban on cfcs
the protocol provides for a cfc review meeting sometime in 1990. lee thomas, administrator of the environmental protection agency, said tuesday he would press to have that meeting very early in 1990
sen. max baucus, d-mont., called on president reagan to make an accelerated schedule for cfc reductions a priority item this june when he and leaders of other industrialized democracies hold their annual economic summit
also calling for faster action was sherwood rowland, the university of california-irvine professor who in the 1970s was one of the first scientists to warn of dangers posed by cfcs
clearly the protocol is not going to do much of anything for 10 years,'' rowland said. ``we need more rapid action than that.''
david doniger, senior attorney for the environmentalist natural resources defense council, said a swift international response is needed in light of the conclusion announced march 15 by a panel of 100 scientists convened by the national aeronautics and space administration
the panel said ozone depletion is occurring faster than previously thought. doniger said the losses cited by the panel already are at levels epa has projected for the year 2050 under the production cuts specified by the montreal protocol
i think we can attain a new worldwide agreement in a year and end the use of these chemicals by the end of the century,'' doniger said
joining the call for a stepped-up diplomatic effort were representatives of two major u.s. producers of cfcs, e.i. dupont de nemours &amp; co., and allied-signal inc
all of us need to work to get as many nations as possible to ratify the protocol as quickly as possible,'' said marilyn montgomery, vice president and general manager of allied-signal's genetron products
elwood blanchard, dupont's executive vice president, said his company believes that cfc-producing countries should be convened as soon as possible ``to review the scientific findings and to establish appropriate global responses to these findings.''
he and ms. montgomery said their companies have begun efforts to develop safe substitutes for cfcs, but neither could say when they might be available
dupont announced last week it was phasing out production of cfcs
the widow of slain civil rights leader martin luther king says congress has ``acquiesced too long to the gun lobby'' and she is urging lawmakers to vote to restrict sales of handguns
speaking on the seventh anniversary of the shooting of president reagan outside a washington hotel, coretta scott king cited the significantly lower murder statistics from countries that control handgun sales
such restrictions, she said, ``are more effective than capital punishment'' in deterring killings. ``we need to end the needless sacrifices of men, women and children on the altar of congressional inaction.''
she later added: ``congress has acquiesced to the gun lobby. the only thing that will bring an end to this inaction is an aroused citizenry.''
mrs. king then signed a giant-size petition, sponsored by the national coalition to ban handguns, that calls for restrictions on the sale of handguns. she will be honorary chairwoman of the petition drive along with ethel kennedy, the widow of sen. robert f. kennedy
the petition drive, called ``a time to remember, a time to end handgun violence,'' coincides with the 20th anniversary of the deaths of king and kennedy. king was assassinated on april 4, 1968, and kennedy on june 6, 1968
in a separate statement, sarah brady, wife of white house press secretary james brady, who was wounded in the attack seven years ago on reagan, pleaded to congress for stronger handgun control laws
mrs. brady said she supports legislation that would require a seven-day waiting period for handgun purchases to allow police to conduct a background check
i'm firmly convinced that had such a proposal been in effect seven years ago, john hinckley would have been prevented from purchasing the handgun he used to shoot the president, my husband and two law enforcement officers,'' mrs. brady said
the national coalition to ban handguns petition does not endorse any specific piece of legislation. but michael k. beard of the coalition said ``we hope it will stimulate this congress to enact a national waiting period requirement before a handgun may be purchased, to ban the sale of non-detectable (plastic) handguns and to ban saturday night specials, the kind of handgun used to kill robert kennedy.''
audiences seem to know what he means, but vice president george bush doesn't always get the words out exactly right as he campaigned this week in wisconsin
during an appearance at lawrence univeristy in appleton, wis., the republican presidential candidate told his audience, ``i want to be the education president.''
there is a need for help at the federal level ... so you can afford to send your college to children,'' bush declared
at another time in the same speech, he meant to talk about the ``high cost of college,'' but it came out: ``the high cost of courage.''
speaking to a rally in a milwaukee suburb, bush appeared to invent a new federal tax on farmers, declaring he favored a lower ``capital grains tax.''
no doubt, he was referring to the capital gains tax. bush has urged a partial repeal of the part of the 1987 tax overhaul law that taxes capital gains _ such as from the sale of a house, stocks or business assets _ at the same level as other income
bush's verbal tongue-twisting seems to be catching
introducing the vice president at another milwaukee-area function, wisconsin gov. tommy thompson asserted: ``as the reagan presidency ends, it's time for the bush pregnancy to begin.''
as he campaigned in the area, bush was repeatedly reminded by local reporters of a previous campaign visit here, when he went to a milwaukee bowling alley _ and wound up sprawled on the lane. questions like ``plan to do any bowling this time?'' have abounded
you have a good memory,'' he told one inqusitor
i did fall down. but so did nine pins,'' he said in defense of his technique
at an aviation musuem in oshkosh, bush was presented with a brown leather aviator's jacket and he climbed readily into the cockpit of a 1949 bearcat fighter
the plane was billed as similar to one he had flown as a navy pilot during world war ii, a past his campaign strategists would like to have remembered as often as possible
well, it wasn't exactly like the kind of planes he used to fly, ``but it has the same engine,'' bush said
then bush, who frequently has posed on and in various kinds of heavy equipment during his campaign, held his right arm over his head and flashed a ``v'' sign for photographers
is this the red baron look?'' he asked
then bush was led to a full-scale replica of the voyager, the lightweight plane that set a record for flying non-stop around the world
i'm anxious to learn about this,'' bush said. ``this looks like it may be a little tough.''
he elaborated further. ``there's the inevitable question,'' he said. ``how does one go to the bathroom?''
a british mountain climber set off for the himalayas to find out whether the abominable snowman is myth or monster
chris bonington, who left london on wednesday, intends to return to the 23,237-foot menglungtse, where last year he found footprints from an unidentified creature on a failed attempt to climb the mountain
it would be fantastic if we could come back with some proof,'' he said during a visit to the natural history museum in london before his departure
bonington and a five-man team discovered 7-inch-by-4-inch footprints 16,000 feet up the mountain last year. periodic sightings of the creature, also known as the yeti, have been reported for decades
the restored presidential yacht uss sequoia is making a national tour before being returned once again to the president of the united states after an 11-year hiatus
the sequoia, which was sold in 1977 by president carter as part of an austerity move, has been repaired by a private group. it was launched wednesday on a 100-city, 22-state tour that will enable thousands to see the vessel before it is officially returned to the white house nov. 15
what we have here is a fourth of july celebration every weekend in cities throughout the country,'' said michael mcgehee, a member of the group that raised money to repair the 105-foot yacht. ``we're taking a piece of american history to the american people.''
private and corporate funding paid for the sequoia's restoration, and josh lanier, who chairs the nine-member presidential yacht trust's board of trustees, hopes the tour will raise money for an endowment to pay for the ship's upkeep
this tour is a little like running a campaign,'' he joked. ``we have a good candidate, no opposition, and we're confident she won't screw up on the evening news.''
the sequoia was built in 1925 and sold to the commerce department in 1931. in 1933, after president hoover wintered on it in florida, the sequoia was acquired by the navy and became the president's official yacht
over the next 44 years, the sequoia served eight presidents. it was the site of talks on nuclear controls during the truman administration, the venue of gala celebrations by president kennedy and the place where president nixon told his family in 1974 that he would resign the presidency
in 1977, as part of a widespread retrenchment program, carter directed that the vessel be sold. it was purchased for $286,000 by a group of private investors
over the next four years, the craft changed hands three times and began to deteriorate. in 1981, a private trust was established to purchase and restore the boat
after reading news accounts in 1983 about the boat's dilapidated condition, lanier, a former aide to sen. herman talmadge, d-ga., joined the effort to refurbish the craft
i remember thinking it was a crying shame that this boat had fallen on such bad times, because i remember how it was used in the nixon and ford administrations,'' he said
minor repairs were made, and a little-publicized, 16-state tour during the summer of 1984 drew surprisingly large crowds
everyone told us it was a mistake for the federal government to have sold the sequoia,'' lanier said. ``we then started raising money for a full restoration, with the intention of returning the vessel to the office of the president.''
in june 1986, a six-month, $3.5 million restoration was completed, and the sequoia sailed to new york for the statue of liberty centennial celebration. since then, the sequoia has been moored in washington and used for government functions
the sequoia's tour will include ports in virginia, south carolina and florida in april, and to gulf coast cities in alabama, louisiana and texas in may. it then will sail up the mississippi river in june and july, stopping at ports in mississippi, arkansas, tennessee, missouri, illinois and michigan
after visiting great lakes ports in august, the sequoia will stop at cities between boston and baltimore in september. the tour will end oct. 30 in alexandria, va
a newspaper said vast oil deposits have been found in northern kenya, but the minister of energy downplayed the discovery
it is true that encouraging results have been achieved, but conclusions drawn by the paper are rather grossly exaggerated,'' nicholas biwott said
biwott issued a statement wednesday after the kenya times reported the energy minister had confirmed the presence of vast oil deposits and had said that kenya was ready to begin looking for pump sites
the newspaper of the governing kenya african national union party also quoted biwott as saying two of five international companies prospecting in kenya had struck oil
biwott said test wells in the northern turkana, marsabit and isiolo districts had confirmed the presence of gas and oil, but none of the wells had ``yielded hydrocarbons in commercial quantities.''
four officials from the soviet union made the first-ever visit by a soviet delegation to a british nuclear plant
the soviet nuclear power officials, who are on an official four-day visit to britain this week, have been discussing with their british counterparts methods of making nuclear power stations safer
the delegation, led by vadim m. malyshev, chairman of the soviet state committee on supervision of nuclear power safety, was given a tour wednesday of hinkley point station near combwich in somerset, in southwest england
malyshev told reporters monday the soviet union is designing new nuclear reactors since the april 1986 disaster at the chernobyl plant in the ukraine, which killed 31 people and sent radiation drifting over europe
a police officer who was given the slip by a discarded hamburger has won a damage claim against the operators of the london subway
high court judge alan lipfriend ruled on wednesday that london regional transport was negligent in failing to clear up potentially dangerous litter at earls court station. the amount of damages will be assessed later
graham blakely, 26, alleged he was chasing pickpockets in august 1982 when he leaped down some stairs and skidded on the remains of a hamburger and its container, breaking his right leg
i am very pleased with the outcome of the case, but i have lost my taste for hamburgers,'' said blakely
jessica mcclure, whose rescue from an abandoned well last year attracted international attention, is playing the role of a wee celebrity to help raise funds for a boy with serious lung problems
jessica, who turned 2 on saturday, is participating in a balloon release this evening to benefit 5-year-old brennan bolin, who needs a heart-lung transplant, benefit coordinator bonnie arnold said
the plans called for jessica to release the first balloon, followed by children from lancaster elementary schools, then ``a drawing among those children for two toys signed by jessica,'' mrs. arnold said
jessica got involved because the families of the children are acquainted, according to mrs. arnold. the boy's grandmother lives in jessica's home town of midland
brennan has idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis, a rare condition in which bleeding occurs within the lungs' lining
newfound fame has caused quite a stir at the cammareri brothers bakery in brooklyn, where owner gilberto godoy uttered one line in the movie ``moonstruck.''
customers now greet godoy with ``we saw you in the movie'' and ask him to autograph their bread bags
i go to buy a paper, people recognize me. i go to the bank, people recognize me,'' godoy said wednesday
nicholas cage played opposite cher as baker ronnie cammareri, putting the tiny brooklyn bakery and its owner on the silver screen
ronnie, someone's looking for you over here,'' godoy said in his brief movie debut
i told them, my part was too small,'' joked godoy, who had to join the screen actors guild to prepare for his big moment
her famous split leap is now just a memory. but at 62, bolshoi prima ballerina maya plisetskaya still dominates the rest of the troupe
she's three times the age of many of her co-dancers and the oldest ballerina of stature performing today. but plisetskaya nonetheless is living up to the advance publicity generated by organizers of making music together, the largest soviet-u.s. cultural exchange ever staged
although other artists also have drawn capacity crowds since the three-week festival opened march 11, plisetksaya has reigned supreme among the 285 featured soviet performers as crowd-pleasers go
a capacity audience of 4,100 crowded boston's wang center for the performing arts for a performance based on bizet's ``carmen'' tuesday, clearly enjoying the grace of nina ananiashvili, the strength of adris liepe and the near flawless mastery of other young principals
but the normally restrained boston audience went wild over plisetskaya as the title character. many moved to the front for the curtain call to get a closer look amid bravos and sustained applause
bea arthur, estelle getty, rue mcclanahan and betty white, rivals for laughs on nbc's ``golden girls,'' are competing in earnest for the title of funniest actress on the second annual american comedy awards
the four actresses were nominated wednesday for the prize of funniest female performer in a leading role in a television comedy series. the awards will be presented on abc in may
tracey ullman, who stars in her own show on fox broadcasting, was the fifth nominee in the funniest female performer category
nominees for the funniest male performer in a leading role in a tv series were dana carvey, ``saturday night live''; michael j. fox, ``family ties''; pee-wee herman, ``pee-wee's playhouse''; david letterman, ``late night with david letterman''; and garry shandling, ``it's garry shandling's show.''
this year's lifetime creative achievement award goes to blake edwards, who is being honored for such movies as ``the pink panther,'' ``10'' and ``victor-victoria.'' his newest movie, ``sunset,'' starring bruce willis and james garner, will be released this spring
artist keith haring, once an outlaw, has been won over to the side of law and order
haring used to be ticketed repeatedly by police for drawing white chalk stick figures on black poster advertising boards in subway stations
but on tuesday he was back in the subway with the blessing of the transit authority, which is placing on subway cars and in stations 5,000 haring-designed posters that urge young people to read
fill your head with fun! start reading!'' say the posters, which feature a drawing of a kid's head filled with amusing, haringesque creatures
this is great,'' haring said as he autographed copies of the poster in a station. ``it's come full circle.''
gov. tommy g. thompson is looking for a new raincoat to replace the one he lost aboard air force 2 while flying with vice president george bush
i guess somebody liberated it,'' said charles davis of brookfield, a bush supporter who joined the vice president aboard the plane to madison wednesday
i think (the governor) was kind of surprised when he couldn't find his coat,'' davis said wednesday
thompson lost the coat tuesday when bush was traveling aboard air force 2 to appleton, stevens point and waukesha
mayor edward i. koch says he has left instructions that if he ever is kidnapped, never to pay ransom for him
it only encourages more kidnappings of others,'' he said wednesday during a courtesy call at city hall by andres pastrana, mayor of bogota, colombia. pastrana, then a mayoral candidate, was the victim of a week-long kidnapping by drug dealers in january
he has that same rule,'' koch said of pastrana, calling him ``a courageous man.''
koch said people should ``never deal with terrorists, never give in to terrorist demands ... even if it means you are going to die.''
more than 45,000 foreign tourists visited cuba in the first two months of this year, in line with projections of 240,000 visitors for 1988, the cuban news agency prensa latina said
it quoted rafael sed perez, president of the national tourism institute, as saying on wednesday that the two-month figures represented an increase from 1987. he did not say by how much
in these days there's a notable presence of travelers, especially from latin america, who want to get to know cuba in holy week,'' he said
in the tang dynasty 1,000 years ago, boatmen carried rice and supplies to fight the northern barbarians. today, boatmen on barges still pass through huaian, but now they carry coal and bricks to keep china's great metropolises humming
life goes on, changing but always the same along the world's longest man-made waterway, the 1,000-mile grand canal, which hua yuhua, a local official, describes ``as great a feat as the great wall.''
in huaian, a 1,600-year-old town in coastal jiangsu province, the canal remains the lifeline
huaian is a bumpy, four-hour drive from the provincial capital of nanjing and has no railway
we have looked to the water in developing our land,'' said the local radio station director, wang ruoyuan
every day about 1,200 barges, some in convoys of as many as 10, pass through the town's two locks, where they are lowered or raised about 10 feet
along the shore, a sea of men in green and blue jackets load and unload the coal, grain, vegetables, oil, roof tile, cotton, lumber and gravel that traverse the 220-mile jiangsu stretch from the yangtze river in the south to the city of xuzhou in the north
the lucky ones have donkeys, but for most a strong back and sturdy shoulders are crucial. people strapped to harnesses tug at carts and wagons. on one bridge, a unique pulley system helps them up an incline
bicycles weave around bridge-side stalls that sell cabbage, oranges, soft drinks and sugar cane. children gather around to watch an elderly couple puff oats with a hand bellows that fires a blackened iron pressure vessel
fishermen come by with cormorants perched on bicycle handlebars, taking the black seabirds to catch fish for them
work on the canal began in the 6th century b.c. but the early 7th century emperor yangdi built the main sections, from the western capital of luoyang eastward and the north-south channel linking hangzhou to beijing, china's modern-day capital
hundreds of thousands are believed to have been mobilized for the project
upon its completion, the emperor sailed its length at the head of a flotilla extending in close file for 60 miles
during the tang dynasty (618-907), what served as the ministry of transport was in huaian, and the city had a population of 200,000, double its current number, town official hua said
the canal fell into disrepair after the tang dynasty, but the kublai khan rebuilt it in the 13th century
the communist government, after coming to power in 1949, has built an extensive irrigation and flood control system to make life easier for the people of this waterlogged, impoverished area
the town fathers also hope huaian's rich historical heritage will draw tourists. it was the home to han xin, the han dynasty (206 b.c.-220 a.d.) general; wu chengen, writer of ``journey to the west,'' the classic of the ming dynasty (1368-1644), and the late premier chou en-lai
one small temple along the canal has a statue in memory of the ``washerwoman,'' an upright woman who helped gen. han when he was a poor boy and later refused a reward of 1,000 taels of silver
near that temple, outside their one-room brick homes with upswept tile roofs, the washerwomen of today are still down at the canal, hard at work
retirees don't have to worry any more about being penalized for underpayment of estimated taxes on their 1987 pensions
the internal revenue service announced wednesday that it will waive penalties that otherwise would hit retirees who failed to pay sufficient tax in advance on their pensions
the idea is to have equity between retired people and wage earners,'' said irs spokesman johnell hunter. ``retired people will now have the same benefits as wage earners.''
the irs announced last year that it would not impose penalties on taxpayers who had too little withheld from their 1987 wages. that announcement was made because of widespread taxpayer confusion about the numerous tax-law revisions enacted in 1986 and a complex new w-4 withholding form
even with these two waivers, taxpayers with large amounts of interest, dividends and other investment income still might be penalized if they have to pay too much tax when they file their returns. but the penalty would not apply to wage or pension portions of income
as a rule, at least 90 percent of 1987 tax liability must have been paid in advance through withholding or estimated quarterly payments. withholding is not required on pensions, although most recipients opt to have tax taken out from each check
the irs said most retirees will be automatically covered by the waiver without having to take any additional action. those who have already filed a return and paid the estimated-tax penalty will have any overpayment refunded
a taxpayer who receives a penalty notice dated before may 2, 1988, and has not responded should call the irs toll-free line for assistance, the agency said. that number is 800-424-1040
the waiver applies to any retirement income that must be reported on line 16b of form 1040, including individual retirement accounts and profit-sharing distributions, employee savings plans, pensions and annuities
in another decision affecting retirees, the irs said owners of multiple iras who passed the age of 70{ in 1987 will be allowed more discretion in choosing from which ira to take a distribution. such ira owners are required to take money from an ira by april 1
a recent change in the law required those with multiple ira accounts to divide the minimum required distribution among those accounts
under the change announced wednesday a past-70{ ira owner still will have to calculate a required distribution from each account but may then choose to take the entire payout from any one or more accounts
the irs announcement said taxpayers who already have received payouts from their iras and want to take advantage of the new rule may be able to return the distribution to one or more accounts under existing ``rollover'' provisions. in general, an ira owner has a 60-day period each year during which an account may be rolled over into another
this change could benefit, for example, a retiree who has some high-earning iras and some that are earning less. the retiree might find it beneficial to take the required minimum distribution from the less lucrative ira and keep the high earner intact
a relatively light snowfall this winter means an accordingly reduced likelihood of major spring flooding, the national weather service reports
nothing in the outlook for the coming month indicates weather conducive to major snowmelt flooding,'' said michael hudlow, director of hydrology for the agency
spring weather has prompted an early snowmelt in the eastern states, while in the west the snowpack is below normal, he said wednesday
that doesn't mean there won't be any local flooding, however, hudlow cautioned. local storms can still cause flash flooding in many areas
plus, there is a potential for some minor snowmelt flooding in upper michigan and northwest minnesota due to an early march snowstorm in that area, officials said
while the light western snowpack may be good news for flood-prone areas, it does raise concern about adequate water supplies in the summer for areas of idaho, washington and oregon, the weather service said
secretary of education william j. bennett says teacher jaime escalante's dramatic success in teaching calculus to hispanic teen-agers in east los angeles puts the lie to the notion that poor children cannot learn
bennett accompanied the garfield high school teacher to the washington premiere of ``stand and deliver,'' a movie about escalante
i have been to his classroom. i have seen the miracle in process,'' bennett told the opening-night crowd. ``jaime escalante is dedicated to his students, he is dedicated to their future. he is a true, genuine american hero.''
escalante dined with bennett at the department of education beforehand after guest-teaching calculus at three suburban virginia schools. today he was being feted at the embassy of his native bolivia
i feel great. what you're going to see is 90 percent true,'' said escalante, who is portrayed on film by actor edward james olmos of ``miami vice.''
i'm not doing anything new. i'm just helping my students reach their highest possible degree of personal development,'' he said
the movie shows how escalante cajoled a rambunctious group of teens from an east los angeles barrio into taking calculus, only to have the educational testing service suspect they cheated when they passed the advanced placement test en masse in 1982
they retook the rigorous exam and passed again with flying colors, and since then scores of escalante's pupils have followed in their footsteps. eighty-seven received advanced college credit in calculus last year
escalante sold math to them as ``the great equalizer'' and told the students that as descendants of the mayans, they had math in their bones
the only thing i'm doing is sharing knowledge,'' said the teacher, who has seen the movie before and didn't stay for wednesday night's showing. he left when the lights went down, telling bennett he was worn out from teaching calculus all day
over dinner at the department of education, escalante expressed concern that his students back at garfield high ``are falling way behind because of this trip,'' bennett related afterwards
this guy is the real thing,'' said bennett
bennett emerged full of praise for the film, saying, ``i think we're going to see a lot more courses in calculus. i think it's going to obviously lend great support to the whole idea of expectations, of kids living up to what we expect of them
it's a movie that defies the notion that children can't learn _ that children of poor circumstance and background can't have their part in the american dream,'' he said
bennett himself has said repeatedly that poor minority children are best served by schools that hold them to rigorous standards, not ones that water down their demands
sen. bob dole says he gave no serious thought to quitting politics after his presidential campaign fizzled and will try to keep his republican leadership post in the next session of congress
i don't have any regrets,'' dole said wednesday in an interview a day after he exited the gop presidential race. ``i think obviously you don't like to lose. but i think it probably strengthens my convictions about politics and that you can make a difference.''
relaxed in his capitol office, dole still expressed frustration with his inability to blunt vice president george bush's success in running as the heir apparent to president reagan
dole maintained that was the main reason for his downfall _ not what he conceded were several tactical mistakes by his campaign
the bottom line is you can't beat ronald reagan,'' dole said. ``i was running against ronald reagan jr. in the south.''
added dole, ``it's just this promotion idea that you just ought to go up the ladder.''
republican party ``winner-take-all'' rules in the primaries and caucuses also contributed to his exit from the race, dole said. if delegates were divided proportionally, he said, ``i'd still be in the race.''
although disappointed with the outcome of his presidential bid, dole said he was committed to serving out his full six-year term in the senate, which ends in 1992. in addition, he said he would seek to remain the republican leader when the senate reorganizesafter this fall's elections
i don't have anybody threatening me,'' dole said. ``pretty tough precinct, but i think we're in good shape.''
in analyzing the gop presidential race, dole conceded that his campaign organization had blundered, particularly in new hampshire and south carolina, and that those mistakes weakened his candidacy early in the nominating process
the campaign, for example, did not respond to last-minute television ads by bush raising questions about whether dole would increase taxes. his campaign spent heavily early in the nominating process, which caused problems in later contests
now had we won new hampshire, we still would have had a tough race,'' dole said
south carolina we probably should have bypassed instead of getting in there,'' he added
he said bush's win in south carolina helped boost the vice president to a sweep of the super tuesday primaries in the south, including north carolina, missouri and oklahoma _ states the dole campaign had hoped to win
after super tuesday came illinois. dole said, ``i knew that we weren't going to win illinois and i knew then it was probably over.''
the campaign, he said, would end with a ``little debt'' but he didn't know the exact amount. he also expressed reservations about the management of the campaign, saying: ``i think as far as organization, i'm not certain whether we had enough direction.''
asked what he would do differently, dole replied: ``keep the press off the plane.''
a contingent of reporters traveled on the same plane as dole and the senator said he thought he had received some unfair coverage during the campaign
for example, dole singled out the numerous stories written about one of his kansas associates, dave owen, who resigned as national finance chairman of the dole campaign in january after reports raised questions involving his financial dealings
dole complained that reporters on the campaign plane ``sit back there and they scheme up these little things and the next thing they're in time or newsweek.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis says he does not intend to use negative campaigning to win the democratic presidential nomination over his primary rival, jesse jackson
dukakis commented after another democratic hopeful, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, criticized jackson for his lack of experience in government
we can discuss issues without attacking each other,'' dukakis said wednesday. ``(the voters) don't want to know what gore thinks of jackson.''
dukakis said his record as governor separates him from the other candidates and gives him the best chance of beating republican candidate vice president george bush in november
i respect the other candidates,'' he said. ``but obviously i'm in this to win. and i believe i have the best chance to beat mr. bush in the fall.''
this sentiment was echoed by rep. david obey, d-wis., who announced his endorsement of dukakis
michael dukakis has the best chance to unify the party and win the white house for the democrats in november,'' obey said
jackson has emerged as dukakis' main challenger after last weekend's win in the michigan caucuses. dukakis responded with a big win tuesday in the connecticut primary, and all the democratic candidates are aiming at the wisconsin primary tuesday, along with colorado's caucuses on monday
dukakis, asked whether he lacks the passionate campaign style used by jackson, said: ``i don't want to go down as a great communicator. there's no question my strength is as a doer. i want to be a great builder.''
dukakis spoke earlier in the evening to students at marquette university, where he gave a detailed discussion of his views on central america
i want to help build a central america ... where our energy and our resources are devoted to building and educating and investing, not killing and sabotaging and tearing down,'' he said
dukakis said while the united states must respond ``firmly and forcefully'' to any attempts by one country to subvert another, he added that too often america has ``shown our neighbors a fist when they needed a helping hand.''
dukakis said he is encouraged by the negotiations between the nicaraguan sandinistas and contra rebels, and he would push all parties to meet the obligations under the peace plan of costa rican president oscar arias
police recovered a page of notes written by albert einstein that had been taken from a university of texas display case, and arrested the grandson of former football coach darrell royal
an investigator said the page of handwritten notes was found tuesday at the home of 18-year-old samuel k. royal. royal was arrested wednesday evening, said university police lt. ronald thomas
the page was reported missing last week from a locked glass display case in a campus building. it was among six pages on display from a series addressing euclidean rotation
investigators from the district attorney's office and the university police department recovered the manuscript late tuesday, said district attorney ronald earle. the investigators searched the duplex on a tip provided by crime stoppers, he said
royal's grandfather coached at texas from 1957 through 1976, was ut athletic director until 1979 and now is special assistant to the president of the university. darrell royal did not return telephone calls for comment to his austin residence
the younger royal leaves near the ut campus but is not a student, officials said
the missing page is part of an archive of 60 to 70 pages ``upon which einstein wrote the notes representing his thinking as he was trying to work out his theories near the end of his life,'' said john chalmers, librarian for the university's harry ransom humanities research center
einstein, the famed physicist who formulated the theory of relativity, apparently wrote the notes in the early 1950s. he died in 1955
the display case was locked and the glass unbroken when the theft was discovered. it is unclear whether the person who took the document had a key to the case or removed the document in some other way, chalmers said
although the page likely could have been sold for a few thousand dollars, its value far exceeds that amount, chalmers said
for all of us, it's a piece of our heritage, and it is not to be replaced,'' he said. ``in that sense, it has no price.''
the federal election commission has given the presidential candidates another $2.6 million, bringing the total dispensed from the public treasury for the 1988 campaign to $48.1 million
as of wednesday, former tv evangelist pat robertson, who is trailing far behind vice president george bush in the republican delegate race, remained the leader in overall matching funds received, at nearly $8.5 million
bush has collected $7.4 million and kansas sen. bob dole, who dropped out of the race tuesday, has received $7.1 million
another recipient, democrat richard gephardt, a congressman from missouri, also dropped out this week
sen. albert gore jr., d-tenn., faces loss of eligibility for matching funds by virtue of receiving less than 10 percent of the vote in two successive primaries _ illinois and connecticut
gore notified the federal election commission, as is his legal prerogative, that he did not want the puerto rico ``beauty contest'' primary on march 20 to count toward his eligibility, said fec spokesman fred eiland. a candidate may take that option if he chooses not to campaign actively in a given state
gore's matching funds for continued campaigning will be cut off in 30 days unless he can get at least 20 percent in a primary contest before that time. if he did not, he could receive matching funds only for winding-down costs and debt satisfaction
the federal fund matches every contribution of $250 or less that the candidates raise from individuals
the fund is supported by the $1 voluntary checkoff on individual income tax returns
to be eligible, a candidate must first raise $100,000 across 20 states in contributions of $250 or less, with a minimum of $5,000 total from each state
the amounts certified on wednesday, followed by the total the candidates have received to date, are:
bush, $557,185, $7.4 million
dole, $469,054, $7.1 million
michael dukakis, $254,386, $5.9 million
gephardt, $286,176, $2.6 million
gore, $117,312, $2.7 million
jesse jackson, $450,547, $1.5 million
robertson, $307,766, $8.5 million
paul simon, $115,346, $2.8 million
violent protests have persisted despite an army ban on free news media access to the west bank and gaza strip, challenging israeli contentions that television cameras fueled palestinian riots
the measures against the media have been unprecedented in israel's 20-year occupation of the territories
reporters and photographers have been barred for at least three days and possibly longer from entering the areas where 1.5 million palestinians live alongside 65,000 jewish settlers
the only access is with israeli army escorts, a procedure that prevents journalists from talking freely with palestinians
authorities also have sought to cut off major sources of information such as the arab-run palestine press service. the news agency offices were padlocked by police on wednesday
neither measure has been entirely effective. the gaza strip has remained sealed, because of its geographic isolation and because telephone lines have been cut
but reporters have circumvented roadblocks in the west bank by using back roads, traveling with jewish settlers or identifying themselves as tourists
and palestinian journalists have continued to keep the foreign news media informed of breaking developments via telephone calls
defense minister yitzhak rabin has argued that the media restrictions coupled with preventative arrests, economic sanctions and other measures will eventually have a calming effect
the cumulative effect of the measures ... will join to form a system that will bring calm,'' he said on israel radio
reflecting official thinking, arieh shalev, who headed israel's military government in the west bank from 1974 to 1976, said in an interview that news coverage was a key to the palestinian uprising
one of the most important elements of the uprising is to win international sympathy and cause damage to israel in the hope that this will have political effect, as well,'' said shalev, now of tel aviv university's jaffee center for strategic studies
the restriction of the media is aimed at harming their campaign for world public opinion. this is a step israel is taking to weaken the palestinians, not to get at the journalists.''
more than 120 palestinians have been killed since violence began dec. 8. one israeli soldier has been killed. israel's use of bullets to quell the riots prompted international criticism, as did the policy of beating protesters
liberal critics of the media restrictions, who were decidedly in the minority, argued that israel was sacrificing democratic principles
ido dissentchik, editor of the mass circulation maariv daily, said in an interview the closure was a ``heavy price to pay.''
i think it's an hysterical step. i hope that it doesn't indicate that people in authority are losing their heads,'' said dissentchik. ``israeli authorities must live with this problem called democracy.''
there has been a solid consensus among ordinary israelis that the riots were feeding off media coverage and that it would be foolish and self-destructive to allow it to continue
the psychological basis for the decision to close off the areas, at least in part, involves a unique israeli sensitivity about being a victim
one of the worst insults in israel is to be called a ``fryar,'' hebrew slang for patsy, a person who lets other people take advantage of him
many israelis feel they are becoming just that: victims of their own openness and democratic traditions
officials also argue israel has been subjected to a double standard by the foreign news media, and that no arab state would have used the restraint israel has shown
when arabs kill arabs it's not news,'' said one official who spoke on condition of anonymity
officials also complained the media gave prominence to the bloodshed in the west bank and gaza strip but ignored loss of life elsewhere in the world
one cited what he described as relatively fleeting coverage of iraq's alleged use of chemical weapons on iranian-occupied kurdish villages in which iran claimed 5,000 people were killed
another pointed to a newspaper that gave front-page play to the shooting death of a palestinian woman but carried deep inside the paper the story of hundreds of people reportedly massacred in brazil
if this is the double standard the world is going to adopt, then we can do without them,'' said the official
officials also alleged anti-israeli and even anti-semitic bias. they showed a reporter newspaper stories or cartoons equating israeli measures against palestinians with those used against jews by nazi germany or which used jewish symbols such as stars of david or menorah candelabras
nicolas b. tatro, bureau chief in jerusalem, has been based in israel since 1983 and served in cairo, beirut and tehran since 1977
the senate has approved legislation designed to revive the domestic uranium industry in a move that bodes serious problems for a u.s.-canadian trade pact
the measure, sent to the house on a 62-28 vote wednesday, also would restructure the government-owned industry, which prepares uranium ore for use as fuel in commercial nuclear reactors
the legislation has prompted concern over the trade agreement because it would impose a schedule of escalating fees on nuclear utilities that load their reactors with more than 37.5 percent foreign uranium
opponents, including sens. bill bradley, d-n.j., and daniel evans, r-wash., argued that the provision would violate the recent free trade pact signed with canada, a leading exporter of uranium that is cheaper and of higher grade than the ore produced by u.s. mills
an attempt by bradley and evans to strike the import penalties lost 47-45
in arguing for the bill, sen. pete v. domenici, r-n.m., complained that president reagan's treaty negotiators let the canadians say, in effect, that ``we not only want your (uranium) market, we want to wipe you out.''
reagan has vowed to veto any bill that violates the trade pact
the legislation would convert the department of energy's uranium enrichment program, a multibillion-dollar loser since the mid-1970s, into a corporation owned by the government. if the enterprise begins turning profits, the treasury could sell the stock in a bid to recover previous investments
sen. j. bennett johnston, d-la., who guided the measure through his energy committee, said it is ``the culmination of six years of legislative effort to fashion a sound, sensible, and well-balanced program to address the challenges we face today in the uranium industry and the nuclear fuel cycle.''
he estimated the bill would restore 20,000 jobs in the uranium mining industry, which has dwindled to just 2,000 workers in this decade. and he estimated the uranium enrichment workforce, cut by half since 1980, could be restored to at least 12,000 jobs
the united states was once the world's only supplier of enriched uranium, and the domestic nuclear power industry has grown at a far slower rate than originally projected
the number of domestic uranium mines dropped from 362 in 1979 to 3 in 1986; net earnings for the industry were negative the last three years; and imports accounted for an increasing share of domestic requirements
opponents say a provision settling the industry's debt to the government for enrichment costs in exchange for $364 million in future payments is a bailout for the industry. their estimates of the real cost range from $3 billion to $8.8 billion
the 1954 atomic energy act required the government to be fully compensated for its enrichment of nuclear fuel used by commercial utilities. the process is performed at three doe facilities, at oak ridge, tenn.; paducah, ky.; and portsmouth, ohio
enrichment involves increasing the percentage of fissionable material in natural uranium from 0.7 percent to about 3 percent, the amount necessary for use in light-water reactors
although the legislation would impose import fees on utilities using more than 37.5 percent foreign uranium, the utilities would be able to buy up to half their uranium from foreign suppliers without penalty starting in 1995
another section of the bill would create a $1 billion fund to clean up or stablize large, mildly radioactive piles of uranium tailings at 26 sites in colorado, new mexico, south dakota, texas, utah, washington state and wyoming. the cost would be shared equally by uranium mill owners, nuclear utilities and the government. order</head> underwent abortion before receiving restraining order. corrects spelling of lawyer's name to dolowitz sted dorowitz. no pickup.</note>
an 18-year-old woman, whose quest to end her pregnancy was upheld by a district court but blocked an hour later by the utah court of appeals, obtained an abortion between the two rulings wednesday, a court spokeswoman said
the appellate court had scheduled a monday hearing to consider 25-year-old michael reynolds' appeal of 3rd district judge david s. young's decision to vacate an earlier restraining order, which banned reynolds' estranged wife, jennifer, from ending her pregnancy, in its eighth weeks
the higher court's ruling was issued within an hour of young's decision, but mrs. reynolds, who did not attend the court proceedings, had an abortion before she was served with the appellate court order, said rosemary gacnik, spokeswoman for the state court system
she did have the abortion before she was served with the papers, which would've prevented her from doing so,'' gacnik said. ``it was during that time lapse between when the ban was lifted and when the court of appeals issued its own restraining order.''
gacnik said monday's hearing was now ``a moot issue,'' although mrs. reynolds' attorneys had not filed a motion to vacate the appellate court's order as of the close of court offices late wednesday
i wouldn't be surprised if her attorney filed a motion to vacate the hearing, but that remains to be seen,'' gacnik said
young, who last week ruled that mrs. reynolds could not have an abortion pending resolution of a divorce-related custody dispute involving both a 10-month-old infant and the unborn child, accepted arguments by american civil liberties union attorneys wednesday that the woman has a constitutional right to end her pregnancy
young said while reynolds may have the right to be consulted about any abortion involving mrs. reynolds, she had the ultimate authority over whether to carry the fetus to term
following the hearing, defense attorney david dolowitz said he believed his client would ``secure an abortion'' as soon as possible
reynolds' attorney, mitchell barker, said monday's hearing might be pointless if the fetus had been aborted
if the abortion has taken place, we're going to have to make some serious evaluation ... there's a pretty good argument that would make it moot,'' he said
utah is one of four states with laws requiring wives to notify husbands of abortion decisions
during arguments before young, dolrowitz said reynolds wanted the court to order mrs. reynolds to ``do what he (reynolds) wants to do with her body.''
young's earlier restraining order was in effect ``telling my client that she must use her body to carry his baby,'' dolowitz added
co-counsel julie bryan said the u.s. supreme court ruled in roe vs. wade that husbands have no veto power over their wives' abortion decisions
the high court ruled that when a husband and wife disagree over an abortion, ``the view of only one of the two marriage partners can prevail. inasmuch as it is the woman who physically bears the child and who is the more directly and immediately affected by the pregnancy ... the balance weighs in her favor,'' bryan said. disease</head>
the federal government's top health official has some advice for americans on how to avoid heart attacks: get your cholesterol checked and do something about it if it's too high
most people can lower their cholesterol level by reducing the amount of cholesterol and saturated fat in their diet,'' health and human services secretary otis r. bowen said wednesday. ``some need a combination of diet and drugs.''
his point was that anyone can lower his or her blood cholesterol, and that anyone with a level above 200 milligrams-per-deciliter _ which puts them at excessive risk for heart attack _ should do so
that 200-milligram level takes in about half of all adult americans
about one in four adults has a cholesterol number of 240 or more, which puts them at even greater risk and commands medical attention,'' bowen said at a news conference
first, know your number,'' said bowen. ``getting your level checked is the only way to find out. cholesterol, like high blood pressure, is a silent killer. there are no signs or symptoms.''
about 400 hospitals across the nation will offer cholesterol testing may 4. most will do it free, but a few will charge $3
that mass screening, the first in history, was organized independently by the voluntary hospitals of america and announced last week
television spots promoting the program, called ``countdown usa,'' began airing this week and include a toll-free telephone number _ 800-634-9541 _ for people to call weekdays from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. est to find out which hospitals in their areas will offer the testing
an initial screening can be simple and quick. small machines _ about 6,000 have been sold since they won market approval two years ago _ take about three minutes to analyze blood drawn from a finger-tip stick
if that preliminary figure is within the safety zone, no further testing is indicated. if it is borderline or high, a more elaborate analysis is needed of a regular blood sample
television and radio talk show host larry king said his cholesterol count was above 300 a little over a year ago. ``i didn't pay attention to it,'' he said. ``i had a heart attack feb. 24, 1987. i had quadruple heart bypass surgery dec. 1, 1987.''
king pays attention now, he said, and has his count down to 170. he also is featured in public service spots to be aired during the next few weeks urging people to get tested
bowen said research has shown that each 1 percent reduction in cholesterol results in a 2 percent reduction in the risk of heart disease. ``in other words, a reduction of 25 percent in the cholesterol level can cut the risk of heart disease in half,'' he said
ulysses s. grant was in the white house and gen. george custer was one year away from making his last stand when orpha nussbaum was born aug. 13, 1875
mrs. nussbaum, believed by the guinness book of world records to be the world's oldest person, died wednesday at age 112
she had pneumonia recently, but an official cause of death was not released, said diane hostetler, director of nursing at fountainview nursing home, where mrs. nussbaum lived
her condition worsened during the weekend,'' miss hostetler said
she couldn't do anything for herself anymore,'' said a stepdaughter-in-law, betty nussbaum. ``you can't do anything for a person who doesn't want to live anymore.''
betty nussbaum said she was saddened by the death, but said mrs. nussbaum had lived a good life
last month, guinness officials said they believed she was the oldest person alive
mrs. nussbaum was honored at a special ceremony in january when officials placed the goshen city seal on census documents indicating she was born in 1875 on the family farm near middlebury about 10 miles away. she spent most of her life in middlebury until moving to the nursing home in 1982
florence knapp, who lived in a philadelphia suburb, had been recognized as the world's oldest person until her death jan. 11. she was 114 years and 94 days old
guinness restricts recognition to those who can provide birth records and other documentation
there had been some confusion whether mrs. nussbaum would be 112 or 113 last aug. 13. for years she had maintained she was a year older than she actually was
but a document found in the public library in this northern indiana city last september showed that the former orpha ulery was 4 years old when she was counted in the u.s. census of 1880, making her 112
mrs. nussbaum attributed her longevity to her strict obedience to a biblical command, betty nussbaum said. ``she honored her father and mother. that's it,'' she said
for many years mrs. nussbaum taught sunday school in the elkhart and goshen areas. when she was 93, she resumed writing poetry, a hobby she had stopped in the 1920s
mrs. nussbaum married john mischler, a minister, in 1897. after his death, she married frank nussbaum in 1947. he died in 1959
here is the 345-70 roll call wednesday by which the house approved a $48 million package of humanitarian aid for the contra rebels in nicaragua and for children injured in seven years of civil war
a ``yes'' vote is a vote for the aid package
voting yes were 179 democrats and 166 republicans
voting no were 65 democrats and 5 republicans
x denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there are three vacancies in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, y; erdreich, y; flippo, y; harris, y; nichols, y
republicans _ callahan, y; dickinson, y
republican _ young, y
democrat _ udall, y
republicans _ kolbe, y; kyl, y; rhodes, y; stump, y
democrats _ alexander, y; anthony, y; robinson, y
republican _ hammerschmidt, y
democrats _ anderson, y; bates, n; beilenson, y; berman, y; bosco, n; boxer, n; brown, y; coelho, y; dellums, n; dixon, y; dymally, n; edwards, y; fazio, y; hawkins, y; lantos, y; lehman, y; levine, n; martinez, n; matsui, y; miller, y; mineta, n; panetta, y; pelosi n; roybal, n; stark, x; torres, y; waxman, n
republicans _ badham, y; dannemeyer, x; dornan, y; dreier, y; gallegly, y; herger, y; hunter, y; konnyu, y; lagomarsino, y; lewis, y; lowery, y; lungren, y; mccandless, y; moorhead, y; packard, y; pashayan, y; shumway, y; thomas, y
democrats _ campbell, y; schroeder, n, skaggs, y
republicans _ brown, y; hefley, y; schaefer, y
democrats _ gejdenson, y; kennelly, n; morrison, y
republicans _ johnson, y; rowland, y; shays, y
democrat _ carper, y
democrats _ bennett, y; chappell, y; fascell, y; gibbons, y; grant, y; hutto, y; lehman, y; mackay, y; mica, y; nelson, y; pepper, y; smith, y
republicans _ bilirakis, y; ireland, y; lewis, y; mack, y; mccollum, y; shaw, y; young, y
democrats _ barnard, y; darden, y; hatcher, y; jenkins, y; lewis, x; ray, x; rowland, y; thomas, y
republicans _ gingrich, y; swindall, y
democrat _ akaka, y
republican _ saiki, y
democrat _ stallings, y
republican _ craig, y
democrats _ annunzio, y; bruce, y; collins, n; durbin, n; evans, n; gray, y; hayes, n; lipinski, y; price, x; rostenkowski, n; russo, y; savage, n; yates, n
republicans _ crane, y; davis, y; fawell, y; hastert, y; hyde, y; madigan, y; martin, y; michel, y; porter, y
democrats _ hamilton, y; jacobs, n; jontz, n; mccloskey, y; sharp, y; visclosky, y
republicans _ burton, y; coats, y; hiler, y; myers, y
democrats _ nagle, n; smith, n
republicans _ grandy, y; leach, n; lightfoot, y; tauke, y
democrats _ glickman, y; slattery, y
republicans _ meyers, y; roberts, y; whittaker, y
democrats _ hubbard, y; mazzoli, y; natcher, y; perkins, n
republicans _ bunning, y; hopkins, y; rogers, y
democrats _ boggs, y; hayes, y; huckaby, y; tauzin, y
republicans _ baker, y; holloway, y; livingston, x
democrat _ brennan, y
republican _ snowe, y
democrats _ byron, y; cardin, y; dyson, y; hoyer, y; mcmillen, y; mfume, y
republicans _ bentley, y; morella, y
democrats _ atkins, y; boland, y; donnelly, n; early, n; frank, n; kennedy, n; markey, n; mavroules, y; moakley, y; studds, n
republican _ conte, n
democrats _ bonior, y; carr, y; conyers, n; crockett, n; dingell, y; ford, n; hertel, y; kildee, y; levin, y; traxler, y; wolpe, y
republicans _ broomfield, y; davis, y; henry, y; pursell, y; schuette, y; upton, y; vander jagt, y
democrats _ oberstar, y; penny, y; sabo, y; sikorski, n; vento, y
republicans _ frenzel, y; stangeland, y; weber, y
democrats _ dowdy, y; espy, y; montgomery, y; whitten, y
republican _ lott, y
democrats _ clay, y; gephardt, n; skelton, y; volkmer, y; wheat, n
republicans _ buechner, y; coleman, y; emerson, x; taylor, y
democrat _ williams, y
republican _ marlenee, y
republicans _ bereuter, y; daub, y; smith, y
democrat _ bilbray, y
republican _ vucanovich, y
republicans _ gregg, y; smith, y
democrats _ dwyer, y; florio, n; guarini, y; hughes, y; rodino, y; roe, y; torricelli, y
republicans _ courter, y; gallo, y; rinaldo, y; roukema, y; saxton, y; smith, y
democrat _ richardson, y
republicans _ lujan, y; skeen, y
democrats _ ackerman, y; biaggi, x; downey, y; flake, n; garcia, y; hochbrueckner, y; lafalce, y; manton, y; mchugh, x; mrazek, y; nowak, y; owens, n; rangel, n; scheuer, n; schumer, n; slaughter, n; solarz, y; stratton, y; towns, n; weiss, n
republicans _ boehlert, y; dioguardi, y; fish, y; gilman, y; green, n; horton, y; houghton, y; kemp, y; lent, y; martin, y; mcgrath, y; molinari, y; solomon, y; wortley, y
democrats _ clarke, y; hefner, x; jones, n; lancaster, y; neal, n; price, y; rose, x; valentine, y
republicans _ ballenger, y; coble, y; mcmillan, y
democrat _ dorgan, y
democrats _ applegate, n; eckart, y; feighan, y; hall, n; kaptur, y; luken, y; oakar, n; pease, y; sawyer, y; stokes, y; traficant, n
republicans _ dewine, y; gradison, y; kasich, y; latta, y; lukens, n; mcewen, y; miller, y; oxley, y; regula, y; wylie, y
democrats _ english, y; mccurdy, y; synar, y; watkins, y
republican _ edwards, y; inhofe, y
democrats _ aucoin, n; defazio, n; wyden, n
republican _ d. smith, y; r. smith, y
democrats _ borski, y; coyne, y; foglietta, n; gaydos, y; gray, y; kanjorski, y; kolter, n; kostmayer, y; murphy, x; murtha, y; walgren, y; yatron, y
republicans _ clinger, y; coughlin, y; gekas, y; goodling, y; mcdade, y; ridge, y; ritter, y; schulze, n; shuster, y; walker, y; weldon, x
democrat _ st germain, y
republican _ schneider, y
democrats _ derrick, y; patterson, y; spratt, y; tallon, y
republicans _ ravenel, y; spence, y
democrat _ johnson, n
democrats _ clement, y; cooper, y; ford, y; gordon, y; jones, y; lloyd, y
republicans _ duncan, x; quillen, y; sundquist, y
democrats _ andrews, y; brooks, n; bryant, y; bustamante, y; chapman, y; coleman, y; de la garza, y; frost, y; gonzalez, n; hall, y; leath, y; leland, y; ortiz, y; pickle, y; stenholm, y; wilson, y; wright, x (by tradition, the house speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, y; armey, y; bartlett, y; barton, y; boulter, x; combest, y; delay, y; fields, y; smith, y; sweeney, y
democrat _ owens, y
republicans _ hansen, y; nielson, y
republican _ jeffords, y
democrats _ boucher, n; olin, n; pickett, y; sisisky, y
republicans _ bateman, y; bliley, y; parris, y; slaughter, y; wolf, y
democrats _ bonker, n; dicks, y; foley, y; lowry, y; swift, y
republicans _ chandler, y; miller, y; morrison, y
democrats _ mollohan, y; rahall, y; staggers, y; wise, y
democrats _ aspin, y; kastenmeier, n; kleczka, y; moody, n; obey, x
republicans _ gunderson, y; petri, y; roth, y; sensenbrenner, y
republican _ cheney, y
here is a brief summary of provisions in the $47.9 million contra aid bill taken up wednesday by the house:
_ $17.7 million for the contra rebels over the next six months. the money would flow at a rate of $2.7 million monthly to buy food, clothing and medical supplies for the rebels. it also could include $1.5 million for communications equipment, if that is deemed in accord with a nicaraguan cease-fire agreement
_ $17.7 million to establish a program to pay for medical care for children who are victims of the nicaraguan civil war
_ $10 million to pay the expenses of a commission set up to verify compliance with the provisions of the cease-fire
_ $2.5 million for the state department's agency for international development to pay costs of administering the aid program. 9th-12th grafs pvs, bgng, `the fetal...'. picks up 13th graf, `in alcoholics...'. national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism is cq, 4th graf</note>
memory problems in rats caused by chronic alcohol intake were mostly reversed with brain tissue transplants, and such therapy may someday help alcoholics and victims of alzheimer's disease, a researcher says
i think that really means there's hope, if you blow your mind with too much whiskey, maybe we'll be able to repair it with transplants,'' or similarly ease mental deficits in alzheimer's, said jeffrey gray of the institute of psychiatry in london
but experts in alcohol-induced memory problems were skeptical, questioning the resemblance of the rats' condition to that of alcoholics and cautioning that any implication for treatment is only speculation
still, ``i think it's going to stimulate lots of excitement and lots of further research,'' said michael eckardt, chief of the clinical brain research section in the laboratory of clinical studies at the national institute on alcohol abuse and alcoholism
gray, head of the psychology department at the psychiatric institute in london, reports the research with colleagues in thursday's issue of the british journal nature
about 10 percent of alcoholics develop long-lasting memory loss, either by itself or as part of an overall loss in intellectual abilities, according to the federal alcohol institute
in the new work, 78 male rats drank an alcohol solution as the only fluid in an otherwise normal diet for 28 weeks. four weeks later, they did poorer than other rats in learning to find food in a maze
but rats that then got transplants of fetal rat brain tissue to two brain areas, the neocortex and the hippocampus, later performed almost as well as normal rats, the researchers said
the fetal tissue was rich in a substance called acetylcholine, which some brain cells use to communicate. the transplants apparently worked by raising inadequate levels of the substance in the brain, gray said
alzheimer's is not related to alcohol. but an acetylcholine defect has also been identified in that disease, which involves problems in memory and thinking, gray said
david drachman of the university of massachusetts in worcester, an alzheimer's expert, said previous research has shown that impairment of the brain's acetylcholine circuitry can hinder mental performance. treating that impairment has helped in regaining mental powers, he said
but alzheimer's affects far more of the brain than just acetylcholine-using cells, and whether gray's strategy would significantly help alzheimer patients remains to be seen, he said
in alcoholics, memory loss without other intellectual decline is called korsakoff's psychosis. eckardt said scientists are still studying whether it is caused by excessive alcohol intake, by a deficiency of the vitamin thiamine in the alcoholic's usually poor diet, or by a combination of those factors
the new research did not involve thiamine deficiency, so connecting its results to korsakoff's is speculative, eckardt said
the rats did not display a type of brain damage, called diencephalic lesions, that is characteristic of korsakoff's. the researchers said that suggests the lesions are not responsible for the memory problems
but that is ``much too speculative,'' and clashes with evidence that does implicate the lesions, said philip langlais, a korsakoff's researcher at the university of california, san diego
the lesions are generally accepted as causing the memory deficits in the condition, so the rats did not truly have an animal version of korsakoff's psychosis, said marlene oscar berman, professor of neurology and psychiatry at the boston university school of medicine
since president reagan took office in 1981, his policy of financing the contra rebels in their war against nicaragua's sandinista government has been one of the most divisive foreign-policy questions facing congress and the nation. here is a chronology of the ups and downs of that policy:
1981 _ congress, late in the year, approves $19 million in covert military aid to the rebels. the money, to be managed by the cia, is part of a classified intelligence bill
1982 _ a second infusion of $19 million, again part of a classified bill, is approved. this time, restrictive provisions are added that prevent any of the money from being used to overthrow the sandinista government. there are reports, as well, that the cia has used an additional $10 million from its contingency fund
1983 _ the house votes to end contra aid, but a later compromise results in the appropriation of $24 million for the rebels. this time, the money is appropriated openly, and the cia is barred from using any money from its contingency fund to supplement the new aid
1984 _ in april, reports surface that the cia has supervised the mining of three nicaraguan ports, and congress votes to cut off aid to the rebels. but at the end of the year, lawmakers vote to set aside $14 million for the rebels, to be released after feb. 28, 1985, if congress approves in a separate vote at that time. congress adds new restrictions, saying the cia and the pentagon may not use the money to support paramilitary operations in nicaragua unless specifically authorized by congress
1985 _ in april the senate votes to release the $14 million, but the house votes against the resolution, denying the money to the rebels. that summer, congress approves $27 million for the contras but restricts its use to food, clothing, medicine and other ``humanitarian'' aid. the money is directed to be used by the administration as leverage to promote peace negotiations, and the cia and defense department are barred from any role in distributing the money
1986 _ in the fall, congress approves $100 million _ its largest single appropriation for the rebels _ the bulk of it for military aid. restrictions on the cia's role are lifted, except that the agency remains barred from using its contingency fund
1987 _ in march, the house passes a moratorium on contra aid in an effort to hold up the final $40 million of the aid bill approved in 1986, but the measure dies in the senate. at the end of the fiscal year, on sept. 30, congress begins a series of stopgap funding measures that include money for ``non-lethal'' aid for the rebels totaling another $20 million
1988 _ under procedures laid out in late 1987, the house on feb. 3 kills president reagan's request for $36 million in rebel aid, including $3.6 million in military aid. a month later, the house also rejects a democratic alternative that would have provided $30 million in solely humanitarian aid. the rebels reach a negotiated truce with the sandinistas on march 23, and a new $48 million proposal is drafted in the house with bipartisan support
tenor alfredo kraus brought dignity and elegance to the title role of massenet's ``werther,'' the final opera to enter this season's repertory at the metropolitan opera
some tenors portray werther as a self-pitying nut case as he pines for his beloved charlotte, who has married another man to fulfill a promise to her dying mother
but in wednesday's performance kraus gave him the dignity of a man feeling overwhelming love. vocally he was lean, elegant, refined, distinguished
frederica von stade as charlotte sang well throughout but rather blandly in the first two acts, as she denied her love for werther and stuck steadfastly to her husband. in act 3, with her love churning to the surface as werther falls into suicidal depression, miss von stade came through with passionate vocalizing
dawn upshaw sang charlotte's sister sophie in a voice as fresh as spring. it almost seemed to lilt. richard stilwell did well with albert. all voices were well focused. jean fournet conducted his first ``werther'' at the met, beautifully shaping the music
the present production, last heard at the met eight years ago, was new in 1971. rudolf heinrich's sets for acts 1 and 2 are realistic and attractive. after werther's mind cracks, set walls meet at odd angles. in the finale scene, his room looks like a coal cellar
werther'' will be heard on the metropolitan's last saturday afternoon broadcast. the season ends april 16. message</head>
the message that jesse jackson has been preaching with startling success on the democratic campaign trail is ``stop economic violence against american farmers and workers. stop drugs. invest in our children. reinvest in america.''
there's nothing radical about his message,'' john white, the texan who was chairman of the democratic party during the carter administration and now a jackson supporter, said wednesday. ``it's neither liberal nor conservative. it's the core language of the democratic party.''
but much of jackson's platform is decidedly liberal and dovish. the candidate himself calls it ``the opposite of reaganomics.''
he has promised a universal, comprehensive health program for all americans, a goal of democrats since harry truman
he wants to double the budget for education and raise the minimum wage
and he would pay for his social initiatives by raising taxes on the rich and slashing pentagon spending
jackson, who has finished first or second in most of the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses and is close behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the delegate chase, has cast himself as the candidate of the displaced farmer and factory worker, the hungry and the homeless, and those who fear their toehold on financial security is precarious
economic violence haunts the lives of most ameicans,'' jackson said in a policy paper
there is nothing wrong with the american worker, the family farmer, or the small businessperson. there is something wrong with the system.''
jackson has called for a moratorium on family farm foreclosures; civil rights legislation to protect lesbians and gay men; tapping public pension funds to build housing, roads, mass transit and water systems; debt relief and an ``international marshall plan'' for the third world; a national floor for welfare benefits; a phase-out of nuclear power; a freeze on nuclear weapons, and a halt to u.s. aid for the contra rebels in nicaragua and the unita insurgents in angola
he claims he could cut the deficit by one-third by raising taxes on ``the richest 1 percent'' of americans and on corporations
here are some of jackson's key positions:
jackson says, ``u.s. policy in the middle east is fatally flawed. it is not working for israel, for the palestinians or for the interests of the united states.''
he has called for an alternative policy that ``moves the process that began at camp david to the next progressive step.'' it would be built on such principles as ``the right of israel to exist (and) the right of the palestinian people to self-determination, including an independent state.''
jackson says there should be a universal, comprehensive health care program for all, not just the elderly, ``no matter what their income.''
it would cover long-term care as well as services medicare now leaves uncovered, and it would be administered by the federal government and ``paid for by earmarked health taxes and general revenues.''
most hospitals and other institutions would remain private, providing services under contract with the federal government at regulated fees. by emphasizing prevention, it could actually be cheaper than what americans now pay, jackson claims
jackson calls himself ``a true peace candidate,'' and boasts that he is the only democrat who opposed reagan's invasion of grenada and his bombing of libya. he also favors ending the u.s. military build-up in the persian gulf
he proposes to save $40 billion by not building two new aircraft carrier task forces, and ``tens of billions of dollars'' by negotiating further arms reductions with the soviets
he opposes building the midgetman missile, the stealth bomber, the trident d-5 missile, or any more mx missiles. he opposes deployment of the strategic defense initiative, and wants to halt u.s. troop maneuvers in honduras
we must fight back against runaway corporations. tax subsidies which aid u.s. corporations to invest abroad must be eliminated,'' he said
jackson has proposed borrowing with federal guarantees 10 percent of the $600 billion assets of public pension funds to create an american investment bank for development projects
he says american business needs a new code of conduct, tougher anti-trust laws and tax incentives to invest in new plants and equipment. he would shift federal research and development funds from the military to civilian uses, saying the united states is ``making what the world isn't buying.''
jackson would require advance warning of plant closures and making business pay ``a fair share of the costs of dislocation.''
he supports equal pay for jobs of comparable worth _ a key issue for women _ and wants to raise the $3.35-an-hour minimum wage to $4.65 and then index it to the growth of average wages
jackson's anti-drug crusade, the centerpiece of his campaign, calls for increased coast guard funding to stop the influx of drugs. he would offer drug-producing countries substitute crops to replace drug crops and tie cooperation to trade and foreign policy decisions
we need a moratorium on family farm foreclosures,'' says jackson
he would shift the focus of federal programs to family farmers and help producers of raw commodities ``band together to become their own processors'' and cut out the middlemen
he charges that four corporations control 80 percent of the grain trade, and five companies hold 58 percent of the beef industry
jackson would double the $21 billion federal education budget to boost aid for college students and provide ``full funding for compensatory, bilingual and special education programs,'' as well as head start, which now serves only a third of eligible children
jackson would guarantee annual cost-of-living raises for social security recipients and leave the program ``out of the budget debate (to) stop striking fear into the hearts of our seniors.''
jews are celebrating passover with an abundance of matzoh, the ancient symbol of freedom that is more available in moscow this year
other changes since last passover include a modest expansion of jewish culture, limited availability of some kosher foods and visits by soviet jews to relatives abroad
many of the capital's 200,000 jews have been flocking to the main synagogue to buy the thin, cracker-like unleavened bread eaten during the eight-day commemoration of the freeing of the ancient hebrews from slavery in egypt
several jews making purchases in the dark lobby of the moscow choral synagogue said matzoh is not as difficult to obtain as it has been in the past
times have become easier with glasnost,'' said sasha, 26, referring to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of more openness on some issues. ``under (former soviet leader leonid i.) brezhnev, people gathering in large groups around the synagogue waiting to buy matzoh were driven away.''
earlier years also saw matzoh shortages
there were deficit problems with flour. now, everything is ok,'' said an elderly man who carried a rectangular package of matzoh
several afternoons before the start of the holiday at sundown friday, a steady stream of customers bought matzoh wrapped in white or brown paper marked ``kosher for passover'' in russian and hebrew
yuri a. korzhenevich, one of the synagogue's two rabbis, acknowledged in an interview that the government didn't provide enough flour for matzoh from 1965-1969 but said this year's allotment of 135 tons satisfied the demand
trucks made deliveries daily to the synagogue from what korzhenevich calls a ``matzoh bakery,'' a tiny two-story, pre-revolutionary brown building in downtown moscow
the chief matzoh maker, pavel n. spaskin, gave a reporter a tour of the bakery, tucked behind apartment buildings and across the street from a popular cooperative restaurant
we've been producing matzoh here for 20 years,'' said spaskin, a small gray-haired man of 38
the bakery already had stopped production for the year, and its stainless steel mixers and dough-rolling tables lay idle
spaskin said he recently compared his product with american matzoh
the american matzoh ``was more airy,'' he said. ``it would be interesting to know the technology americans use, or maybe it's a different flour.''
aside from abundant matzoh supplies, the government has allowed these improvements in jewish life since last passover:
_hungary's jews sent in some kosher wine, chickens and salami. religious books also have been imported
_a jewish museum and library have been set up in private moscow apartments
_last year, as relations with the west improved, more than 8,000 soviet jews were permitted to leave the country, nearly eight times as many as the year before and the highest total since 1981
among those who have left in recent months are longtime jewish activists and refuseniks josef begun, vladimir slepak, ida nudel, noam meiman and alexander lerner and pianist vladimir feltsman
soviet authorities also are allowing increased numbers of jews to travel to the west to visit relatives
in an exchange with the new york city jewish community, american rabbi marc schneier and cantor joel selter are scheduled to lead passover services in the moscow choral synagogue on friday, and the choral synagogue's chief rabbi, abraham shayevich, will be in the pulpit in new york
and there are more subtle signs of change. michael stolar, the 28-year-old son of chicago-born refusenik abe stolar, said he and a group of six friends meet daily in the choral synagogue to study the talmud, the writings on jewish civil and religious law
two to four years ago, you had to be quite careful about where you prayed or studied. you could have an unexpected visit by the militia,'' he said
still, problems remain
thousands of jews are waiting to leave. and anti-semitism persists: a soviet newspaper this week accused moscow's other synagogue of brainwashing jewish children into wanting to go to israel, and the word ``no!'' was scrawled in english next to a star of david on an outside wall of the matzoh bakery
barbara bush says her husband is not ready to start thinking about a republican vice-presidential running mate yet _ and even if he were, he'd keep it to himself
he ...said he didn't want to give it away now, or it would be a boring republican convention,'' mrs. bush said as she campaigned for her husband at a country club lunch here on wednesday
mrs. bush said she doesn't plan to change her style if her husband is elected to the white house. the white-haired, 62-year-old mrs. bush said she shrugs off remarks that she looks old enough to be the mother of her youthful-looking husband
i'd love to be a size 4, beautiful and twenty-years old,'' quipped mrs. bush. ``but i know i can't be that so i'll just be me. ... sometimes the comments can be brutal but most times i make a joke about it.''
she said she enjoys the campaigning but doesn't think her husband's public image reflects his real personality
people have no inkling how funny george is and how extraordinarily caring he is,'' she said. ``i adore george bush. it's easy to.''
former republican sen. barry goldwater says jesse jackson is the most intelligent democratic presidential candidate in the 1988 race
goldwater, a republican presidential candidate in 1964, said of jackson, ``he's the most intelligent man running on the democratic side, and not by a little, by a lot.''
whether he'll make a good president, well, that's something you can ask about any president,'' goldwater said wednesday
the 79-year-old former arizona senator spoke at a news conference prior to receiving princeton university's 1988 james madison award for distinguished public service
pollster mervin field says it is very unlikely that jesse jackson could win the june 7 california democratic presidential primary in a two-man race against michael dukakis
if jesse jackson wins in california, this would rank as one of the biggest political happenings since the country was founded,'' field told a luncheon of the sacramento press club on wednesday
but he said jackson could do better in a three-way race including albert gore
the san francisco-based political pollster, who publishes the california poll, said he doesn't think the california primary ``is as promising as michigan and the other industrial states'' for jackson
california is not as economically distressed as those states and jackson's appeal is to the economically distressed, he said. and the black population in california is not as large as in some other states: 8 percent of the general population and 14 percent of democrats, he said
an estimated 1.6 million voters are expected to go to the polls tuesday in wisconsin's presidential preference primary, a state elections board official says
that turnout would be about 45 percent of wisconsin's estimated 3.5 million eligible voters, said kevin kennedy, the board's executive director
in wisconsin's 1984 primary, voter participation dropped to 27.4 percent of the voting-age population
one factor in that turnout was the insistence of the national democratic party that wisconsin democrats use a caucus system instead of its open primary to select delegates to the national convention
this year, the open primary, in which voters are not required to state party preference, will again be used for delegate selection
mario cuomo supporters have failed to gather enough signatures to put the new york governor's name on california's presidential primary ballot, state officials say
but the head of a draft cuomo committee said his group plans to try to convince a court to add cuomo to the list of democratic candidates on the june 7 ballot
we knew that when we submitted the names that we did not have enough signatures, but we did it anyway because we felt that we had substantially complied with a law that has serious constitutional problems,'' said steven polard, a los angeles attorney who heads the california draft cuomo for president committee
committee members turned in about 16,000 signatures, polard said. they needed at least 22,500 _ a minimum of 500 from each of the state's 45 congressional districts, according to caren daniels-meade, a spokeswoman for secretary of state march fong eu
but state election officials had said earlier that even if the committee collected enough signatures they would not put cuomo's name on the ballot unless he authorized it
the new york governor has refused to enter the presidential primaries but he has not ruled out accepting a draft at the democratic national convention
daniels-meade said cuomo will not appear on the california ballot now unless he announces his candidacy for president, qualifies for federal matching funds and actively campaigns for the office
if those things happen, eu can add cuomo's name to the ballot, she said
a big boost for the space program along with cuts in aid to local and state governments are contained in the $1.1 trillion fiscal 1989 budget approved by the senate budget committee
the plan, closer to president reagan's priorities than the budget passed by the house earlier this month, was approved 18-3 on wednesday and sent to the full senate for consideration
committee chairman lawton chiles, d-fla., and sen. pete v. domenici of new mexico, the panel's senior republican, drafted the bipartisan compromise and it sailed through the committee in a single day
there's even an outside chance congress will meet its april 15 deadline for final budget action, although the senate doesn't plan to vote on the resolution until after next week's holiday recess
but opponents and supporters complained that while they were living up to the terms of last fall's deficit reduction agreement with reagan, the result was to put off much-needed fiscal reforms until next year
we need to get this out and then start showing what the problems are going to be,'' said chiles
sen. bill armstrong, r-colo., said it was mostly a plan to ``get past the november election.''
there's an old saying, `no guts, no glory,''' said armstrong. ``and this is a no-glory budget.'' armstrong and sens. steve symms, r-idaho, and kent conrad, d-n.d., voted against the plan
total deficit reduction in the senate budget proposal would be $7.2 billion, accomplished in part by holding spending on most programs short of the full inflation increases they would normally get. more than half the saving would come from selling off government assets
it would meet the $136 billion deficit-reduction target of the gramm-rudman budget balancing law only because the committee decided to use optimistic white house economic projections. the non-partisan congressional budget office predicts a deficit more than $30 billion higher
last fall's pact with the president set overall spending limits of $294 billion, $16.1 billion for foreign aid and $169.2 billion for domestic spending other than social security and entitlement programs
the agreement also included $14 billion in new taxes that were enacted last year and will be in effect for fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1
the senate budget envisions spending $13 billion of the domestic allocation on space and science in the year beginning oct. 1, about the same amount reagan requested and nearly $1 billion more than the house approved
in addition to the 27 percent increase for the space program, that money would boost national science foundation programs by 11 percent and move ahead the proposed construction of a giant physics project known as the superconducting super collider
like the house, the senate committee declined to kill any programs, relying instead on across-the-board spending restraint to reach deficit-reduction targets without making those tough choices in an election year
but while most programs would get at least a partial inflation boost, community and regional development would be cut $100 million from last year's $5.8 billion last year
tom cochran, executive director of the u.s. conference of mayors, said aid to localities has been cut too deeply already during the reagan years. ``the priorities of this thing are out of whack,'' he said of the senate plan
a republican amendment to carry out some of reagan's plan to eliminate those development programs was withdrawn, and domenici was defeated when he tried to require selling off two federally owned oil tracts, and said that,
sooner or later, we're going to have to get rid of some programs.'' but it was, domenici said, still a ``a fair, balanced budget.''
the proposal would, like the administration and house budgets, call for big increases in spending on aids research, air traffic safety and education
the senate plan assumes that if legislation providing catastrophic health insurance for medicare recipients is approved, there will be an accompanying increase in premiums to cover the cost
an additional $500 million would be provided to continue supplying cheese and other surplus commodities to the needy
like the president's budget, the senate plan would grant 4.3 percent pay raises for the military and 2 percent for civilian federal workers. the house adopted a 3 percent across-the-board pay hike
lettuce prices bounced up again in march but didn't approach their winter peaks, and the farm prices of cattle eggs and broilers were up, too
but the agriculture department says this month's farm prices for hogs, milk, wheat and sweet corn were down, and that left the march index where it was in february
even so, the march average of prices received by farmers was up 7.4 percent from a year ago, the department's agricultural statistics board said wednesday
the price of lettuce increased sharply from february to march but was well below record levels during the november through january 1988 period,'' the report said. ``calf prices dropped slightly from february to march but were at the second highest level since june of 1979.''
prices of cattle sold for beef were the highest since may 1979, the report said. hog and wheat prices declined from february, while corn prices rose slightly
department economists say net cash income of farmers may be in the range of $50 billion to $55 billion this year, down from the record level of $57 billion in 1987. that is the difference between cash receipts and cash expenses during the calendar year
consumer food prices are expected to rise 2 percent to 4 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent average increase in 1987
according to the preliminary march figures, based mostly on mid-month averages, the index for crop prices was up 0.9 percent from february and averaged 10 percent more than a year ago
commercial vegetable prices rose 11 percent from last month but were down 7.1 percent from march 1987
higher prices for lettuce and tomatoes were major contributors to the increase in the (vegetable) index,'' the report said
lettuce prices were reported at $21.30 per 100 pounds, compared with $11.10 in february and $35.60 in january
the index for livestock and livestock products was down 0.7 percent from february but was 4.2 percent above march 1987. prices were higher for cattle, eggs and broilers but were lower for hogs and milk
march farm commodity prices averaged 130 percent of a 1977 base used for comparison, according to the preliminary figures, the same as in february. a year ago the march index was 121 percent
no new figures for farm production costs were included in the report. those have been confined to quarterly averages because of budget cutbacks
in january, however, farm expenses were unchanged from last fall but averaged 4.4 percent above a year earlier. the next quarterly figures will be reported in april
the report said:
_cattle averaged $68.40 per 100 pounds of live weight nationally, up from $67.40 in february and the $59.30 reported for march 1987. those are averages for all types of cattle sold as beef
_hogs averaged $41.90 per 100 pounds, compared with $45.80 in march and $47.40 a year earlier
_corn, at $1.84 a bushel, was up from $1.83 in february and the average of $1.47 per bushel a year earlier
_wheat prices at the farm, according to preliminary figures, averaged $2.64 per bushel, compared with $2.79 in february and $2.57 a year earlier
_rice averaged $8.46 per 100 pounds, compared with $8.97 in february and $3.62 a year earlier
_soybeans were $5.93 per bushel, compared with $5.97 in february and $4.73 a year earlier
_upland cotton was reported at 56.9 cents per pound, compared with 56.8 in february and 47.5 cents in march 1987
_eggs were 50.8 cents per dozen, compared with 46.9 cents in february and 54.4 cents a year earlier
_milk was $12 per 100 pounds, compared with $12.30 in february and $12.50 a year earlier
_broilers were 27.5 cents per pound, live weight, compared with 25.7 cents in february and 29.1 cents a year ago
the national association of wheat growers says its producers should receive incentives from the agriculture department to sell grain on the open market rather than have to forfeit it to the government when price support loans come due
frank johannsen, association president, said wednesday that wheat producers deserve the same kind of consideration given corn producers who are being allowed to keep their grain under federal price support for an additional year
that was a reference to agriculture secretary richard e. lyng's announcement tuesday that price support loans for some old-crop corn and sorghum will be extended a year longer than their normal maturity dates
johannsen, a bayard, neb., wheat farmer, said in a statement released here that the association is ``seeking a way to encourage growers to settle their maturing loans'' by paying them off with generic certificates
the certificates are issued by usda as payment-in-kind under crop programs and can be exchanged for surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp
if the price support loans are not repaid, a farmer must forfeit the grain to the ccc, which cancels the debt
once the ccc takes over the grain, it must be moved into government storage. much of the ccc wheat is currently being sold back into the market in weekly auctions
since current estimates are that it costs the government at least 20 cents a bushel to move, store, catalog and exchange forfeited wheat through weekly auctions, our proposal won't cost anything extra and it will reduce some of the government's logistical problems,'' johannsen said. ``it has the added benefit of keeping wheat moving in the pipeline of our much-improved market.''
besides, he said, grain farmers ``have a right to expect even-handed treatment'' from the department
the nikkei stock average closed at 26,260.26 down 59.81 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on thursday
the teamsters union has eliminated a rival in trying to unionize the once bitterly anti-union adolph coors co. after organizing anheuser-busch's newest brewery just two weeks ago
the afl-cio on wednesday awarded sole organizing rights to the teamsters at coors' lead brewery at golden, colo., less than 50 miles away from the new anheuser-busch facility at fort collins, colo
the labor federation ordered one of its veteran affiliates, the machinists union, to withdraw from its campaign to organize the same 3,200 coors workers, saying the teamsters had a much better chance of succeeding
the decision was an outgrowth of the teamsters' decision last october to reaffiliate their 1.6 million members with the afl-cio. the union was expelled from the federation 30 years earlier on charges of corruption
a major factor in the afl-cio's decision to readmit the teamsters was ending the expensive fights and membership raids that the two organizations constantly waged against each other. many employers often were able to avoid collective bargaining altogether by playing one union against the other
the afl-cio last september had awarded the sole organizing rights at coors to the machinists. the teamsters had challenged that ruling as soon as they were re-admitted to the federation last nov. 1
coors, in the face of an intensive organizing effort by the teamsters since early 1986, last august signed an agreement with the afl-cio ending a 10-year-old nationwide boycott of its beer by the labor movement
in exchange, the company agreed to forgo erecting the usual legal hurdles available to employers in opposing unions and allow an afl-cio affiliate an unfettered attempt to organize its golden work force
however, that was before the teamsters were back in the afl-cio. and teamsters officials admitted they now have concerns now about how the coors-afl-cio pact will hold up in the face of wednesday's action
we're elated,'' said charles klare, director of the teamsters' 100,000-member brewery and soft drinks division. ``but there's a lot to be found out yet. we've got to meet with coors and determine if they accept the fact that the afl-cio picked us.''
the machinists union had argued before an arbitrator picked by afl-cio president lane kirkland that the teamsters should give up the coors effort based on last september's decision
the teamsters countered they had an ongoing organizing campaign at coors a year before the machinists entered the picture and had gotten signatures on teamster union cards from more than 30 percent of the workers at golden
kirkland agreed with the teamsters, according to witnesses at the arbitration proceedings
it was a black-and-white case,'' said vicki saporta, the teamsters' director of organizing. ``we were there first and they didn't have a single card signed. we're also the predominant union in the industry. we have contracts at all 12 anheuser-busch breweries covering some 9,000 workers.''
ms. saporta said the teamsters have another tactical advantage in that it also has union contracts representing employees of more than 180 local distributors of coors' products nationwide
the teamsters just last week ratified a new contract with anheuser-busch raising the base pay for brewery production workers from its current $16.50 an hour to $17.25 over the next three years
just a week earlier, the union won a an organizing effort at anheuser-busch's newest facility at fort collins to represent its current work force of about 340 people, which is expected to grow to 550 by next january
that was one of the factors the arbitrator took into consideration,'' klare said. ``coors workers are averaging about $3.50 to $4 an hour less than our members. seeing how fellow workers down the road are doing gives them a big incentive to come in.''
people who have been putting off writing letters may want to get busy before sunday, when the cost of sending one rises to a quarter from 22 cents
the 14 percent increase in the price of first-class mail is less, however, than the 18 percent increase for mailing newspapers and magazines and the 25 percent increase for advertising mail
the rate increases, proposed last may, were designed to avoid continuing losses by the postal service, officials said. the agency was more than $220 million in the red last year
some 6 billion ``e'' stamps have been distributed to post offices across the nation to fill the gap until new 25-cent stamps can be printed. the new stamps, without any price on them, are good only for use within the country
they have no denomination because they had to be printed ahead of time, before officials knew what new rate would be approved by the indpendent postal rate commission
postmaster general anthony frank has ordered post offices to extend their hours during the next two weeks to help in the changeover
stamps are also being sold by mail and telephone. phone orders, by credit card, can be made by calling 1-800-stamp24. there is a $2 service charge
here are some examples of the new rates:
_first-class letters:
first ounce, 25 cents; additional ounces 20 cents. up from 22 cents and 17 cents
presorted by zip code, 21 cents. up from 18 cents
presorted by carrier route, 19.5 cents. up from 17 cents
_first-class cards:
regular rate, 15 cents. up from 14 cents
presorted by zip code, 13 cents. up from 12 cents
presorted by carrier route, 11.5 cents. up from 11 cents
_priority mail: range of $2.40 to $72.24, unchanged
_express mail: range of $7.75 to $89.05. down from range of $8.35 to $104.95
_second-class (periodicals):
within county of publication, 9.4 cents per pound and 3.2 cents to 5.7 cents per piece. up from 9.1 cents per pound and 3.1 cents to 4.9 cents per piece
outside county of publication:
regular rate, 12.4 cents to 30.2 cents per pound and 4.9 cents to 16.0 cents per piece. up from 11.8 cents to 28.9 cents per pound and 3.8 cents to 12.3 cents per piece
nonprofit, 8.6 cents to 22.1 cents per pound and 3.8 cents to 12.5 cents per piece. changed from 8.5 cents to 28.3 cents per pound and 3.2 cents to 8.7 cents per piece
_third class (advertising):
single piece, 25 cents to $1.50. up from 22 cents to $1.38
bulk rate, 16.7 cents. up from 12.5 cents
presorted by zip code, 13.2 cents. up from 10.1 cents
presorted by carrier route, 10.1 cents. up from 8.3 cents
pound rate, 48 cents. up from 38 cents
nonprofit, 8.4 cents. down from 8.5 cents
presorted by zip code, 7.6 cents. up from 7.1 cents
presorted by carrier route, 5.3 cents. down from 5.5 cents
pound rate, 25.0 cents. down from 25.3 cents
_fourth class (parcel post): $1.43 to $25.46. up from $1.19 to $24.35
_registered mail, $4.40. up from $3.55
_certified mail, 85 cents. up from 75 cents
_collect-on-delivery, $2.00 minimum. up from $1.50
_insurance, 70 cent minimum. up from 50 cents
_money orders, 75 cent minimum. unchanged
_special delivery, $5.35. up from $2.95
contra rebels said they attacked sandinista soldiers in two areas of the country in violation of a temporary truce that is to be expanded into a 60-day cease-fire on friday
but the rebels' chief field commander said on wednesday he supports the peace accord with the leftist sandinista government that brought the truce
the two sides have not yet agreed on logistics of the cease-fire, during which the roughly 10,000 contra fighters are to move into five zones while a lasting peace agreement is negotiated. talks resume tuesday
a transcript of a wednesday broadcast by the rebels' honduras-based radio september 15 said rebels attacked in zelaya province along the caribbean coast and in the central province of matagalpa province. it did not say when
nicaraguan resistance commandos cause casualties to the pro-soviet army,'' the transcript quoted the broadcast as saying
the pro-government newspaper el nuevo diario quoted military sources as saying contras killed four civilians and kidnapped two on saturday in the central province of chontales
the defense ministry said on wednesday it had no reports of combat
other reports have indicated rebels opposed to the cease-fire agreement were staging attacks
however, col. enrique bermudez, the chief contra military field commander, said wednesday in miami that he supports the peace accord and will comply with it, despite his reservations. he has said he doesn't trust the sandinistas
we understand there can be differences, but during negotiations we have to have a single position,'' he told a news conference
in talks monday and tuesday, representatives of the government and the u.s.-backed contras agreed on the general locations of five zones where the contras are to begin gathering friday. but they did not further define the areas or work out the mechanics of how the rebels will move into the zones
the preliminary peace accord signed march 23 in the southern border town of sapoa says the rebels may accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization, such as the red cross, during the period. but it does not say if they must lay down their weapons, an issue that is expected to come up in the technical meeting in sapoa on tuesday or in a meeting of high-ranking representatives of both sides in managua on wednesday
in washington, the house on wednesday approved a $48 million package of humanitarian aid for the contras and for children injured in the fighting. the senate was to consider the measure today and there was a chance it could be law before congress adjourns for easter recess
u.s. aid to the contras expired feb. 29 and contra leaders said president reagan's failure to secure them continued military support in congress contributed to their decision to sign the peace accord
the six-year war was secondary in the minds of most nicaraguans this week. banks, government offices, stores and most restaurants closed for holy week vacations and residents headed for pacific coast beaches or other resort spots
many first had to search for gasoline which is in short supply
la prensa, the opposition newspaper, stopped publishing for the week, citing a shortage of soviet-supplied newsprint. the two government papers printed their last edition for the week on wednesday
state-run television planned special broadcasts, including the films ``jesus of nazareth'' and ``ben hur.'' movie theaters in the capital were showing ``annie hall,'' ``the godfather,'' ``the deer hunter,'' ``amadeus,'' and ``chariots of fire,'' all with spanish subtitles
documents just released by the congressional iran-contra committees include a handwritten note offering new evidence that cabinet-level opposition to the iran arms deal was on the agenda of a january 1986 meeting attended by vice president george bush
the vice president has maintained he was not aware of the concerns of then-defense secretary caspar weinberger and secretary of state george shultz until much later
had he been aware of their objections, bush has said, he might have advised the president against the sale. ``when you don't know something, it's hard to react. we were not in the loop,'' bush said last august
among documents released wednesday was an agenda penned by then-national security adviser john poindexter for his jan. 17, 1986, briefing of president reagan and bush. it includes an item that states ``shultz &amp; weinberger still recommend against.''
the agenda also states that attorney general edwin meese iii and the late cia director william casey ``approve,'' and lists a ``new finding'' _ or document to authorize the covert arms sales
reagan signed the document that day
the scrawled 26-word agenda is marked ``done'' at the top
bush in january said this of the meeting: ``the president may have signed a finding but there was no discussion of a finding in front of me. i do not recall any suggestion of a finding that day.''
bush maintains that specific details were not discussed in the briefing, which he considered to be an informal session, the washington post reported today, citing an unidentified aide to the vice president contacted wednesday
the newspaper noted that a memo released earlier and related to the same meeting stated that ``the secretaries do not recommend you proceed with this plan.'' that memo, prepared for the president, carried a poindexter notation that reagan had been briefed orally and that bush was among those present
poindexter is among those under indictment in the iran-contra affair
here is a chronology of events in the panamanian crisis:
thursday, feb. 25 _ panama's president, eric arturo delvalle, announces he is dismissing gen. manuel antonio noriega, indicted on u.s. drug charges, as head of the 15,000-strong defense forces and replacing him with col. marcos justines, chief of staff. justines refuses the job
friday, feb. 26 _ the noriega-dominated national assembly votes to oust delvalle. education minister manuel solis palma is named new head of state. noriega opponents call for a general strike in protest
saturday, feb. 27 _ delvalle goes into hiding in panama, defying noriega's order to leave the country
monday, feb. 29 _ general strike begins with mixed participation
tuesday, march 1 _ strike gains support. locally owned banks close. international banks limit withdrawals. security forces crack down on protests amid scattered violence
wednesday, march 2 _ doctors join businesses in general strike. u.s. officials say they will ask u.s. banks to freeze panamanian government assets
thursday, march 3 _ organizers end general strike as support fades. u.s. federal courts block withdrawal of panama funds from u.s. banks
friday, march 4 _ national bank of panama says it cannot meet banks' cash demands. international banks fearing a run on deposits close their doors. local banks remain closed
sunday, march 6 _ retired people who are unable to cash pension checks rally in streets
monday, march 7 _ riot police disperse demonstrators in panama with tear gas and birdshot
tuesday, march 8 _ government says banks can reopen but no one can cash checks or withdraw funds. few banks respond
friday, march 11 _ reagan imposes economic sanctions, including eliminating trade preferences for panama and withholding panama canal fees from the noriega government by placing them in escrow. noriega government meets army payroll. spain tells united states it would accept noriega if he asked for asylum
monday, march 14 _ public employees stage work stoppages and riot after government can't pay wages. riot police use tear gas and truncheons to disperse hundreds blocking traffic. u.s. sends 100 additional military personnel to beef up security around canal
tuesday, march 15 _ at least a dozen are injured in demonstrations as civil servants take to the streets to demand paychecks. government says it will make partial payments to public employees
wednesday, march 16 _ noriega survives coup attempt by dissident officers of defense forces. violent demonstrations occur and workers strike at state-run electric, water and telephone companies, ports in panama city and colon and government ministries
thursday, march 17 _ government declares a ``state of urgency'' and soldiers patrol capital. defense forces take control of utilities and ministries, but most workers remain off their jobs
friday, march 18 _ noriega meets with u.s. state department officials who offer freedom from extradition on drug charges if he will seek asylum in third country. noriega reportedly says he wants to remain in panama and take part in formation of transitional government
sunday, march 20 _ secretary of state george p. shultz says indictments against noriega will not be dropped and noriega cannot have a say about government after his departure
monday, march 21 _ armed soldiers patrol panama city as general strike paralyzes nation. solis palma announces noriega has offered to resign before may 1989 elections if opponents agree to talks. opposition leaders and united states reject noriega's offer
monday, march 28 _ riot troops smash an anti-government march by 10,000 people and more than 20 members of the opposition are arrested in a raid on a hotel in panama city. some journalists are also detained
wednesday, march 30 _ the 10-day-old general strike loses ground with the opening of the capital's major supermarket chains, although industry, construction and most commerce remain virtually paralyzed
jesse jackson, answering critics who say he lacks the government experience to be president, says ``some leaders don't hold office.''
the democratic presidential candidate also accused fellow hopeful albert gore jr. of personal attacks on him, a day after gore said jackson lacked the qualifications for the presidency
jackson returned to a site of his activism last year to emphasize wednesday that his personal style of leadership has been in the streets, not in the government halls
leadership stands with the people in the time of crisis,'' he told about a 1,000 people at st. frederick's church here late wednesday. ``i stood with the people ... i stood with the p-40 workers in cudahy.''
almost exactly a year ago _ on palm sunday 1987 _ jackson marched in the streets of this milwaukee suburb to protest management's actions in the strike of the united food and commercial workers local at the patrick cudahy meatpacking plant here
workers went on strike on jan. 4, 1987, and are still out. replacement workers have been hired, but the company, owned by smithfield foods, is trying to reoganize under the backruptcy laws
in your time of crisis, you called out to me and i responded,'' jackson told the crowd. ``in the time of this nation's crisis, i want to be your president and i need your help.''
jackson began a three-day wisconsin campaign swing wednesday after a day of private meetings in washington with key leaders of the party's washington establishment and with campaign aides. he planned a full day of campaigning across the state both today and saturday
some officeholders are leaders. some leaders don't hold office,'' he said. ``but leaders stand with the people in the hour of hardship and challenge.''
on tuesday, fellow democratic candidate sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee attacked jackson for lacking the requisite experience to be president, and criticized his foreign policy views
on wednesday, jackson said he viewed gore's comments as ``attacks, which were more personal than principled.'' the two were to meet, but it fell through
gore, told of jackson's remark, asked: ``is there supposed to be some unwritten rule why jesse jackson cannot be criticized, why his positions have to be just sacrosanct and nobody can say anything about them for fear somebody will just misinterpret what you're saying?''
jackson did not refer to gore directly in his speech, but he did tell reporters that he will lay his differences with the other candidates as appropriate
if there are distinctions, i will discuss them,'' jackson said
he emphasized that he wanted to keep his message positive and pledged not to engage in personal attacks
but gerald austin, jackson's campaign manager, told reporters on the plane that gore ``is the democratic bully'' who has attacked other candidates before. austin derided gore for saying complimentary things about jackson in a monday debate and then criticizing jackson the next day
gore doesn't deserve your attention or ours until he starts winning some votes _ or at least breaks into double digits,'' austin said of gore's recently poor showing in primaries
jackson's speech at the cudahy church laid out more specifically than before his definition of leadership
i have learned to lead in the gap ... the leadership gap in the white house and the executive office building,'' he said. ``when the drugs flow into our country, mrs. reagan just says no. mr. bush just says nothing. mr. reagan does nothing
i led the drive to ban drugs and to ban guns,'' jackson said. jackson listed a variety of his previous actions as demonstrations of leadership. he mentioned his ``standing with the auto workers at kenosha'' wis., where chrysler closed a plant shortly after promising to keep it open for several more years. he talked of standing with family farmers at foreclosure sales
he talked of his leadership in the fight against south africa and in personally asking soviet leaders to improve human rights in that nation
jackson refered to his campaign as featuring ``a clear message and an authentic leader who speaks directly to the people.''
the dollar dropped nearly one yen against the japanese currency in tokyo trading thursday, while stock prices declined slightly after three days of substantial gains
the dollar opened at 125.15 yen and slumped to 124.50 yen at the close, down 0.93 yen from wednesday's close of 125.43 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which rose 366.89 points on wednesday to a post-crash high, slipped 59.81 points, closing at 26,260.26 points
fiscal year-end demand for dollars, which supported the dollar in early trading, has come to an end,'' said an official of a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the japanese fiscal year ends thursday
on the stock exchange, traders said the market has come to a rest after three days of sharp gains
the nikkei stock average surged more than 1,000 points in the previous three sessions. wednesday's close of the stock market's key barometer was 26,319.98 points, the first close above 26,000 since last october's market crash
iraqi air raids on iran's refineries and tankers in recent weeks appear to be taking an increasing toll on tehran's vital oil industry as the persian gulf war escalates sharply
shipping analysts believe the iraqis will intensify air strikes aimed at throttling iran's oil exports while hammering tehran and other cities in a drive to pressure iran to the negotiating table
we can't see an end to the tanker war,'' eric ramheim of the oslo-based international association of independent tanker owners said
we had hoped the tanker war was coming to an end after a recent lull, but the situation is worse now than it's been for a long time. you think it's reached a peak, and then it just gets worse,'' he said in a phone interview
iran, one of the world's major oil producers, is having to import record amounts of refined petroleum products, such as kerosene and jet fuel, the middle east economic survey reported this week
this unprecedented sudden import of gas oil could be due to damage inflicted on iranian refineries because of the war,'' the respected oil industry newsletter noted
but it noted as well that tehran may also be ``taking precautionary measures and stocking up these products in anticipation of a further escalation in the war.''
the sudden surge in refined imports has strategic implications in the 7{-year-old war. it coincides with an unprecedented iraqi missile bombardment of tehran and other key cities over the last month
the iranians may fear their battered refineries could be knocked out altogether
the economic survey, a weekly published in nicosia, said the iranians have chartered a 200,000-ton tanker from west germany's marimpex trading company to deliver a full load of gas oil _ more than 2 million barrels _ from rotterdam next month
the iranians have already taken delivery of nearly 3 million 42-gallon barrels of gas oil in recent weeks, industry sources noted
that is a massive increase over the 300,000 barrels a day it has been importing for the last 18 months. recent iraqi air raids have reduced iran's domestic refining capacity by as much as one-third
a large formation of iraqi fighter-bombers attacked iran's big kharg island oil terminal in the northern end of the gulf on march 19, badly damaging two of the estimated 25 tankers that shuttle oil to makeshift terminals farther south for transshipment to delivery tankers
the 316,379-ton avaj and the 249,829-ton sanandaj were left in flames with 50 crewmen killed. shipping sources said both vessels were so badly hit they will likely be scrapped
the loading facilities on kharg, heavily defended by anti-aircraft missile batteries, also were damaged, the economic survey said
the main systems on the west of the island were knocked out in the bombing, forcing the iranians to switch loading to a smaller jetty, slowing down exports that are tehran's main source of revenue for its war effort
several other shuttle tankers, either owned by the state-run national iranian tanker co., or chartered by it, are believed to have been put out of action in recent iraqi air strikes
the iraqis are the key,'' stressed ramheim, of the international association of independent tanker owners. ``now they're attacking again, we think the situation's going to get worse because iran always retaliates.''
because iraq's gulf ports have been closed since the early days of the war, the iranians have to take revenge by attacking neutral ships
after iraq reported three air strikes on iranian tankers, iranian gunboats on monday attacked a danish supertanker and a norwegian-operated tanker, setting both ablaze
london-based lloyd's shipping intelligence unit says 4.7 million tons of shipping has been sunk or written off since december because of the tanker war. that includes the 280,000-ton iranian tanker susangird, which went down after it was set on fire by iraqi exocet missiles, killing 21 crewmen
altogether, about 15 million tons of shipping has been lost since 1981, lloyd's and other agencies reported. that's more than half the 24 million tons of merchant shipping sunk in world war ii
iran must ship its oil exports through the gulf, where its tankers are prey to marauding iraqi jets. iraq exports its oil through pipelines across neighboring turkey and saudi arabia which are far less vulnerable to attack
a fired truck weight inspector, who was so large the highway patrol weighed him on a truck scale, got his state job back and the patrol got a scolding for being biased against fat people
the state personnel board unanimously ruled wednesday that melvin hansen's weight had not affected his work and that he was discriminated against when highway patrol superintendent brian berg fired him july 31
the board ordered that hansen, 48, receive back pay, which his lawyer said totaled about $15,000
when he was fired, hansen weighed 463 pounds, according to testimony
state insurance commissioner earl pomeroy, chairman of the five-member personnel board, said the importance the patrol placed on hansen's weight was discriminatory because it was not related to his job performance
assistant attorney general sandra warren said the patrol would appeal the ruling
hansen, a truck weight inspector since 1977, lost his job at a weigh station near the minnesota border where he weighed trucks and inspected cargo
a letter to hansen listed his lack of control over his weight, his inability to wear agency uniforms and his body odor as reasons for his dismissal
hansen did not attend the three-hour hearing wednesday ``because everybody wanted to see how big he was,'' said his attorney, hal stutsman. ``his appearance would have only served to satisfy curiosity.''
stutsman refused to give hansen's current weight, putting it somewhere between 320 and 463 pounds
the patrol once weighed hansen on a truck scale, according to testimony at the hearing
the action was dehumanizing and showed ``a shocking lack of sensitivity and crass attitude on the part of mr. hansen's supervisor,'' said state personnel division analyst bonny fetch, who recommended hansen's full reinstatement
the board's decision underscores that no state employee can be dismissed for a weight problem unless weight standards are necessary to do the job, fetch said. 1st graf bgng ``a education ...'' to correct first word.</note> shortage</head>
an education department study says the workload for secondary school teachers has ``never been lighter'' and efforts to reduce class size in hopes of spurring student achievement are probably misguided
the study released wednesday estimated it could cost up to $69 billion a year and require the hiring of 1 million new teachers to reduce the typical class size from 24 to 15 students
it suggested school reformers look for ways to help teachers do a better job of managing the children in their classrooms rather than ``sink vast sums'' into efforts to reduce class size
the report, ``class size and public policy: politics and panaceas,'' said efforts to boost students' test scores through smaller classes ``will probably be a waste of money and effort.''
the report was based on a review of past studies, not on any new classroom research
there now are 24 pupils in the typical public elementary school classroom, down from 30 in 1961. in secondary schools, the typical class size is down from 27 to 22
the report by tommy m. tomlinson of the department's office of educational research and improvement said, ``smaller classes will worsen the shortage of both teachers and classrooms.''
if teachers today believe that the number of students per class is too large and their workload too heavy, it is also true that the number of students they teach has never been fewer and, from that standpoint, their workload has never been lighter,'' it said
the report noted several states, including indiana, have made smaller class size in the early grades a key ingredient of their school reform efforts
chester e. finn jr., the assistant secretary of education in charge of research, said lowering class size has become ``an ersatz reform goal around the country.''
there are a lot of better and less costly things you can do and get results,'' finn said in an interview. ``there's no question that good teachers in tiny classes are one of the reasons people pay for expensive private schools. but it's not a very prudent investment strategy if you're trying to improve the vast enterprise of american education.''
the national education association, the 1.85 million-member teachers union, has a policy that states, ``excellence in the classroom can best be attained by small class size,'' and it urges affiliates to ``seek an optimum class size of 15 students.''
keith geiger, the nea's vice president, said in an interview: ``it is very expensive to lower it to 15, but they continually use this rationale for doing nothing. we have elementary teachers out there sitting with 38, 40, 42 kids in their class. that's the sad part.''
he said utah and california have some of the most crowded classrooms
we've got to move to less than 20-to-1 in the early elementary grades if we're ever going to expect to reach these kids so we don't have to spend all the money on remediation when they get into junior and senior high school,'' geiger said
the report, however, emphasized that japan has achieved the world's highest math achievement scores with math classes that average 41 pupils
it said reducing the size of the typical class from 24 to 23 pupils would require 73,000 more teachers and cost $5 billion, ``not counting the expenses of building more classrooms.'' a reduction to 20 students would require 335,000 new teachers and cost $22.8 billion
although teacher salaries average $26,500 nationally plus fringes and benefits, the study estimated the overall cost of each new teacher at $68,295
more than 800 chinese students studying in the united states have signed their names to an open letter opposing china's policy to sharply reduce the number of students abroad, a student organizer said today
we have had an overwhelming response from fellow students across the country,'' said pei minxin, a 30-year-old doctoral candidate at harvard university. ``it's been a mixture of shock, anger and action.''
at a meeting late wednesday at the massachusetts institute of technology, about 300 chinese students shouted down a chinese consular official who came from new york to explain the policy, said two chinese sources speaking on condition of anonymity
it was democracy in action,'' one source said
the letter, which appeared in chinese-language newspapers across the united states on tuesday and wednesday, said the policy would hurt china's drive to modernize its economy
the recent unreasonable changes in the policies on overseas study are fundamentally in conflict with the declared national policy of reform and open door,'' read the letter, which was translated by the associated press
the policy will also force many chinese students in america to return to china before obtaining their degrees, the letter said
the document was accompanied by the names and phone numbers of 21 chinese students and a request for student supporters to add their names to the list. by early today, more than 800 students had done so, pei said
currently, about 40,000 chinese students are studying abroad, 27,000 of them in the united states. last year, 8,000 students came to the united states from the people's republic of china
under the new policy, only 600 chinese would be sent to america, according to chinese news reports, an official document seen in new york and chinese students who quoted government officials
time limits on students studying abroad would also be imposed, said the document, which was obtained from chinese sources. that rule could be particularly difficult for many chinese, who need time to master a foreign language before studying their specialty
a spokesman at china's embassy in washington acknowledged wednesday that fewer students would be sent abroad, but denied there has been a policy change
at the mit meeting, the unidentified consular official confirmed that a time limit had been placed on studies, the sources said. ``he said we have two years to do a masters (degree) and four or five to get our ph.d.,'' one source said
the policy is the result of a struggle between chinese premier li peng and communist party chairman zhao ziyang, said boston university history professor merle goldman
zhao backs an ``open-door policy'' and increasingly liberal economic reform. li, a soviet-educated engineer, wants to limit china's contact with the west, and is concerned that chinese students studying abroad are becoming too westernized, ms. goldman said
when chinese students come home, she said, ``they are already infected by the political values of the united states. they absorb western political ideas and that could be troublesome for the chinese state.''
at mit, the official told students that china has felt the need for more control over its students since january 1987, when more than 1,000 chinese nationals in america signed an open letter to beijing opposing conservative policies in their homeland, the sources said
at that point a chinese student jumped up and yelled, ``control? what do you mean by control. what kind of word is that?'' the sources said
zhang longxi, a 40-year-old doctoral candidate at harvard, said he did not see the letter as a political statement
it is a bread-and-butter issue for me,'' he said. ``i need time to study comparative literature.''
we are only asking that the right to study and complete our degrees be restored to us,'' pei said
pop superstar michael jackson's ``bad'' album, which failed to win him grammy gold, was named best album of the year at the second annual soul train music awards
at the awards ceremony wednesday night, ``bad'' also was named best album of 1987 by a male vocalist and the title song was honored as best single in the male vocalist category
whitney houston's ``whitney'' was named best album by a female vocalist
in the group category, levert took best jazz album and best album of the year for ``the big throwdown,'' and best single for ``cassanova.''
gladys knight and the pips won the heritage award, a special tribute to artists whose accomplishments have had a positive effect on music acceptance and appreciation worldwide
singers dionne warwick and luther vandross were hosts of the two-hour televised ceremony at the civic auditorium attended by a black-tie audience, including smokey robinson and other motown stars
among those presenting awards were singers anita baker, sheena easton and chaka khan, los angeles lakers star magic johnson, indianapolis colts running back eric dickerson and jazz musicians david sanborn and dexter gordon
the show is a tribute to creative excellence in black music, honoring the year's best performances in rhythm and blues, jazz and contemporary, gospel, and rap music
the other winners:
_best new artist: miki howard
_best music video: janet jackson, ``control.''
_best female single: natalie cole, ``i live for your love.''
_best solo jazz album: najee, ``najee's theme.''
_best solo gospel album: vanessa bell armstrong, ``following jesus.''
_best gospel album by a group or choir: the winans, ``decisions.''
_best rap single: ll cool j, ``i need love.''
_best rap album: ll cool j, ``bigger &amp; deffer.''
novelist john clellon holmes, the first to describe 1950s youth as a ``beat'' generation, died of cancer. he was 62
holmes, who died wednesday, was a companion of jack kerouac, allen ginsburg, william burroughs and other chroniclers of the ``beat'' lifestyle in new york city after world war ii
his first novel, ``go,'' published in 1952, was about the beat world, and appeared five years before kerouac's more popular beatnik novel, ``on the road.''
holmes, a holyoke, mass., native, who was also a poet and a critic, wrote more about the period and its philosophy in ``nothing more to declare,'' published in 1967
however, he criticized the beatniks' 1960s successors, the hippies, saying they had a ``fad culture'' characterized by ``a feeling of helplessness.''
holmes became a visiting lecturer at the university of arkansas in 1957. in 1966, he became the school's first writer-in-residence. he also taught at yale, the university of iowa, bowling green university and brown university. holmes retired from teaching in 1986
displaced person: the travel essays of john clellon holmes,'' was published earlier this month by the university of arkansas press
holmes is survived by his wife, shirley allen holmes; his mother and two sisters. and sent, sub 6th graf: `the former ... development program.' picks up 7th graf, `the younger ... ^by barry renfrew</note>
the opposition today accused the government of concealing massive corruption involving hundreds of millions of dollars and demanded former president chun doo-hwan be questioned about missing funds
the country's two main opposition parties claimed the government had limited the scope of a probe into alleged corruption by chun's younger brother, charging information about the chun family's activities was being suppressed
the government has orchestrated another cover-up and fooled the people,'' the reunification democratic party charged
the party for peace and democracy demanded president chun be questioned about allegations of widespread corruption under his government and called for a full investigation
the governing democratic justice party denied there was any attempt to cover up corruption and said it was determined to expose any official wrongdoing
the former president's brother, chun kyung-hwan, was charged early today with embezzling $10.4 million as head of saemaul undong (new community), a semi-official development program
the younger chun, who was taken to a seoul prison in handcuffs, also was charged with taking bribes, influence peddling, evading taxes and violation of business, land and construction laws
if convicted under special laws covering massive public fraud, chun could receive a sentence ranging from 10 years in prison to death
ten other people, including aides of the younger chun and senior saemaul officials, also were indicted on embezzlement, bribery, influence peddling and corruption charges, officials said
the other suspects include chun kyung-hwan's two brothers-in-law
the opposition charged that the younger chun and his associates had embezzled hundreds of millions of dollars, and the government was concealing evidence to prevent a political backlash
chief prosecutor kang won-il said the younger chun amassed a fortune in money, land and stocks by using government and family connections during the seven years he headed saemaul
the former president had appointed him to the post
it is agonizing to me that i have caused trouble to my brother,'' the younger chun was quoted as saying by prosecutors
kang said the younger chun diverted government and saemaul funds, pressured corporations into making illegal donations, arranged to get private businesses government contracts and permits, and misappropriated land and buildings built with government funds
kang said the investigation was centering on charges chun diverted huge sums of money overseas for land speculation in the united states and australia. the prosecutor said the probe was continuing and further revelations were expected
saemaul was founded in 1971 to promote urban and rural development. the younger chun resigned as its chief in 1987 after being linked to gangsters
prosecutors are questioning government officials about charges they aided or concealed saemaul corruption to protect the former president and his family
former president chun, who left office feb. 25 after seven years in power, has not been implicated in the saemaul affair. he is on a private american tour and met last week with president reagan
several of the largest insurance companies are offering sharp discounts in premiums for drivers of cars with air bags, the safety devices that inflate and protect a driver in a serious accident
usaa, the country's sixth largest insurance company, announced wednesday a premium discount of up to 60 percent for personal injury and medical coverage for air bag-equipped cars
the company also said it would contribute $300 to the purchase or lease of a 1988 car equipped with an air bag
state farm mutual automobile insurance co. on tuesday announced a premium discount of from $3 to $24 for cars equipped with air bags or passive belts, which automatically wrap around a car occupant
robert f. mcdermott, chairman of usaa, told a news conference he expected air bags to be available as an option or standard equipment in several million cars within the next 18 months
the auto industry in the past has complained that while insurance companies have campaigned to get air bags into cars they have not offered car owners financial incentives to order the safety devices
a dispute between government agencies over the questions to be asked on the 1990 census has been settled, before friday's deadline for reporting to congress
the census bureau reported wednesday that it had settled its differences with the white house office of management and budget over how many households would receive the longer, more detailed form to obtain the national head count
omb had wanted to reduce paperwork by deleting some questions and reducing the number of people who get the more complex long form
the two agencies have agreed that all 106 million households in the nation will be sent the short form, while the more detailed long form will go to 17.7 million. census had wanted to sent it to nearly 20 million households, omb to limit it to 10 million
short form questions on plumbing facilities and condominiums will be switched to the long form, as omb suggested. but other questions will be retained, including the cost of uilities
some things that were asked in the 1980 census will be dropped in 1990. these include employment five years earlier, marital history, weeks spent looking for work, number of bathrooms, air conditioning and heating equipment, presence of an elevator and type of fuel used for cooking and heating water
william ball has become the nation's 67th secretary of the navy, pledging to keep his forces ``strong and prepared'' to meet any challenge
standing in an ornate old executive office building room first used by navy secretary richard thompson in 1879, ball said wednesday that by maintaining military strength, the united states ``preserve the peace and ultimately extend the special gift that is freedom the world over.''
president reagan, making remarks at the swearing-in ceremony for his former legislative liaison, said ball had ``won the respect of the leaders of both parties.'' he said ``i've repeatedly turned'' to ball for help and advice in recent years
white house chief of staff howard baker swore in ball as several cabinet officers, members of congress and military officers looked on. after thompson, who served under president rutherford b. hayes, 14 navy secretaries used the room, heavily decorated in naval motif
ball, 39, succeeds james webb, who resigned in a dispute with defense secretary frank c. carlucci over pentagon budgetary priorities, including a delay in reaching the 600-ship level for the navy
sears, roebuck and co. has agreed to halt sales of lawn darts, following a federal complaint about the potentially dangerous sports items, according to the consumer product safety commission
sears agreed in a consent decree to stop selling lawn darts within a week, the commission said wedenesday
the decree settles charges that the nationwide retailer offered lawn darts for sale without required warning labels and in areas near toy sales
sears' prompt response to the commission's concerns should serve as an example for manufacturers and other retailers of lawn darts,'' said commission chairman terrence m. scanlon
lawn darts are an outdoor game in which large, pointed darts are tossed at targets on the ground. they can pose a serious hazard, with three deaths reported in the last 18 years and an estimated 670 annual injuries, the safety agency said
the agency asked that consumers report injuries or improper sales of lawn darts by calling it at 1-800-638-2772
someday, doctors will have a system for identifying stress-plagued patients who are headed for heart trouble even though their blood pressure readings may look normal, says a heart researcher
dr. robert s. eliot, a cardiovascular researcher from denver, told cardiologists meeting in atlanta this week that new ways of testing can identify ``hot reactors'' _ stressed but seemingly healthy people
these are people who fight saber-toothed tigers 30, 40 times a day and don't even know it,'' eliot told reporters wednesday at the annual meeting of the american college of cardiology
a doctor can't tell from resting blood pressure (tests taken at rest),'' he said, adding that conventional blood pressure readings don't tell how much blood is pumping or how much resistance the heart is fighting
eliot, director of the cardiovascular institute at denver's swedish medical center, has worked 10 years on ways to measure the rapid, stress-induced fluctuations in the cardiovascular system
that work, he said, has yielded a 30-minute test using devices to monitor heart performance, blood pressure and other factors to find ``hot reactors,'' who apparently make up more than 10 percent of the population
with so many seemingly healthy people at risk of illness, within three to eight months in some cases, he said, ``i think it's worth testing in people.''
eliot and his colleagues plan to expand their efforts to three other locations next year. someday soon, he hopes, physicians will agree on a standard way of conducting such stress tests
we have a model,'' he said. ``it's been successful.''
those efforts are part of what eliot terms ``a new kind of medicine,'' emphasizing not just technical medical techniques, but beneficial lifestyle adjustments. some, he noted, have called it ``medicine from the 21st century _ teaching people what they can do for themselves.''
drugs and surgery are not sufficient for most people'' with cardiovascular problems, said dr. dean ornish, an assistant professor at the university of california at san francisco school of medicine and president of the preventative medicine research institute
cardiology has tended to ignore the role of the brain on the heart,'' ornish said
we need to end the needless sacrifices of men, women and children on the altar of congressional inaction. ... congress has acquiesced to the gun lobby. the only thing that will bring an end to this inaction is an aroused citizenry.'' _ coretta scott king, widow of slain civil rights leader martin luther king jr., urging lawmakers to restrict sales of handguns
i have been to his classroom. i have seen the miracle in process. jaime escalante is dedicated to his students, he is dedicated to their future. he is a true, genuine american hero.'' _ secretary of education william j. bennett, praising the east los angeles teacher whose success in teaching calculus to hispanic teen-agers was featured in the movie ``stand and deliver.''
i am very pleased with the outcome of the case, but i have lost my taste for hamburgers.'' _ graham blakely, london police officer who won a damage claim against subway operators after he slipped on a discarded hamburger and broke his leg while chasing pickpockets. in 2nd graf; subs 4th graf, `investigators said ..., to clarify that tip was telephoned; picks up 5th graf: `samuel royal ...</note>
the grandson of a former university of texas football coach has been charged with stealing a missing page of albert einstein's notes from a locked display case at the school, police said
samuel k. royal, 18, was arrested wednesday evening at his austin apartment, said ronald thomas, a university police lieutenant
the page of handwritten notes, owned by the university, was reported missing last week from a locked glass case on the fourth floor of the peter t. flawn academic center. it was among six pages on display from a series addressing the mathematical concept of euclidean rotation
investigators said a telephoned tip led them to the younger royal's apartment tuesday where the page was found in a photo album, along with photographs of his grandfather, darrell royal, the university of texas' football coach from 1957 through 1976
samuel royal is not a university student. his father, mack davis, is a custodian on the same floor of the academic center where the display case was located
according to a court affidavit, a woman named alissa chambers, who also lives at the apartment where the page was discovered, said samuel royal ``walked in and flashed some papers in front of my face and said, `these are the writings of albert einstein.'''
police could not immediately offer an explanation for the theft. the display case was locked and the glass unbroken when the document was discovered missing
the missing page is part of an archive of 60 or 70 pages ``upon which einstein wrote the notes representing his thinking as he was trying to work out his theories near the end of his life,'' said john chalmers, librarian for ut's harry ransom humanities research center
the university has owned the papers for 25 years. einstein apparently wrote the notes several years before he died in 1955
although the page likely could have been sold for a couple of thousand dollars, chalmers said, its value far exceeds that amount
for all of us, it's a piece of our heritage, and it is not to be replaced. in that sense, it has no price,'' chalmers said
darrell royal, who is special assistant to the president of the university, did not return a telephone call to his austin residence on wednesday
lady carroll bing, wife of opera impresario sir rudolf bing, was arrested outside carnegie hall for failing to appear in court on charges she slapped an executive of a performing arts management company
the arrest on 57th street on wednesday was the latest in a series of legal entanglements for the couple
lady bing, 48, has been visiting columbia artists management's midtown manhattan office frequently, often with her 86-year-old husband, according to police
she was apparently upset that her husband, general manager of the metropolitan opera from 1950 to 1972, had been dropped from columbia artists' board of directors, police said. columbia artists represents classical music artists and produces classical concerts
lady bing was arrested on a bench warrant issued after she failed to appear in court monday to answer charges of criminal trespass and harassment, according to detective joseph mcconville
the charges were filed last month by barbara quinones, vice president for administration at columbia artists, who claimed that lady bing entered her office without permission, harassed her and slapped her face
why lady bing returned to columbia's offices wednesday was not known, mcconville said
ms. quinones and her attorney, todd steckler, refused to comment on the arrest
shortly after the bings' wedding 14 months ago, state supreme court justice arthur blyn declared that bing suffered from alzheimer's disease and was unable to control his $900,000 estate
the judge appointed a conservator, barred lady bing from spending her husband's assets and allowed bing's lawyers to begin annulment proceedings. a pretrial hearing on the annulment proceedings is set for may 3
bing said last year that he loved his wife and that he believed allegations by longtime friends that she was misspending his money were wrong
blyn ordered lady bing not to take her husband out of the court's jurisdiction
however, she took him to florida and the west indian island of anguilla. the couple disappeared before turning up in great britain. they returned to new york late last year
in 1982, a washington court found that lady bing, then carroll douglass, was incapable of managing her own affairs, and appointed as conservators her brother and sister
bing, born in vienna, austria, went to britain in the 1930s, where he headed the glyndebourne opera and founded the famed edinburgh festival. he moved to the united states in 1949, but retained his british nationality and was knighted for his contributions to music
a former wedtech corp. official has admitted that he waited months before telling prosecutors about his alleged attempt to offer a $200,000 bribe to u.s. attorney general edwin meese iii
mario moreno, former vice chairman of the defunt bronx defense contractor, says prosecutors didn't ask him about meese and he didn't volunteer the information
a prosecutor, however, objected to defense attorney dominick amorosa's line of questioning wednesday at the racketeering trial of rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y., and six others
assistant u.s. attorney mary shannon explained, with the jury out of the room, that prosecutors in manhattan were barred from inquiring about meese because he was then being investigated in washington under the special prosecutor law
meese has not been charged with any wrongdoing, although a special prosecutor continues to investigate his dealings with wedtech, a local manufacturer that won millions of dollars in defense contracts
the attorney general's legal troubles have placed him under increasing pressure to step down, triggered in part by the resignation of some of his top aides earlier this week
ms. shannon also said the special prosecutor initially was investigating former white house aide lyn nofziger, not meese, until last may. nofziger was convicted last month of illegal lobbying for wedtech
biaggi, his eldest son, richard, and the other co-defendants are accused of turning wedtech into a racketeering enterprise that paid bribes to public officials and others
moreno is one of four former wedtech officers cooperating with the government in a bid for leniency
he has previously testified that he and former wedtech president anthony guariglia offered $200,000 to e. robert wallach, a close friend of the attorney general, ``to fix the case'' with meese
he also said that wallach never got back to them and the money never was paid
in his 12th day on the witness stand, moreno admitted under prodding by amorosa, richard biaggi's attorney, that he did not tell prosecutors about the bribe offer until at least august 1987, more than eight months after he and the other ex-wedtech officers began cooperating with investigators
wallach, former meese financial adviser w. franklyn chinn, and another man have been indicted in a separate case, charged with allegedly taking payoffs from wedtech to influence meese and other government officials
all three have pleaded innocent
a government official today confirmed that taiwan is replacing a research nuclear reactor. the united states long has worried the reactor could be used in an atomic weapons development program
liu kuang-chi, secretary-general of the government atomic energy council, said the united states was assisting in converting the reactor to a new system that would provide ``less possibility to produce plutonium,'' a key component in the production of atomic weapons
the comments were made one week after the new york times reported the reagan administration pressured taiwan to close the reactor and to stop work on a secret installation that could have processed the reactor's spent fuel to extract plutonium
liu had earlier confirmed that the research reactor at lung tan, 25 miles southwest of taipei, was closed in january but denied the move was made because of u.s. pressure
today, however, he acknowledged that ``maybe there's some influence (from) the united states'' behind the decision to replace the reactor, adding that washington ``did express its concern about our research.''
the energy official said the u.s. concern over lung tan goes back many years and may partly be caused by reports that india developed atomic weaponry using a reactor of the same design
liu reiterated taiwan's position of not developing atomic bombs and said of the lung tan overhaul, ``since we decided not to make (atomic) weapons, why not make them (the united states) happy?''
liu said the main reason for changing lung tan's design was to make it compatible with taiwan's nuclear power reactors, which run on a different system
it's a major change, the reactor is completely changed,'' liu said. ``it is a very major task ... it is keeping everybody busy.'' he said the conversion would take at least two years, but he did not have a cost estimate
according to liu, the united states is providing technical help and will provide assistance in obtaining fuel for testing the new core
the lung tan reactor, which opened in 1973, has used heavy water to control the splitting of atomic nuclei, a system that can use natural uranium as fuel. the reactor is being converted to a ``light water'' system that requires enriched uranium fuel
chang kuo-lung, professor of physics of the national taiwan university, said the high-tech production of enriched uranium is limited to a few countries, making the fuel comparatively difficult to obtain and its use easier to monitor. liu said taiwan cannot make the enriched fuel
liu also stressed that taiwan doesn't have facilities to process spent fuel into weapons-grade plutonium. when asked whether taiwan had worked on a secret processing installation, he replied: ``baloney.''
still, local newspapers have been filled with reports that the u.s. government learned from a missing top-level taiwanese nuclear researcher that taiwan had plans to make nuclear weapons
the media reports claim that col. chang hsien-yi, former deputy director of the official nuclear energy research center, is working for the cia and has moved to the united states since disappearing in january
liu, who previously worked with chang, said he did not know where the missing official was or what had happened to him
taiwan's nuclear policy is a particularly sensitive topic because communist china has said taiwan production of atomic weapons would be a reason for invading the island, which beijing views as a renengade province
a storm packing winds up to 40 mph swirled around the rockies today, spreading more than 5 inches of snow from utah to the great plains
rain fell across the tennessee and lower mississippi valleys, prompting flash flood watches in parts of mississippi and louisiana where recent rain left the ground saturated
forecasters said up to 2 feet of snow were expected in the foothills of the colorado rockies by friday morning. so far, more than 5 inches have fallen at fort collins, colo., and more than 3 inches in parts of wyoming
snow also fell this morning in parts of utah. forecasters said 3 to 6 inches would fall today and be blown by strong northerly winds
northeast winds gusted up to 40 mph this morning at rock springs, wyo., and akron, colo. in california, forecasters posted wind advisories for parts of southern california and a gale warning for the northern coast
a heavy snow warning was issued for the eastern foothills of northern colorado through tonight. snow advisories also were posted in nebraska's southern panhandle. in addition, forecasters issued winter storm watches for parts of wyoming and kansas
today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from the southern plains across the lower mississippi valley, alabama, the tennessee and lower ohio valleys and the southern appalachians; rain from oklahoma and eastern texas into kentucky and tennessee; snow from northern arizona and the central rockies into the central high plains; windy conditions from southern california into western texas
highs will be in the 50s or 60s in much of the nation; below freezing over parts of colorado and southeast wyoming; 30s and 40s from the northern and central rockies across the northern plains into the upper great lakes region; 70s and low 80s over california, the desert southwest and from southern and eastern texas to the southern atlantic coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 3 degrees at yellowstone, wyo., to 75 degrees at homestead air force base and key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 61 fair; boston 42 fair; buffalo 30 fair; charleston, s.c. 55 fair; cincinnati 45 cloudy; cleveland 34 partly cloudy; detroit 35 fair; miami 73 partly cloudy; new york 41 fair; philadelphia 47 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 39 cloudy; portland, maine, 32 fair; washington 56 foggy
_central: bismarck 16 fair; chicago 34 fair; dallas-fort worth 49 drizzle; denver 27 snow; des moines 39 partly cloudy; indianapolis 43 cloudy; kansas city 40 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 36 fair; nashville 51 rain; new orleans 67 foggy; st. louis 45 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 48 partly cloudy; anchorage 33 snow; las vegas 50 fair; los angeles 58 fair; phoenix 60 partly cloudy; salt lake city 38 partly cloudy; san diego 58 fair; san francisco 62 windy; seattle 46 cloudy
_canada: montreal 37 fair; toronto 30 fair
a casket empty except for a dress, a rose and other remembrances was interred during a brief ceremony attended by a dozen mourners of denise naslund, allegedly murdered by killer ted bundy 14 years ago
the 20-minute memorial on wednesday was as close as denise's mother, eleanor rose, could get to the realization of a longtime wish that her 18-year-old daughter be buried
fragments of denise's bones were found strewn in the wooded cascade foothills east of seattle in the summer of 1974. king county authorities, who kept the remains as part of their investigation of bundy, lost them years ago
looking on through tears, ms. rose watched wednesday as a pink casket, containing only her daughter's favorite dress, a silk rose, a crucifix and some photographs and letters, was buried at a cemetery on a west seattle hillside
oh for the touch of a vanished hand and the sound of a voice that is still,'' the rev. desmond mcmahon quoted poet alfred tennyson during the service
king county police called bundy, 41, their prime suspect in the deaths of ms. naslund and 23-year-old janice ott, but he never was charged in the cases. he is on death row in florida for three murders in that state. accident</head>
a young irishwoman, critically injured in a st. patrick's day traffic accident while on a visit to her jailed boyfriend, emerged from a coma after prayers for her recovery, says a family spokesman
margaret hanley ``was conscious and a smile came to her face,'' said gerry archbold, director of the irish-american heritage center here
the 22-year-old dublin woman's condition was upgraded from critical to fair. ``there's hope she will recover fully, but it's too early to say,'' dorothy dewitt, nursing supervisor at weiss memorial hospital, said wednesday
miss hanley, who was hit by a car march 17, was in a coma for 10 days. her parents, stephen and ann hanley, visited her bedside daily, praying and hoping
archbold attributed miss hanley's improvement to prayer
we prayed hard for her,'' he said. ``there were special prayers during the palm sunday mass at the center. just shortly after the mass was over, she started to regain consciousness
she recognized voices, but she has a long way to go,'' archbold said
her recovery will take a long time, said nancy durbin, another nursing supervisor
the fact that she has been up and talking is a very, very good sign,'' said miss dewitt
a ventilator that helped miss hanley breathe has been removed, but she is still being fed intravenously, mrs. durbin said
she said miss hanley tries to talk, and mouths words. mrs. durbin said she does not know if the young woman has mentioned daniel stokes, a 21-year-old native of ireland whom she met last year when he was there for a visit
stokes, who returned to chicago last november, says the two fell in love. he is in the cook county jail on a charge of bludgeoning his landlord to death. if convicted, he could receive the death penalty
in addition to first-degree murder, he is charged with residential burglary, armed robbery, home invasion and possession of a stolen motor vehicle
miss hanley followed stokes to chicago last month. the accident occurred the day before she planned to return to ireland. ^by kirk mitchell</byline>
a divorcing couple's legal battle over their unborn child apparently ended when the 18-year-old woman underwent an abortion before she could be served with a court order blocking the procedure
jennifer reynolds ended her 8-week-old pregnancy over her estranged husband's objections in less than an hour wednesday, between the time a district court allowed the procedure and the utah court of appeals blocked it, said rosemary gacnick, spokeswoman for the state court system
the abortion was performed before the appellate court could serve mrs. reynolds with papers reinstating a temporary restraining order vacated about an hour earlier by 3rd district judge david s. young, gacnik said
the appeals court had scheduled a monday hearing to consider 25-year-old michael jon reynolds' appeal of young's decision, but her husband's attorney said the hearing might be pointless if the fetus had been aborted
if the abortion has taken place, we're going to have to make some serious evaluation ... there's a pretty good argument that would make it moot,'' said the attorney, mitchell barker
young issued the original restraining order last week, when he ruled that mrs. reynolds could not have an abortion pending resolution of a divorce-related custody dispute involving a 10-month-old infant and the fetus
he vacated his own order on wednesday when he accepted arguments by american civil liberties union attorneys that a woman has a constitutional right to end her pregnancy
young said while reynolds may have the right to be consulted about any abortion involving mrs. reynolds, she had the ultimate authority over whether to carry the fetus to term
barker acknowledged mrs. reynold's right to privacy, but said her husband also had the right of procreation and that when the two clash, it is the courts which must decide who prevails
later, while barker filed an appeal to the appellate division, which reinstated the restraining order pending monday's hearing, mrs. reynolds drove off to have the abortion
nobody wins _ no matter who wins,'' reynolds said. ``it's not my right or her right. i think the child's got a right of its own. it's a baby. it's got a mind. it can't talk, it can't walk, but it's got a right to be born.''
mrs. reynolds could not be located for comment wednesday night. but television station kutv quoted her as saying she would not comment on the abortion, saying ``that's too sensitive and personal a question.''
legislation granting bank holding companies broad new securities powers is heading into the house after getting an overwhelming endorsement in the senate
senators voted 94-2 wednesday night to approve a bill that would permit the mingling of commercial and investment banking for the first time since the depression
the legislation substantially revises restrictions on banks in the glass-steagall act, passed in 1933 in reaction to abuses preceding the 1929 stock market crash
proponents of change argued that developments in the financial system, particularly in the last decade, threaten the ability of banks to compete. securities firms, for instance, offer bank-like services such as commercial paper and money market mutual funds
the senate bill would permit bank holding companies to underwrite and sell mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds immediately after the bill is approved by both houses of congress and signed by president reagan, who favors the bill
bank holding companies would be allowed to underwrite and sell corporate bonds and mutual funds six months after enactment. a vote by congress would be required in 1991 before bank holding companies could underwrite corporate stock, the most lucrative securities activity
wednesday evening's vote came after nearly six hours of debate in which senate banking committee chairman william proxmire, d-wis., warded off amendments that could have unraveled the delicate compromise adopted on an 18-2 vote by his committee earlier this month
the bill is seen as something of a swan song for proxmire, who retires next year after more than 30 years in the senate. just before its adoption, it was named the proxmire financial modernization act of 1988
donald ogilvie, executive vice president of the american bankers association, the biggest industry group pushing for the bill's passage, praised it as benefiting consumers
this should accelerate the momentum for enlightened financial reform legislation in the house,'' he said
however, the house banking committee is split into many factions. its chairman, rep. fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., has released a proposal that would grant banks only a few securities powers _ commercial paper, mortgage revenue bonds and asset-backed securities _ and places more restrictions on banks
ogilvie said bankers would work in the house to defeat limits on banks' insurance activities, but his industry faces tougher going there than it did in the senate
one provision of the senate bill would require banks to prove they are meeting the needs of poor citizens and neighborhoods before getting permission to exercise the new powers authorized in the bill
another prohibits misleading savings account advertisements, and another requires lenders to disclose terms of home equity loans
a former public guardian, convicted of stealing as much as $200,000 from mentally handicapped or elderly wards, may have to repay all the money, a prosecutor says
multnomah county circuit judge winston l. bradshaw on wednesday found paul e. nizdil, 44, guilty of 12 counts of felony theft and 12 counts of official misconduct, a misdemeanor. sentencing was set for may 24
nizdil, who was fired in october as the county's public guardian and conservator, was convicted after the defense and prosecution agreed to submit police reports as the only evidence
the agreement calls for nizdil to repay the stolen money, but the exact amount was not set, defense attorney janet hoffman said. the total could be upwards of $200,000, said deputy district attorney jeffrey martin
each theft count carries a maximum sentence of five years in prison. each misconduct count carries a maximum penalty of a year in jail
nizdil remains free on his own recognizance pending sentencing
ms. martin said the state had not yet prepared a sentencing recommendation, but said the state had made no sentencing concessions in its agreement with nizdil
nizdil was indicted on 22 counts each of theft and misconduct. ms. martin said there was evidence of additional thefts, but said that evidence will not be presented to a grand jury because of the agreement
ms. martin said an investigation into nizdil's conduct before his firing had not been completed. if nizdil continues cooperating with the investigation, the state will move for dismissal of the remaining counts, she said
ms. hoffman said nizdil suffers from a compulsion to gamble, and told the judge she would call two doctors to testify on nizdil's behalf at his sentencing
last month, nizdil repaid the county $65,334, the amount identified up to that point as having been stolen
since then, the state's estimate of the total amount taken from elderly or mentally handicapped wards has increased from $114,000 to $200,000
nizdil admitted to police that on several occasions he made checks payable to a fictitious name for repairs allegedly made to houses owned by wards. nizdil told police he used money from the checks to pay gambling debts
nizdil was fired for reasons unrelated to the thefts. county officials did not discover the missing money until january, when tenants renting a house owned by a ward complained that repairs had not been made
a 9-year-old nicknamed ``buzz'' is winging his way across america on a 10-day flight planned as the longest trip by a boy believed to be the nation's youngest unlicensed pilot
tony aliengena of san juan capistrano, who earlier this month made a one-mile solo in an ultra-light plane, was at the controls of his father's twin-engine cessna on wednesday as it left john wayne airport
tony was accompanied by his flight instructor, ed fernett, and don taylor, an observer from the national aeronautics association. taylor will verify that tony is at the controls throughout the flight
the goal is to do it by myself. even if we lose an engine, i'm gonna do it,'' tony said in an interview before leaving
tony's father, gary aliengena, said his son would fly four to seven hours a day during the 10-day trip. tony will not fly sunday so he can spend easter with relatives in massachusetts
tony wants to break the longest-trip-by-youngest-pilot record set by 10-year-old christopher lee marshall of oceano, who flew from san luis obispo county to fort lauderdale, fla., and back to burbank last august
on march 13, tony set a record as the youngest pilot to fly solo when he flew his father's ultra-light plane _ which is not regulated by the federal aviation administration _ around oceanside municipal airport
in order for tony to fly a larger plane like the cessna, tony must have a licensed instructor in the cockpit with him
his latest trip includes landings in el paso, texas; dallas; memphis, tenn.; gastonia, n.c.; richmond, va.; bedford, mass.; washington; evansville, ind.; st. louis; oklahoma city; tucumcari, n.m.; and phoenix, ariz
nine men have been charged with raping a woman who told authorities that her attackers urged other men gathered at an illegal cockfight to join in
the 19-year-old woman said she was abducted as she walked on a street and taken to a rural south texas area where as many as 20 men raped her in a parked car, according to assistant district attorney rodolfo v. gutierrez
warrants charging nine local men with sexual assault were issued, said efrain perez, chief investigator with the duval county sheriff's department. four were arrested as of wednesday, and more arrests were expected, said gutierrez. charges of kidnapping could be added, he said
authorities said many of the approximately 30 men at the illegal sporting event saturday night knew the attack was going on but did nothing to rescue the victim, a mother of two children, even though she was crying out for help
morally, it was not right for them to stand there,'' gutierrez said, noting that legally the individuals could be charged with failure to render aid
i don't think it was planned. i think it was spontaneous,'' he said. ``there is no way to justify this
the victim was taken sunday morning to humana hospital at corpus christi for treatment and was released earlier this week, carrillo said
she was afraid to tell her husband,'' carrillo said. ``he had been looking for her all night.'' he said her husband convinced her to file charges on monday
ricardo ``rocky'' carrillo, an investigator with the duval county district attorney's office, said some of the alleged rapists ``egged others on'' to sexually assault the victim
authorities said the woman was able to identify some of the men while others attempted to disguise themselves by holding their hands over their faces
the four arrested were jose carlos ``payo'' briones, 29, roel ``roy'' torres, 24, adolfo quintanilla jr., 28, and roberto andres garcia, 21, all of san diego
all four were free on bonds of $20,000 each, a spokeswoman for justice of the peace amado garcia jr. said
sexual assault is a second-degree felony punishable by a sentence of two to 20 years in prison
while conceding that the style is inappropriate at times, men are far less willing than women to once again consign the miniskirt to fashion history, according to a poll published today
some 36 percent of men say they prefer above-the-knee hemlines for women's skirts, according to the new york times-cbs news poll. that compares with only a quarter of adult women who say they've worn a skirt that short in the past year
in addition, 71 percent of the men surveyed say they favor skirts at or above the knee, while 46 percent of women say they prefer skirts below the knee
while men, such as greg parker, a 25-year-old palm bay, fla. engineer, said they found the short skirts ``attractive'' and ``sexy-looking,'' they also admit that longer lengths are often more practical
if you're in a (business) meeting and everyone's dressed conservatively, there's less distraction'' with longer skirts, parker said
ted austin, a richmond, va. real-estate broker and developer, likened working women in short skirts to men in shorts and beach shirts at the office
i don't think it's acceptable today,'' he said
the less-than eager reaction from women to the shorter lengths introduced en masse for spring precipitated a recent return by designers to some longer lengths in their fall collections
among different age groups, slightly more than half of women 18 to 29 years old said they'd worn miniskirts, while 27 percent of women 30 to 44 and only 8 percent of women 45 to 64 said they had
that perhaps confirms the opinion of one poll respondent, 24-year-old model regina lynn of rogersville, ala., who said she's noticed ``older women don't look good in them.''
only 20 percent of married women said they had worn miniskirts in the last year, compared with 56 percent of the never-been-marrieds
one unmarried woman who did not want her name used said it would be a lie to say she did not choose her clothes partly to please men
i don't go out of my way if i'm going to be in a meeting all day just with women,'' she said
the poll of 1,654 adults was conducted by telephone between march 19 and 22 and had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percent for women and 4 percent for men. the potential error for smaller subgroups is larger
two freight trains collided about two miles east of downtown, setting locomotives on fire and forcing the brief evacuation of an estimated 200 people, officials said
crews worked through the night to right the 22 freight cars and five locomotives derailed in the wednesday evening wreck
two firefighters and a police officer were treated for smoke inhalation at flagstaff regional medical center and released, officials said
the eastbound santa fe trains collided when one failed to slow for the other at a point where parallel tracks cross, said state corporation commission spokesman jon poston
a fireball erupted from one of the diesel locomotive, then the fire spread to other engines, said police sgt. pasqual macias
some of those engines were embedded into the ground, and they were strewn all over _ some right side up, some perpendicular to the track,'' said fire department capt. paul hellenberg. some of the locomotives went down a 20-foot embankment, hellenberg said
the evacuation of homes and businesses on the east side was called off about two hours later because shipping manifests showed there was no hazardous material near the fire
one car was loaded with explosives and another contained a flammable liquid or gas, but neither derailed, said hellenberg
two streets were closed, but they reopened after the fire was put out
the accident ripped out about 100 feet of railroad track, hellenberg said. reward</head>
a drug-case witness whose house was being guarded by a police officer who was killed will receive a $25,000 reward in addition to $126,000 for his house
the city agreed to buy the home of arjune, a guyanese immigrant who uses only one name, after officer edward byrne was slain feb. 26 while guarding it. the officer was there because the house had been firebombed twice after arjune complained about neighborhood drug dealers
since byrne's killing, for which four men have been arrested, the city had been using the house as a base for a narcotics task force
the city originally offered $140,000 for the house, which was appraised at at $126,000
city comptroller harrison j. goldin last week forced a $13,500 cut in the price, arguing that if the city wanted to give arjune a reward, it should not do so by inflating the price of the house
goldin said wednesday he had arranged for private donors who wished to remain anonymous to give the witness a $25,000 reward. intelligence</head>
kurt waldheim may have cooperated with u.s. and british intelligence services after world war ii in return for having his german army record purged of incriminating evidence, a british newspaper reported today
a panel of historians has concluded the austrian president was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them. it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it
the international panel of historians left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime. waldheim has denied any wrongdoing
the times of london said today it had unearthed evidence that british wartime documents and subsequent british foreign office papers likely to relate to waldheim's wartime role had been suppressed
the report, by correspondent robert fisk, said the suppression raised suspicion waldheim may have collaborated with the americans and british after the war in return for having his german army record purged
fisk quoted robert herzstein, a university of south carolina history professor, as saying he believes waldheim passed on large amounts of information after the war to allied intelligence agents, especially on communist partisans in yugoslavia and guerrillas in greece
herzstein is due to publish a book next week that suggests waldheim worked for the americans after the war
fisk quoted him as saying several records of the british element in the united nations war crimes commission appeared to be missing from the british government's public records office
fisk's report said the times had examined hundreds of wartime files at the public records office. fisk said that in one file on military activities in yugoslavia between may 1944 and the end of the war, when waldheim was in dubrovnik, an entire section listed in the index as ``allegations of murder of british prisoners of war'' was missing
the reporter said a government order had closed a file on the slayings to public access until the year 2021
he quoted officials at the public records office as saying they did not know when the order was issued. but he said the government decision to prevent public access was taken before 1982, when waldheim ended his 10-year term as u.n. secretary-general
allegations about waldheim's alleged links to wartime atrocities surfaced in 1986 during his campaign for the austrian presidency
fisk said attempts by the times to seek access to specific ``closed'' files and to obtain reasons for their retention were refused
two portable anti-aircraft missiles, tentatively identified as soviet-made sam-7s, were found aboard an iranian gunboat recovered by the u.s. navy last week, a navy spokesman said today
the weapons on the boat, found abandoned and drifting in the strait of hormuz, also included three ``chaff rockets'' of unknown origin and four other unidentified rockets with fusing devices
chaff is a material blown into the air to confuse the homing system of a radar-guided missile
maj. barry willey, a spokesman for the u.s. central command, said the twin-barrelled gun mounted in the cockpit of the 30-foot boat was a soviet-made zsu 23mm anti-aircraft weapon
the gun apparently had been used for attacks on ships in the southern persian gulf and the hormuz. it was rusty, but functional, and was loaded for firing when found
authoritative references say the soviet sam-7, a shoulder-fired missile similar to the american-made redeye, is known to be a part of iran's weapons inventory. but willey said he did not know whether it had previously been seen in the gulf
iran also is believed to possess some u.s.-made stinger missiles, a more advanced missile than the redeye. it fired at least one at a u.s. helicopter last october, but missed
several stingers and a spent launcher were found in a sunken iranian speedboat recovered by u.s. navy divers on jan. 3
the gunboat, an open-cockpit, twin-diesel craft, was found by the guided missile frigate reuben james, drifting in 10-foot seas in the hormuz passage last thursday
the boat's whereabouts were not disclosed. willey would say only that it was in u.s. navy custody
u.s. officers have said they do not know why the boat apparently was abandoned by the iranians. it appeared to have been recently vacated by its crew and was trailing a sea anchor
the fiberglass-hulled boat was the fourth iranian small craft captured by the navy in the persian gulf in the past six months, but the first taken in the southern waterway where iran's naval frigates and revolutionary guards concentrate their surface raids on neutral shipping
in addition to the rockets and missiles, willey said the boat yielded one soviet-designed ak-47 assault rifle and 203 rounds of ammunition, 500 rounds of ammunition for the mounted gun, and related items
the missiles apparently were contained in a sealed wooden box, six feet long, found in the bottom of the boat
officers on the reuben james did not open the box, but there was speculation at the time that it might contain stingers or other portable rockets
the sam-7, known as the ``strela,'' or arrow in russian, has an effective range of about two miles, atttacking aircraft by homing in on their engine exhaust
although it has been replaced in the soviet inventory by a newer portable missile, the sam-14, the strela is still being produced for soviet forces and for export sales
it also is manufactured by china and egypt, and more than 40 countries, including both iran and iraq, are believed to have the weapon in their arsenals
u.s. officials gave no further information on the chaff rockets found on the iranian boat. such rockets are carried aboard most warships and aircraft in the gulf. that concourse is not above ground; and subs 7th graf, ``we see xxx, to delete extraneous said</note>
the ``mole patrol'' is on a roll
for nine years, officer charles myers worked underground, patrolling the 3{-mile network of corridors, platforms and tunnels of philadelphia's mass-transit system. his unit was justly dubbed the mole patrol
he now helps run the police department's two battery-powered carts, which cruise silently through the concourse at the hub of the city's transportation system
the white and blue industrial carts, fitted with searchlights, rescue gear, two-way radio, roll bar and dome lights, can carry 8,400 pounds and have a top speed of about 10 mph. they cost $6,200 apiece
the new carts were quickly dubbed ``mole mobiles.'' after all, ``transit response vehicles'' just sounds too stuffy
before the carts came, if myers heard of trouble in another part of the concourse, ``it would be a footrace,'' he said. ``you'd be exhausted by the time you got there.''
we see a very positive response by all the store owners,'' capt. lawrence norton, commander of the transit unit, said wednesday
they see this cart, they come out and want to say hello. the public stops you all the time,'' he said. ``they get a real kick out of the fact that the police are down here in strength.''
within the next year the department hopes to add five more of the vehicles, because a cart is cheaper than paying for extra officers, norton said
the vehicles are parked and recharged during morning and evening rush hours, when the transit system's 350,000 daily passengers clog the passageways
myers said he and another officer arrested a burglar their first night, when they received a suspicious-person report and sped off to a far-off part of the concourse, which features stores, restaurants and banks
lo and behold, there's a man standing there inside a closed store,'' myers said. ``the only thing he said was, `i didn't hear you coming.''' ousted in 1971. pick up 5th graf pvs: ``prime minister...''</note>
sir william mcmahon, a former prime minister, died today after a long battle with cancer. he was 80
mcmahon died early today at st. luke's hospital in sydney and was cremated in a private service shortly afterward, family members said
mcmahon served as prime minister and head of the liberal party in 1971-72, and previously headed the treasury and foreign affairs department
he became prime minister on march 10, 1971, after john gorton was ousted as prime minister and liberal party leader in a dispute within the party. but mcmahon lost to gough whitlam the following year. mcmahon entered parliament in 1949
prime minister bob hawke of the labor party praised mcmahon's service
although on opposite sides of the political fence, i found sir william a generous opponent. he maintained an enormous enthusiasm for and interest in public affairs after his retirement from parliament and was constructive in his discussions on economics and political matters,'' hawke said in a statement
liberal party leader john howard said: ``few parliamentarians in the postwar period could boast a career as rich and diverse as sir william's.''
former liberal prime minister malcolm fraser called mcmahon a vigorous administrator and tenacious member of parliament who would be remembered for three decades of dedicated service
mcmahon is survived by his wife, lady sonia, his son, julian, and two daughters, belinda and deborah
a former preschool worker has been ordered to wear a sign around her neck about her sex offenses after she pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of sexually assaulting two girls
king county superior court judge warren chan on wednesday gave julia lynn guptill-gilbert of bothell a choice between spending 30 days in jail or wearing the sign for 60 days every time she goes out in public
ms. guptill-gilbert chose to wear the sign. she taught at a montessori school at the time of the assaults on two girls, aged 4 and 5
chan left it up to county prosecutors to decide the size and exact wording of the sign to be worn by the 19-year-old woman, who is five months pregnant
my words to her were that she must wear a sign saying: `i've been convicted of communicating with a minor for immoral purposes,''' chan said
chan also ordered ms. guptill-gilbert to write letters of apology to both victims, who were in court
both prosecution and defense attorneys objected to the ruling
our office has a preference for punishment that includes confinement, supervision and treatment, and we prefer those methods over the ones used by the judge in this case,'' said dan donohoe, the king county prosecutor's administrative assistant
you get to the matter of whether the punishment is cruel and unusual,'' he said. ``i'm not a lawyer, but i do think it's unusual.''
prosecutors had recommended a suspended one-year jail term for ms. guptill-gilbert, plus payment of counseling costs for the children and a mental health evaluation for ms. guptill-gilbert
defense attorney michael frost said ms. guptill-gilbert is likely to stay in her residence the entire 60-day period to avoid wearing the sign in public
ms. guptill-gilbert already has moved to california, raising questions about how sign order will be enforced
chan has scheduled a court hearing may 4 to find out whether california authorities will assume responsibility for monitoring the punishment. the 60-day period for wearing the sign isn't to begin until then
if she feels that wearing a sign is too much of a burden for her out in the public, all she has to do is stay home, which serves the same purpose as keeping her in the jail,'' chan said. before proposed truce to go into effect, iran agreeing to truce, navy finds abandoned iranian gunboat and seizes its arms. no pickup. ^by mona ziade</note>
iraq said today it would stop missile attacks on iranian cities for three days beginning at midnight, then said it fired three missiles into iran 10 hours before the truce was to begin
in another development, an iranian warship today attacked and set ablaze a cypriot supertanker in the southern persian gulf. the tanker's crew of 45 was rescued by salvage tugboats after the tanker ran aground
also today, the u.s. navy said two anti-aircraft missiles that may be soviet-made sam-7s were found aboard an iranian gunboat the navy discovered abandoned and drifting at the southern end of the gulf
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said one of the three iraqi long-range missiles fired at iran hit qom, seat of iran's religious hierarchy, and two hit isfahan, capital of the ancient persian empire
it said the missiles were fired about 2 p.m. local time, 10 hours before the proposed cease-fire was to begin
iran had no immediate reaction to the missile attacks on isfahan, in western iran, and qom, 100 miles south of tehran
but an iranian embassy official in ankara, turkey, was quoted as saying today that iran will comply with the proposed cease-fire if iraq does
iranian attacks will automatically come to an end if iraq stops the war of the cities,'' embassy spokesman riza bagri was quoted as saying by the semi-official anatolia news agency
hundreds of civilians have been killed in the missile duel during which iraq fired 105 missiles into tehran, 13 into qom and 10 into isfahan since feb. 29. iran says it fired 45 missiles into baghdad, a city of 5 million people, and dozens into the northern city of mosul and other cities in iraq
the iraqi news agency today quoted an unidentified government spokesman as saying the cease-fire was ``a gesture of courtesy'' to turkish prime minister turgut ozal, who was scheduled to begin a 48-hour visit to iraq on friday
ozal was on an official visit to tehran on feb. 29, and one of the first iraqi missiles fired into tehran crashed near a downtown hotel where members of the turkish delegation were staying. none of the turkish officials was hurt
in the persian gulf, an iranian warship attacked the 232,164-ton haven tanker near the strait of hormuz at the southern end of the gulf sand set its load of saudi crude oil on fire, gulf-based shipping executives said
the ship drifted for more than three hours after the dawn attack and eventually ran aground off the united arab emirates, said the executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the crew was rescued by salvage tugboats
at least eight tugs fought the fire on the grounded tanker for three hours before the blaze was controlled, the executives said. oil was gushing out of two blasted cargo holds, burning on the waters around the tanker
they said the iranian warship launched three separate attacks on the haven over the course of an hour. the london-based lloyd's shipping intelligence unit said the iranian ship was a frigate and the tanker was bound for indonesia
a u.s. navy spokesman today said two portable anti-aircraft missiles, tentatively identified as soviet-made sam-7s, were aboard an iranian gunboat the navy found abandoned and drifting in the strait of hormuz last week
maj. barry willey, a spokesman for the u.s. central command, said the twin-barrelled gun mounted in the cockpit of the 30-foot boat was a soviet-made zsu 23mm anti-aircraft weapon
the gun, rusty but functional and loaded for firing when found, apparently had been used for attacks on ships in the southern gulf and hormuz. the gun apparently was used for attacks on ships in the southern gulf and the hormuz
authoritative references say the soviet sam-7, a shoulder-fired missile similar to the u.s.-made redeye, is known to be a part of iran's arms arsenal. but willey said he did not know whether it was previously seen in the gulf
a stradivarius violin fetched a world record auction price for a musical instrument of $889,240 at a sotheby's sale today, the auctioneers said
the violin, made in 1709 by italian craftsman antonio stradivari, is named after the master english violinist marie hall. composer vaughan williams composed ``the lark ascending'' for hall, which she first performed in 1920
an unidentified private south american buyer beat out two other dealers bidding by telephone in a tense, two-minute auction
it was quite drawn out and tense and there was a round of applause at the end,'' said sotheby's spokeswoman beth mchattie
the marie hall had been expected to sell for around $846,000, and bidding started at $376,000, sotheby's said
the previous highest auction price for a stradivarius was $728,000 for the colossus, dated 1716, which was sold at christie's auction house in london last april
the guinness book of records says the highest known price for a stradivarius was $1.2 million. but that was in a private sale of stradivarius' alard violin by w. e. hill and sons to a singaporean on an unknown date
about 700 of 1,116 violins by stradivarius have survived
marie hall, considered one of the finest violinists of her era, died at age 72 in 1956
she acquired the violin in 1905 and it was passed on to her daughter when she died. when it was last auctioned by sotheby's in november 1968, the violin sold for a then world record price of $52,600
the violin was included in a day-long sale of violins, violas and other stringed instruments
medical malpractice attorney harvey wachsman momentarily weighed the possibility of a lawsuit against the doctor who delivered his son in the back seat of his car on grand central parkway in queens
maybe i should sue, just for practice,'' he said on wednesday
but he immediately decided against it because the defendant would have been, well, himself
derek wachsman weighed in at 6 pounds, 9 ounces at about 1 a.m. wednesday in the back seat of a mercedes 560 sel about 200 yards west of la guardia airport
the elder wachsman and his wife kathy, also a malpractice lawyer, left their home on long island about 12:15 a.m., heading full-tilt for mount sinai hospital in manhattan
but the baby wanted out well short of the hospital so wachsman, who was a neurosurgeon before he became a lawyer, pulled over, delivered the baby and tied the umbilical cord with a shoelace
and what will derek be when he grows up?
a doctor and a lawyer,'' wachsman said. ^eds: corrects name to nusbaum, sted nussbaum, thruout</head>
ulysses s. grant was in the white house and gen. george custer was one year away from making his last stand when orpha nusbaum was born aug. 13, 1875
mrs. nusbaum, believed by the guinness book of world records to be the world's oldest person, died wednesday at age 112
she had pneumonia recently, but an official cause of death was not released, said diane hostetler, director of nursing at fountainview nursing home, where mrs. nusbaum lived
her condition worsened during the weekend,'' miss hostetler said
she couldn't do anything for herself anymore,'' said a stepdaughter-in-law, betty nusbaum. ``you can't do anything for a person who doesn't want to live anymore.''
betty nusbaum said she was saddened by the death, but said mrs. nusbaum had lived a good life
last month, guinness officials said they believed she was the oldest person alive
mrs. nusbaum was honored at a special ceremony in january when officials put the goshen city seal on census documents indicating she was born in 1875 on the family farm near middlebury about 10 miles away. she spent most of her life in middlebury until moving to the nursing home in 1982
florence knapp, who lived in a philadelphia suburb, had been recognized as the world's oldest person until her death jan. 11. she was 114 years and 94 days old
guinness restricts recognition to those who can provide birth records and other documentation
there had been some confusion whether mrs. nusbaum would be 112 or 113 last aug. 13. for years she had maintained she was a year older than she actually was
but a document found in the public library in this northern indiana city last september showed that the former orpha ulery was 4 years old when she was counted in the u.s. census of 1880, making her 112
mrs. nusbaum attributed her longevity to her strict obedience to a biblical command, betty nusbaum said. ``she honored her father and mother. that's it,'' she said
for many years mrs. nusbaum taught sunday school in the elkhart and goshen areas. when she was 93, she resumed writing poetry, a hobby she had stopped in the 1920s
mrs. nusbaum married john mischler, a minister, in 1897. after his death, she married frank nusbaum in 1947. he died in 1959
cardiologists should be aware that heart disease can be an early indicator of aids, and some patients can live longer with proper cardiac care, according to research presented at the american college of cardiology convention
in a 1983-86 study of 86 aids patients in paris and miami, 18 had heart disease and seven of those had heart disease before other aids-related ailments, dr. evlin kinney of the university of miami school of medicine said wednesday at the acc meeting
heart disease was present in 5 percent of all aids patients _ that's our estimate based on the patients we have seen,'' she said. ``cardiologists need to be aware of aids heart disease.''
while little could be done for aids patients suffering from tumor-based heart disease, she said, cardiac disease stemming from opportunistic infections such as tuberculosis _ rather than from tumors _ can be treated, prolonging the lives of terminally ill patients
there were patients who, with treatment, survived as long as (aids) patients without heart disease,'' kinney said. ``some of these patients, we did manage to prolong their lives for many months.''
aids cripples the body's ability to fight off disease, allowing a variety of ailments _ including heart disease _ to cause death
fourteen of the 18 aids heart patients were dead within four months of diagnosis, but the other four _ all with infection-related heart disease _ lived for about two years, she said
another participant in the study, dr. jean-jacques monsuez of hopital st. louis in paris, said early, specific diagnosis of the ailments plaguing aids patients can help physicians prolong life. tuberculosis, for instance, is a frequent ailment in aids patients, and it can be treated
if we can treat each organ involved, it's a very important thing,'' monsuez said
kinney noted that there were only eight women among the 86 aids patients studied, but half of them were suffering from aids-related heart disease. while noting that the number of female patients was small, she said, ``females seem to be more susceptible to aids heart disease ... the women were represented disproportionately.''
vandals went on a window-smashing spree at the wisconsin capitol early today, knocking out windows in all four wings of the building, including the governor's conference room, security officers said
michael metcalf, chief of capitol security, said one man was apprehended but a second man got away
officer luke schneider, who made the arrest, said the man offered no resistance
metcalf said two men apparently scaled the walls to second-story balconies and began smashing the windows and high intensity lights about 1 a.m
thirty-two windows were broken, metcalf said. it was not known immediately how many lights were damaged
metcalf estimated it would take between $10,000 aand $20,000 to repair the damage. killed</head> details on resident killed. no pickup. ^by george boehmer</note>
a u.s. air force jet fighter plunged into the center of this small town today, killing the pilot and at least one resident, setting homes on fire and forcing the evacuation of about 60 people
the plane was carrying a canister of hydrazine, which forms toxic gas when mixed with water, but local officials said there was no evidence of a gas leak
witnesses said the f-16 smashed into the roof of one home, tore of the porch off another and started a ball of fire that sent residents fleeing
there was a crash and then a loud explosion and buildings caught fire,'' said herbert loef, a baker who lives three houses away from the street from the crash site. the plane was demolished
regional governor berhard ditteney said the body of a 60-year-old man was pulled from the rubble and rescue workers were looking for other victims. at least one resident was injured
it was the second crash of a military aircraft in west germany in as many days. on wednesday, a french mirage jet fighter narrowly missed a nuclear power plant in bavaria, about 185 miles east of today's crash site, before crashing and burning. the pilot was killed
today's crash occurred at 10 a.m. (3 a.m. est) in the middle of forst, a town of 6,000 residents 60 miles south of frankfurt, police said. the pilot, whose identity was not immediately released, was the only person aboard, the air force said
wreckage was scattered over a wide area and thick black smoke billowed from the crash site, witnesses said. three homes were destroyed and two were extensively damaged, including that of an 80-year-old woman who managed to escape unharmed when the plane hit her house, officials said
emergency crews evacuated more than 60 people from about 40 houses in the area, according to local police
a spokesman at the u.s. air force base at ramstein, doug moore, said the jet had been declared missing after taking off from hahn air force base in the eifel mountains
lt. col. edward neunherz, another base spokesman, told the associated press by telephone that the f-16 was on a training mission, but he had no further details
he confirmed the plane was carrying hydrazine, which is used to refire jet engines in case of engine failure. but neunherz added, ``that gas disperses easily in the event of an accident.''
norbert scharer, spokesman for police in nearby karlsruhe, said there was no evidence to indicate any toxic gas was released
scharer said he was told by american authorities that the plane was carrying 500 rounds of practice ammunition but no live ammunition
the f-16 was part of the 50th tactical fighter wing, neunherz said
wednesday's crash in the bavarian village of ohu unleashed a wave of concern about military jets flying near nuclear power plants. environmentalists maintain the country had escaped disaster by a ``split second'' when the jet crashed about one mile from the isar nuclear plant
but officials said there was no danger of an atomic accident because of a concrete dome over the plant, which they said was designed to withstand the force of a jet crash. graf pvs: `he said...' trims thereafter.</note>
benjamin netanyahu today said he resigned as israel's united nations ambassador so he could speak out against secretary of state george p. shultz's meeting with two arab-americans linked to the plo
the meeting raises a larger question of the value of american commitments to us when we have made huge concessions to obtain these guarantees,'' netanyahu told the associated press, referring to a 1975 american pledge not to meet with plo members
as long as i was wearing an ambassador's suit, i couldn't speak out openly,'' he told nbc ``today'' from tel aviv. he said the meeting could ``jeopardize israel's very existence.''
netanyahu said he had been planning to resign in a few weeks, but decided to speed it up after the shultz meeting
his resignation was to take effect immediately. foreign minister shimon peres has suggested asher ben-natan, a former ambassador to france and germany, as a possible replacement
netanyahu's resignation was the strongest message yet from israel regarding its displeasure over shultz's meeting five days ago with two members of the palestine national council, the plo's self-declared legislative body
prime minister yitzhak shamir, meanwhile, sharpened his opposition to the session with edward said and ibrahim abu lughod, both american citizens
he told members of his right-wing likud bloc the meeting was ``a slap in the face'' and said: ``the two men were representatives of the plo. it was possible to see on television how much they hate israel,'' the daily yediot ahronot reported today
netanyahu, 39, who gained prominence as an articulate defender of israel's policies during his four years as u.n. ambassador, made a surprise announcement of his resignation on israel television wednesday night
he said he was planning to resign ``in a matter of weeks'' anyway to allow him to begin campaigning for a seat as a likud legislator in november's elections
while stressing that he still had ``warm personal regard'' for shultz, netanyahu said the secretary's meeting with said and abu lughod, both american citizens, had created ``a deep rift'' between the united states and israel
even friends can sometimes take steps which are unacceptable or dangerous,'' he said
because of shultz's meeting, netanyahu said, ``it appears the palestine liberation organization will be introduced into the proposed international conference through the back door.''
the very clear possibility exists now that the plo will sit across the table from israel in this conference and will be the party we will be demanded to give land to,'' he said
then the conference could result in a plo state right in the heart of israel, threatening our very security, our very future.''
netanyahu said he would publicly oppose the american peace initiative, particularily the portion which calls for an international conference including the parties to the conflict and the five permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, soviet union, china, britain and france
i will pound the pavement from city to city in order to explain to the public the dangers of an international conference,'' he said
a lawyer for surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould says baby m will be better equipped to deal with her future if she continues to grow up knowing her natural mother
the best interest of this child is plainly to continue the present relationship. it's a good relationship. let's make it better. let's go to work,'' attorney joel siegal said wednesday in closing arguments in the baby m visitation hearing
but an attorney for the child's father, william stern, and his wife elizabeth, said the 2-year-old girl has an excellent relationship with the tenafly couple that should not be disrupted by visitation for at least five years
she doesn't need two mothers when a functional mother and father are everything this child needs,'' frank donahue said in his summation
the 1{ hours of closing arguments brought to an end a long and bitter courtroom fight for the child, now legally known as melissa stern. the decision on visitation now rests with superior court judge birger w. sween, whose ruling is not expected before next week
the dispute began after the child was born on march 27, 1986, and mrs. whitehead-gould reneged on a surrogacy contract with the sterns. it climaxed with an unprecedented feb. 3 new jersey supreme court decision that outlawed surrogacy for pay
mrs. whitehead-gould, 30, who currently sees her daughter during two-hour, supervised visits once a week, said she wants ``meaningful'' and gradually expanded visitation
the sterns have custody and want to delay mrs. whitehead-gould's visitation rights
siegal warned the judge wednesday that to reject immediate visitation would go against the intent of the new jersey supreme court ruling and ``by indirection we are enforcing the surrogacy contract.''
siegal said wednesday that gradually expanded visitation by mrs. whitehead-gould is in melissa's best interest
she will be better equipped to go forward and deal with life,'' he said
siegal said both sides should undergo counseling to heal wounds and ensure a smooth visitation schedule
but donahue rejected counseling
it's pie in the sky,'' donahue said. ``it just doesn't happen in our experience.''
donahue also said that mrs. whitehead-gould may try to exploit the child. he cited mrs. whitehead-gould's decision to sell pictures of her wedding with wall street accountant dean gould for $20,000 to the star magazine, a supermarket tabloid
one wonders what price a picture of melissa would bring,'' donahue said
you can carry your skis on the mount washington cog railway, but you better not try to use them to ski down the famous _ and treacherous _ tuckerman ravine
we don't plan to let the people who ride the train ski down tuckerman ravine,'' said u.s. forest service spokesman ned therrien. ``we will take some action to prevent people from trespassing under federal regulations.''
the railway last year proposed running a spring ski train to the top of new england's highest peak for the tuckerman ski season, normally april and may. the forest service denied the necessary permits
railway vice president wayne presby said the railway hasn't advertised for skiers this year, but officials don't intend to try to keep them off the rails
as a public utility, i can't discriminate against hikers, sightseers or skiers,'' he said
the forest service said it feared letting skiers ride the train up the mountain would increase the number of inexperienced skiers trying to make the dangerous run down the ravine and its famed headwall
skiers who make the run have to hike nearly three miles to the top of the mountain with their skis strapped to their backs
the forest service says forcing skiers to hike up the mountain limits those who attempt the hairy descent to only the heartiest and most experienced
presby said the railway will begin operating this year on april 16
meantime, forest service officials met wednesday with albert risch, who carries skiers to the headwall via chartered helicopter, and urged him to stop the flights. the helicopter uses private land, so the agency cannot order it to stop
risch said he has not decided whether he'll bow to the agency's wishes
lebanese soldiers killed two syrian soldiers in a battle in a christian enclave early today, the first clash between the forces in more than two years, military sources said
the lebanese opened fire on a syrian patrol that entered the eastern edge of the christians' 300-square-mile enclave in northeast lebanon before dawn, one source said
the source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the two sides clashed for about 30 minutes with automatic weapons and grenades near the village of zighrine. no lebanese casualties were reported
zighrine, a christian village, lies 15 miles northeast of beirut
the source said the syrian patrol ``withdrew from the zighrine area after the clash.'' he did not elaborate
syria, the main power broker in lebanon, maintains 25,000 troops in eastern and northern provinces under a 1976 arab league peacekeeping mandate
syria also has 7,500 troops in moslem west beirut seeking to restore law and order after years of militia anarchy
the lebanese army fought a series of battles with the syrians in the northeastern mountains in january 1986 after christian president amin gemayel torpedoed a syrian-brokered accord to end lebanon's 13-year-old civil war
city officials rearranged two crosses made from lillies at easter flower shows after the american civil liberties union objected that the displays promoted religion on public property
the two flower crosses had been part of the annual spring and easter flower show at the garfield park conservatory and the lincoln park conservatory, nancy kaszak, general attorney for the chicago park district, said wednesday
ms. kaszak said she was contacted tuesday by an aclu attorney who csaid the crosses amounted to a display of religious symbols at the conservatories, which are public property
park workers converted the crosses at both conservatories into pillars of flowers climbing almost to the ceiling, she said
my concern is that the cross put up by a public body on public property was a violation of the first amendment,'' said jane whicher, staff counsel for the aclu in illinois. ``it shouldn't have been erected in the first place, but i commend the park district on removing it so quickly.''
pope john paul ii celebrated holy thursday mass with more than 1,000 clergymen today to open holy week services in st. peter's basilica
the pontiff led the 22 cardinals, 30 bishops and about 1,000 priests, all in white vestments, in renewing their celibacy and other priestly vows
we are gathered here in this concelebration to renew our priestly readiness to serve,`` john paul said in a homily in italian
later in the day, the pope was going to the basilica of st. john lateran to wash the feet of 12 priests in a service re-enacting jesus christ's last supper with his apostles
the pope is to carry a wooden cross in a good friday procession near the colosseum. he will celebrate the easter vigil on saturday night and an open-air mass in st. peter's square easter sunday.   
cuba's official news agency reported that a brother and sister were sentenced to eight-year prison terms in cuba after admitting that they spied for the cia
the prensa latina dispatch from havana, received here late wednesday, identified the two as nestor norberto garcia hernandez and gladys juana garcia hernandez and said they had ``proven ties'' to the cia
prensa latina said the two ``admitted during the trial their activity in cuba for that american center of espionage.''
it said the maximum sentence for the charges was 10 years imprisonment, and the havana judge trying the case reduced it to eight because the two confessed
cuban television had reported in may 1987 that ms. garcia hernandez, said to be a cuban resident of the united states, recruited and trained her brother to work as a cia agent
according to prensa latina's account of the televised charges, garcia hernandez, believed to be a cuban citizen, sent radio messages from may 1985 to april 1987 to the cia at its headquarters in langley, va
the cuban news agency also said that during the trial it was proven that the two ``gathered economic, political and military information for the cia.''
an abandoned fishing boat stacked with 3,765 pounds of cocaine was seized within sight of miami's skyline in the second largest cocaine haul ever made by the u.s. coast guard, officials said
it was in bales spread out on the deck,'' said coast guard petty officer joe dye on wednesday
the seizure ranked second to a two-ton shipment found on a fishing boat off puerto rico last fall. the cocaine was in an unregistered, twin-engine, 26-foot open fishing boat. there were no belongings aboard
a passing boater called us and basically said, `hey, there's a boat out here and it's loaded,''' dye said
at first, authorities thought it was loaded with marijuana, which is normally found in bales of 50 to 100 pounds, dye said
originally they thought it was pot because it was packed in marlboro (cigarette) cartons,'' dye said. ``they packed the cartons with the kilos (of cocaine) and put the cartons into cases, which were also marked `marlboro.'''
the wholesale value of the cocaine was estimated at about $26 million and its value on the streets could be as high as $169 million, said a spokesman for the drug enforcement administration task force in miami. talks fail</head>
pakistan said today it is ready to sign a settlement to end the afghanistan conflict and expects progress soon on deciding when outside military aid to the soviet-backed government and guerrillas will end
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze said in an interview released today it was possible the afghanistan peace talks would fail, but he said that would not necessarily stop the soviets from withdrawing their troops
the new york times said wednesday that u.s. officials received indications the soviet union will consider allowing american aid to the rebels to continue after the 115,000 red army troops begin leaving afghanistan
u.s. and pakistani officials have said the issue of continued aid to the afghan government and the rebels fighting it is the last obstacle in the way of an accord to end the war
zain noorani, pakistan's acting foreign minister, said his country will sign ``any time during the day or after the easter break, when the other three parties are ready to sign.''
noorani spoke after his side and an afghan government delegation resumed the u.n.-mediated talks. pakistan represents the rebels, and the other parties are the soviet union and the united states
from our point of view, all the ... instruments (of the peace package) are complete,'' he said. ``we are hopeful that in the next few days there ought to be some kind of progress'' on the aid issue, he added
washington has said it will not guarantee a settlement unless the soviet union agrees to stop funding the kabul government at the same time the united states stops aid to the rebels
shevardnadze's interview with the bulgarian newspaper rabotnichesko delo was carried by the soviet news agency tass. shevardnadze was in bulgaria earlier this week for a warsaw pact meeting
not everything depends solely on us and the afghan government,'' shevardnadze said, referring to the outcome of the talks. ``this is why one cannot but take into account the possibility that the talks may not lead to the accords expected of them.''
shevardnadze said that if the geneva talks fail, the soviet union will withdraw its soldiers ``in a way convenient for the government of afghanistan and ourselves.'' he gave no indication whether the soviet union would stick to the nine-month timetable for withdrawal already agreed to in geneva
he said an agreement could be implemented without u.s. participation if pakistan was willing to sign a document spelling out the details of the soviet withdrawal
it would certainly be better if it (the united states) becomes a guarantor. but it is quite possible, in our opinion, to conclude the geneva process without the u.s. guarantees,'' he said
zoorani rejected this, saying everything would have to be renegotiated if one of the superpowers refuses its guarantor role
the times, citing unidentified senior u.s. officials, said the united states was considering an arrangement under which pakistan would sign the accord, but the united states and the soviet union would have a separate understanding on aid to the insurgents
the new position was discussed by telephone wednesday by president reagan and pakistani president mohammed zia ul-haq, the newspaper said. national leaders</head>
communist party officials of a southern city paralyzed by a strike again appealed to soviet leaders to resolve a dispute between two soviet ethnic groups but condemned the tactics of protesters, a newspaper reported today
the appeal, adopted at a meeting wednesday, did not persuade people to return to work, according to one resident who said the strike continued today in stepanakert, the main city of the disputed region of nagorno-karabakh
the majority of people living in the region are armenian, but it is part of the republic of azerbaijan. armenians are demanding that it be made part of neighboring armenia
people aren't even thinking of going to work,'' said the resident, a man answering the telephone at the sovietsky karabakh newspaper. he refused to give his name or position
the government newspaper izvestia said the meeting of the stepanakert city committee was stormy and that one speaker, an engineer, cried
the majority of the communists decisively condemned the tactic of `forced pressure' on the country's leadership, and along with that every speaker underlined that the nagorno-karabakh problem has not been removed, that it still needs a settlement,'' izvestia said in a report from stepanakert
the city committee passed a resolution containing the appeal to national leaders, izvestia said. it provided no other details
wednesday's soviet press reports said workers vowed to continue the walkout until the government and party reversed their decisions to leave nagorno-karabakh under the control of azerbaijan
the city committee had asked national leaders to reconsider the annexation demand in february after the communist party central committee said nagorno-karabakh belongs to azerbaijan. the presidium of the supreme soviet, the national parliament, approved a package of cultural and economic improvements for the region on march 23 but did not address the territorial issue
street demonstrations and strikes in nagorno-karabakh and armenia's capital, yerevan, have tested soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of glasnost, or openness. at least 32 people were killed in ethnic violence in sumgait in azerbaijan last month
all but essential services such as bread and milk factories and some public transportation and medical clinics have been closed in stepanakert since the strike began march 24
the man at the sovietsky karabakh newspaper said there were no demonstrations in stepanakert and that police were keeping a low profile
yerevan police last week arrested several armenian nationalists who had been advocating the annexation
today, soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov provided the first official confirmation that paruyr ayrikyan, a former political prisoner, was among those arrested
the spokesman, at a regular news briefing, said he did not know under which criminal statute ayrikyan was being held. dissidents have said authorities charged ayrikyan with violating a law against defamation of the soviet state
the soviet government has forbidden foreign journalists from traveling to armenia and nagorno-karabakh. information</head>
a federal judge has vacated the sentence of a convicted arms broker because the u.s. government withheld information about its arms sales to iran when the man was sentenced
u.s. district judge robert vining said wednesday he would have imposed a different sentence on lemuel m. stevens had he known about the reagan administration's arms sales
the judge should have all the information he can before he sentences somebody, and in this case, he didn't,'' said stevens' attorney, robert stubbs iii. ``he didn't have super-duper important stuff.''
vining ruled that attorney general edwin meese's knowledge of u.s. arms sales to iran should have been communicated to the assistant u.s. attorney who prosecuted stevens. he said the government had a duty to disclose information about the scheme to the defense and the court before sentencing
vining said the government's arms sales to iran ``in no way affect the guilt of stevens,'' who pleaded guilty to conspiring to ship military equipment to iran and chile in 1984, when he was the president of marietta-based international services and logistics
but the judge wrote, ``this court continues to believe that the government's conduct in selling arms to iran while prosecuting an individual for substantially similar conduct (even though such conduct occurred at an earlier time) is relevant to the sentence to be imposed ... and should have been disclosed.''
u.s. attorney robert barr said the government disagreed with the ruling, but no decision has been made on an appeal
it may make sense for policy and practical reasons to essentially let the matter lie where it is, but we have not reached that decision yet,'' barr said
i'm just grateful for his decision,'' said stevens, now a salesman of recreational vehicles. vining released him on his own recognizance in june 1987 pending a final order
stubbs said he hoped vining will re-sentence stevens to the 17 months he already has served, four months short of the scheduled release date under federal parole guidelines for his original three-year sentence. resign in a few weeks. pick up 5th pvs, `on wednesday...'</note>
israel today clamped new restrictions on palestinians, and prime minister yitzhak shamir told hundreds of cheering jewish settlers in the west bank that israel would crush the palestinian uprising
we will continue to act against the violence until we stamp it out,'' shamir, leader of the right-wing likud bloc, told hundreds of cheering jewish settlers during a tour of herodion, 5 miles south of bethlehem
in the west bank town of ramallah, israeli troops sealed off the city hall after reports of a bomb threat, arab witnesses said
secretary of state george p. shultz defended his recent meeting with arab-americans who belong to the palestine liberation organization's parliament-in-exile. benjamin netanyahu, israel's ambassador to the united nations, said he was resigning immediately, a few weeks earlier than he originally planned, to speak out against the meeting
on wednesday, when palestinians observed land day, israel clamped down on palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip with its toughest restrictions in 20 years of occupation
land day commemorates a confrontation on march 30, 1976, when israeli arabs protested the forced sale of 1,600 acres of their land for jewish settlement. six arabs were killed
the army barred reporters from entering the west bank and gaza strip except in news pools with an army escort, and restricted the movement of palestinians
the measures, however, failed to prevent violence. officials said four arabs were shot and killed and 39 were wounded by gunfire wednesday, and two were injured in gaza
israel radio said today the interior ministry placed new travel restrictions on palestinians from east jerusalem, where 130,000 arabs live. israel annexed the predominantly arab sector of the city in 1967
it said palestinians aged 16 to 35 now need special permits to travel to jordan, and these will be issued only if the request is for a stay of at least nine months. the object is to stop the plo from sending couriers into the occupied territories
in ramallah, chamber of commerce head hadar kasis told a reporter the military authorities informed him palestinians could withdraw only $1,000 a month from bank accounts
earlier restrictions bar arabs from bringing more than $1,200 at a time across the bridges from jordan. the moves are designed to keep the plo from compensating merchants and workers for loss of income during anti-israeli strikes and protests
we are prepared for anything. ... we can exist just on bread and zatar (a peppery spice),'' said kasis, a gift-store owner
the israeli army said it received reports of an explosion in the ramallah city hall area about midday today, and arab witnesses said soldiers briefly sealed off the area
the witnesses said israeli or municipal officials apparently had received a bomb threat, but the details were sketchy. israel sealed off the west bank to media monday night and the movements of journalists were severely limited
the israeli-appointed acting mayor, ahmed assayad, said there was an unsuccessful attempt late wednesday to break into the building. he said he left city hall about 11 a.m. (4 a.m. est) and knew of no attack
underground leaflets signed by the plo have ordered all arab municipal councils to resign, accusing them of collaborating with israeli authorities
in remarks broadcast today by israel radio, shultz reacted to israeli protests over his meeting last saturday with edward said and ibrahim abu lughud. he said it was ``beyond the pale'' to suggest he could not meet american citizens
shultz also stressed the importance of finding palestinian negotiators: ``palestinians are part of the peace issue. we have got to find a way to be in contact with them.''
netanyahu resigned wednesday because he contended the reagan administration was violating a commitment not to talk directly with the plo
i could not speak freely (about this) as long as i was ambassador,'' he told the associated press
shultz said he would press ahead with his peace initiative _ essentially an exchange of land for peace with the arabs _ but would wait until arabs and israelis are ready to talk peace before asking u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar to send out invitiations to an international conference
violent protests by palestinians against israeli rule of the west bank and gaza strip began dec. 8
wednesday's fatalities brought to at least 123 the number of arabs killed by israelis in the unrest, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed. cargo, adds that plane was replacement for one that crashed wednesday. no pickup.</note>
a nigerian cargo plane loaded with cows, a limousine and tons of other goods crashed on takeoff from cairo international airport today, killing all four crewmen, including an american, officials said
the dc-8 was chartered by the egyptian air transport company zas and was bound for sharjah, one of the seven emirates of the united arab emirates. ahmed salem, operations chief of zas, told the associated press the plane crashed on desert terrain just beyond the runway at 4:10 a.m
salem said the american pilot and three nigerian crew members were killed. a spokesman for arax, the nigerian firm that owned the plane, identified the pilot as ernie trapaga but didn't know his age, hometown, or how long he had been with the company
salem identified the american only as trapanga and said he didn't know his first name. it wasn't known which spelling of the name was correct. egypt's state-owned middle east news agency said he was an american of spanish origin
the arax spokesman, at the company's london office, identified two of the nigerians as tony thomas and patrick adjaye. the third was identified only by his last name, oladunni. neither the spokesman nor salem had oladunni's first name
the news agency quoted control tower officials as saying the plane caught fire in the air. the agency said the pilot needed two tries to get the plane into the air
the first time, he sped down the runway but failed to become airborne
the second time, ``the plane caught fire as it was about 50 yards above the ground and crashed in the desert area around the airport,'' the agency said
airport officials said the aircraft's 28 tons of cargo included 50 cows and a mercedes benz limousine
salem said the plane was a replacement for a dc-8 that slid off a runway wednesday in denmark while en route to cairo to pick up the cargo. that plane was seriously damaged, and arax dispatched another plane, with a different crew, to egypt, salem said
the plane involved in today's crash was destroyed, and officials said the cows were killed. sted of 643 and number of delegates needed to nominate to 2,082 sted of 2,081.</note>
jesse jackson's campaign is planning an intense effort to woo democratic ``super delegates'' as the likelihood increases that they will determine the party's nominee
jackson aides say the campaign also is planning to seek new money and hire an advance team, a staple of the other candidates' campaigns. and they said that as scrutiny of jackson increases, the press and public can expect to see him offering more details and specifics of his various domestic and foreign policy ideas
in two days of meetings here this week, jackson met with his top financial organizers and with prominent democratic leaders whom he hoped to pull into his camp, or at least milk for advice
his campaign manager, gerald austin, said there will be a concerted plan to court super delegates, the 645 people who are automatically democratic convention delegates by virtue of their status as party or elected officials
they are viewed as critical in this year's campaign, since it appears no candidate by the end of the primary season will have the 2,082 delegates needed to lock up the nomination. the decision could rest with the super delegates at the summer nominating convention in atlanta
so far, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has gained the most support from established paty leaders. jackson, who has a slight lead in the popular vote cast so far, has said the super delegates should ``respect the super voters'' and back whoever has the most votes after the last primaries on june 7
austin said the campaign will be phoning the super delegates and mailing them information on what jackson has accomplished and soliciting their support
in addition, jackson's supporters in congress, particularly members of the congressional black caucus, will contact super delegates, said rep. mickey leland, d-texas
the front line is the congressional black caucus ... to talk to our colleagues in our states, to lobby people who are super delegates,'' he said
in fund-raising, jackson's fortunes have grown steadily from a shoestring budget to a $1-million month in march, the biggest single fund-raising month of the campaign
campaign aides said that since the march 8 super tuesday series of primaries in 20 states, unsolicited donations have increased dramatically, augmented by an active direct-mail program
the phones are ringing in chicago'' at campaign headquarters, said austin. ``people want to get involved _ to do fund raisers in states we've already contested.''
campaign chairman willie brown, the speaker of the california assembly, said the campaign has raised $1 million in california alone. he said plans are to continue to increase the pace through a series of fund-raising techniques and events
jackson, however, spends the money as fast as it comes in and still lags far behind the big warchest of democratic money leader dukakis, who generally has cash on hand of $3 or $4 million, according to financial reports
leland said the campaign hopes to raise at least $3 million for television alone between now and the end of the primary season
we're going to scorch the earth,'' leland said
jackson will air tv ads in every upcoming state, but will not conduct the kind of saturation media effort that other candidates have used, austin said
we're showing you can win elections without spending the kind of money these guys spend,'' he said
austin said he is interviewing potential candidates to come on board for advance work, in anticipation of more organization in upcoming state primaries and caucuses
but he said that overall he does not anticipate expanding the campaign staff of some 90 people, at least for now
we're just winning. we're going to continue to do what we've done so far,'' he said
campaign aides said jackson has no plan to change his basic message or his ``economic justice'' theme. but political director frank watkins said there may be a few new issues coming out
we've got a few in the hopper,'' he said
in addition, jackson is ready to offer more details and specifics of the various programs and ideas he proposes, aides said
watkins said the overall campaign operation has been working well state-to-state, with the campaign tapping into existing constituent organizations to serve as the underpinning for the jackson operation
we know who to look for when we go in there _ hispanic groups, women's groups, blacks, workers, farmers, environmentalists, students,'' watkins said
part of the jackson strategy, he acknowledged, is to refrain from public predictions on how jackson will run in a given contest
we were convinced we could win it from the beginning but weren't anxious to wake anybody up,'' he said
jackson leads in the popular vote total of states that have voted so far, and is running a close second to dukakis in the delegate count. employees. pick up 4th graf pvs: `mcgrath announced...' edits to trim thereafter.</note>
the government today began closing its offices for the easter weekend with most of its employees unpaid and hopes fading for a mediated settlement to the crisis over strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
as the government closed down until monday, a few more shops and stores reopened their doors in panama city, widening the cracks in an 11-day-old general strike aimed at forcing noriega's ouster
the closure of government offices left thousands of public employees unpaid for the second time this month, despite a new infusion of an estimated $19 million in quarterly tax revenues
about $5.5 million of that money reportedly came from taxes and fees paid by u.s. companies doing business in panama, despite a number of official economic sanctions applied against panama by the united states
the united states has been trying to pressure noriega to leave the country. as head of the 15,000-member panama defense forces, he is the power behind the civilian government
the government, its opposition and the nation's roman catholic leader all expressed doubt at prospects for negotiating an end to the crisis
the reservations were voiced wednesday just hours after the mediation initiative involving archbishop marcos mcgrath was disclosed
mcgrath announced through a spokesman on tuesday that he was willing to try to negotiate an end to 10 months of political turmoil that have in the past month deepened into acute crisis
on wednesday, he told journalists he remained willing to proceed, but added: ``it is evident that for the government and for the military, this process could be somewhat difficult, because as far as they are concerned, the church is partial.''
he said that ``the church has had the moral duty to criticize those who have used force excessively'' as the government has harshly suppressed anti-noriega street protests
baltazar renan alzpurua, columnist for the daily newspaper critica, which is run by the defense forces, expressed even greater doubts about the archbishop's suitability as a mediator
noreiga was indicted in the united states last month on federal charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine, charges he denies
mcgrath is from head to toe just another ugly american and he cannot be the mediator,'' renan wrote in wednesday's paper. ``that would be like inviting a thief to eat at your table.''
mcgrath's parents were u.s. nationals and the churchman still speaks spanish with an american accent
i have not asked to be mediator, and if the mediation can be carried out by someone else or in another form, so be it,'' he said
the archbishop's intervention was proposed sunday by president oscar arias of cost rica and felipe gonzalez, the spanish prime minister, who was visiting costa rica at the time
angelica guinard, a top leader of the opposition national civil crusade, gave the associated press this assessment of the prospective mediation: ``we don't have much hope of a positive result. we cannot trust the military.''
she said the regime's crackdown monday, when an anti-government march was smashed by riot troops and more than 20 crusade members arrested, ``demonstrates that the government has no inclination to dialogue ... how can you negotiate with someone who's pointing a pistol at your head?''
ms. guinard said the crusade, an alliance of 200 business, labor and civic groups spearheading the drive to oust noriega, is considering calling off the general strike that has since march 21 shut down most of the country's economic activity. she said it may have outlived its usefulness
industry, construction and most commerce remained virtually paralyzed wednesday, but the city's three major supermarket chains reopened. visits to several of the stores found them doing brisk but orderly business
clients were buying only essentials, especially staples including rice, oil, beans and milk. most shoppers also were stocking up on toilet paper
banks have been closed for four weeks. cash is extremely scarce, almost everyone is doing without some things and many people are nearly desperate
the banks closed after a run on deposits precipitated by the political crisis. noriega had orchestrated the ouster of president eric delvalle on feb. 26, hours after delvalle tried to fire him
the united states, continuing to recognize delvalle, on march 3 froze panamanian government funds in u.s. banks. delvalle is in hiding
three men are suing doctors for allegedly testing them for aids without their permission, complaining their privacy was violated and that the test results caused them mental anguish
the lawsuits say one of the three considered suicide and another was forced to leave his home town because of societal pressure after they were told they tested positive for the aids virus
lawyer david webber, who filed all three suits, said such testing occurs more often than patients realize
i believe that such testing is going on all over,'' webber said. ``in most cases, people are tested without their knowledge and simply never know.''
anna forbes, a spokeswoman for action aids, a nonprofit organization that assists people with aids in the philadelphia area, said aids testing without permission is ``happening far too frequently.''
often this testing is being done without consideration of the impact it has on people and their families,'' she said. ``telling people that they are infected with the virus is a psychological bombshell because you are dealing with an incurable disease.''
a study published last week in the journal of the american medical association said 34 percent of 189 u.s. hospitals surveyed rarely asked patients' permission before testing for the aids virus
the three men, who were not identified at their request, are suing the doctors for more than $200,000 in damages. the doctors and their representatives refused comment to comment on the suits
in one lawsuit, filed wednesday in federal court in harrisburg, a 40-year-old man contends he was forced to leave his home after he tested positive for exposure to the virus that causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome. he said his physician never asked his permission
the man said although he is infected with the virus, he does not have aids or aids-related diseases
the plaintiff in another suit, filed in philadelphia common pleas court, said he went to a hospital for treatment of a minor eye infection and gave permission for a blood test but not for an aids test. he contemplated suicide after he was told he tested positive for aids, according to the suit
in the third suit, also filed in philadelphia court, the plaintiff alleges that he was tested for the aids virus without permission after he went to her for a premarital blood test. a second test showed he was not infected
president reagan and pakistani president mohammed zia ul-haq agreed during telephone talks to continue aiding afghan resistance forces after soviet troops leave afghanistan if the soviets continue backing the kabul regime, u.s. officials said today
the officials also confirmed reports that the reagan administration is actively involved in a new effort to settle the aid issue with the soviets
the united states has not and will not stop assisting the afghan resistance unless the soviets stop aiding the kabul regime,'' state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said
she said reagan and zia ``reaffirmed'' this view during a telephone conversation on wednesday
there has been concern within the administration that pakistan _ through which u.s. assistance to the guerrillas is funnelled _ would halt the flow of aid once an agreement is signed
pakistan is eager for a settlement and a soviet troop withdrawal because a pact would presumably permit millions of afghan refugees in pakistan to return to their homeland
the presidents' conversation and a flurry of diplomatic activity with the soviets are part of an effort to finish a u.n.-sponsored accord that would permit the orderly withdrawal of the soviet union's 115,000 troops from afghanistan and require a cessation of outside aid to the guerrillas
the united states has agreed in principle to be a ``guarantor'' of the agreement, but has insisted it will stop aiding the afghan rebels after soviet withdrawal only if moscow stops sending supplies and financial support to the afghan government. the soviets have said they have a right to continue such aid under treaties with the kabul government
a state department official today confirmed reports in the washington post and the new york times that the united states would ask the soviets to agree to a continuation of the two superpowers' aid to their clients in the afghan struggle
instead of agreeing to a parallel cessation of aid, moscow and washington would agree to a parallel continuation of assistance, according to the proposal
during talks in washington last week, soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze reportedly did not specifically reject the idea, but a state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said ``it would go too far to say he agreed to consider it
there is some disagreement'' even within the administration on how to interpret shevardnadze's comments, the official added
publicly, at a news conference march 23, shevardnadze rejected calls for a cessation of soviet aid
the u.s. official who spoke on condition of anonymity said some administration figures were concerned about the legality of the united states signing an afghan peace accord that required a cutoff of aid to the resistance forces while agreeing separately with the soviets to continue such assistance. comment. picks up 5th graf pvs, `the appeals ...</note>
the warsaw pact has offered to hold separate talks on conventional forces and battlefield nuclear arms and urged the superpowers to sign by july 1 a pact to halve their long-range nuclear arsenals
the soviet-led alliance's seven foreign ministers also said wednesday after a two-day meeting in the bulgarian capital of sofia that the superpowers should agree to abide by the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. moscow says the treaty bars development of a space-based missile defense system
the warsaw pact foreign ministers urged nato to begin talks this year on reducing conventional forces in europe and backed down from a longstanding position by offering separate negotiations on battlefield nuclear weapons
the offer appeared aimed at overcoming a more than year-old absence of movement toward new talks on reducing conventional forces across europe
we welcome the statements of the warsaw pact foreign ministers ... to the extent that they seem to reflect some of the concerns of nato members,'' said a nato statement released today in brussels, belgium
the statement added that it was important that the warsaw pact's words be translated into concrete proposals at the negotiating table
the appeals, published by the bulgarian news agency bta and monitored in vienna, indicated soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev is eager to seal a pact on intercontinental nuclear missiles but not insisting it be ready to sign when he meets president reagan in moscow may 29 to june 2
soviet deputy foreign minister vadim loginov told journalists in sofia that the kremlin still hopes the agreement can be signed during the moscow summit
but the warsaw pact statement indicated moscow links a pact on strategic arms to adherence to the 1972 abm treaty, which sets limits on superpower missile defenses
the reagan administration has argued that the abm accord permits research and testing of the its space-based missile defense project, popularly called ``star wars.'' moscow insists the abm accord rules out any such system
the warsaw pact statement said talks on what the 16-nations north atlantic treaty organization calls conventional stability should begin this year, but set no time for the separate negotations on tactical nuclear and dual capability weapons
east-west disagreement over how to count warsaw pact and nato troop levels has stalled vienna talks on reducing conventional forces in central europe since they opened in 1973. those negotations are likely to be wound down if new talks on conventional stability are started
agreement on new talks on conventional forces may pave the way for settlement of other disputes, including human rights issues
paramilitary troops killed nine people and injured 36 when they fired on a group of people who threw stones at the soldiers' camp, news reports said today
indian newspapers said the firing tuesday night and wednesday by a unit of the paramilitary assam rifles occurred in aizawl, the capital of the northeastern state of mizoram
a nighttime curfew was clamped on the town about 990 miles east of new delhi
mizoram was the scene of a 20-year guerrilla war for independence until 1986, when a peace accord was signed with the indian government
it was unclear what set off the incident, but the united news of india said the civilians were angered over an alleged assault on a local policeman tuesday by members of the paramilitary unit
state chief minister laldenga has asked prime minister rajiv gandhi to remove assam rifles personnel from mizoram for mutiny and rebellion against the government, uni said
laldenga was the leader of the independence movement
the movement was fueled by what local residents, mainly members of the mizo tribe, perceived as a cultural threat from settlements by assamese and other ethnic groups from the west
the assam rifles were deployed in mizoram during the guerrilla war and remained after the peace pact as a reserve police force
uni did not give details of the assault on the local policeman, but many former guerrillas have been inducted into the state police force since the accord was signed. monday</head>
a man who has already been convicted in one killing will go on trial here monday on charges of soliciting contract killings through soldier of fortune magazine, officials said
richard michael savage, 39, had been scheduled for trial earlier this month in houston, but u.s. district judge james deanda granted a change of venue after ruling savage could not get a fair trial there because of publicity in an unrelated civil case involving soldier of fortune
on march 3, a federal civil jury in houston awarded a $9.4 million judgment against soldier of fortune when it found the magazine was negligent by publishing a classified advertisement that led to a woman's slaying. savage was not involved in that killing
gary cobe, the assistant u.s. attorney in houston who will prosecute savage, declined comment on the case wednesday, but confirmed the trial will begin monday
savage is already serving a 40-year prison term in florida for arranging the 1985 beating death of former west palm beach assistant city manager anita spearman through an advertisement in soldier of fortune
alice v. brado allegedly hired savage through a soldier of fortune advertisement to kill dana free
savage was indicted in october 1986 along with ms. brado and others in the murder-for-hire scheme. among the charges against him are four counts of use of interstate commerce facilities in the commission of murder for hire, aiding and abetting, according to the u.s. district clerk's office in houston
ms. brado allegedly hired savage through an ad in the magazine to arrange the death of free, whom she said absconded with her $300,000 life savings. she pleaded guilty to charges stemming from the scheme and died of emphysema in a kentucky prison while serving a five-year term
the indictment stated brado paid savage $20,000 to arrange free's murder, to have been carried out by william clayton buckley, 36, and sherry lynn breeden, 22, both of knoxville, tenn
the pair allegedly tried to bomb free's car in atlanta during june 1985, but free escaped. on oct. 12, 1985, two grenades were thrown through his living room window, but no one was injured
buckley and ward c. lambeth, a 61-year-old co-defendant, also have pleaded guilty to charges in connection with the grenade attack
a man has been arrested on charges linked to a drug ring that was allegedly involved with panamanian gen. manuel antonio noriega, authorities said
kenneth mark kiken, 37, was captured wednesday in the southern new jersey town of avalon on a fugitive warrant, john c. mcginley, head of the fbi's new jersey office. kiken was arrested after a routine license check by avalon police on an out-of-state license plate, he said
kiken was named in a two-count indictment last january charging him with conspiring to import and attempting to import 165,000 pounds of marijuana seized by the u.s. coast guard seized in october 1985
the shipment was included in a june 1986 indictment in tampa, fla. accusing leigh bruce ritch and steven kalish of running a drug ring that imported millions of pounds of marijuana and thousands of pounds of cocaine into the united states
kalish, who was arrested in july 1984, pleaded guilty, cooperated with authorities in the investigation of noriega and was sentenced feb. 25 to 14 years in prison, said assistant u.s. attorney mark jackowski in tampa
noriega was indicted feb. 4 for taking $4 million from kalish and ritch in payoffs to protect their operation and with laundering more than $100 million of the ring's profits
the noriega indictment covers the time period of june 1983 to july 1984, and jackowski said the government does not allege a specific link between the charges against the panamanian strongman and the charges against kiken
assistant u.s. attorney lucy mcclain in camden said kiken waived bail, a lawyer and opposition to sending him to tampa authorities
jackowski said kiken would likely be brought to florida next week or the week after
ritch was sentenced to 30 years for his conviction on the 1986 tampa indictment, jackowski said. harassment</head>
a bookkeeper who admitted she shot her boss to death has been acquitted of second-degree murder after testifying that she was a victim of sexual harassment
roxanna ullery, 23, told a circuit court jury she killed wayne evans at his winter park home feb. 16, 1987, because he moved threateningly toward her and a friend and she feared he was about to rape and kill them
ms. ullery was convicted wednesday of carrying a concealed weapon and shooting a firearm, and prosecutors said she would likely get a year of probation
the defendant said evans, 30, owner of cinco construction co., continually made lewd comments during her six months on the job and would lift up her dress, fondle her breasts and call her into his office where he would be masturbating
however, prosecutors claimed ms. ullery shot evans because he found out earlier in the day that she was embezzling money by writing paychecks to people who did not work at the company. he called her to his home to discuss the embezzlement, prosecutors said
jurors looked at checks totaling $9,000 that prosecutors said ms. ullery signed and cashed. she said she did that at his direction and that he had withheld more than $160,000 in social security taxes from the government
the defense said evans threatened her with jail if she didn't do what he wanted
he threatened to turn her in and kill her and her son,'' said defense attorney charles willits. ``what it amounted to was psychological warfare.'' university of florida, in 3rd graf, `cockrell's work ....' column moved in advance on march 30.</note>
every time wilburn ``sonny'' cockrell goes to work, he plunges 230 feet into a florida sinkhole and 12,000 years into the past
cockrell is an underwater archaeologist who is harvesting relics from the pleistocene epoch, some of them human, from the depths of warm mineral springs, the spa that bills itself as ponce de leon's ``fountain of youth.''
cockrell's work as director of florida state university's research project is examined in an episode of pbs' ``discoveries underwater,'' airing monday. the eight-part documentary series from kcet-tv los angeles and the bbc looks at shipwrecks, sunken treasures and the lost city of atlantis
the age of the bones in the warm mineral springs sinkhole has been established by carbon dating at about 12,000 years
i feel early man used this place to dispose of the dead,'' said cockrell, a tall man with thick sandy hair and a big beard starting to show gray. ``we've found the remains of more than 20 men so far. we've also found the bones of a giant ground sloth, a saber-toothed cat, a north american horse and a type of camel related to the llama
the climate was much cooler then. there were no palm trees and very few pines. we've found trees down there, some nuts and pollen. what we're trying to do is understand the humans against this background.''
the human remains are paleo-indians. based on their skeletons, they averaged about 5-foot-4 in height and 110 pounds in weight. cockrell said the skulls resemble those found in a cave in china more than those of southeastern indians
the bones have been preserved because the water in the sinkhole has no oxygen. it is also very warm and has a high mineral content, thus attracting many people to it for bathing, despite the sulfurous smell
cockrell has also pulled up relics from more recent times, including coca-cola bottles and a deer skull
my principal interest as an underwater archaeologist is looking for sites from the ice age that are now underwater,'' cockrell said. ``since the ice caps melted, the ocean level has risen 300 feet worldwide. we were looking in the wrong places to find early man. we should be looking for those sites that are now up to 300 feet beneath the ocean
this sinkhole was once a cave that collapsed about 30,000 years ago. things have been falling into it since then. we're digging through many generations.''
diving to the bottom of the hole, 230 feet down at its deepest, is dangerous and scary. it's pitch black at the bottom. it takes 93 minutes to decompress on the way up
prior to coming to warm mineral springs, cockrell was florida's underwater archaeologist. that was a job that put him in daily contact with underwater treasure salvagers, including mel fisher, who found the multimillion-dollar wreck of the atocha
not all salvagers are legitimate, cockrell said
most of the money in finding sunken treasure is made on dry land by people selling shares in shady salvage schemes,'' he said. ``there are also a lot of phony treasure maps for sale. we even found one that was copied from the placemat at a fast food restaurant. some people are making big money selling cheap dental gold in bars to look like spanish gold.''
cockrell spent much of his time trying to preserve underwater wrecks from predatory salvagers. he is a strong supporter of a bill now before congress to protect underwater wrecks
this bill would preserve wrecks for sport divers to visit,'' he said. ``it would not prevent anyone from diving on a wreck. it would only prevent taking anything from a wreck without a permit. legitimate salvagers would still be able to recover treasure.''
cockrell, a native of alabama, has been diving since 1959. he originally began as a paleontologist but switched to archaeologist
my first dig was in alabama for a zeuglodon, which was an ancient whale with a neck,'' he said. ``you find a lot of whale bones in alabama. people even used them for building houses.''
elsewhere in television:
`pyramid' back _ dick clark will be host once again when ``the $25,000 pyramid'' returns to cbs' daytime schedule monday. the show, sometimes called ``the thinking person's game show,'' was returned after a write-in campaign by viewers. ..
more `dove' casting _ robert urich has joined the cast of the cbs miniseries ``lonesome dove'' in the role of jake spoon. robert duvall, tommy lee jones, anjelica houston, danny glover and ricky schroder were previously announced. other newly named cast members are diane lane as lorena wood, chris cooper as july johnson and glenne headly as elmira
extra officers were called to the talladega federal correctional institute to quell an hour-long disturbance involving cuban prisoners, a spokeswoman said today
no injuries were reported in the wednesday incident, but guards had to use a tear gas-like chemcial agent on four detainees who resisted officers, said karen stephens
at no time was the security or safety of the facility in danger,'' she said. ms. stephens said it was unclear what prompted the disturbance
brian ross, another spokesman for the facility, said the disturbance was confined to one cell block holding 16 cubans. he said they made a lot of noise and covered the front of the block so they could not be seen or counted
the talladega prison holds 167 cuban detainees, some of whom were transferred to the facility following uprisings at federal prisons in atlanta and oakdale, la., late last year
the cubans arrived in the united states during the 1980 mariel boat lift. no pickup.</note>
a high-tech human-powered aircraft made a successful series of test flights today in preparation for a world-record distance attempt that also will recreate the ancient daedalus myth
but organizers of the daedalus project called off plans for a record bid on friday because southerly gales were expected with winds gusting up to 30 mph
flight director steve k. bussulari told reporters that the 68-pound ultralight daedalus 88 ``is in good shape ... and we may see favorable conditions'' for a flight on saturday or sunday
the aircraft completed six flights lasting less than three minutes each in calm dawn weather above a greek air force base adjoining iraklion airport
five athlete pilots took turns to pedal the shimmering pink-and-silver plane at speeds of around 14 mph, flying about 15 feet above the tarmac
the three-year massachusetts institute of technology project aims at breaking the world record for human-powered flight over the 74-mile distance from crete to the island of santorini, also known as thira
the flight also will update the myth of daedalus. according to the 3,500-year-old myth, the inventor and his son, icarus, tried to escape from crete on wings made of feathers and wax. daedalus succeeded, but icarus flew too close to the sun, the wax melted and he fell into the sea
after nine days of blustery weather, conditions today appeared near-perfect for the santorini flight, which requires temperatures below 70 degrees fahrenheit and almost dead calm, a rare occurrence on this wind-swept southern island
it feels like a day for the record, pretty calm. i was flying the plane with no hands,'' said frank scioscia, 27, a professional cyclist from scranton, pa
bussulari, an mit aerospace expert who will make the decision to fly, said the record probably could have been set today, although the plane would have met strong headwinds about five miles off santorini
but we felt we needed a test flight to shake down the aeroplane,'' he said
the pilots _ four americans and one greek _ are taking turns to stand by for 48 hours in readiness for the flight. the pilot who had been scheduled to fly friday is greg zack, 26, of wilmington, n.c., whose father was born in greece
the pilot pumps bicycle pedals that turn the contraption's propeller, and steers the plane with a joystick, coordinating with ground-based radio instructions
for the record the pilot must keep pedaling a steady 15 mph but the effort is equivalent to riding 23 miles an hour on land,'' said glenn tremml, a medical student from new haven, conn
tremml set the 37.2-mile world record for human-powered flight in california in 1987, flying a daedalus prototype
after an unassisted takeoff, the pilot will skirt the offshore island of dia and head due north hoping to land on a sandy beach on santorini
two greek navy patrol boats and a flotilla of inflatable crafts will escort the plane across the aegean sea, ready to pick up the pilot if he crashes and salvage the aircraft, although it probably would be unuseable
two backup flying machines are ready for assembly here if needed
like daedalus 88, they are constructed of lightweight composite material _ graphite epoxy, plastic fiber and mylar, an extra-thin plastic skin that covers the jetliner-sized 112-foot wingspan
the $1 million daedalus project, with its 36-member team, has produced new information on endurance and low altitude flying aerodynamics and meteorology during its three years of development, its organizers said
the project does have a research and educational application, particularly in human physiology and aeronautics,'' said john s. langford, the project director. ``the plane itself doesn't have any practical application. it should be seen as a work of art.''
here are the latest statistics on acquired immune deficiency syndrome in the united states, as reported this week by the national centers for disease control:
total cases reported since june 1981: 57,575
cases, year to date: 7,183
total deaths: 32,190, or 56 percent of all cases
homosexual or bisexual males: 36,234, or 63 percent
intravenous drug abusers: 10,192, or 18 percent
homosexual male and drug abusers: 4,226, or 7 percent
heterosexual cases: 2,285, or 4 percent
transfusion or blood cases: 1,500, or 3 percent
hemophilia patients: 621, or 1 percent
undetermined transmission cause: 1,815, or 3 percent
childhood cases (under age 13): 913, or 2 percent
cases among whites: 34,218, or 59 percent
cases among blacks: 14,755, or 26 percent
cases among hispanics: 8,082, or 14 percent
cases among other: 520, or 1 percent
these statistics are through march 28 and have been rounded by the cdc to the nearest whole percent. cumulative totals are for aids cases reported since june 1981, and include 75 cases subsequently found to have occurred prior to that date. the ``other'' classsification under age and race includes asians, american indians and native alaskans
march roared out of colorado like a lion today, pounding some areas with nearly two feet of snow and making travel treacherous on snowy and ice-packed roads throughout the state
the storm caused numerous minor accidents during the morning rush hour, giving motorists a longer-than-usual commute and creating visibilities of near zero at times
the roads will continue to be pretty nasty,'' said national weather service forecaster mike holzinger. ``i guess we would say this is a worse-than-average storm. but we do get this kind of weather in the spring.''
at stapleton international airport at denver, crowded with travelers for the easter weekend, public affairs officer norm avery warned that delays of two hours or more could be expected
the snow and gusting winds were expected to continue through tonight, with as much as 20 inches of snow possible in denver's western suburbs, holzinger said. the weather service was calling for total accumulations of up to 30 inches in the foothills
snow emergencies were declared for douglas, arapahoe and adams counties and for the city fo fort collins, where more than a foot of snow had fallen, but the colorado state patrol said there were no reports of serious accidents
stapleton officials said only the two main north-south runways were being used early today because of winds out of the north. snowfall by 8 a.m. measured 8 inches at the airport, the weather service said
stapleton has about 650 departures and about an equal number of arrivals daily, avery noted. ``i would anticipate we'll see some cancellations today and greatly impaired traffic operations because of visibility,'' he said
our biggest problem is we can't plow visibility. the snow is not the problem. it's the lack of visibility it creates that is the problem,'' he said
a leaky fuel pipe spilling oil onto a hot engine is believed to have triggered a fire that crippled the cruise ship scandinavian star earlier this month near cancun, mexico
the leak occured in an inch-thick pipe that carries oil to the main engine on the starboard side, said lou colucciello of the national transporation safety board. the pipe apparently leaked near the engine and the oil ignited when it spilled on the hot surface, he said
the fire march 16 on the st. petersburg-based ship stranded 447 passengers on the return leg of a mexican cruise about 35 miles off the yucatan peninsula
the passengers were flown back to tampa
a four-member team from the ntsb marine accident division spent last week inspecting the ship in miami and returned to washington to conduct more tests and analyze findings, colucciello said
he said investigators have found no other possible cause; however, the findings won't be conclusive until they test a piece of pipe and some of the ship's fuel at a laboratory
tamil militants attacked and set fire to two moslem fishing villages in eastern sri lanka today, and at least 17 people were killed, indian and sri lankan sources said
the sources said the attackers burned a mosque and more than 80 mud-and-straw houses in villages near kalmunai, 137 miles northeast of colombo, the capital. the sources spoke on condition of anonymity
some reports said the death toll was higher. there also was confusion over how many of the dead were tamils and how many were moslems because a battle apparently broke out after the initial attack
moslems make up 7 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people. they have been caught up only rarely in the tamil rebels' nearly five-year war against the dominant sinhalese for a separate tamil nation
but the moslems make up about one-third of the population in eastern sri lanka, which the rebels want as part of their homeland, and they recently have come under attack
under an indian-sponsored peace accord, a vote is be held in the island's north and east for a temporary council to rule the two areas as one province
both sinhalese and moslem leaders charge that the tamils are trying to drive out members of the other two communities to gain political advantage
an indian diplomat in colombo said indian peacekeeping troops investigating the attack found 17 bodies in the villages of sainthamaruthu and malaiyandu
the diplomat, who spoke on condition her name not be used, said six people also were injured. ``indian troops have now moved a battalion to the stricken villages,'' she said
india mantains about 40,000 soldiers in sri lanka under a peace accord signed last july
a police official in kalmunai, who also spoke anonymously, said 86 houses, all belonging to moslem fisherman, were burned to the ground. many people fled into the nearby jungle, he said
mohamad ashroof, general secretary of the sri lankan moslem congress, said in colombo that he had firm reports the death toll was 20 moslems, including six who perished after taking refuge in the mosque
but sources in the coastal city of batticaloa, north of kalmunai, said survivors' accounts indicated 17 died, including seven tamils killed when moslem villagers tried to repulse the attack
the largest rebel militia, the liberation tigers, have been operating in eastern sri lanka since being driven out of their stronghold in the north by indian troops
they have resisted the peace accord, which calls on the rebels to give up their fight in exchange for more autonomy for tamils
tamils, mostly hindus, make up 18 percent of the population. they claim they are discriminated against by the buddhist sinhalese, who form 75 percent and dominate the government and military
within the last month, nearly 150 civilians have been killed in sri lanka's eastern province in attacks blamed on the tamil rebels
within the past week more than 30 moslem-owned homes and businesses have been looted or set afire in kalmunai. two weeks ago seven moslem businessmen in the area were kidnapped and are still missing
twenty polish gypsies who were arrested at los angeles international airport while carrying jewelry-stuffed bags are part of an elusive nationwide burglary ring, authorities said
nineteen of the 20 men and women pleaded innocent in pasadena municipal court on monday and tuesday to charges of receiving stolen property. one suspect is still to be arraigned
sheriff's detective terry wiese, who has tracked members of the group since 1984, said they specialized in rifling senior citizens' houses from coast to coast, often while the victims were at home
group members are wanted in connection with a string of similar burglaries across the country and in canada, he said
we haven't even touched the tip of the iceberg, that's how big we believe this activity is across the united states,'' wiese said
los angeles police detective larry kagele, working with more than two dozen law enforcement agencies in the case, said the gypsies would drive through affluent neighborhoods looking for senior citizens standing outside their homes, watering their lawns or chatting with neighbors
while a man remained at the wheel of the car, a woman would ask the homeowner for directions or a drink of water. a second woman would sneak into the house and rummage through bedroom dressers and closets in search of jewelry, expensive heirlooms and silver, kagele said
if the woman was seen inside the house, she would make up a quick story that she's looking for a `joe' or `sandy' and must have the wrong address,'' kagele said. ``it wasn't all that sophisticated, but it worked.''
still wanted is the group's alleged gypsy ``queen,'' danuta reszuta, 31, authorities said
all 20 people arrested last week have been charged with one count of receiving stolen property and held in lieu of $500,000 bail each. police said the high bail was needed because alleged members of the group have fled before trial in the past
polish translators are assisting the gypsies because none of the 20 speak enough english to follow their court proceedings
immigration and naturalization service agents also are reviewing their files on the suspicion that several may be in the united states illegally
here is a rundown of the legal problems that have faced attorney general edwin meese iii in recent years
white house counsel fred f. fielding begins reviewing allegations that meese, then white house counselor, and michael deaver, at the time white house deputy chief of staff, received $118,000 in loans arranged by john r. mckean, a tax accountant later appointed to the postal service board of governors
an army inspector general finds that meese's promotion to colonel in the army reserve violated procedures, but said no evidence was found of use of ``undue influence.'' the investigative recommended against revoking meese's promotion. meese's promotion was approved by maj. gen. william r. berkman, whose reappointment as chief of the army reserve was confirmed by the senate on feb. 24, 1983, the same day meese's promotion was approved
attorney general william french smith asks for a special prosecutor to investigate allegations against meese, who had recently been nominated to be french's successor. the investigation was prompted by reports that meese failed to list on his financial disclosure form an interest-free $15,000 loan his wife received from edwin thomas. thomas, his wife and son were appointed to federal jobs. the investigation also would look into other transactions, including the loan from mckean
senate investigators begin looking into meese's failure to report reimbursements he received for more than 30 trips he took as white house counselor. one day later, former president ford suggests that meese should resign, although ford says he does not believe meese has broken any laws
special prosecutor jacob a. stein concludes there is no basis for prosecuting meese for ethical mistakes, and a three-judge panel accepts the counsel's report. stein had investigated 11 allegations concerning meese, including charges that meese played a role in awarding jobs to thomas and his family in exchange for a $15,000 interest-free loan
two office of government ethics staff concludes that meese, then attorney general-designate, violated conflict-of-interest rules, but is overruled by the agency director. the preliminary finding was changed after meese's lawyers submitted a rebuttal. the staff report found violations involving two individuals who helped meese financially and received high government jobs
after considerable debate, the senate votes to confirm meese and he is sworn in as attorney general on feb. 25, 1985
meese announces that the united states secretly sold weapons to iran and that profits of between $10 million and $30 million were diverted to the nicaraguan contra rebels. national security adviser john m. poindexter resigns and nsc aide lt. col. oliver l. north is fired
the justice department's office of professional responsibility investigates meese's decision to delay an fbi probe of an airline involved in iranian arms deals and weapons shipments to the contras. the justice department says poindexter asked meese in october to delay the inquiry of southern air transport, formerly owned by the cia. the fbi assists in investigating the 10-day delay
the justice department requests an independent counsel to investigate allegations that former white house aide lyn nofziger may have violated federal ethics laws by lobbying for the wedtech corp., a defense contractor, shortly after leaving public office in 1983. the decision requesting a counsel is made by a deputy to meese, who removed himself from considering the request because he knows nofziger
meese acknowledges that he intervened on behalf of wedtech to ensure that it got a fair hearing from the army in its effort to win the engine contract. meese also says his friend and former lawyer, e. robert wallach, sent him a series of memorandums in 1981 and 1982 discussing wedtech
the chairmen of the senate and house judiciary committees ask james mckay, the independent counsel, whether he can expand his criminal investigation to include meese's involvement with wedtech
meese asks the special prosecutor investigating nofziger's ties to wedtech to include him in the investigation. meese also announces that he has terminated his financial partnership with w. franklyn chinn. in february, chinn was forced to resign from the wedtech board because of allegedly questionable financial transactions
sources familiar with the grand jury investigation into the iran-contra affair tell the associated press that white house aides who complained that lt. col. oliver north may have been violating the law were told meese had approved north's actions
the sources also said meese and north held meetings on a regular basis before the iran-contra affair unraveled. the justice department says meese gave no legal clearance for north's activities
the office of government ethics says meese violated financial disclosure requirements after investing $60,000 with chinn. the agency's director said meese voluntarily invested the money in 1985 under an arrangement that fails to qualify as a blind trust under the 1978 ethics in government act
the general accounting office charges that meese failed to properly disclose the assets held, purchased and sold by a business partnership formed by meese and his wife. meese responded that any mistakes were inadvertant
investigators looking into meese's activities as white house counselor widened their probe to include his actions in connection with a friend's efforts to secure government backing for a pipeline project, sources report
the independent counsel investigation of meese was extended to include charges that he may have had a conflict of interest when he met with the heads of regional telephone companies to discuss legal restrictions on their firms at a time he and his wife still owned telephone stock
a memo to meese from wallach cited a plan to bribe a top israeli official to keep israel from interfering with the $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline project, sources familiar with a criminal investigation of meese said
meese said he didn't recall reading the portion of the memo from wallach on the iraqi pipeline project that refers to the payoff plan
wallach's sept. 25, 1985 memo to meese, in which the pipeline payment plan is outlined, was publicly released. it stated that a portion of the money paid to israel would go directly to the israeli labor party but that the diversion ``would be denied everywhere.''
meese and the late cia director william casey supported a plan to make secret payments out of the pentagon budget to gain israel's support of the pipeline, the washington post reported. meese's lawyers denied he knew of the pentagon payment proposal
a majority report from a senate subcommittee said meese's investment manager, chinn, allocated stock-trading profits to meese's brokerage accounts under a procedure that sen. carl levin, d-mich., said raises questions of ``possible financial favors or gifts'' to the cabinet member
mckay widens the probe by subpoenaing payroll records and other documents of the washington chapter of the multiple sclerosis society in connection with a $40,000-a-year job meese's wife, ursula, got with the charity in 1985, sources disclose. investigators are examining wallach's role in helping mrs. meese get the job
deputy attorney general arnold burns, the no. 2 official in the department, and assistant attorney general william weld, who oversaw all federal criminal investigations, quit along with four of their aides, telling associates that meese's legal problems hampered the operation of the department
a 9-year-old boy was in a coma thursday after he tried to hang himself, apparently after he saw a tv news report of a mass suicide
thaveesak rojanapitakcheep was sent to bangkok's phetchavej hospital tuesday after he was found suspended from a nylon rope, which was attached to a hook used to hold a punching bag, doctors said
dr. suchon suriyayothin quoted the boy's father, chaisit rojanapitakcheep, as saying that his son often talked about the highly publicized suicides earlier this month
in that incident, six members of a family hanged themselves at their home in nonthaburi province near bangkok in what police described as a fit of religious fanaticism
prime minister brian mulroney shuffled his cabinet today with major changes in the controversial trade and immigration portfolios. mulroney faces a re-election campaign later in the year
international trade minister pat carney, noted for her combative style, was replaced by former transport minister john crosbie, who will take over responsibility for implementing the free-trade agreement negotiated last year with the united states
the agreement dismantles tariffs and other trade barriers over the next decade. it faces a ratification battle in parliament later this year and stubborn opposition from at least two of canada's 10 provinces
carney takes over as president of the treasury board, a post formerly held by deputy prime minister don mazankowski
changing more than a quarter of his 38-member cabinet, mulroney replaced both immigration minister benoit bouchard and his deputy, gerry weiner, following two years in which canada has struggled to curb an influx of up to 2,000 illegal aliens a month
bouchard takes over as transport minister while weiner becomes minister of state for multiculturalism
barbara mcdougall, formerly in charge of women's affairs and privatization, becomes immigration minister
in a surprise move, mulroney reached outside parliament to name his old school friend lucien bouchard, recently canada's ambassador to france, his new secretary of state. he replaces david crombie, who resigned on wednesday to take up a new government job as head of a royal commission on the development of the lake ontario waterfront in toronto
the only other newcomer in the cabinet is vancouver-area member of parliament gerry st. germain, who becomes minister of state for transport, the equivalent of a deputy minister
mulroney's progressive conservative party was elected to a five-year term in september 1984. he is expected to call an early election this fall
the government has canceled a long-planned project to build a dam and hydroelectric power station in a river valley west of prague because it would cause ecological damage, it was reported thursday
ecologists said it was the first case when a major project has been canceled for ecology reasons in czechoslovakia, expressing the growing official and popular concern over increased pollution, the communist daily rude pravo reported
serious objections to the krivoklat dam, which was initiated in the 1960s, were raised by the ministry of culture and local officials, and that led to several postponements of the project
in 1977 the united nations educational and science organization declared that the area should be preserved
flooding in the berounka river valley would destroy fauna and flora surviving in the area since the ice age, as well as valuable forests which are to be used to revitalize the tens of thousands of acres of woods damaged by pollution in this country, ecologists say
the decision, however, was not expected to change official plans for czechoslovakia's most grandiose current project: the construction of a giant dam and hydroelectric plant on the danube where it crosses the hungarian border
hungarian and austrian environmentalists have said the project will alter water levels and damage forests and farmland across a wide area. but czechoslovakia's planners are still going ahead with a plant they say will provide enough power to reduce the burning of sulfur-laden brown coal by 3.8 million tons a year
brown coal and other materials used to fuel a rapid 1950s industrialization inspired by the soviets' stalinist efforts have inflicted great damage on the environment in czechoslovakia, a landlocked country whose natural assets are its forests and rivers
the damage grew unhindered throughout the 1970s, while the west woke up to ecological issues. now, a similar consciousness has arisen in czechoslovakia, causing popular alarm and forcing the government to finance projects designed to restore environmental standards to 1970 levels by the next millenium
communist party leader zhao ziyang is calling on the nation to eat less meat and more vegetables because farmers can't grow enough grain to feed livestock
zhao, speaking wednesday with delegates to the current session of the national people's congress, china's legislature, said china should learn from developed countries, where nutritionists are discouraging excess consumption of meat
zhao's comments, carried thursday by the official xinhua news agency, follow several articles in the official media warning that the rapid increase in meat consumption can't continue amid stagnating grain production
since 1983, consumption of meat, poultry, eggs and fish has risen 10 percent annually while agricultural production has gone up only 2 percent or 3 percent a year
last year, most large chinese cities for the first time in decades began rationing pork, china's favorite meat, because farmers strapped by rising feed costs and low government prices for pigs were not meeting the rising demand for pork
zhao backed up a statement by acting premier li peng, who in his report at the opening of the congress last week said that ``for a relatively long time, because of the restrictions imposed by the amount of grain held per capita, a major increase in supplies of meat, poultry, eggs and other animal food products will not be possible.''
zhao said the government should guide the eating habits of the nation just as it has held down population growth with its one child policy
since we've made world-acknowledged achievements in family planning, why can't we guide the people in their food pattern?'' he said
zhao suggested that higher prices for pork could be used to guide people to eat more chicken and rabbit than pork
china's grain production hit a record 407 million tons in 1984 but has failed to equal that since then. in the same period, grain consumption, largely because of increased demand for meat products, has increased by 15 million tons annually
the government must attain its optimistic goal of increasing grain production to 500 million tons by the year 2000 just to keep per-capita levels at the current 880 pounds because of population growth
last year, the average chinese ate a little more than 37 pounds of meat, including about 31 pounds of pork. the average american in 1984 consumed 143{ pounds of meat. further details on arrests. will be led after meese news conference scheduled to start at 12:30 p.m. est.</note>
the fbi cracked a major heroin-importing ring involving trafficking through sicily with the arrest today of more than 200 organized crime figures, justice department sources said
the arrests are the result of a lengthy criminal investigation in cooperation with italian authorities, said the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity
the government obtained warrants for the arrest of 45 people in new york city, 11 in the nation's capital and 160 in italy, according to one source
arrests were also expected in other cities, possibly including houston, charlotte, n.c., and los angeles as well as in florida, the source said
the operation began in washington in the fall of 1986 when an undercover agent began purchasing drugs from a waiter at a local restaurant, according to the source
large quantities of cocaine and heroin were purchased in washington between october 1986 and last fall, the source said
attorney general edwin meese iii and fbi officials were scheduled to disclose details of the case at a news conference later today at fbi headquarters in washington
a woman with a baby strapped to her back was seriously injured when a policeman opened fire on a crowd fighting for cooking oil and sugar at a state-owned store, police said thursday
officer constantino nzala said the 24-year-old woman's infant was unharmed in wednesday's shooting in the northern town of ndola
food shortages are common in zambia, and police are routinely deployed to keep order when stores receive deliveries. up 4th graf pvs bgng ``jackson was...</note>
president reagan may start campaigning for george bush early this summer, the white house said today, giving his vice president an early start on the fall campaign. democratic presidential contender albert gore jr. criticized jesse jackson anew and asked why the other democrats are reluctant to do the same
the republican party began to close ranks behind the certain nomination of bush in marked contrast to the disarray in the democratic party. one sure sign of the inevitability of bush's nomination is reagan edging closer to dropping his transparent veil of neutrality
we could see the president involved in some political activities before the nominating convention'' in august in new orleans, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said
fitzwater said a decision ``has not been finally made, although everyone is aware ... that the reality of the situation is such that the vice president is very close to having the nomination.''
the democrats campaigned mainly in wisconsin, with a primary on tuesday, and gore and michael dukakis argued about jackson's qualifications to be president
jackson was stung by gore's contention that, among other things, he lacks the experience necessary to be president. campaigning wednesday night in wisconsin, he told a crowd at a church in the working-class city of cudahy: ``some leaders don't hold office. but leaders stand with the people in the hour of hardship and challenge.''
earlier, jackson complained to reporters at washington's national airport that gore's remarks constituted an attack ``more personal than principled.'' gore, passing through the same airport a short while later, took issue with that, and criticized jackson anew
i think it's ridiculous,'' the tennessee senator said. ``he's a major contender for the white house. is he to be immune from any questioning of his position on the issues or his approach to the campaign? ... is there a separate standard?''
gore and jackson had planned to meet wednesday, but it fell through. in light of gore's comments a day earlier, jackson said, ``it's not necessary to meet at this time.''
on tuesday in new york, gore said jackson had a ``complete and total lack'' of qualifications for the nation's highest office and criticized his foreign policy views
gore ridiculed rival dukakis, saying the massachusetts governor's hesitancy to spell out differences with jackson was ``ludicrous.'' dukakis, campaigning in wisconsin wednesday night, replied: ``we can discuss issues without attacking each other...(voters) don't want to know what gore thinks of jackson.''
dukakis has been under pressure as a result of recent losses to jackson in illinois and michigan. but he managed to recoup with a solid 2-1 victory in tuesday's connecticut primary
with that victory, the massachusetts governor again took the lead in the national delegate race. according to the latest ap count, dukakis had 648.55, jackson 642.55, gore 367.8 and sen. paul simon 169.5, with 488.6 uncommitted
asked by reporters in boston on wednesday to detail the differences between himself and jackson, dukakis answered cautiously. he mentioned disagreements over middle east policy and some domestic economic matters, but provided no specifics, saying he would discuss the matter more fully in a wisconsin speech later this week
dukakis hinted that jackson's lack of any experience in elective office ought to be considered by voters. but he quickly moved to stress that any disagreements he had with jackson had always been ``friendly and respectful.''
that attitude got gore's dander up
is there supposed to be some unwritten rule why jesse jackson cannot be criticized, why his positions have to be just sacrosanct, and nobody can say anything about them for fear somebody will just misinterpret what you're saying?'' he said
sen. paul simon, campaigning in wisconsin, suggested that fear of alienating fervent jackson supporters was keeping other candidates from engaging in any real rough-and-tumble with him
you have to be careful. you don't want to be perceived as anti-black,'' the illinois senator said. jackson has been getting nearly unanimous black support in primary states, according to exit polls
a spokesman for bush said if the vice president faced jackson in the general election, he would have ``no reluctance'' to criticize him as warranted
if jackson is the nominee, we will feel very willing to attack him on the issues,'' bush spokesman pete teeley said. ``there will be no reticence, there will be no reluctance.''
the vice president virtually locked up the gop nomination when his principal rival, sen. bob dole, left the race tuesday. former television evangelist pat robertson is still formally in the running, but has acknowledged he's not likely to come from behind at this point
bush has 813 delegates, according to the latest ap count, to robertson's 17. to nominate, 1,139 delegates are needed
with little to do but stay out of trouble, bush sought to steer clear of meese and his problems
deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william f. weld quit tuesday. justice department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the two left their jobs because they were concerned that meese's continuing legal difficulties were damaging the effectiveness and credibility of the department
meese, however, said wednesday he would not resign
bush said he was troubled by the resignations but added, ``i'm not going to pass judgment'' on whether meese should go
bush did say meese would not hold the top law enforcement post in a bush administration. ``it seems to me that the justice department has to be above reproach. it is an agency that has special responsibility,'' he said
republicans turned their attention to platform matters. the party opened platform hearings wednesday in washington, focusing on foreign policy. the next hearing is scheduled may 31 in kansas city, mo., and another is set in los angeles on june 30
u.s. officials point proudly to how many latin american countries have become democratic in recent years, but on the hemispheric issues of most concern to president reagan _ nicaragua and panama _ it's hard to find one willing to align itself with american policy
on tuesday, a day when the administration was issuing veiled warnings about the possibility of military intervention in panama, a regional conclave in caracas, venezuela, decided that the united states had already gone too far in its campaign against military strongman manuel antonio noriega
we urge the u.s. government to revoke immediately the coercive measures it has adopted against panama,'' the latin american economic system said in a communique after a two-day meeting. nations ranging from rightist chile to marxist cuba signed the declaration
the underlying message was clear: the 26 countries are worried that the united states is setting a precedent in panama that could be used against any one of them in the future
this consideration far outweighs the distaste that many have for noriega, named in two federal narcotics indictments. they believe they themselves might be an american target some day if they get caught smuggling drugs to the united states or run afoul of u.s. policy in some other way
over the past month, the administration has contributed to panama's economic collapse through measures that have had the effect of aggravating an acute cash shortage in panama
it has, for example, taken steps to deny noriega access to some $50 million in official panamanian funds deposited in u.s. banks and has withheld a $6.5 million payment due to panama for services related to panama canal operations
but many in congress, where opposition to noriega is virtually unanimous, believe the administration has not gone far enough. some advocate a comprehensive trade embargo
the administration has moved against noriega in the name of restoring democracy in panama, but none of the democracies which now dominate the hemisphere has seen fit to back the u.s. actions
the one source of comfort for the united states concerning panama is that the only nations that have provided overt support for noriega are cuba and nicaragua
another frustration for the administration has been the persistent refusal of latin american nations to support the nicaraguan contra rebels. some countries, such as mexico, have fought u.s. policy since the beginning while many others finessed the issue by refusing to take a stand
asked for an explanation, u.s. officials say many nations have expressed support for the contras in private but refuse to do so publicly
the reason, officials say, is that these countries fear a left-wing backlash at home if they side with the united states. to ensure domestic tranquility, disassociation from u.s. policy has been a time-honored tactic
all this generates considerable hand-wringing among administration officials. the united states was once routinely accused of backing unpopular dictators against the wishes of their subjects
but, particularly in the case of panama, the united states has not been able to count on latin american support even when it takes an assertive stand against a strongman like noriega
a generation ago, it was relatively easy for the united states to win diplomatic support in the hemisphere. with minimal opposition, washington orchestrated the diplomatic and economic isolation of cuba's revolutionary government and won latin american support, with some exceptions, for its armed intervention in the dominican republic in 1965
the sole recent instance in which the united states and latin america have been in harmony was in 1979, when there was a common effort to bring down the somoza family dynasty in nicaragua. the carter administration called on president anastasio somoza to step down and, within a month, he was gone
george gedda has covered foreign affairs for the associated press since 1968
prostitutes are masquerading as schoolgirls to lure clients wary of getting infected with aids, the head of uganda's task force on the disease said thursday
dr. samuel okware, the head of the national committee for prevention of acquired immune deficiency syndome, said his organization had started a nationwide program to warn people of the charade
men are ``diverting their attention to schoolgirls and ignoring bar maids and prostitutes'' because of their fear of catching the sexually transmitted disease, he said
prostitutes are donning school uniforms and carrying books during the late afternoon when students normally return home from school, okware said
he said in the last three months, the practice had become common among prostitutes in masaka, about 85 miles southwest of kampala, the capital
there are 2,300 confirmed cases of aids in uganda, said okware
the soap opera ``general hospital'' celebrates its 25th anniversary on friday showing no signs of ill health in the nielsen ratings, a recovery that began when it went on location and added such contemporary anti-heroes as luke and laura
the show, which began as a straightforward hospital drama on april 1, 1963, was almost dead in the ratings when gloria monty took over as executive producer in 1978, infusing the show with contemporary plots and characters. since 1979, it has been consistently no. 1 in daytime
in 1981, the wedding of shady characters luke and laura attracted an audience of nearly 17 million people _ in prime time, the equivalent might be a combination of a super bowl and the ``who shot j.r.?'' episode of ``dallas.''
the show was so popular, even elizabeth taylor did a guest shot. a popular song was inspired _ ``general hospi-tale.''
for the first quarter of 1988, ``general hospital'' tied with cbs' ``the young and the restless'' for first place in the daytime nielsens, with an average rating of 8.6 and 27 share. the rating is a percentage of 88.6 million u.s. households with televisions. the share is a percentage of the sets in use
john beradino, as dr. steve harvey, and emily mclaughlin, as nurse jessie brewer, have been with the show since it began. rachel ames, who joined the next year as audrey hardy, also still appears
under monty's guidance the show was expanded to an hour and took on action-oriented storylines that turned it into a pop phenomenon
general hospital'' was one of the first daytime dramas to go on location, shorten scenes to quicken the pacing and introduce more contemporary characters
wes kenney, who had produced cbs' ``the young and the restless'' and nbc's ``days of our lives,'' took over as executive producer when monty left a year ago
`general hospital' is an adventure-driven show that also depends heavily on its characters,'' said kenney. ``lots of shows rely on character and romance, but what gloria introduced was adventure and suspense, which no soap had ever done before. another thing gloria introduced was remotes (location shooting). last year we did more than 17. we got to nashville, niagara falls and mount rushmore. we blew up a whole mountain in pacific palisades. we had a snow storm at big bear
there's a tendency for all soaps to go on location, but i think `general hospital' has carried it out more successfully. we use the remotes to push the story ahead rather than just as an excuse to get out of the studio.''
since the departure of actors anthony geary and genie francis as luke spencer and laura baldwin, no one has heated up the airwaves the way they did. luke and laura were a departure from the good vs. evil staple of daytime drama. they became magazine-cover heroes, even though laura once killed off an old boyfriend, and when she was raped, the culprit turned out to be luke
among characters who now populate ``general hospital'' are:
_ the menage a trois of robert scorpio (tristan rogers), anna devane (finola hughes), and duke lavery (ian buchanan). scorpio and anna were once married and had a child, but scorpio later married holly (emma samms, before she went to ``dynasty''). anna and duke are now married, but there is a continuing competition for anna by the two men
_ bobbie spencer meyer (jackie zeman) and scott baldwin (kin shriner). troublemaker scott has just returned to the show and renewed his relationship with bobbie
_ lucy coe (lynn herring) and her husband tony jones (brad maule). lucy, who had been an in-house villain, has turned around with her marriage to surgeon tony jones. some people still don't like her, but her marriage gives her respect
_ felicia jones (kristina malandro) has not had a relationship since the departure of frisco (jack wagner) a year ago. frisco is supposedly away on a spy mission, but now that it appears wagner will not return, the writers will involve her in another relationship. her new story will center on her search for frisco
_ tom hardy (david wallace) has returned to the show and married simone ravelle (laura carrington) in the first interracial marriage on a soap opera
i think people like stories that continue so they can relate to these people,'' said kenney. ``they become like a family, and the viewer becomes emotionally involved. there seem to be two attitudes by viewers. one, that the stories are similar to what happened to them in real life, or two, thank goodness that isn't me.'' roberts cast demons out; inserts two grafs after 6th pvs, swaggart spokesman says only one telephone call involved</note>
television evangelist jimmy swaggart reportedly said preacher oral roberts freed him of ``demons with long fingernails'' digging into his body before swaggart decided to defy his church and return to the pulpit
swaggart, accused of motel trysts with a prostitute, intends to return to the pulpit may 22, three months after stepping down,bill treeby, his lawyer and a board member of jimmy swaggart world ministries, said wednesday
swaggart said several weeks ago that he has undergone extensive prayer and counseling with roberts, the rev. mike evans of euless, texas, swaggart's friend and a fellow tv evangelist, said in a television interview wednesday
and he said to me that oral roberts called him up and told him that he saw demons with long fingernails digging their flesh into jimmy swaggart's body and that he cast those demon spirits out of jimmy swaggart,'' evans said
evans told dallas television station wfaa he did not know whether roberts' counseling led to swaggart's plans to resume preaching may 22, but said that swaggart feels the process has freed him of his sin
i am proud to confirm that,'' oral roberts' son, richard, told the television station
gus weill, a spokesman for swaggart, said today that roberts had spoken to the evangelist only once
rev. oral roberts is one of hundreds and hundreds of ministers who have called rev. swaggart to pray with him and he deeply appreciates those calls,'' weill said. ``he spoke to rev. roberts about four weeks ago and that was the only time he called him.''
swaggart's return may 22 coincides with the end of a three-month suspension by the church's louisiana council. the national church's general presbytery on tuesday overruled that term as too lenient and barred him from the pulpit for at least a year and ordered him to undergo two years of rehabilitation and counseling
treeby said there was a conflict within the assemblies, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, over whether the national presbytery or the louisiana council has the right to discipline ministers
he is willing to submit himself to the louisiana district,'' treeby told a televised news conference at swaggart's headquarters here. ``he will be considering an appeal to the national presbytery.''
however, juleen turnage, a spokeswoman for the national office of the assemblies in springfield, mo., said swaggart's option to return after three months ``does not exist anymore.''
the general presbytery overwhelmingly and without a dissenting vote affirmed the authority of the executive presbytery to make decisions on matters concerning ministerial credentials,'' she said wednesday
the 13-member executive presbytery acts as the church's board of directors, while the 232-member general presbytery is its oversight body
the rev. g. raymond carlson, the assemblies' general superintendent, said tuesday that if swaggart did not accept its ruling, ``the executive presbytery would no doubt take action to dismiss him.''
church officials originally said swaggart had 30 days to appeal the terms of his rehabilitation. however, mrs. turnage said wednesday church bylaws provide for an appeal only in cases of dismissal, not suspension
asked if a year away from the pulpit would ruin swaggart's lucrative ministry, treeby said, ``he is weighing all those considerations very carefully.''
the ministry has said it took in $150 million in 1986 from its worldwide operations, including sales. it contributes an estimated $12 million a year to the assemblies' foreign missions program
louisiana assemblies officials have close ties to swaggart's church, television and bible school enterprise. cecil janway, superintendent of the louisiana district, also sits on the board of jimmy swaggart world ministries
although the executive presbytery interrupted its regular bimonthly meeting to watch treeby's news conference, ``we don't consider that we've heard from jimmy swaggart, because we don't communicate through television news conferences with our disciplined ministers,'' mrs. turnage said
swaggart tearfully stepped down from the pulpit on feb. 21 after confessing an unspecified sin. church officials later said they had seen photographs of the evangelist with a prostitute in a motel room
according to the presbytery's terms of rehabilitation, swaggart must stop preaching and distributing videotaped sermons for at least one year, and undergo counseling and supervision by church elders for two years
swaggart is the latest evangelist to be forced from the pulpit. his accuser, marvin gorman, was forced from the assemblies of god when he admitted to an immoral act with a woman. jim and tammy bakker were forced from their ptl ministry in a scandal that included a sexual encounter between bakker and former church secretary jessica hahn
a house painter who was stabbed when he tried to help a woman he thought was being raped has received gifts of food and money and offers of a job
tom botsford, 27, has also gotten phone calls offering him encouragement and a check, accompanied by a short letter that said, ``you qualify to get to heaven.''
most importantly, botsford said, the admirers have rebuilt his morale
botsford was stabbed march 5 after he tried to break up a dispute between a man and woman outside his apartment building
botsford, who said he thought the woman was being raped, was stabbed by the man three times. authorities said there was not enough evidence to charge botsford's attacker
botsford has no insurance to cover his medical bills, and his pregnant wife, cecelia, is not working. he is not eligible for unemployment benefits
almost four weeks after he was stabbed in his shoulder and abdomen, botsford still groans with pain when he pushes himself up from the couch
but since his story appeared march 15 in the fort collins coloradoan, botsford's wounds _ and his pride _ have started to heal
admirers have sent $170, and one man offered him a sales job. another note said, ``give me a ring if you can't get a job.''
an anonymous writer said, ``i appreciate your efforts to help. i hope someone like you is around if one of my daughters are ever in trouble.''
two prosecutors involved in a high-speed chase have resigned in the wake of accusations that the driver was semi-nude and tried to intimidate officers who stopped her
assistant state attorney janine a. bamping, 32, was stopped march 20 and cited for allegedly fleeing and attempting to elude police in a chase through bradenton beach
her passenger, assistant state attorney jerome b. blevins, 27, wasn't charged
police said they didn't ask ms. bamping to get out of the car for a sobriety test because she was undressed from the waist down. belvins was fully clothed, officers said
when asked while she was only partially clothed, she became angry, flashed her state prosecutor's badge and used the name of a county judge suggesting retribution against them, the officers said
ms. bamping was suspended with pay last week while state attorney frank schaub was on vacation. schaub met with the assistants monday and accepted their resignations wednesday
both are competent prosecutors and their work will be missed,'' schaub said in a statement. he said he has asked the governor's office to assign an outside state attorney to review the charges, which ms. bamping apparently intends to fight
schaub heads a staff of 46 assistants in the 12th judicial circuit of three counties
the vietnamese government has informed the united states it will repatriate the remains of what it believes may be 27 american servicemen missing from the vietnam war, the pentagon said today
the remains will be delivered to u.s. military officials in hanoi on april 6 and transported to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu for identification, the pentagon said in a statement
the u.s. government appreciates the initiative taken by vietnam to repatriate these remains and hopes it represents just one of many continued steps to resolve this long-standing humanitarian issue,'' the pentagon said
dan howard, the pentagon's chief spokesman, said the repatriation would be the largest single such transfer of remains since the end of the war. the largest previous tranfer occurred on aug. 14, 1985, when the vietnamese returned 26 remains
there are currently 2,404 americans still listed as missing in indochina as a result of the vietnam war, of whom 1,767 are listed as missing in either north or south vietnam. the remains of 152 americans have been repatriated to the united states and subsequently identified by the laboratory since the end of the war
on march 2, the vietnamese turned over 17 remains to u.s. officials. those remains have yet to be identified, however
the upcoming transfer would be the fourth since retired army gen. john vessey traveled to hanoi last august as a special presidential emissary, hoping to step up the process of accounting for missing americans
we've continued to press the vietnamese and we are getting some results,'' howard said today
asked if the pentagon could explain the sudden increase in repatriations, howard replied: ``it's really not for us to do that. the vietnamese are the ones who should be explaining to the american people and to the world what happened to the rest of the remains and where they are.''
lt. col. keith schneider, a pentagon spokesman, said the vietnamese government notified u.s. officials during technical meetings in mid-march that they were investigating 29 new reports of remains being found or information regarding servicemen uncovered
earlier this week, the vietnamese informed the united states it did have 27 remains to repatriate, schneider said
rumbling spring thunderstorms have announced the beginning of the unofficial tornado season that runs from april through june across texas and other tornado alley states in the nation's heartland
from 1951 through 1986, there have been an average of 118 tornadoes in texas per year, according to the state climatologist's office in college station
more than 60 percent of those occur between april and june, records show. in april and june an average of 18 to 19 tornadoes occur each month, but in may, when weather conditions are the most unstable, that average increases to about 36
a few twisters were already recorded in early march in texas but they did little or no damage. a tornado that touched down tuesday in central louisiana, near bunkie, destroyed two brick homes
people should have plans of what they'll do in tornadoes. if they wait until it gets there, it's going to be too late,'' said buddy mcintyre, a forecaster with the national weather service
last may 22, a killer storm flattened the small west texas town of saragosa, killing 30 people and injuring 162. in mid-november, 11 people died in east texas when a series of tornadoes trashed towns from cherokee county to the gulf coast
a tornado is such a devastating kind of storm. no matter how much preparation you do there is some property damage and some loss of life. but there are some things you can do to protect yourself and property,'' said laureen chernow, a spokeswoman for the governor's division of emergency management
one is to know the difference between the tornado watches and tornado warnings issued by the weather service
a watch means weather conditions are suitable for development of a tornado, and people should keep a careful lookout for potential funnel clouds
a tornado warning means one has already developed and has been spotted. take cover immediately and don't go outside, but if you are in a car or mobile home you will be safer taking cover in the nearest ditch or depression
at home, the best place to stay is a basement or underground storm shelter. if no such shelter is available, go inside a closet in the center of the house or bathroom or lie flat under a heavy table
mcintyre noted that most fatalities in a tornado are from flying debris, so ``we tell people to squat down, cover their heads and present a low profile.''
james r. mcdonald, director of the institute for disaster research at texas tech university, says many people mistakenly try to outrun tornadoes in their cars
during the 1979 wichita falls tornado that killed 53, mcdonald said, ``people jumped in their cars and drove down main street at 90 mph.'' twenty-six people died while trying to outrun the twister
another misconception is about opening windows. it was once believed that windows needed to be open to equalize air pressure between the storm and the inside of a house to prevent the house from exploding
mcintyre said there are enough natural openings in a house to equalize air pressure, and ``if that tornado wants to open your windows, it'll do that for you.'' pvs, the treaty, signed.</note>
the white house today hailed the advancement of a new arms treaty in the senate and said there is a good possibility it will be ratified by the time president reagan visits moscow for summit talks
democratic vote-counters said the senate will easily approve the u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear weapons, despite republican complaints over an amendment limiting future presidential interpretations of the agreement
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., no. 2 in the democratic leadership, said his counts show no more than five of the 100 senators are likely to vote against the pact. ratification requires approval of 67 senators
i think there will be hurdles, but i don't expect it to be turned down,'' said sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the foreign relations committee
both pell and cranston offered their assessments shortly after the foreign relations committee endorsed the pact wednesday on a 17-2 vote that included the support of 10 democrats and seven republicans. only sens. jesse helms, r-n.c., and larry pressler, r-s.d., voted against the treaty
at the white house, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said it was ``a very good action. ... we're hopeful for good, strong floor debate and passage as soon as possible
we certainly would like to have the treaty ratified before we go to moscow for the summit and it looks like that's a good possibility,'' fitzwater said. reagan will arrive in moscow on may 29 and remain there until june 2
the treaty, signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, requires both sides to destroy all nuclear-armed missiles with a range of 300 miles to 3,400 miles
among the weapons that will destroyed are the soviet force of 650 ss-20s and other medium-range weapons aimed at western european targets. the united states will give up pershing ii missiles stationed in west germany and ground-launched cruise missiles stationed in five nato nations
the pact is the first in the history of arms control to require the actual destruction of the missiles that carry nuclear warheads. it is also the first to require on-site inspection to verify compliance
for the first time since hiroshima, you see the number of weapons going down,'' said pell
the treaty will probably come to the senate floor by late april and when it does, pell said, the most contentious issue will be the democratic-backed amendment
the amendment says that a future president cannot change the u.s. intepretation of the treaty without congressional approval
the fight stems from reagan's assertion that he can unilaterally change the interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, a view challenged by congressional democrats
sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., a supporter of the pact, called the amendment ``a great mistake'' and said, ``it very frankly may change my position in response to the treaty'' on the floor
pressler predicted the amendment ``will lead to the defeat of this treaty entirely because (with it), the votes aren't there.''
the foreign relations vote was the third overwhelming endorsement given the pact by a senate committee. the intelligence committee unanimously approved it and the armed services committee voted in favor by an 18-2 margin
the armed services committee did express some concerns, and maynard glitman, chief u.s. negotiator, tried to answer those fears wednesday in testimony before the foreign relations panel
glitman said ``futuristic'' weapons such as lasers and particle beam generators are banned by the treaty if they are carried on ``weapons delivery vehicles'' within the prohibited range
the soviets ``understand that all future (weapons) systems falling within the criteria will be banned,'' he told helms
and if an unarmed medium-range missile were to strike and destroy a target through impact alone, it would be considered a weapon if it had been designed for that purpose, he said
but sen. sam nunn, d-ga., armed services chairman, said he didn't think glitman's comments had settled the issue. nunn said he would seek a more definitive clarification during senate debate
nunn said he might seek an amendment to the treaty requiring the administration to obtain a specific statement from the soviets acknowledging that they had agreed not to produce, deploy or flight test futuristic medium-range weapons
new postal rates taking effect sunday complete a complex process that got under way 11 months ago
while most of the attention on the new 25-cent stamp has occurred in the last few weeks, the rate was actually proposed by the u.s. postal service in may 1987
since then, there has been so much discussion that some consumers may be confused about how many times rates have risen, said john griesemer, chairman of the board of governors of the postal service
when it was made an independent federal agency in the early 1970s, the u.s. postal service was directed to break even by raising rates to cover costs. the taxpayer subsidy that had been provided to the old post office was gradually eliminated
but to prevent sudden, sharp rate hikes, a separate postal rate commission was set up to monitor mailing costs
under the law, the postal service balances its funds over a term of years. when losses accumulate it raises rates. subsequently it may show a surplus for some years, until costs rise to push it back into the red and again result in another hike
the postal service lost $223 million in fiscal 1987, and the red ink was expected to increase this year despite cost-cutting efforts
the agency had a $305 million surplus in 1986, following sharp cost-cutting in the wake of 1985's loss of $251 million, agency managers reported
surpluses were reported in 1984, 1983 and 1982, following rate increases in 1981
after the postal service's board of governors proposed new rates last may, the case went to the postal rate commission, which is charged with listening to all interested persons and recommending whether the new rates should take effect
the commission has 10 months to reach a decision, which then goes back to the postal board of governors
the commission issued its ruling march 4, three days early. that decision on a rate hike, which was close to the original request, was then ordered into effect by the postal governors
americans are paying more to laugh less. but don't worry, the presidential election campaign should produce some cheap chuckles
the 1988 cost of laughing index, released to coincide with april fool's day and adjusted for inflation, showed a 5.8 percent increase in the humor scale over last year
the annual index, which measures 18 leading humor indicators, compares the punch line to the bottom line. it showed the wholesale price of rubber chickens increased $4.80 per dozen during the past 12 months
the trend in playful poultry is particularly worrisome,'' said malcolm kushner, a self-described humor consultant who compiled the index. ``over the past two years, rubber chickens prices have jumped 23 percent and dancing chicken telegrams have risen by 9 percent
funny fowl may soon become a memory for most american consumers.''
other increases included an 8 percent hike in comedy club ticket prices and an 11 percent jump in the newstand price of mad magazine. on the up side, the wholesale price of groucho glasses and arrow-through-the-head gags did not change
former attorney kushner, whose consulting operation is based in santa cruz, also gives seminars on how to use humor to communicate. his clients include ibm, lockheed and the notoriously funny irs
a man trying to return a neighbor's escaped pet wound up like an amateur facing pro wrestlers hulk hogan or andre the giant _ he was pinned on the first fall by a 700-pound wrestling bear
harry dodge, a retired cleveland heights animal warden, opened his door wednesday when he heard a noise on his porch and spotted his neighbor's trained and declawed black bear, smoky
he realized smoky apparently had broken out of his cage and took some apples to lure him back home
the 7-foot-tall bear just tripped him and sat on him
the bear thought it was a wrestling match,'' said lorain county deputy sheriff gary abicht
the bear performs under the stage name caesar at taverns or social events and wrestles with anyone who thinks they can beat him
when authorities tried to remove smoky from dodge's yard in this cleveland suburb, the bear wouldn't even budge for four lorain county deputies, three or four policemen from strongsville and two officers from olmsted falls. so they tied him to a tree with a rope until they located smoky's owner, salvatore mazzola
then, ``they gave him some peanut butter or something and lured him into a trailer'' used to transport him, abicht said
abicht said mazzola quarreled with a game warden at the scene and was charged with obstructing official business. he was freed on $1,500 bond
state game protector tom harrod said thursday he was preparing additional charges against mazzola for not having state licenses for smoky and a bear cub named magnum, or for a raccoon that lives in mazzola's house
harrod said he put the animals in the custody of another animal handler until mazzola gets the permits
dodge was treated at southwest general hospital for back and neck strain
a 1709 stradivarius violin named in honor of english concert musician marie hall was sold thursday for $889,240, the highest auction price ever paid for a musical instrument
the violin, acquired by miss hall in 1905, was bought by an unidentified south american dealer, sotheby's reported. the dealer beat out two other foreign rivals bidding by telephone in a tense, two-minute auction
the previous highest auction price for a violin by italian craftsman antonio stradivari was $728,000. ``the colossus,'' dated 1716, was bought last year by italian violinist luigi alberto bianchi
the guinness book of records says the highest known price for a stradivarius is $1.2 million, but that was in a private sale of stradivari's ``alard'' violin by british dealers w.e. hill and sons to a singapore dealer
bidding started thursday at $470,000, said sotheby's spokeswoman beth mchattie said
marie hall, considered one of the finest violinists of her era, died at age 72 in 1956. british composer vaughan williams dedicated his ``the lark ascending'' to her, and she first performed it on her stradivarius in 1920
miss hall bequeathed the violin, previously known as the ``viotti'' after giovanni battista viotti, to her daughter
the owner who sold it on thursday was not identified
the instrument was last auctioned in 1968, when it sold for $52,600 _ a record at the time
thursday's auction ``was quite drawn out and tense and there was a round of applause at the end,'' said ms. mchattie. ``we're absolutely delighted to be the record holders again.''
the violin, kept in very good condition, had been expected to fetch up to $846,000, she said. it has a distinctive tiger-stripe wood grain pattern and is varnished in a rich orange-brown color
about 700 of 1,116 violins by stradivari have survived
vice president george bush, his grip now firm on the republican presidential nomination, is shifting his focus to the fall election amid speculation that treasury secretary james a. baker iii will resign to oversee his campaign
reagan administration sources suggested that baker, a longtime bush ally, likely would not make such a move before the gop convention in new orleans aug. 15-18, despite the withdrawal this week of sen. bob dole
dole's exit from the race, virtually guaranteeing bush will be the gop candidate, heightened expectations that baker might speed up a decision to join the bush team
but a treasury department official, commenting only on condition of anonymity, said on thursday there was no truth to suggestions that baker might resign as early as august 1. the official would not elaborate
baker intends to participate in the seven-nation economic summit in toronto in late june, administration officials said
meanwhile, president reagan may begin campaigning for bush even before the party convention, spokesman marlin fitzwater said. the white house had previously said that reagan would remain neutral until the convention
fitzwater said that policy is being reconsidered ``in view of the way the campaign has developed, and in view of the vice president's now seemingly assured nomination.''
baker has longstanding ties to bush and managed his 1980 presidential bid. he also was chairman of president ford's 1976 camaign and senior adviser to the 1980 reagan-bush campaign
peter teeley, a bush campaign spokesman, said a discussion of what role baker might play in the bush campaign, if any, was only speculative at this time
however, teeley added, ``jim is very close to the vice president and has been for a quarter of a century. there's no secret what their relationship has been.''
baker could probably have any job in a bush presidency that he wanted, and there have been rumors for some time that he would like to be secretary of state rather than continue on as treasury secretary _ even though he has built an international reputation in his current post and appears to enjoy the job
bush on wednesday told reporters he intended to ``have a new cabinet'' if elected. the answer responded specifically to a query on embattled atty. gen. edwin meese iii but might also be taken as a signal that there would be a new treasury secretary in a bush presidency
baker became treasury secretary in 1985 after four years as reagan's chief of staff
bush was back in washington thursday after a three-day swing through wisconsin. he scaled back campaign stops in that state, which holds its primary election next tuesday, after dole's withdrawal
reagan had his regular weekly lunch with bush on thursday, but fitzwater said he did not know if campaign plans were discussed
the president's spokesman said a decision on any presidential campaign activity in bush's behalf before the convention ``has not been finally made, although ... the vice president is very close to having the nomination.''
pat robertson is still a candidate, in a declared sense, but he too recognizes the realities of the situation,'' fitzwater said
the vice president called his new status, without a major gop rival, ``exhilarating,'' and campaign aides made use of the time in washington to plot future strategy _ including ways to keep attention focused on bush now that the nomination appears sewn up
it does take us out of the spotlight,'' spokesman teeley acknowledged. ``but he is the vice president. he will be the nominee of the party. and he will be able to generate news.''
for now, bush is continuing with plans for campaign appearances in states that have upcoming primaries and that will also be important in the general election _ including new york, new jersey, ohio and pennsylvania
he is also planning fund-raising trips late next week to texas and florida, states where he has already won primaries
while running on the record of the eight-year reagan-bush administration, bush has also been seeking to develop and flesh out his own themes, including a heavy emphasis on educational issues
george bush's job now is to solidify the republican party. he can develop themes now for the republicans in november. that's something the democrats can't do,'' said rep. james sensenbrenner, r-wis., who traveled with the vice president in wisconsin this week
and, jokes bush, ``it's important for a vice president not to upstage his boss. and you don't know how hard it's been for me to keep my charisma in check for the past seven years.'' add details on child neglect charges and stevens' death; picks up 7th graf pvs, ``stevens' withered ... ''</note>
a woman who concealed her husband's death for eight years and tended the corpse as if it were alive pleaded guilty today to a felony forgery charge stemming from the death
but a former chicago-area dentist accused of assisting her in the forgery pleaded innocent and a jury trial was ordered
carole stevens, 42, entered her plea today in knox county circuit court before associate judge harry bulkeley
mrs. stevens was sentenced to two years probation and 12 days in the county jail, for which she received credit for 12 days already served. officials said mrs. stevens still faces a hearing on child neglect charges involving her two children, who are in foster care
besides probation, bulkeley ordered mrs. stevens to undergo a psychiatric examination and told her to have no further contact with her alleged partner in the deception, richard g. kunce, 56, a former aurora dentist
kunce, in a brief appearance today before judge stephen mathers, pleaded innocent and left the courtroom. he still awaits a court appearance on a felony charge of cruelty to children
in february, mrs. stevens and kunce both pleaded guilty in knox county court to misdemeanor charges of failing to report the may 1979 death of carl l. stevens, a diabetic who authorities say died shortly after he joined a holistic health cult and stopped taking his daily insulin shots
steven's withered corpse was found jan. 29 on a bed in the home, where officials said his widow had cared for the body daily over the past eight years, changing its clothes and moving it from room to room
following their guilty pleas on the misdemeanor charges, both mrs. stevens and kunce also faced felony forgery charges
mrs. stevens was accused of fabricating a power of attorney for her dead husband in 1984. kunce, who was a guest in the stevens house the past year, was charged with forgery for signing his name to the document as a witness
last week, kunce asked a judge to withdraw his guilty plea on the charge of failure to report stevens' death. the hearing on kunce's request was postponed until late april.   
in the year since peach bottom became the first nuclear plant shut down because workers slept on the job, shareholders have absorbed $72 million in replacement energy costs, its operator said thursday
philadelphia electric co. said in a blunt ``open letter'' to civic and governmental organizations in southeastern pennsylvania and northern maryland that the episode has been ``an embarassment'' and that the plant would not restart until the company is ``completely satisfied'' conditions had changed
on march 31, 1987, the nuclear regulatory commission ordered peach bottom closed indefinitely, citing a pattern of control room operators dozing on duty and saying continued operation posed ``an immediate threat to health and safety.''
to date, the shutdown has caused the company's shareholders to absorb approximately $72 million of higher replacement energy costs, while the pennsylvania public utility commission has ordered pe customers' rates to be reduced by $30.4 million per year until restart,'' pe said in the letter
there is no question that the public confidence has been shaken as the result of this shutdown and this is the type of communication with the public that will begin to rebuild that,'' pe spokesman neil mcdermott said
the letter was signed by pe president and chief operating officer joseph paquette, who took over three weeks ago, after james everett iii resigned in the face of mounting criticism over peach bottom's restart
paquette blamed problems at peach bottom in part on a lack of leadership by senior managers and a stagnant ``culture'' at the plant that was devoid of individual accountability and open communication
since the shutdown, pe has proposed reorganizing work crews, removed all supervisors who were at the plant one year ago, hired a former navy rear admiral as plant manager, instituted a new training program for operators, and fired four employees and suspended seven others for drug-related activities. most of the drug problems were said to be with maintenance workers
pe officials hope peach bottom, near the maryland border, will be restarted this fall. but officials must first apply to the nrc regional office, and the regional office would inform the nrc in washington when it was convinced the plant was ready
michael j. fox says he's pulled out of the fast lane to enjoy a quieter life with actress tracy pollan, us magazine reports in its april 18 issue
i definitely feel real settling going on _ almost on every level,'' said fox. ``in my personal life, i'm just calming down and really enjoying building a life outside work. ... and on the work level, i'm not freaking out about things.''
fox denied reports that he'll marry in may; but he and pollan have bought a vermont homestead together, us reported
the two became friends while playing a couple on television's ``family ties.''
i was goofing around at that point in my life. i was a little more prone to stay out late and drive fast and work hard,'' said fox. ``i hope i wasn't a jerk. but if i was, i have a sneaking suspicion not many people were going to tell me i was.''
one of the exceptions, he said, was pollan. ``we got along really well, but if i was a jerk, she just went, `that was a really particularly stupid thing to do.' and i just went, `wow! that's great!'''
after pollan left the show for other projects, the romance developed
the result, he said, ``is something i never, ever, in my wildest dreams thought would come to pass.''
michael jackson, whose ``bad'' album failed to win any grammys last month, was a big winner in the second annual soul train music awards
jackson was honored for 1987 male vocalist album of the year and the title song was named best single by a male vocalist wednesday
in the female vocalist category, whitney houston won best album for ``whitney,'' and natalie cole took the best single award for ``i live for your love.''
janet jackson, michael jackson's sister, won the best music video award for ``control.''
levert won best group jazz album for ``the big throwdown'' and best group single for ``cassanova.''
another double winner was ll cool j, whose ``i need love'' won best rap single, and ``bigger &amp; deffer'' was named best rap album
the night's biggest loser was jody watley, last month's best new artist grammy winner. she had tied michael jackson for most nominations with three, including best female single and album and best video, but came up empty-handed
eight hundred people turned out to honor musician les paul and his mother, evelyn polfuss, on her 100th birthday
at her home town celebration wednesday, mrs. polfuss received proclamations from gov. tommy thompson, the legislature and president reagan. paul was given a plaque for his induction into the wisconsin area music industry hall of fame. ``it is just one of the finest evenings we've had in this city,'' mayor paul vrakas said
comedian joan rivers has decided the show must go on, even if she has to pick up the tab
promoter doug east said wednesday he was canceling miss rivers' performances friday in myrtle beach and saturday in charleston because of poor ticket sales
but miss rivers, who says she only canceled performances for three months following the death of her husband last year, was adamant
i don't do that to people who have bought tickets,'' she said wednesday from her hollywood home. ``even if there's only one person in the audience, i'm going to do the show
i stand to lose about $50,000. i'm so (mad) i can't even discuss it. but, i just don't operate that way. maybe that's why i've been in the business 22 years.''
p0ntiac, mich. (ap) _ john z. de lorean is suing his tax attorney, saying he lost a $700,000 refund because the lawyer missed a filing deadline
the 63-year-old former auto executive said in a lawsuit filed wednesday in oakland county circuit court that he was entitled to $700,127 for overpayment of his 1982 federal income taxes, but tax attorney frank c. shaler missed the april 15, 1986, deadline
it's a friendly lawsuit,'' de lorean said by telephone from his home in bedminster, n.j. ``it was a slip-up on frank's part, and he reported it to his insurance company. it was something he just missed on the statute of limitations. he was the one who told me about it.''
he's still my accountant. he's a real sweet guy.''
shaler declined comment
de lorean, whose northern ireland-based sports car company collapsed in 1982, said he is preparing to get back into the auto business with plans to build a new, ``exotic'' sports car in west germany. in 1984, he was acquitted of federal charges of selling cocaine
guitarist chet atkins is $5 richer thanks to a fellow musician who borrowed the money 30 years ago and remembered it had not been repaid
atkins found the $5 in his mail slot wednesday from ed dettenheim of haynesville, la. in a note attached, dettenheim said he was repaying $5 that atkins had wired him in 1958 to bail him out of jail in humboldt, tenn., where he was being held on a traffic charge
at the time, dettenheim was playing guitar with the rhythm rebels band
atkins said thursday he doesn't remember the loan. but he added, ``i'm glad i was a good neighbor.''
costa rican president oscar arias sanchez will be the principal speaker at the harvard university commencement in june
the author of a central american peace plan, arias won the 1987 nobel peace prize for his ``outstanding contribution to the possible return of stability and peace to a region long torn by strife and civil war,'' the nobel committee said in awarding the honor
arias, 47, studied at boston university and attended harvard's summer school before continuing his education abroad. he spoke last year at harvard's john f. kennedy school of government
harvard announced the speaker thursday. the 337th commencement exercises will take place june 9
a woman running for congress says she's been barred from an annual stag dinner that has become a regular campaign event and which her opponent and several other candidates are likely to attend
this isn't just a woman trying to get tickets,'' marianne brewster said wednesday. ``this is a candidate for the house of representatives.''
brewster, a republican running in the 4th district race, said she won't try to gain admission to the forty &amp; eight lasociete's oyster dinner april 8 at mount view high school
i do plan to stand outside and shake hands and do it that way,'' said brewster, a bluefield businesswoman. ``i don't want to cause problems, but it's difficult to have to combat this.''
frank pisano, a member of forty &amp; eight, an offshoot of the american legion, said he expects up to 1,200 people to attend the dinner. dozens of local, state and national office seekers typically attend
u.s. rep. nick rahall, a democrat seeking re-election to the 4th district seat, previously has attended and he and several candidates for high state office plan to attend this year, pisano said
throughout its quarter-century history, the $15-a-head dinner has been off limits to women, he said
the policy that we've had is that it's a stag affair,'' pisano said. ``i don't have the authority to say we can open it up to these other people.''
former presidential aide lyn nofziger should be imprisoned because he showed a ``total lack of remorse'' when convicted of illegally lobbying the white house, independent counsel james c. mckay said today in court papers
mckay recommended that nofziger receive a prison term for three counts of violating the ethics in government act to ``impress present and former government employees, as well as the general public that congress intended those restrictions be taken seriously and that they will be enforced with meaningful penalties.''
the prosecutor noted that nofziger, 63, former white house political director, likened his crime to ``running a stop sign'' following his conviction feb. 11 on three counts of illegal lobbying his former agency within a year of leaving government
since being found guilty, defendant nofziger has made a number of remarks showing a total lack of remorse or contrition for his offenses,'' mckay said in a sentencing memo to u.s. district judge thomas flannery
that intransigent attitude is a consideration arguing in favor of a sentence that includes a period of incarceration,'' mckay said
as further evidence of nofziger's lack of contrition, mckay quoted a feb. 18 letter to the court in which nofziger wrote: ``i have never thought, and i do not think today, that i am guilty morally, ethically or legally of the crimes of which i am convicted.''
nofziger is scheduled to be sentenced april 8 and could receive two-year prison terms and a $10,000 fine for each of the three convictions of illegally lobbying on behalf of wedtech corp., a maritime engineers union and the manufacturer of the air force a-10 anti-tank plane
in addition to an unspecified prison term, mckay recommended ``that an appropriate fine be imposed for each violation and that the fines be imposed cumulatively for the three violations.''
nofziger's special entree to the most powerful officials in government, including the president himself, epitomized the very danger to public perception about the integrity of governmental decision-making that motivated congress to enact the one-year no-contact prohibition,'' mckay said
mckay also dismissed nofziger's argument that he misunderstood the ethics law, saying he had received a white house manual that instructed all members of president reagan's staff to review carefully the rules on post-employment lobbying
in addition, nofziger received extensive legal advice from a private law firm about the law, mckay said
the sentencing memo referred to an incident in which nofziger allegedly uttered a profanity when told by one of his lawyers not to make any white house contacts ``without first clearing it with his lawyers.''
during a bench conference out of hearing of jurors and the public, associate independent counsel merrick garland told the judge that after responding with a profanity, nofziger said ``these are my friends and i am going back to them if i want to'', according to the memo
mckay noted that ``defense counsel has attempted to minimize the significance of this episode by asserting that defendant nofziger's profanity in response to his lawyer's advice was characteristic of their client's jocularity.''
perhaps so,'' the sentencing memo continued. ``but his lawyers at the time took the incident seriously. they have told staff members of the independent counsel that this episode caused concern'' within the law firm
whatever his choice of words, however, it is evident that defendant nofziger was alerted to and deliberately chose to ignore written and oral advice that section 207(c) (of the law) applied to him,'' mckay said
during the trial, defense lawyers unsuccessfully sought to claim that nofziger had acted with the advice of his counsel when he lobbied the white house on behalf of at least one client. flannery refused to allow the defense to raise this argument, saying it was legally impermissible
president reagan may go on the road to campaign for george bush before the gop convention to give his vice president an edge going into the fall campaign, the white house said thursday
the move indicates that reagan is ending his official neutrality in the gop race before the party's convention, scheduled for aug. 15-18 in new orleans
i just want to signal you that that is changing,'' presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters
the president has always been ready,'' the spokesman said. ``he's ready at the drop of a hat to get out there on the road. he's ready to get into the campaign at any point.''
however, fitzwater said, ``the president has always wanted to get involved in the political process as soon as possible. it's simply that his position on neutrality required that that could not happen until after the convention.''
he said the president ``could decide to do some events earlier'' in the light of bush's string of primary and caucus victories, which have forced all other republican candidates except the badly lagging pat robertson from the field
i think that in view of the way the campaign has developed, and in view of the vice president's now seemingly assured nomination, that we would rethink that situation in view of those new realities, and that we could see the president involved in some political activities before the nominating convention _ activities that are directly associated with the nominee,'' he said
fitzwater said a decision ``has not been finally made, although every one is aware ... that the reality of the situation is such that the vice president is very close to having the nomination.''
pat robertson is still a candidate, in a declared sense, but, he, too recognizes the realities of the situation,'' he said
bush has more than 800 of the 1,139 needed to win the nomination, according to a count by the associated press. robertson has 17
bush was having his regular weekly lunch with the president thursday. fitzwater said he did not know what they planned to talk about
fitzwater said no decision had been made on an endorsement, and no events had been scheduled or were expected to be scheduled soon
i simply want to open the door to this new prospect,'' he said
reagan, who defeated bush for the gop presidential nomination in 1980, has often spoken of him in glowing terms, ranking him at or near the top among u.s. vice presidents
an alabama fugitive known as ``wolf boy'' faced federal charges today after a 16-year-old kidnap victim from illinois was found tied to a motel bed, fbi agents said
agent kevin rust said gary williams, 30, an escape artist who fled the county jail in decatur, ala., last october, was armed but offered no resistance when fbi agents surrounded the carro motel and arrested him wednesday night
agents had spotted the car of the kidnap victim at the carro, rust said
michelle yokum, 16, of casey, ill., was found wednesday morning tied to a bed in a motel in nearby corinth after employees heard her cries
yokum told authorities williams had left in her car. she said that she had been abducted at gunpoint tuesday night in illinois while making a delivery in her car from the restaurant where she worked. the teen-ager said she had not been harmed by williams
williams was scheduled for a hearing today on a federal escape charge in aberdeen, miss
williams reportedly has made 10 escapes in the last several years and became known as ``wolf boy'' while hiding out in caves in alabama's bankhead national forest. he was serving a jail term for grand larceny and had numerous property offenses on his record
authorities said williams apparently approached yokum's car, forced her at gunpoint to move over to the passenger's side, then started driving south
fbi agents said williams is a suspect in the abduction of a 24-year-old cedar key, fla., woman who escaped from her kidnappers in adell, ga., last week. rust said williams' brother, jerry williams, 20, was arrested in georgia in connection with that kidnapping. yokum said williams told her that he had abducted a woman in florida but she got away in georgia
the densely settled northeast has become the nation's least populated region, falling behind the west for the first time, the census bureau reported thursday
the bureau also projected that texas will surpass new york for second place behind california in population by 1995
and between now and the year 2000, half of all u.s. population growth will occur in just three states: california, texas and florida, the report said
the projections are based on assumptions about trends in births, deaths, immigration and movement within the country, bureau demographer signe wetrogen explained
the northeast has been declining in its share of the u.s. population, with less growth than other areas, wetrogen said in a telephone interview. ``it is the one region with the highest share of population in the older ages, and has low birth rates.''
population shifts to the south and west in recent years have drawn away many people in the prime ages of 18 to 24, ``so the (northeast) region is left with more older people, and it's left without anybody to have more kids,'' she said
the northeastern states, relatively smaller in land area than other parts of the country, remain the mosty densely packed, however. new jersey leads the nation with more than 1,000 people per square mile
between 1987 and 1988, the western region increased from 49.6 million people to 50.5 million, the report said. at the same time, the population of the northeast edged upward from 50.1 million to 50.3 million, to slip into last place
the 1988 estimates listed the south with 85.1 million people, followed by the midwest with 59.6 million
historical records show that, while it was the center of early american development, the northeast hasn't actually been the most populous region since 1820, when the south edged ahead. it remained second until 1880, falling to third behind both the midwest and south
by 1990, the projections call for the south to have 87.3 million people, followed by the midwest, 59.8 million; west, 52.3 million; and northeast, 50.6 million
by 2000, the counts are expected to be 96.9 million for the south, 59.6 million for the midwest, 59.4 million for the west and 51.8 million for the northeast
by 2010, the report added, the west could replace the midwest as the second-most-populous region
state population projections showed california remaining unchallenged as the largest state, growing from 28 million people today to 29.1 million in 1990 and 33.5 million in 2000
texas is expected to surpass new york for second rank by 1995. the empire state now leads texas 17.7 million to 17.2 million, but by 1995 texas is projected to have just over 19 million people, with new york at only 17.9 million
florida is expected to remain the fourth-largest state, although by the year 2010 it may be closing in on new york as well, the census bureau said
by the year 2000, illinois will have replaced pennsylvania in fifth place and georgia will move into 10th, displacing north carolina, the report said
the u.s. population was projected to grow from 243.3 million in 1987 to 267.7 million in 2000
in that period, california is expected to add 6 million residents, florida 3.5 million and texas 3.3 million. that means those states would have growth of 12.8 million people, 52 percent of the national increase of 24.4 million
pennsylvania, ohio, iowa, west virginia and the district of columbia were projected to lose population this decade
population losses in the 1990s were predicted for nine more states: indiana, illinois, michigan, wisconsin, north dakota, nebraska, kentucky, montana and wyoming. on the other hand, growth was predicted to resume in the district of columbia
during the 1990s, the maturing of the post-world war ii baby boom generation will be reflected in the growth of the 45-64 age group in all parts of the country. the number of people aged 24 to 44 is expected to drop in the northeast and midwest but grow elsewhere, the report said
the study said the south continues to have the largest percentage of blacks in its population, 16 percent. more than half of all black americans reside in the south, and that is expected to continue. activist</head>
a relative of india's revered pacifist revolutionary, mohandas gandhi, is working to erect memorials to him in 15 north american cities, but boston is having a little trouble finding a spot for its monument
the inspiration and money is coming from a foundation created by yoges gandhi, a grandnephew of the man who led india to independence in 1947 with non-violent protests
gandhi said wednesday he chose this city of monuments to revolutionary heroes as one of the 15 cities because he wants to remind people to be better to one another
the statue of gandhi will encourage people to follow the path of non-violence. we don't want to focus on the man, but what he has done,'' said gandhi
the founder and president of the 5-year-old gandhi foundation said he already has $250,000 for the project. he wants the statues erected by oct. 2 for a national celebration of the 119th anniversary of gandhi's birth
boston officials from mayor raymond flynn on down have welcomed the memorial
but finding a site for the statue or monument is a problem, because of the city's current state of construction upheaval, from its roads to its skyline
mary shannon is executive secretary of the boston art commission, the agency that decides what monuments look like and where they go. she said the five-member panel is leaning toward a bas relief that would include text to better convey gandhi's message
mrs. shannon said the site should be worked out within the next few weeks and the design selected by may
a statue of gandhi is not incongruous for boston, where revolutionary war generals are remembered as well as abolitionists and gandhi devotee martin luther king jr., said mrs. shannon
two years ago the foundation erected a statue of gandhi in new york city's union square
other cities on gandhi's list are atlanta, chicago, denver, honolulu, houston, los angeles, miami, philadelphia, san francisco, memphis, tenn., and, in canada, montreal, toronto and vancouver
a 77-year-old widower who lives in a tiny mobile home and depends on a bicycle for transportation has collected about $21,000 in interest from a long-ignored savings account
i didn't forget about it,'' henry kinslow said. ``that's why you put money in a bank _ to let it collect interest.''
kinslow closed his account at onebank in north little rock on wednesday, saying he didn't want to pedal 30 miles from conway to keep tabs on it
kinslow, a retired electrical engineer and former hobo, had been told by the state auditor's office that his $34,482.29 in savings was in danger of government seizure because of a lack of account activity
kinslow said the last bank statement he received showed a balance of about $13,500
that was in 1972. the statements stopped because he didn't give the bank his change of address
the state auditor's staff says $750,000 hasn't been claimed by nearly 2,500 people whose accounts or other scheduled transactions, like utility deposits, have been inactive for at least seven years
the office is conducting a drive, called the great arkansas treasure hunt, to notify owners of such accounts under a 1987 law which mandates that money from such accounts that is unclaimed by april 7, 1990, goes into state general revenues
kinslow's balance was the largest unclaimed amount, the auditor's office said
a news report about the notification drive caught the attention of a teller at kinslow's bank in conway. the teller notified the owner of the mobile home park where kinslow lives, and the park owner drove kinslow to the north little rock bank
i wanted my money. i worked for about 25 years to make it,'' kinslow said
what are his plans for the windfall?
put it in another bank,'' he said. dismmissal; pick up 5th graf pvs: ``i've been taking ...''; subs 11th graf pvs, ``the dismissal xxx to conform</note>
the state senate began working today on rules for its votes on two articles of impeachment to oust gov. evan mecham, and one lawmaker said he would try to reinstate a third charge that was dismissed
the senate, acting as judge and jury in the first-term republican's trial, met briefly and adjourned into separate party caucuses to discuss how the vote should be taken. it was expected to reconvene this afternoon
republican sen. john mawhinney, who voted against the motion wednesday to dismiss a charge that mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, said some senators had second thoughts
mawhinney said his proposal would still allow the senate to vote next week on the first two charges, on which testimony already has been heard. the third charge would be heard if mecham was acquitted on the other two
wednesday's vote came as a surprise to many senators and set the stage for a vote as early as monday on two other charges against the governor, who also faces a may 17 recall election and an april 21 criminal trial
the motion to dismiss the third charge was approved on a 16-12 vote. however two gop senators who opposed the dismissal were ill wednesday but attended today's session. thus, lawmakers said they would have to change two other senators' minds to get the 16 votes to reconsider
one of the two who were absent wednesday, sen. greg lunn, said he believed it was a ``serious error'' to dismiss the third charge
meanwhile, lawmakers were considering whether to vote on each of the two impeachment articles as a whole or take separate votes on all 11 subsections of the two articles
i've been accepting the body blows for about 15 months now ... and the ribs are a little bit bruised,'' mecham, an auto dealer and perennial political outsider, told a group of gop supporters wednesday
but he said he still had plans for ``when i get back there'' in the governor's office
the vote to dismiss the third charge wednesday was a surprise to most involved, including the senator who made the motion, republican wayne stump
several of those who voted to dismiss said they wanted to avoid prejudicing mecham's upcoming criminal trial on felony charges that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan. that would have been the subject of evidence on the third impeachment charge and stump said it would have put the governor in ``quasi-double jeopardy.''
the decision set the stage for a vote as early as monday on two other charges against the first-term republican, who also faces a may 17 recall election and an april 21 criminal trial
mecham remains accused of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership and of trying to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
those voting for the dismissal motion were an unusual coalition of all 11 senate democrats plus five republicans who have steadfastly supported the governor
lawmakers refused to predict whether there will be the two-thirds majority of the 30-member senate needed to convict on the remaining two charges.
democratic sen. peter rios disputed speculation that democrats voted for the dismissal motion because they think they have the votes to boot mecham
i think this needs to be brought to a conclusion,'' he said of the 5-week-old impeachment trial, ``and this is my view of one way to bring it to a conclusion.''
i've always been confident,'' mecham told reporters wednesday night. he refused to comment directly on the dismissal. defense attorney jerris leonard said he considered it a victory
if mecham is convicted, secretary of state rose mofford, who has been acting governor since mecham's feb. 5 impeachment by the house, would become governor
the senate was expected to receive jury instructions this afternoon. closing arguments are scheduled for monday morning, and a vote can be taken any time afterward
mecham has repeatedly insisted he is innocent of all wrongdoing and that he is the victim of persecution by the state gop establishment and the media
he has been surrounded by controversy since he took office in january 1987. the day after taking office, mecham canceled a martin luther king holiday for state workers on grounds it was illegally created by his predecessor, democratic gov. bruce babbitt
he also has made comments that angered blacks, homosexuals, women, jews and japanese
the governor said wednesday night that if he is returned to office he would be willing to declare that ``bygones can be bygones'' in his relations with the legislature. meeting</head>
benjamin netanyahu said thursday he resigned as u.n. ambassador to protest secretary of state george p. shultz's meeting with two arab-americans linked to the palestine liberation organization
netanyahu said the meeting saturday in washington endangered israel's security and ``raises a larger question of the value of american commitments to us when we have made huge concessions to obtain these guarantees.''
i could not speak freely (about this) as long as i was ambassador. so i had to make a choice,'' he told the associated press
the surprise resignation of the articulate, u.s.-educated netanyahu _ a rising star in prime minister yitzhak shamir's rightist likud bloc _ was the strongest signal yet of israeli displeasure over the shultz meeting
shultz, in remarks on israel radio, said it was unreasonable to suggest he could not meet american citizens
but netanyahu said shultz's talks with edward said and ibrahim abu lughod violated a 1975 u.s. pledge not to meet with plo members. the two are members of the palestine national council, the plo's parliament-in-exile. u.s. officials said their membership on the pnc doesn't make them plo officials
in addition, he said, the united states appeared to be clearing the way for plo participation in middle east peace talks and ``a plo state right in the heart of israel, threatening our very security, our very future.''
netanyahu, who had served as u.n. ambassador since 1984, said he was planning to resign in several weeks anyway to begin campaigning for a seat as a likud legislator in november's elections
i decided to resign early because of the critical developments,'' he said
likud activists hope the 39-year-old netanyahu will give an electoral boost to the entire party, which narrowly missed winning a majority in 1984 parliamentary elections
foreign minister shimon peres has suggested asher ben natan, a former ambassador to france and germany, as a possible replacement for netanyahu
netanyahu, considered a close friend of shultz, said he still had ``warm personal regard'' for the secretary of state but that his meeting with said and abu lughod had created ``a deep rift'' between the united states and israel
even friends can sometimes take steps which are unacceptable or dangerous,'' he said
he said the meeting heightened israeli concern about a u.s.-middle east peace plan, which calls for an international conference leading to direct peace talks between israel and its arab enemies
i will pound the pavement from city to city in order to explain to the public the dangers of an international conference,'' he said
shamir and fellow likud mambers have staunchly opposed an international forum, warning that israel would be outnumbered by its enemies and forced to make territorial concessions
the very clear possibility exists now that the plo will sit across the table from israel in this conference and will be the party we will be demanded to give land to,'' netanyahu said
shultz goes to israel on sunday in his second shuttle to campaign for the peace plan, and he is likely to hear plenty of complaints there about the meeting with said and abu lughod
shamir called the meeting ``a slap in the face'' and told party members ``it was possible to see on television how much they (said and abu lughod) hate israel,'' the daily yediot ahronot reported thursday
netanyahu, the son of a cornell university professor, has lived in the united states most of his life. he attended high school in philadelphia and studied business administration at the massachusetts institute of technology
netanyahu's brother, jonathan, became a national hero as the senior commander during israel's 1976 rescue of hostages in entebbe, uganda. he was the only israeli officer killed in the operation
pope john paul ii on thursday re-enacted jesus christ's last supper with his apostles by washing the feet of 12 priests in a solemn holy thursday ritual
some 3,000 worshipers gathered for the two-hour ceremony in the vast, marble-columned basilica of st. john lateran with its 16 rooftop figures of christ, the apostles and saints silhouetted against the early evening sky. the 17th century basilica, built on an ancient roman property, is the pope's church as bishop of rome
earlier thursday, the pontiff celebrated mass at st. peter's basilica in vatican city, leading catholic clergymen _ including 22 cardinals, 30 bishops and some 1,000 priests _ in renewing their vows of celibacy
during the evening ceremony, the 67-year-old pope, draped in white vestments, washed the feet of the dozen mostly elderly priests in a service symbolizing jesus' humility before he was crucified on good friday
wearing a protective apron, the pontiff poured water from a golden urn onto one foot of each priest, wiping it with a white cloth before bending down to kiss it
the priests, dressed in white, red and gold, were seated on a platform under the austere, gold-leaf nave of the basilica, which is said to contain the heads of st. peter and st. paul and where until a century ago popes were crowned
the service included hymns and chants by the sistine chapel choir, as well as a homily in italian by the pope on the theme of christian humility
the two rites thursday began four days of ceremonies that culminate on easter sunday, celebrating the passion, death and resurrection of christ
on friday, the pope is to carry a wooden cross in the traditional good friday ceremony starting from the torch-lit colosseum. he will celebrate the easter vigil on saturday night, and a sunday mass in st. peter's square
cher says she enjoyed making the movie ``moonstruck'' because it gave her a chance to be part of a big, traditional family
in real life, cher, 40, lives with a 23-year-old acting student and copes with the travails of motherhood. her 11-year-old son, elijah blue, is ``a little superficial,'' and her daughter, 18-year-old chastity, ``dresses like a bum,'' she complained in an interview with film comment magazine that was reprinted in the april issue of us
i'm not a cookie-baking mother,'' said cher, who is up for the academy award for best actress for her role in ``moonstruck.'' ``well, that's not true. i am a cookie-baking mother, but i'm not a traditional cookie-baking mother.''
her boyfriend, robert camilletti, on the other hand, makes bagels _ and cher said it infuriates her when people ``dismiss him as a bagel maker.''
do i feel insulted when they dismiss everything about him and boil it down to that, without a moment's thought to what kind of a human being he is? yes. i lived with him when he was a doorman, when he was a bartender. i don't really care what he is.''
the government thursday unveiled the long-awaited laws that release businesses from the shackles of state plans and promise factory managers and foreign joint ventures substantial autonomy in making decisions
the two proposed laws and a draft constitutional amendment legitimizing the private sector were submitted to the 2,970 delegates of the national people's congress, china's legislature
the delegates are expected to discuss the measures in small groups over the next week and approve them april 13, the last day of the congress' 20-day session
rather than break new ground, the proposed laws would formalize changes already under way in the economy and clear up confusion over the new practices. the proposed measure on joint ventures would provide a legal framework for foreigners doing business in china
lu dong, head of the state economic commission, said the proposed law on state-owned enterprises was essential to china's modernization
whether or not (state-owned) enterprises can have great vitality will have a great influence on the overall development of our national economy,'' he told the delegates, gathered in the huge great hall of the people
therefore ... we must separate government and industry and guarantee the autonomy of enterprise management,'' lu said
the government hopes autonomy will turn china's often debt-ridden, inefficient state stores and factories into lean, competitive production machines. they will be free to respond to changes in market demand and also will be free to go bankrupt if they make bad decisions
it is no coincidence that the government plans to implement a bankruptcy law later this year
more than 70 percent of china's 90,000 state-run enterprises already have signed contracts with the government giving their managers some degree of adminstrative autonomy. the new law is intended to erase lingering ambiguities over the roles of managers, local communist party officials, local government and unions
similarly, the proposed law on chinese-foreign joint ventures and the constitutional amendment allowing private enterprise serve to codify changes that have already been introduced
although the draft state enterprise law probably is the most widely discussed in chinese history, having been submitted to special seminars nationwide, thursday was the first time its actual wording was released to the general public
an enterpise shall, in accordance with law, make its own managerial decisions (and) take full responsibility for its own profits and losses,'' reads one of the 68 articles
enterprises also will be allowed to sell their products on their own after meeting state quotas, chose their own suppliers, set their prices and enter into contracts with foreign parties
senior leader deng xiaoping first suggested such a law in 1978, when he began his campaign to reduce central planning and revitalize the economy through monetary incentives. versions have been discussed by four previous legislative sessions, generating debate unprecedented in china's largely rubber-stamp congress
official media reports indicate the congress' standing law committee made revisions almost up to the last minute. one major criticism was that workers could be victimized by autocratic managers
late additions included several clauses that promise wide powers to workers, thus substantially eroding business managers' promised new autonomy
an enterprise shall ensure that its staff and workers enjoy the status of masters. ... (and) shall practice democratic management,'' the bill reads
it adds that workers' congresses must approve wage adjustments and bonus distribution plans, and have the right to supervise and call for the removal of top company officials
the draft law on joint ventures would help standardize the form of contractural joint ventures and promote their growth, zheng tuobin, foreign trade minister, told the congress
the bill states that the joint venture ``should not be interfered with'' in making managerial decisions, and allows either the chinese or foreign partner to chair the board
chinese companies already have formed more than 5,000 joint ventures with foreign companies, with a total foreign investment of about $3.38 billion
however, many foreign businesses have complained about the lack of a legal framework for their joint venture agreements
the proposed constitutional amendment declares the private sector to be ``a complement to the socialist public economy'' that is allowed to exist within legal limits. china currently has more than 18 million private-sector enterprises, most employing only one or two people
a companion amendment declares that rights to use land may be transferred. all land in china is considered owned by the whole people, but in the past year several cities have sold land-use rights for up to 50 years. legislature meets</head>
four legislative leaders on thursday said annual sessions were ``an experiment that didn't work'' and called for a return to sessions every other year
we have seen legislative expenses rise and we have seen good lawmakers make the hard choice not to run again because they cannot be in concord every year and at the same time make a living for themselves and their families,'' house speaker douglas scamman said at a news conference
scamman, house majority leader vincent palumbo, senate president william bartlett, and senate democratic leader robert preston support a proposed constitutional amendment that would put the change before voters in november
they (voters) should have the chance to judge the efficiency of annual sessions based on the experience of the last four years and to register their opinion with their vote,'' scamman said
on wednesday, the house constitutional and statuatory revision committee voted 12-4 to recommend legislation that would put the proposed constitutional amendment on the ballot. voters approved annual sessions in 1984
those supporting annual sessions, including house democratic leader mary chambers, say state business is too complicated for legislators to meet every other year
i haven't seen a piece of legislation (this year) that couldn't have waited until next year,'' bartlett said
two crosses made from lilies for separate easter flower shows were rearranged into pillars after the american civil liberties union objected that the displays promoted religion on public property
the crosses, part of the annual spring and easter flower show at the garfield park conservatory and the lincoln park conservatory, were altered wednesday, said nancy kaszak, general attorney for the chicago park district
ms. kaszak said she was contacted tuesday by an aclu attorney who contended the crosses were a display of religious symbols on public property
because of the protest, park workers converted the crosses at both conservatories into pillars of flowers, she said
jane whicher, staff counsel for the aclu in illinois, said the diplays were brought to her attention by a staff member who visited the lincoln park conservatory
my concern is that the cross put up by a public body on public property was a violation of the first amendment,'' whicher said. ``it shouldn't have been erected in the first place, but i commend the park district on removing it so quickly.'' 03-31 0719</first> metzenbaum comment.</note>
the fbi said today it had cracked a major heroin-importing ring involving trafficking through sicily and was arresting 233 people in the united states and italy
attorney general edwin meese iii told a news conference it was the largest international drug case ever developed by the federal government and said it has been a ``stunning success.''
the arrests were the result of a lengthy criminal investigation in cooperation with italian authorities, and involved the import of southwest asian heroin into the united states
the 69 defendants in the united states include 38 charged in new york city, six in los angeles and boston, 10 in charlotte, n.c., eight in san juan, puerto rico, two in cleveland and five in washington, d.c. in italy, authorities intend to charge 164 people, the fbi said
u.s. authorities seized six kilograms of heroin and four kilograms of cocaine during the course of the investigation. italian authorities seized 22 kilograms of heroin last month
meese said the purpose of the investigation has been to penetrate organized drug operations and not just to make random drug seizures
the tentacles of this network spread out across this country,'' he said
the attorney general declined to speculate on what impact the arrests will have on drug traffic in the united states
nobody knows for sure the quantity of heroin or any other drug coming into the united states,'' he said. but the fbi's strategy of penetration ``is going to the heart of drug trafficing networks rather than just cutting off the tentacles.''
during the news conference to announce the drug arrests, meese refused to answer reporters' questions on the resignation of two of his top aides amid increasing skepticism on capitol hill over whether he can continue to run the justice department
meese, who is the target of a broadening criminal investigation, turned aside at least half a dozen questions relating to the possibility that he might quit in the wake of tuesday's resignations of deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld
the business of law enforcement is going forward energetically and without interruption,'' meese said. ``our strong management team is on the job.''
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, who has called for meese's resignation, said, ``i think he has lost his credibility. it's a joke when he's talking about drug enforcement when everyone wants to know why he's still attorney general.''
frank story, chief of the narcotics section of the criminal investigations division of the fbi, said authorities also have seized business assets in connection with the arrests
suspects arrested today have been charged with conspiracies to import, possess and distribute drugs, the fbi said. authorities used physical and electronic surveillance during the investigation
authorities were alerted to the presence of a sicilian mafia drug network operating out of new york city and trafficking in heroin by a 1985 drug case involving a new york pizza restaurant, authorities said
a government affidavit filed in u.s. district court in manhattan said two of the defendants in the current case operate pizza restaurants in new york city and another is a former pizza restaurant owner there
two of the defendants in new york city and one of those charged in charlotte are fugitives from italian drug convictions, the fbi said
the sicilian mafia's drug trafficking plan involved exporting cocaine from the united states to italy, where it would be exchanged for heroin and then smuggled back to the united states, the fbi said
meese said the difference in the price of cocaine here and in italy made the scheme profitable for the network
meese and fbi director william sessions commended the cooperation of the italian government and law enforcement agencies in coordinating the investigation and arrests
sessions said italian law enforcement officials have made 68 arrests so far and are pursuing fugitives in italy, sicily, venezuela and several u.s. cities
the sicilian mafia that today's actions are directed against is one of the primary groups responsible for the importation of southwest asian heroin into the united states,'' he said
he said the three other primary groups bringing drugs into the united states are mexicans, colombians and asians. brother</head>
government prosecutors said thursday they would investigate allegations that former president chun doo-hwan's brother diverted millions of dollars in government money to real estate investments overseas
chun kyung-hwan was arrested early thursday on charges he embezzled $10.4 million while head of the semi-official saemaul undong (new community) development organization. he also was charged with taking bribes, influence peddling, evading taxes and violating business, land and construction laws
if convicted, chun, 46, could receive a sentence ranging from 10 years in prison to death
our investigation will continue to check other charges that he diverted a huge amount of money for land speculation in the united states and australia,'' senior prosecutor kang won-il told reporters
eight other people, including aides of the younger chun and other senior saemaul officials, also were arrested on embezzlement, bribery and other charges, officials said. they included the former president's two brothers-in-law
it is agonizing to me that i have caused trouble to my brother,'' prosecutors quoted the younger chun as saying
according to the arrest warrant, the younger chun amassed a fortune in cash, land and stocks by using government and family connections
he was named head of saemaul undong in 1981, the year after his brother seized power with military backing, and resigned the post in 1987 after reports linked him to criminals
meanwhile, opposition parties charged thursday that the government was covering up massive corruption in the scandal, and demanded the former president be questioned in the probe
the government has orchestrated another cover-up and fooled the people,'' the reunification democratic party said in a statement
the party, one of two main opposition groups, demanded chun be questioned about charges of widespread corruption during his seven-year rule, which ended feb. 24
authorities have questioned some 200 politicians and business leaders about corruption or trying to cover it up to protect former president chun and his family, but none has been formally implicated
kang said thursday he did not plan to expand the investigation to uncover other crimes under chun because most such cases were closed through trials
many observers here believe the probe of saemaul, which oversees rural and urban development projects, is part of efforts by president roh tae-woo to distance himself from his authoritarian predecessor
in his presidential campaign pledge in december, roh said he would investigate all irregularities under chun. the former president has not been implicated in the scandal
government officials said thursday that roh will register his assets with government agencies to show his determination to establish a clean government
the officials said roh has urged the ministry of government administration to carry out administrative reforms, including the property registration of high-ranking government officials
robin williams and his wife have decided to end their nine-year marriage, williams' publicist said thursday
valerie velardi williams, 36, filed for a dissolution of the marriage from williams, 35, publicist mark rutenberg said in a statement
mr. and mrs. williams indicated that their relationship is amicable and that they continue to share parenting of their (5-year-old) son, zachary,'' the statement said
the publicist also said the couple will not discuss the matter in public
williams, nominated for a best actor academy award for his performance as a manic armed forces radio disc jockey in ``good morning, vietnam,'' lives with marsha garces, the former nanny for zachary. researchers say</head>
the virus that causes aids actually changes and grows more powerful as the immune deficiency disease progresses, according to studies at the university of california in san francisco
in a report to be published friday, dr. jay a. levy, professor of medicine at ucsf, said he and a group of researchers discovered the changing virus by studying blood samples taken over a four-year period from four men who were infected by the human immunodeficiency virus, or hiv
the scientists found that as the aids patients became sicker, the virus seemed to evolve and strengthen
it's surprising,'' levy said in an interview. ``the virus doesn't just stay the same, but actually changes its biologic features. it looks like the same virus, but it's probably evolving within the individual.''
the studies started while all four of the randomly selected subjects tested positive for the hiv virus, but had not yet developed aids. three of the men later developed aids and two died. the fourth continues to have no aids symptoms, even though he tests positive for the virus
in the three who developed aids, levy said the hiv viruses isolated from their blood samples became more and more virulent as their symptoms intensified. virulence was tested by exposing the isolated virus to cells in test tubes
levy said that when the subjects were experiencing the most severe aids symptoms, the hiv from their blood was able to multiply more readily. it also could more easily infect cells and would attack a greater variety of cells
viruses isolated periodically from the patient who remained without aids symptoms, however, did not show any change in virulence, levy said
levy said it is obvious that the virus must be able to reproduce, or replicate, in order to evolve this increasing virulence. as a result, he said, if researchers can stop the virus from replicating, then it could be kept harmless, even though it continued to live within the patient
you wouldn't get rid of the virus ... they are kept for the lifetime of the individual,'' said levy. ``they would just never become strong enough to cause disease.''
the ucsf researchers now are searching for the hiv genes responsible for increasing its virulence and its ability to replicate. if this gene can be isolated, said levy, ``then we can actually target some approach (such as a drug) of getting at the virus and arresting its replication.''
working with levy in the research were cecilia cheng-mayer, deborah seto and dr. masatoshi tateno
a report on the study was published friday in science, the journal of the american association for the advancement of science
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, attacks and destroys lymphocytes, a key cell in the body's defenses against disease. without this defense, patients develop infections or rare cancers that usually prove fatal
the hiv virus causes aids. patients can test positive for the presence of the hiv virus, but not have the symptoms of aids. scientists continue to be puzzled why the virus often remains dormant for months, and even years in some cases, before patients develop the aids-related symptoms
the hiv virus is spread through sexual contact or through the exchange of blody fluids. it is most common among homosexual and bisexual men, and among drug users who have shared injection needles
since 1981, the centers for disease control report a total of 57,575 aids cases in the united states. of these, 32,190 have died. nobody is known to have been cured of aids
other developements in aids research include:
_researchers at johns hopkins university in baltimore report they have found that a protein essential for the replication of the hiv virus has a novel chemistry that may suggest a new approach to an aids drug
alan d. frankel said he and his collegues have discovered that molecules of an hiv protein called tat are bound together by metal atoms. he said there are other protein molecules that also use metal atoms, but the structure in tat is unique
this, he said, opens the possibility of attacking the hiv virus by somehow blocking the binding of the metal atoms
the research, which also is reported in science, was conducted at johns hopkins by frankel, david s. bredt and carl o. pabo
_the cdc, in a reversal of earlier recommendations, said thursday that children infected with the aids virus should receive vaccinations against measles
previously, the immunization practices advisory committee of the cdc said that children showing aids symptoms should not be vaccinated because their immune systems might be too weak to tolerate the live-virus measles vaccine
it's felt that the benefit of getting the vaccine outweighs the risk,'' said dr. lauri markowitz, a cdc measles specialist
childhood infection of aids is usually from an infected mother at birth, or from the transfusion of blood infected with the hiv virus
the teamsters union and the trucking industry reached a tentative agreement today on a national freight contract covering some 200,000 drivers and warehouse workers
the three-year national master freight agreement would replace a contract of similar length with the industry's collective bargaining arm, trucking management inc., that was scheduled to expire at midnight
terms of the accord, which still must be ratified by rank-and-file union members, were not disclosed immediately. but teamsters president jackie presser said it ``addresses the economic need of our members and advances their legitimate claims for job security.''
going into the talks, teamsters officials were under pressure to end a pattern of concessionary bargaining since the industry was deregulated in 1980 and win wage and benefit gains in the range of 3 percent to 4 percent over their current base pay of $14.71 an hour for drivers
while some large carriers are enjoying fairly healthy profits now despite freight rate-cutting wars among them, several smaller companies are having financial troubles
teamster employees of the smaller firms had indicated they were more interest in job protection than large wage gains
since deregulation of trucking in the last year of the carter administration, at least 78 teamster-organized carriers have gone out of business or been swallowed up in mergers. the union has lost about 120,000 members in the industry since 1979, although it has stablized in recent years
negotiations were difficult because the industry is in such financial chaos,'' presser said, encouraging his union's members to ratify the accord. under the teamsters' constitution, it takes a two-thirds membership vote to reject a contract approved by the union's leaders
duke zeller, a spokesman for the union, said both sides had agreed not to discuss details of the tentative contract until after it had been submitted for a ratification vote
a first-of-its-kind guidebook rating some 500 metropolitan school districts offers families relocating to a new area a way to begin answering the question: where are the good schools?
the answers in ``public schools usa,'' (williamson publishing, $17.95) a 366-page book by 25-year veteran education writer charles h. harrison, aren't surprising: larger urban districts like chicago, los angeles and washington generally rate low, and wealthier suburban districts, especially in the northeast, score high
but what is surprising is the book's daring ``effective schools index,'' which rates all 500 or so districts on a scale of 0-100
the highest score by any district was brighton, n.y., an affluent rochester suburb cited for an excellent program for gifted students, with a near-perfect 98
at the opposite end, oakland, calif., scored 13. the book noted high levels of classroom disruption, vandalism, lack of funds and ``fair to poor'' building maintenance
still, the book to be published late april is meant as a consumer guide, not a scientific study or survey. its introduction stresses: ``we have not tried to pick the so-called `best districts' in an area.''
harrison, who spent a year and about $10,000 of his money researching the book, profiled each district using 22 statistics gathered in mailed questionnaires filled out by the districts themselves
using 10 of those 22 statistics, harrison devised his ``effective schools index.'' the median score nationwide was 58
school districts earned from zero to 10 points on each of 10 criteria: average daily attendance, spending per pupil, dropout rate, average combined sat or act scores, percentage of eligible students taking the sat or act, number of advanced placement courses, teacher-student ratios in elementary and secondary grades, counselor-student ratio, and number of students per music specialist
districts that didn't provide a statistic or misinterpreted a question received a zero
twenty of the 26 districts that scored 85 or higher were in the northeast. a dozen were in the new york metropolitan area, and seven of those were in nassau and suffolk counties on long island
outside the northeast, elmhurst, ill., scored 91; mayfield, ohio, 86; south euclid-lyndhurst, ohio, 86; bloomfield hills, mich., 93; westside school district, omaha, neb., 89, and kirkwood, mo., 88
but quite a number of districts did not respond to harrison's mailed requests and therefore received no rating, including new york city, boston, detroit, kansas city, mo., boise, idaho, charleston, s.c., newark, n.j., new orleans and san francisco
and the guide covered only districts with at least 2,500 students located within 25 miles of 52 core cities _ meaning thousands of districts were excluded because of size or location
the book also evaluated ``quality of school leadership,'' ``quality of instruction,'' and ``quality of school environment,'' drawing on the expertise of about 1,000 local education reporters, parent groups and others
those write-ups offer consumers a way to look beyond the statistics
statistically, cities seem to look bad,'' said harrison in an interview. ``but our profiles point out that there are conclaves of excellence, magnet schools of high quality, good principals and good teachers. we didn't want to write the cities off.''
houston, for example, scored a below-average 30 on the book's effectiveness index. but the district's profile praised its gifted programs, and added building maintenance is good, ``especially for a district of this size.''
on the other hand, grandview, mo., rates a strong 70, but its write-up warns readers to ``take note of the low score on the state competency test in math.''
while the numerical rankings are sure to attract the most attention, they can be misleading taken alone
for example, ridgewood, n.j. scored 86, earning perfect 10s in many of the index's 10 statistical categories. but it received only 3 out of 10 points for spending $5,034 per pupil, well below the $5,544 average for new jersey
while harrison's index penalizes ridgewood for ``underspending,'' ridgewood's taxpayers may, in fact, be getting better value for their education dollars than, say, white plains, n.y., which scored a comparable 88 but was awarded the full 10 points for spending $11,500 per pupil
some persons might argue that our information does not provide a complete picture of a district,'' harrison wrote. ``frankly, we have never heard two educators agree on what data would constitute a complete picture
what we have done,'' he said, ``is to enable every american to fairly evaluate hundreds of school districts ... using a great many yardsticks that educators themselves, government statisticians, and scientific researchers consider important and valid.''
copies of the book, or information about it, can be obtained by calling the publisher at 1-800-356-8791
editor's note: lee mitgang has covered education for the ap since 1981
following, in alphabetical order, are some of the highest scoring school districts as measured by the ``effective schools index'' featured in the forthcoming book, ``public schools usa.'' the average score nationwide is 58, on a scale of 0-100

bloomfield hills, mich., 93
brighton, n.y., 98
elmhurst, ill., 91
farmingdale, n.y., 86
fox chapel area school district (pittsburgh), 92
herricks, n.y., 95
hewlett-woodmere, n.y., 87
kings park, n.y., 85
kirkwood, mo., 88
lexington, mass., 88
lower merion school district (ardmore, pa.), 85
lynbrook, n.y., 92
mamaroneck, n.y., 88
marple-newton, pa., 87
mayfield, ohio, 86
mount lebanon, pa., 92
paramus, n.j., 89
port washington, n.y., 91
ridgewood, n.j., 86
south euclid-lyndhurst, ohio, 86
south orange-maplewood, n.j., 86
three village, (east setauket) n.y., 88
upper merion school district (king of prussia, pa.) 92
wellesley, mass., 89
westside school district (omaha, neb.), 89
white plains, n.y., 88
following, in alphabetical order, are some of the lowest scoring school districts as measured by the ``effective schools index'' featured in the forthcoming book, ``public schools usa.'' the average score nationwide is 58, on a scale of 0-100

bellflower, calif., 20
broward county, fla., 28
chicago, 18
clayton county, ga., 28
cleveland, 29
district of columbia, 17 (a)
fontana, calif., 17 (a)
fort worth, texas, 29 (a)
hempstead, n.y., 12 (a)
highland park, mich., 17
hillsborough county, fla., 14
lincoln park, mich., 14 (a)
los angeles, 28 (a)
milwaukee, 23
new haven school district (union city, calif.) 24
oakland, calif., 13
oklahoma city, 27
pasadena, calif., 23
peoria, ariz., 21 (a)
pomona, 29
randolph county, n.c., 12 (a)
roseville, minn., 26 (a)
seattle, 25 (a)
white settlement, texas, 28

(a) indicates district misinterpretation of one or more statistics in esi. each misinterpreted statistic counted as zero
officials here have hired an outside expert to generate noise in their courtrooms
court administrator eugene l. farkas said wednesday that some of the courtrooms in the county's new $15 million judicial complex are so well designed acoustically that jurors and spectators are privy to even whispered conferences between lawyers and the judge at the bench
in the circular courtrooms there is excellent paneling, recess lighting, acoustical tiles and the sound seems to ring the ceiling and come down upon you,'' farkas said
noise unlimited inc. of somerville is working on the problem. the firm is experimenting with a noise generator that utilizes the sound system in each courtroom to pump in low-level sounds that help mask conversations
men like to see women's legs. so what else is new?
what's new, according to a poll published thursday, seems to be that while 36 percent of men say they favor miniskirts on women, and 71 percent say they like skirts at the knee or above, follow-up interviews indicate men generally concede that women have to consider whether showing too much leg is a wise career choice
greg parker, of palm beach, fla., said he likes short skirts because they're ``attractive'' and ``sexy.'' but, the 25-year-old engineer said, ``if you're in a meeting and everyone's dressed conservatively, there's less distraction.''
in the new york times-cbs telephone poll of 1,654 adults, a quarter of the women questioned said they had worn a skirt above their knees in the past year, while 46 percent of the women said they prefer a length below the knee. the poll was conducted between march 19 and 22
the tepid response of women to the new short styles had already been made apparent at the cash registers to those in the fashion trade, prompting designers to show some longer skirts in their fall collections
snoopy pops up in the darndest places, but when the cartoon beagle was found cavorting with a grizzly bear and a laboring miner on the state shield, california officials thought some prankster had gone too far
the ``peanuts'' comic strip canine first surfaced in official circles on the february issue of the department of corrections newsletter. he appeared to have taken the place of the roman goddess minerva as she stood on guard, the sierra nevada range at her back, a cluster of grapes at her feet
frankly, we first thought it might be the inmates'' up to a prank, said corrections spokesman mike van winkle. ``if i still didn't know anything about it, i would think it was definitely a snoopy,'' he said
but, no. it was a simple case of bureaucratic thriftiness, according to curt soderlund, spokesman for the state department of general services. he said a thin line on a printing plate had worn out, creating the appearance of ``something canine.''
it cost $50 to fix, he said
house and senate negotiators agreed thursday to attach to their sweeping trade bill tough sanctions against toshiba corp. of japan and a subsidiary for selling submarine silencing equipment to the soviets
house members relented and agreed to the measure despite reagan administration warnings that a similar provision was too inflexible and could bring on a presidential veto
sen. jake garn, r-utah, urged lawmakers to ignore the warnings, declaring that he was embarrassed by the republican administration's reluctance to discipline toshiba
the state department has been kicked in the shins and instead of yelling `ouch,' they have chosen to surrender,'' garn said
the complex measure would ban u.s. government purchases of toshiba corp. goods for three years. it would ban all sales in the united states of products from its toshiba machine co. subsidiary. there would be no waivers, but exceptions could be made for national security
the measure calls for two- to five-year import bans to punish any companies that in the future might send militarily useful equipment to communist countries in defiance of cocom, an agreement among western nations that is designed to control the flow of such goods
retroactive sanctions contained in the measure also would apply to kongsberg vapenfabrikk of norway
like toshiba, that company allegedly was involved in the sale of computerized milling equipment that the administration says has been used to produce submarine propellors that are hard for detection equipment to hear
cabinet members warned lawmakers earlier this week that stringent sanctions against toshiba could mean a veto of the 1,000-page trade bill that lawmakers are drawing up in a house-senate conference committee
house members had been holding out for allowing the president to make the decision on whether sanctions should be mandatory. but after three hours of debate, they relented and accepted a somewhat softened proposal by garn
the full conference committee in theory could drop the provision or alter it, although that would be hard to arrange
there was considerable reluctance, but no outright dissent, as foreign affairs committee chairman dante fascell, d-fla., accepted the senate offer on behalf of the house
rep. stephen l. neal, d-n.c., repeatedly urged the panel to trust the judgments of the state and defense departments as well as the national security council that a toshiba ban would amount to a mistake
garn retorted: ``i was elected as u.s. senator to represent the state of utah in the u.s. senate, and not toshiba and not england and not the state department and not (defense secretary) frank carlucci.''
inflation and economic growth over the next four years will boost by one-third _ to almost $114 billion _ the gap between federal income taxes owed and voluntarily paid, the internal revenue service said thursday
however, irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs cautioned congress against counting on that money as potential income to reduce the federal budget deficit. an undetermined portion of the ``tax gap'' represents taxes that would not be worth the effort to collect even if enforcement activities were stepped up
our estimates of the income-tax gap are measures of total non-compliance,'' gibbs told the senate budget committee. ``they are not intended to be measures of the potential for additional enforcement yields.''
using information collected in 1983, the irs estimates the tax gap at $84.9 billion for 1987. that is down from $95 billion in 1986. the agency projects an $87 billion gap next year and $113.7 billion in 1992
gibbs said the estimates for this year and the future are less than they would have been had not congress made significant changes in the tax law in 1986. those changes included cuts in tax rates, reduced itemized deductions and higher personal exemptions, which, the irs believes, will reduce incentives for cheating
that increase in voluntary compliance among individuals will be offset by inflation and growth of the economy, gibbs said
although the new estimates still indicate a sizable tax gap, the commissioner said, they are considerably below what the agency had forecast in 1983. the 1983 projection was for a gap of $115 billion for 1987
the irs said individuals accounted for $63.5 bilion of the 1987 gap and corporations were to blame for the remaining $21.4 billion. while the agency expects the voluntary compliance rate among individuals will increase slightly over the next few years, corporate compliance will decline, partly because the 1986 law shifted a significant part of the tax burden from individuals to corporations
individuals' underreporting of income was to blame for $48.3 billion of the tax gap in 1987; overstated deductions, $6 billion; overstated credits, $900 million; math errors, $1 billion; and the failure of many people to even file a required return, $7.2 billion
jerome kurtz, who headed the irs during the carter administration, cautioned against reading too much into the tax-gap figures, noting they are estimates based on small samples. he and donald c. alexander, who was irs commissioner during the nixon administration, agreed on a major point: the agency must be given enough money to provide a top level of service to taxpayers
recalling several years of what he said were underfunding of the irs, kurtz said, ``if you have to write a letter to the irs to straighten out an account, you're going to learn the meaning of frustration.'' in hiring and retaining employees, he said, ``the irs is not competitive with private industry.''
alexander added: ``how can someone whose salary is so low as to be eligible for food stamps be expected to answer all the complex questions thrown at taxpayer assistance (employees) during the current (return) filing period?''
the telephone ``assistors'' who field taxpayers' telephoned questions are paid as little as $13,000 a year _ considerable less than many garbage collectors, alexander said
jennie s. stathis, an associate director of the general accounting office, which oversees other federal agencies for congress, said the irs already is weighing several gao recommendations for reducing the tax gap
these include a capacity for matching business information documents against business returns just as computers already match individual wage and income statements against returns; stepping up efforts to improve the reporting of taxable tips; and trying to find a bigger share of illegal income to tax. official change in count.</note>
congress today gave final approval to $48 million in humanitarian aid for the contra rebels and for children injured in nicaragua's civil war. the white house signaled president reagan's eagerness to sign the measure
the senate voted 87-7 for the aid a day after the house broke a five-year record of partisan division on the issue and, with strong support from democrats and republicans, gave its consent to the package
federal officials said thursday they have decided against increasing medicare payments to hospitals for treating heart attack victims with an expensive new anti-clotting drug called tpa
there is a question as to whether the circumstances involving tpa are so unique as to justify some special accommodation,'' medicare chief william l. roper said in a letter to the american hospital association. ``we have concluded that they are not.''
the hospitals have been pressing the health care financing administration to take into account the high cost of tpa _ which runs about $2,000 a dose _ in paying for the treatment of heart attack victims
medicare pays hospitals a flat, predetermined amount for treatment of various illnesses rather than reimbursing hospitals for itemized expenses _ such as particular drugs or procedures _ used on a particular patient
those fees are adjusted annually to take into account rising costs and other factors and are predicated on the assumption that, while a hospital may lose money on one patient, it is just as likely to reap an excess profit on another patient with the same diagnosis
tpa costs about 10 times as much as other clot-dissolving drugs, such as streptokinase, which have been available longer and have been used on many more patients
nonetheless, an hcfa fact sheet issued in connection with the decision raises the possibility that use of tpa ``may even result in cost savings'' by reducing the length of time a heart attack patient would need to be hospitalized
it is too early to know what the exact outcome will be,'' the fact sheet said
it noted that if tpa use does prove to increase overall costs for treating heart attack patients, such a determination would be taken into account automatically in the annual hospital payment adjustments
although tpa, short for tissue plasminogen activator, has been judged safe and effective by the food and drug administration for quickly dissolving blood clots in heart attack patients, the evidence is less clear on whether it is significantly more effective than streptokinase in saving lives
trials making a direct comparison between the two drugs are about to begin in england, but results will not be known for a couple of years
study results released at the annual meeting of the american college of cardiology this week showed tpa reduced the number of heart attack deaths by more than 50 percent, when compared to a placebo, in a study of 700 patients. a much larger trial, involving about 17,000 patients, showed a combination of streptokinase and aspirin reduced mortality by nearly 60 percent
the hcfa fact sheet also said some of the warnings carried on tpa labeling ``include factors likely to be more prevalent in the medicare population than in the general population.''
for example, almost 50 percent of medicare beneficiaries admitted for (heart attacks) in fiscal year 1986 were 75 years or older, an age cohort for which physicians are cautioned to weigh the expected benefits of tpa against the risks,'' it said
the vietnamese government is prepared to make the single largest repatriation of american remains since the end of the vietnam war, the pentagon said thursday
we are announcing that vietnam will repatriate 27 remains to u.s. government representatives on april 6, 1988 in hanoi,'' said dan howard, the defense department's chief spokesman
once transferred in hanoi, the remains will be flown to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu, hawaii, for identification, howard added
this will be the largest number of remains repatriated at one time,'' the spokesman said. ``previously, the largest turnover of remains was 26 on aug. 14, 1985.''
there are currently 2,404 americans still listed as missing in indochina as a result of the vietnam war, of whom 1,767 are listed as missing in either north or south vietnam. up to now, the remains of 152 americans have been repatriated to the united states and subsequently identified by the laboratory
on march 2, the vietnamese turned over 17 remains to u.s. officials. those remains have yet to be identified, however
the upcoming transfer would be the fourth since retired army gen. john vessey traveled to hanoi last august as a special presidential emissary, hoping to step up the process of accounting for missing americans
we've continued to press the vietnamese and we are getting some results,'' howard said thursday
asked if the pentagon could explain the sudden increase in repatriations, howard replied: ``it's really not for us to do that. the vietnamese are the ones who should be explaining to the american people and to the world what happened to the rest of the remains and where they are.''
lt. col. keith schneider, another pentagon spokesman, said the vietnamese government informed u.s. officials during technical meetings in mid-march they were investigating 29 new reports of remains being found or information regarding servicemen uncovered
then earlier this week, the vietnamese disclosed they did have 27 remains to repatriate, schneider added
the u.s. government appreciates the initiative taken by vietnam to repatriate these remains and hopes it represents just one of many continued steps to resolve this long-standing humanitarian issue,'' the pentagon said in a statement
high blood pressure patients given the drug metoprolol had a 48 percent lower death rate than patients given more commonly used drugs, researchers said thursday
metoprolol (pronounced muh-tah-pro-lawl) is one of the heart drugs known as beta blockers. the researchers said this is the first study to show that beta blockers can prevent more deaths in people with hypertension than can the widely used diuretics called thiazides
the american heart association estimates that 59 million americans suffer from high blood pressure, or hypertension
we now have scientific proof that if we start with a beta blocker ... we will have a substantial reduction in deaths,'' said the study's principal author, dr. john wikstrand of gothenburg university's sahlgrenska university hospital in sweden
customary practice in the united states had been to prescribe diuretics first for high blood pressure and to try beta blockers later if the diuretics weren't working, said dr. stevo julius of the university of michigan medical center in ann arbor
new recommendations by a committee of the national heart, lung and blood institute say that diuretics, beta blockers, or two newer classes of anti-hypertension drugs can serve as the first-line treatment for high blood pressure, said julius, an advisor to that committee
julius, who was not part of the study, joined wikstrand at a press conference at new york's plaza hotel to discuss the study's findings. the press conference was sponsored by metoprolol's developer, the astra pharmaceutical company of sweden, and by ciba-geigy pharmaceuticals, which holds the license to market the drug in the united states
the results of the study will appear friday in the journal of the american medical association
two earlier studies that compared beta blockers and diuretics failed to find any significant difference in the death rate, said dr. curt furberg of the bowman gray school of medicine in winston-salem, n.c
furberg, who recently wrote a medical journal article reviewing anti-hypertension drugs, called the new study interesting. but, he said in a telephone interview, ``i'm not sure how it's going to be accepted. it's possible we need to test it in a separate study.''
wikstrand and colleagues at 66 centers in europe and canada monitored 3,234 men given either metoprolol or diuretics for a median period of 4.2 years. the researchers found a 48 percent lower death rate among men given metoprolol than those given diuretics
the drop was mostly due to a reduction in deaths from stroke and coronary heart disease, two complications of high blood pressure, the researchers said. there was no significant effect on other causes of death, suggesting that the drugs are safe, they said
the thiazides make up one class of diuretics, which relieve high blood pressure by stimulating the body to expel fluid, thus lowering the total volume of blood in the bloodstream
beta blockers block the stimulating action of adrenaline, reducing the rate and the force at which the heart pumps blood through the body _ and reducing high blood pressure
a 23-year-old wall street ``whiz kid'' pleaded guilty to mail and securities fraud charges thursday, admitting he bilked $10 million from scores of investors and spent the money on himself and friends
i obtained money from investors, and told them i would invest their money in securities. ... instead i spent the money on art, automobiles, two homes and furnishings,'' david bloom told u.s. district judge david edelstein
bloom, a 1986 graduate of duke university, faces five years in prison and a maximum fine of double the amount lost by investors on each count
edelstein set sentencing for may 12. no sentencing agreement accompanied his guilty plea
several months before his scam was revealed, bloom was profiled in a new york times sunday magazine feature on new art collectors
according to court papers, bloom _ who was not licensed as an investment adviser _ used his clients' money to buy $5.5 million in art work, a $1.9 million east hampton beach house, an $830,000 manhattan apartment, $800,000 in furnishings for the two homes, and two cars worth $200,000
the defendant also bought ``numerous items of expensive jewelry and deluxe trips to the caribbean'' for himself, relatives and friends, federal prosecutors charged
investors were sent papers indicating their investments were turning a profit, sometimes prompting them to turn over more money, said prosecutor robert plotz
to lure additional investors, bloom claimed to represent the rockefeller family, the sultan of brunei and bill cosby, even though he did not
bloom stood with his hands behind his back at thursday's 25-minute hearing and politely answered edelstein's questions
asked if he realized his ``money management'' operation was illegal, bloom responded in a firm voice: ``yes, your honor.''
i said i was a money manager, but i did not invest their money as i told them i would,'' he told the judge
all the art will be auctioned at sotheby's near the end of may, with the chance that some investors could still make a profit, said bloom's attorney, peter morrison
bloom was arrested jan. 14 on a federal complaint; he had 130 clients at his greater sutton investors at the time of his arrest
foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze said in an interview released thursday that he would not be surprised if afghanistan peace talks fail, and he accused the united states and pakistan of blocking their success
the ruling politburo discussed what action to take in the geneva talks in light of a u.s. ``departure'' from willingness to participate in a political settlement in afghanistan, the tass news agency said
tass also carried an interview shevardnadze gave to the bulgarian newspaper rabotnichesko delo earlier this week, when the soviet official was in bulgaria for a warsaw pact meeting
not everything depends solely on us and the afghan government,'' shevardnadze said. ``this is why one cannot but take into account the possibility that the talks may not lead to the accords expected of them
if this happens, we shall not see this outcome as unexpected,'' shevardnadze said
shevardnadze said that if the u.n.-mediated talks fail, the soviet union will withdraw its 115,000 soldiers from afghanistan ``in a way convenient for the government of afghanistan and ourselves.''
he didn't indicate whether the soviet union would stick to the nine-month withdrawal timetable already agreed to in geneva
shevardnadze accused the united states and pakistan, which represents the guerrillas in the talks, of putting up last-minute barriers with demands that soviet aid to the afghan government cease at the same time as u.s. aid to the insurgents
the demand is intended to give the guerrillas legitimacy ``as something more than a group engaging in armed struggle against a lawful government,'' he said
tass said the politburo, holding a regular weekly meeting thursday, reviewed shevardnadze's discussions march 21-23 in washington with secretary of state george p. shultz
note was taken of the actual departure by the american side ... from its earlier stated readiness to take part in a political settlement of the situation around afghanistan on the basis of the geneva accords. variants of our further steps in this question were studied with due consideration for this,'' tass said
the news agency did not say how the united states had backtracked or what steps the politburo was considering
talks aimed at ending the 10-year-old war in afghanistan recessed for the easter holidays. negotiations were scheduled to resume monday, but informal contacts were expected over the weekend
pakistan's acting foreign minister, zain noorani, said he was ready to sign an agreement anytime and hoped for progress soon on the issue of aid to the warring sides
he rejected shevardnadze's comments that an agreement could be signed even if the united states did not participate
the entire deal then would have to be renegotiated, the pakistani diplomat said
the new york times, in its thursday edition, quoted unidentified u.s. officials as saying washington was considering an arrangement under which pakistan would sign the accord, but the united states and soviet union would have a separate understanding on aid to the guerrillas
the frequency of autopsies is declining in the united states, possibly making it harder for researchers to determine causes of death, the national centers for disease control said
in 1985, autopsies were conducted in 14 percent of deaths in the united states, down from 17 percent in 1980, the cdc reported thursday, citing data from the national center for health statistics
the decline ``may have adversely affected the accuracy of determining the underlying cause of death,'' researchers with the atlanta-based cdc said in their weekly report
during the five-year period, the frequency of autopsies performed varied widely among causes of death, from 12 percent of natural deaths to 97 percent of homicides
autopsies in natural deaths dropped from 13 percent in 1980 to 10 percent in 1985, the cdc said. on the other hand, autopsies following unintentional injuries and poisonings rose from 46 percent to 51 percent, and autopsies in suicides rose from 48 percent to 52 percent
in 1985, 34 percent of autopsies performed in the united states involved deaths from other than natural causes, compared to 30 percent in 1980, the cdc said
directors of a new national award aimed at promoting the quality of american products said thursday they have raised $2.2 million to finance the competition and will announce the first winners in november
the malcolm baldrige national quality award was created by congress in august and named after the late commerce secretary, who was killed last year in a horse riding accident
officials said thursday that a maximum of six awards will be given annually _ two each for large manufacturing companies, large service companies and smaller companies engaged in either manufacturing or service
quality is a key weapon in america's arsenal in the international battle for markets,'' commerce secretary c. william verity said in making the announcement. ``this award, which will be america's nobel prize for quality, should help recognize the firms that are making a difference when it comes to quality.''
the competition will be supervised by the commerce department's national bureau of standards in conjunction with a private foundation created by the legislation to raise money for the contest each year
directors of the new foundation are: sanford n. mcdonnell, chairman emeritus of the mcdonnell douglas corp.; john j. hudiburg, head of florida power &amp; light co.; john young, chairman of hewlett-packard; and robert c. baldrige, brother of the late commerce secretary
they said $2.2 million of a total goal of $9.9 million already had been raised from american businesses
hudiburg said the new award would indicate to the world that ``we're willing to invest whatever it takes to insure that america's commitment to excellence is recognized both at home and abroad.''
officials said the winning companies would be picked on the baisis of such criteria as quality assurance programs, with the largest weight in the judging going to customer satisfaction
after a review of written applications, the contest judges will make on-site inspections to pick the winners. the prize will carry no monetary award but winners will be allowed to mention the award in advertising
the u.s. prize was modeled after the deming prize, which japan has been awarding since 1951 to recognize quality achievements by japanese companies
the japanese prize was named to honor w. edwards deming, an american quality control export revered in japan for his work with japanese companies after world war ii
companies interested in finding out more about the contest can write: malcolm baldrige national quality award, national bureau of standards, gaithersburg, md., 20899. officials said an application fee of $1,500 is being charged to cover expenses, with a deadline of may 20 for applications
a u.s. pharmaceuticals company signed an agreement with the chinese government thursday that officials say could lead to increased american drug sales in china and development of chinese drugs for world markets
officials of g. d. searle &amp; co. and representatives of the state pharmaceutical administration of china said it was too early to tell what specific drugs might be involved in the research agreement. but both sides said it could involve a range of products, including possible future aids treatments developed in china
this is a good beginning between the united states and china,'' said liu yonggang, a vice president of the chinese administration who signed the sino-searle research and development trust at the chinese embassy. speaking through a translator, liu said it was the first such agreement with an american company
the agreement says searle will have the right to license exclusively any products that result from research and development under the trust
richard u. deschutter, president of searle's international operations, said the company already sells seven products in china, although sales have been less than $100,000 annually. he said the agreement includes $500,000 for drug development, with provisions for increased funding later
deschutter said the potential chinese market for foreign drugs could be between $3 billion and $5 billion annually. imports of drugs and medical devices last year reached about $300 million, chinese officials said. they had no figures for the u.s. share of the market
liu acknowledged that china, where herbal medicine makes up a large share of the market, still lags behind other countries in product quality and research
he said more than 1,800 factories manufacture drugs or medical devices in china _ including 600 facilities producing 4,000 kinds of herbal medicines. liu said china doubled its production of pharmaceuticals between 1979 and 1987 and plans to put more emphasis on exports
dr. shen jiaxiang, deputy director of the chinese pharmaceutical agency, said there are some ``interesting findings'' related to aids in china, although the country has had only about a half dozen cases of the fatal disease, all involving tourists
shen, talking to reporters after the signing ceremonies, said researchers have identified several chinese traditional remedies that enhance the human immune system. aids, or acquiried immune deficiency syndrome, breaks down the body's resistance to other diseases. more than 31,000 americans have died of aids
we may provide some help, but we don't have a cure,'' shen said
he said aids research is not specifically mentioned in the agreement with searle, but it might be one area to discuss
deschutter said the company has been involved in aids research and the pact could lead to some cooperation in that area with the chinese
we have not had a chance to talk that out, but it's possible our approaches could be synergistic,'' he said after the news conference
searle, with headquarters in skokie, ill., develops, manufactures and markets prescription pharmaceuticals worldwide. it is a wholly owned subsidiary of monsanto co
a teen-ager was accused thursday in the slayings of his parents, who were shot on their wedding anniversary with a high-powered rifle, authorities said
keith wood, 16, of kalispell was charged with being a delinquent youth by reason of committing deliberate homicide. authorities said he was taken into custody at school wednesday and admitted to the killings. he was being held in the flathead county juvenile detention center
county attorney ted lympus said he probably try to have the teen-ager tried as an adult
nancy wood, 37, and jimmie wood, 38, were shot tuesday night at their home in a remote area 17 miles northwest of kalispell, authorities said
wood's body was discovered wednesday morning by a co-worker who had gone to the house to investigate after wood did not show up for work. the co-worker notified authorities
authorities say the boy allegedly shot his mother in the head with a 30.-06 rifle, stuffed her body in a sleeping bag and dragged it to a bedroom, where he waited for wood
wood arrived home about an hour later with a bouquet of yellow roses for his wife on their wedding anniversary, and was shot in the back of the head at close range, authorities said
authorities said they knew of no motive
the woods also have an 18-year-old son who lives in kalispell and was not at their home at the time of the shooting, authorities said. lympus said he did not know what anniversary the couple was celebrating. include full list of best and worst.</note>
dwight eisenhower was surly, angry and disagreeable and ``didn't do a thing as president,'' according to his predecessor, harry truman
in notes for a book truman never completed, the former president lists eisenhower as one of eight presidents ``we could have done without,'' the others being zachary taylor, franklin pierce, james buchanan, ulysses grant, benjamin harrison, warren harding and calvin coolidge
in notes for a book truman never completed, the former president lists eisenhower as one of eight presidents ``we could have done without,'' including warren harding and calvin coolidge
i'm not one of mr. eisenhower's admirers,'' truman wrote. ``i tried so hard to be pleasant and cooperative when i was turning the office over to eisenhower, but he acted as if i was his enemy instead of the fellow who'd had the job just before him.''
once he was in the white house, ``eisenhower never made any effort to put forward the leadership to which he was entitled, and he didn't have any program,'' truman claimed
ike wasn't even nice, according to the missouri democrat
it's interesting that a single thing, that great smile of eisenhower's, gave him the reputation of being a sunny and amiable man,'' truman wrote, ``when those of us who knew him well were all too aware that he was essentially a surly, angry and disagreeable man, and i just don't mean to me, either.''
truman's comments, many of which were dictated to secretaries and relatives in the years between his departure from the white house in 1953 and his death in 1972, have been collected in a book titled ``more plain speaking,'' edited by his daughter, margaret truman, and scott meredith. parts of the book were published in the april 3 parade magazine
besides the eight worst presidents, truman listed his eight best: george washington, thomas jefferson, andrew jackson, james polk, abraham lincoln, grover cleveland, woodrow wilson and franklin roosevelt. deaths</head>
passenger deaths during airline flights are extremely rare, but crews are not adequately prepared and medical equipment aboard airliners is insufficient to deal with the problem, researchers conclude
airlines simply can't count on doctors being aboard flights,'' said dr. richard cummins, one of five authors of a study published in friday's journal of the american medical association
they should take a look at the duration of the flight, the number of passengers aboard and determine what additional measures are needed,'' added cummins, an associate professor of medicine at the university of washington at seattle
an average 72 passengers die during flights each year, which researchers called ``a vanishingly small rate'' of three deaths per 10 million passengers
the study reviewed deaths reported from 1977 to 1984 to the international air transport association, which has 120 members and carries 50 percent to 60 percent of the world's scheduled international and domestic air traffic
researchers concluded that 56 percent of the deaths appeared to be heart-related
nearly two-thirds of the deaths during flight involved men, whose average age was 54. doctors aboard the aircraft came forward to offer assistance in 43 percent of the deaths, the study found
researchers concluded, however, that programs are needed to train flight attendants in the skills of basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of automatic external defibrillators, the electric-shock ``heart starters,'' said cummins
they are not part of the on-board medical kits now, and we're not advocating they be added to every flight,'' he said. ``but some flights should have them.''
if flight attendants can be trained to open airplane doors in an emergency, they can be trained to operate a defibrillator,'' he said. ``and the machine provides a simple way to diagnose many kinds of cardiac arrest
william jackman, spokesman for the american transport association, a trade organization representing u.s. airlines, said flight attendants on most major carriers already receive training in cpr skills
earlier this week, delta air lines attendant nancy holt used cpr to save a stricken passenger for the second time in her career. a man collapsed just after boarding her plane in atlanta and an unidentified doctor on board helped her until paramedics arrived at the airport
cpr proficiency is part of flight attendants' training, ms. holt said, and ``you never forget it.''
jackman noted the federal aviation administration did not include defibrillators in its august 1986 guidelines on mandatory equipment for airline medical kits. those guidelines are scheduled for review this summer
basically, our policy has been to land as soon as possible, and in this country, that means no more than 20 or 30 minutes no matter where you are,'' said jackman
crews call ahead for medical teams at the runway and, once on the ground, we're certain that experienced, capable doctors are providing treatment,'' he added
and we just can't ask flight attendants to diagnose an ailment ... to know the difference between a heart attack and say, a diabetic one,'' said jackman
cummins countered that a delay of 20 minutes or longer could prove fatal in instances of sudden cardiac arrest
the law doesn't obligate the airlines,'' cummins said, ``but it's time they started taking responsibility in some of these emergencies.'' playwrights horizons studio theater</note>
the 1988 pulitzer prize for fiction was awarded thursday to toni morrison for ``beloved,'' a novel which was at the center of controversy when it did not win two other major literary prizes
the prize for drama went to ``driving miss daisy,'' by alfred uhry, which like ``beloved'' deals with race relations in the united states
the prize for general non-fiction went to richard rhodes for ``the making of the atomic bomb.''
the prize for biography went to david herbert donald for ``look homeward: a life of thomas wolfe,'' about the american novelist. donald also won the pulitzer prize for biography in 1961 for ``charles sumner and the coming of the civil war.''
the prize in history went to robert v. bruce, a professor at boston university, for ``the launching of modern american science 1846-1876.''
william meredith, an award-winning poet associated with connecticut college, won the poetry prize for ``partial accounts: new and selected poems.''
the prize for music was awarded to william bolcom, a professor at the university of michigan, for ``12 new etudes for piano.''
the focus of attention this year was on the fiction prize, which was awarded against a backdrop of controversy and literary politics
after ``beloved'' did not win either the national book award or the national book critics circle award, 48 prominent black writers and critics signed a statement deploring ms. morrison's lack of recognition
because she had never won the national book award or the pulitzer prize, said the statement, published as an open letter in the new york times book review, ``she has yet to receive the national recognition that her five major works of fiction entirely deserve.''
ms. morrison's ``song of solomon'' did win the national book critics circle award for 1977, but the two other awards are considered more prestigious
beloved'' is the agonizing story of a former slave in post-civil war ohio who struggles to cope with the brutal death of her daughter
ms. morrison uses flashbacks, multiple points of view and a singularly vivid ghost to describe the emotional trauma of slavery from the perspective of sethe, who kills her daughter rather than yield her to bondage
driving miss daisy,'' the drama winner, tells the story of an irascible white woman and her black chauffeur. the play follows their relationship over a quarter-century, ending in 1973
the play opened off-broadway in april 1987 at the playwrights horizons studio theater and later moved to a larger off-broadway theater where it is still running
the making of the atomic bomb,'' the winner for general non-fiction, won a national book award last fall in the same category
rhodes, who spent five years researching and writing the book, said in a recent interview: ``the making of the bomb is a story on the scale of `moby dick.' i don't see much of a difference between writing fiction and fact, except, of course, that fact has to be documented.'' pvs to shorten.</note>
republican sen. strom thurmond met today with embattled attorney general edwin meese iii to convey the ``deep concern'' expressed by some members of congress in the wake of resignations by two top justice department officials
the south carolina senator, the ranking republican on the senate judiciary committee, refused to comment further on the nature of the discussions with meese, who is under investigation by an independent counsel
in a statement issued by his office, thurmond said, ``a numn capitol hill have expressed deep concern about the problems at the justice department
i went today to talk to the attorney general to convey these concerns to him.''
the meeting with thurmond was the reason meese was late fber of people oor a scheduled 12:30 p.m. est news conference at fbi headquarters, where he refused to answer reporters' questions on the resignation of two of his top aides. the resignations came amid increasing skepticism on capitol hill over whether meese can continue to run the justice department
at the news conference, called to announce a major drug bust, meese briskly turned aside at least half a dozen questions relating to the possibility that he might quit in the wake ofeld's reported remarks require a presidential inquiry and decision
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, asked about specter's statement, said only, ``thank you for his general views.'' fitzwater said he had ``no reaction'' to the remarks attributed to weld
the presidential spokesman said meese was at the white house today for a ``security meeting'' on an undisclosed subject
the president was involved in the meeting,'' he said, but ``there were no private discussions between the two either before or after the meeting and none are planned.''
meese is the target of a broadening criminal investigation. department sources have said the top officials quit because they felt meese's legal problems were ``poisoning'' the justice department
on wednesday, sen. bob packwood, r-ore., said flatly that meese should resign. senate democratic leader robert byrd also called for his resignation, calling him ``the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history.''
specter, interviewed on nbc-tv's ``today'' show, referred to a report in today's washington post that quoted sources familiar with tuesday's meeting of meese, weld and deputy attorney general arnold burns, at which weld and burns turned in their resignations
the post said weld told meese the attorney general's situation presented a close call but that if it were up to weld he would present it to the grand jury for an indictment
the new york times, in a similar report, quoted sources as saying weld had previously commented that ``he would have to seriously consider indicting meese.'' the newspaper said that weld, asked about that comment, would not respond on the record
specter, asked about the quotes attributed to weld, said, ``up until this moment, or perhaps yesterday, you had a situation where the independent counsel was looking ... but i think now is a different matter. the president has to talk to mr. weld, has to examine the facts and then has to make a presidential decision.''
specter earlier questioned ``whether the u.s. department of justice can function'' with meese in charge
you finally reach a place where there is a cloud of suspicion, a sufficient cloud of suspicion, that i think you owe it to the president to remove yourself,'' packwood said
weld told the times that he had become concerned about the collective ``damage'' being done to the justice department by having a man under investigation as its leader
the times quoted a source as saying weld told his aides in announcing his resignation that, to him, ``it was a question of moral authority and the tarnishing of the department.''
sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, said today that reagan's ``duty'' is ``to bring about the resignation of mr. meese.''
the president owes a duty to the country that may be much higher than that which he owes to his personal friend,'' metzenbaum said at the start of a senate judiciary subcommittee hearing on antitrust matters
the question, said metzenbaum, is, ``if mr. meese does not shortly resign whether the public will be losing confidence in government as a whole.''
the boston herald, meanwhile, quoted weld as saying in an interview that, when he and burns told meese they were resigning, the attorney general ``thought we were joking. i told him it was so. he seemed a little taken jaback.''
for his part, meese said ``there's no reason to resign'' and reagan reiterated his support for his old friend, saying ``he's been a friend for over 20 years. i have every confidence in him.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater was asked wednesday why meese remained on the job when white house chief of staff howard baker, vice president george bush and first lady nancy reagan wanted him out
i don't think any of that is true,'' fitzwater replied
mrs. reagan's press secretary, elaine crispen, said today that reports that the first lady was campaigning for meese's removal were ``absolutely not true.''
she hasn't talked to anyone and no one has talked to her about the issue,'' mrs. crispen said by telephone from los angeles, where mrs. reagan is visiting before joining the president at their california ranch friday for an easter vacation
quitting with burns, the no. 2 official in the department, and weld, were four of their aides
meese predicted on wednesday that solicitor general charles fried, who had said he was reconsidering his future with the department, would not follow suit
meese, who met with fried on wednesday, said ``i have no doubt that mr. fried will remain a strong member of the management team.''
business is operating as usual at the justice department,'' meese declared. he said replacements were being sought for burns and weld and that ``everything is going along well.'' acquitted of charges</note>
presidents can be reluctant to fire their closest aides, and president reagan, who has shown great loyalty to top advisers in the past, is unlikely to oust his longtime friend, attorney general edwin meese iii, white house observers say
he's been a friend for over 20 years,'' reagan told reporters wednesday in response to questions about whether he would remove the attorney general, who faces mounting legal problems. ``i have every confidence in him.''
his statement recalled the time in the summer of 1984 when the president, arriving in dallas for the republican national convention, was quizzed about whether he would oust labor secretary raymond donovan, who faced a federal indictment
reagan declared that he wouldn't give in to a ``lynch mob atmosphere.''
when donovan finally was indicted, he saved reagan the decision by resigning immediately. donovan later was found innocent in new york court of larceny and fraud charges involving a construction company he co-owned
reagan so dislikes firing top aides that an embittered secretary of state alexander m. haig jr. had to try at least twice to quit before the president finally accepted his resignation in june 1982
reagan didn't fire interior secretary james watt after he made offensive remarks about blacks, women, jews and the handicapped in 1983. watt offered to step aside
after watching ronald reagan and reading about him all these years, i've come to the conclusion that it is a matter of leadership style that dictates that he not fire people,'' said robert a. bonatati, who was reagan's labor adviser early in the administration
he never gets on the side of firing people and he always defends people who are under attack.''
reagan has said steadfastly that he thinks public officials ought to be presumed innocent until found guilty in court. he's even gone further than that with two major figures in the iran-contra affair, saying he believes former national security aides oliver l. north and john m. poindexter are innocent of charges they conspired to defraud the government
reagan's close association with meese goes back to his days as governor of california from 1967-75, when meese was a valued counselor. during his first months in the presidency in 1981, writes reagan biographer lou cannon, ``reagan valued ed meese's advice above all others, believing that meese would see to it that conflicting points of view were presented to him without coloration.''
in quintessential reagan style, the president threw his arm around meese when reporters tried to question him about the attorney general early last fall, just after the two had appeared in the white house press room to announce anthony m. kennedy's selection for a supreme court vacancy
but reagan is not the only president who has shown great loyalty to his aides. a former high-ranking official in the carter administration, describing the difficulty that jimmy carter had in ousting budget director bert lance, said ``it's always difficult for presidents to let go of people close to them, and that was true of lance, and it's certainly true of meese.''
these are the toughest issues for presidents to face,'' said the source, speaking on condition of anonymity
presidents do sometimes swing the ax, however. president eisenhower ousted top aide sherman adams and president johnson got rid of close associate walter jenkins. gerald ford eased out agriculture secretary earl butz
it's a major problem for all presidents,'' said the university of virginia's larry sabato. ``but few presidents have been as reluctant and as reticent as this president to ditch people who become political liabilities. eisenhower thought it was important to be cleaner than a hound's tooth.''
bonatati noted he lost his job at the white house despite reagan's aversion to firing
he said that when faith ryan whittlesey arrived in early march 1983 to succeed elizabeth dole as director of the white house office of public liaison, whittlesey fired him and several other presidential advisers with short notice
she pretty much cleaned house,'' bonatati said. pulitzers each</head> banaszynski xxxx, to restore identification as knight-ridder papers</note>
the charlotte observer, the miami herald and the wall street journal each won two 1988 pulitzer prizes on thursday, with the observer receiving the gold medal for public service for its reports on jim and tammy bakker's ptl television ministry
the observer and the herald led knight-ridder newspapers to a total of six pulitzers
the pulitzer prize board cited the observer for revealing misuse of funds by the ministry ``through persistent coverage conducted in the face of a massive campaign by ptl to discredit the newspaper.''
the observer's doug marlette also won a pulitzer for his editorial cartooning in charlotte and at the atlanta constitution
the herald's dave barry won the commentary pulitzer for what the board called ``his consistently effective use of humor as the device for presenting fresh insights into serious concerns.'' his colleague michel ducille won the feature photography award for photographs of a housing project plagued by a cocaine epidemic
daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart of the journal won the award for explanatory journalism for their stories about an investment banker charged with insider trading and the day after the oct. 19 stock market crash
the journal also won a pulitzer in specialized reporting for walt bogdanich's series of reports on faulty testing by american medical laboratories
three chicago tribune reporters _ dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski _ won the investigative reporting prize for what the board termed ``detailed reporting on the self-interest and waste that plague chicago's city council.''
we're thrilled,'' said ellen soeteber, the tribune's assistant managing editor for metropolitan news. ``i think the team of reporters deserved this so much. it was their concept. it was their idea, and they brought it off beautifully. i'm so glad some of the leaders in our profession recognized it.''
two pulitzers were given for general news reporting. one went to the staff of the alabama journal of montgomery for an investigation of the state's unusually high infant mortality rate, which prompted remedial legislation. the second was awarded to the staff of the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune for an investigation that revealed flaws in the massachusetts prison furlough system and led to reforms
tim weiner of the philadelphia inquirer, another knight-ridder newspaper, won the national reporting prize for his series on a secret pentagon budget used to sponsor defense research and an arms buildup
the international reporting pulitzer was won by thomas l. friedman of the new york times for what the board called ``balanced and informed coverage'' of israel. it was friedman's second pulitzer for international reporting; his first was in 1983 for his reporting from lebanon
jacqui banaszynski of the st. paul (minn.) pioneer press dispatch, also a knight-ridder newspaper, won the pulitzer for feature writing for her series about the life and death of an aids victim in a rural community
tom shales of the washington post won the criticism award for his writing on television, and jane healy of the orlando sentinel won the editorial writing prize for editorials that protested overdevelopment of florida's orange county
the pulitzer for spot news photography was awarded to scott shaw of the odessa (texas) american for his pictures of little jessica mcclure being rescued from a well
except for the award for public service, which brings with it a gold medal, pulitzers carry a cash prize of $3,000. the winners are selected by the pulitzer prize board and announced by the president of columbia university, which administers the competition. system</head>
the head of the american federation of teachers said thursday that small groups of teachers should be given the autonomy and funds to create experimental schools within regular public schools
aft president albert shanker said the current public school system is not working for as many as 80 percent of the students and ``we've got to do something totally different.''
shanker suggested that groups of six to 12 teachers be allowed to organize their own schools, provided they can win the approval of principals, fellow teachers, parents and education authorities
it is time once again to take a major step forward in trying to improve the schools of our nation,'' said shanker, whose 665,000-member union represents teachers in some of the nation's largest cities, including new york and chicago
he said state-mandated reforms and more stringent standards imposed over the past five years have improved schools for students at the top, ``but unfortunately (reform) is bypassing about 80 percent of kids.''
we now need to seek ways that will enable any group of teachers ... and parents of children who want to do something different to opt for a different type of school,'' he said in a national press club address
the autonomous schools ``ought to get their per capita share of what the school spends,'' he said. public schools spend roughly $4,000 per pupil on average
shanker said, ``there would have to be a guarantee that such a school would be left alone for five or 10 years provided that parents wanted to keep sending their kids there.'' they would be strictly voluntary for teachers and students
if there's anarchy, the customers will be gone in no time at all,'' he said. ``this is not pie in the sky.''
he said such a system would give teachers an alternative to trying to ``shove reform down the throats'' of unwilling colleagues
shanker said only a handful of districts now are trying to restructure public schools. he claimed his idea could open the door for thousands of experimental schools
shanker said he would want the teachers to include in their proposals ways for teachers to govern themselves, to give students alternatives to sitting in class for six hours listening to lectures and to spur cooperative learning. the students also should ``reflect the composition of the entire school'' and not just be drawn from the top or bottom, he said
last week, mary hatwood futrell, president of the national education association, proposed that state leaders and teacher unions designate at least one experimental school district in each of the 50 states
paint that has built up on white house walls since 1797 is being removed as part of a project designed to spruce up the presidential residence for its bicentennial in 1992
the national park service said the job will involve removing some 30 coats of paint and repairing some of the carved stonework on the sandstone walls. work began this week
the work will be done on the exterior north walls and part of the south walls and will be the first time in nearly two centuries that these walls have been exposed
the walls will be kept bare until the spring of 1989 to allow the porous sandstone to dry so the paint will adhere to the walls better. repainting is scheduled for next spring
the paint is being removed by brushing chemicals on the walls and then flushing them with a stream of water
the work is being done by ramco technologies of hartford, conn., under a $384,200 contract
vincent palumbo, master carver for the national cathedral, will oversee repair of the stone carvings
the project is part of a long-range exterior restoration program to repair and replace deteriorated stonework, remove old paint, repoint and seal masonry joints and then repaint. the east wall was restored in 1980 and the north portico in 1984
the entire program is to be completed for the bicentennial of the laying of the cornerstone of the ``president's house'' in 1792. the white house has been the home and office of every president since john adams
democrats looking ahead to new york's april 19 presidential primary are focusing on the mystery of a cuomo endorsement and the status of jesse jackson's ticklish relationship with the state's influential jewish community
the questions are obvious:
will gov. mario cuomo endorse his fellow northeast governor, michael dukakis? or will he stay on the sideline, fueling speculation that he wants the nomination for himself?
can jackson overcome the sour taste lingering from his 1984 campaign when he infuriated new york jews by privately referring to new york city as ``hymietown?''
jesse got 26 or 27 percent (of the vote) in '84 after the `hymietown' crack and with a fritz mondale who had a very strong call on the black constituency,'' said cuomo. ``he'll do at least that this year and probably substantially better. if he does 10 points better, he'll be at 37 (percent). you have four candidates in the race, that's a big number.''
cuomo, perhaps the most prominent democratic non-candidate, has said his endorsement means little, but even his chief political adviser, son andrew, doesn't buy that
in new york, it has a particular importance,'' said the younger cuomo. ``it helps the candidate among those people who haven't made up their minds yet or who are soft in their support.''
the governor has said that within the next week or so he will either endorse someone or announce that he's sitting it out
in 1984, cuomo got behind walter mondale early, and with the governor's powerful political machine in charge, mondale scored an important victory to blunt gary hart's insurgent campaign
at times, the new york governor has appeared to lean toward dukakis, but lately he has been saying nice things about tennessee sen. albert gore jr. and has been proclaiming that jackson could win in november at the head of the ticket or would be good as the vice presidential candidate
and cuomo has said jackson could well win the new york primary, an outcome that would seriously damage dukakis, jackson's chief rival for front-runner status, and perhaps increase the likelihood of a deadlocked national convention
polls have thus far have shown dukakis in the lead and jackson doing only slightly better than the 26 percent he won in 1984
also on the new york ballot will be democrat paul simon and an uncommitted slate of delegates sponsored by a group of new york's elected county clerks who would like to see cuomo in the race. they say the uncommitted delegates could be valuable to cuomo if there's any move to draft him at the party's national convention in atlanta
while cuomo has said he doesn't want a draft, he has refused to rule out accepting one. new york city mayor edward koch, one of the state's most powerful democrats, has said he's ready to lead a draft-cuomo move at the atlanta convention
numbers make new york's democratic primary important. as the second largest state in the nation, new york's 275-member delegation will be second in size only to california's with 336 delegates. the new york primary results will determine the allocation of 255 of the delegates
for gore, new york could mark a new beginning or the end of the road
i have to have a result in the new york primary that convinces you that this campaign has gained a significant momentum,'' gore told a group of prominent new yorkers early this week
in an attempt to carry that off, gore has hired new york political consultant david garth, agreed to pump more than $1 million into new york and adopted a new campaign strategy of attacking jackson
in a speech to jewish leaders, gore contrasted his support of israel with jackson's recognition of the palestine liberation organization
in new york's democratic primaries, jews traditionally represent about 25 percent of the electorate with blacks at about the same level. while jackson is expected to capture the lion's share of the black vote, anything more than a single-digit showing for him among jewish voters would be considered something of a miracle
nonetheless, a recent poll by the marist college institute for public opinion found that among jewish democrats surveyed, jackson's favorable rating has jumped to 36 percent from 17 percent in january. but less than 4 percent of those jewish democrats surveyed in the most recent poll said they would vote for jackson
a gallup poll, conducted at the end of last week, had dukakis leading at 44 percent to 28 percent for jackson. gore was at 3 percent and simon at 2 percent
a cold shower won't do it, but a hot bath will be just fine for mangoes imported from mexico, the agriculture department said thursday
the dip in hot water is prescribed to destroy hitchhiking fruit flies that could come into the united states from mexico, said james w. glosser, acting administrator of the department's animal and plant health inspection service
about 65 percent of the mangoes eaten in the united states come from mexico and were previously fumigated with a chemical, ethylene dibromide. however, the environmental protection agency banned this treatment
glosser said the hot-water dip ``destroys all the fruit fly species that exist in mexico.'' ``war of cities.'' picks up 3rd graf pvs, in ankara ...</note>
iraq fired three missiles into iranian cities thursday, then said it would stop for three days. no further attacks by either side were reported in the month-old round of the ``war of the cities.''
the iraqi news agency said the cease-fire would begin thursday midnight (4 p.m. est) and last through the three days of a visit to baghdad by turgut ozal, prime minister of turkey
as the announced time passed, neither side had reported any attacks on each other's cities for hours
a cypriot supertanker set afire by an iranian warship earlier thursday meanwhile ran aground in the persian gulf
in ankara, the turkish capital, iranian embassy spokesman riza bagri said iran's missile launchings would ``automatically come to an end'' if iraq stopped attacking iranian cities with rockets and bombs
tehran radio did not confirm bagri's statement, but said iraq was the ``instigator'' of attacks on cities and iran took ``retaliatory measures.''
hundreds of civilians have been killed since the missile duel began feb. 29 and thousands have died in raids on cities since the iran-iraq war began in september 1980
an iranian warship pounded the 232,164-ton supertanker haven, loaded with 1.5 million barrels of saudi arabian crude, for 90 minutes at dawn thursday. the 45-member crew was rescued from the burning ship, which ran aground later off the united arab emirates
shipping executives believed the attack was a response to several iraqi attacks in recent days on tankers owned or chartered by iran. about 500 ships have been attacked by both sides
a u.s. navy spokesman said two portable anti-aircraft missiles, tentatively identified as soviet-made sam-7s, were found on a drifting iranian speedboat the navy recovered last week. the iranians use speedboats for attacks on neutral shipping
ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, iran's revolutionary patriarch, exhorted his people to new effort in the long conflict, declaring: ``today is the day of war. today we must rush to the war front in order to inflict punishing blows on the enemy, and with the help of god we will succeed.''
the enemy has proved his brutal actions by firing chemical weapons on residential areas,'' he said in remarks reported by tehran radio
a dispatch from iran's official islamic republic news agency said a team of swiss physicians arrived to visit victims of alleged iraqi chemical weapons attacks on border towns
it also said iraq dropped chemical bombs on marivan, a kurdish town about 25 miles northeast of halabja, killing ``a number'' of civilians
iran claims iraq dropped gas bombs on halabja and two nearby kurdish towns in iraq two weeks ago, after iranian troops captured them. iran said 5,000 people were killed in the attack and 5,000 wounded
iraq said it fired two surface-to-surface missiles thursday into isfahan, which was persia's capital in the 17th century, and one into qom, seat of iran's religious hierarchy
since the missile exchange began, iraq has reported launching 105 missiles at iranian cities. iran says it has fired 45 missiles at baghdad and dozens into other iraqi cities
turkish embassy officials in baghdad said ozal would arrive friday afternoon accompanied by senior officials. turkey maintains good relations with both iraq and iran and has tried to act as mediaor
an iraqi government spokesman was quoted by the official news agency as saying attacks on iranian cities would not resume ``until six hours after the turkish prime minister's departure'' on sunday
the cypriot tanker was attacked near the narrow strait of hormuz, through which all ships must pass to enter or leave the gulf. shipping executives said it drifted for more than three hours before running aground
crew members huddled on the stern, unable because of the fire to reach the engine room and stop the engines, and they were rescued a few at a time. tugboats brought the blaze under control later, said the informants, who spoke on condition of anonymity
maj. barry willey, a spokesman for the u.s. central command, said the sam-7s were found along with other weapons in an abandoned iranian speedboat picked up in the strait of hormuz a week ago
he said a twin-barreled gun mounted in the cockpit of the 30-foot boat was a soviet-made zsu 23mm anti-aircraft weapon
sam-7 missiles, which iran is known to possess, are shoulder-fired weapons similar to the u.s.-made redeye
senate majority leader robert c. byrd said thursday he will not call up the u.s.-soviet medium-range missile treaty for debate until the question of whether the pact bans futuristic weapons is better resolved
but sen. alan simpson, r-wyo., the senate's deputy gop leader, said the white house has put ``400 lawyers to work'' on the issue and added: ``i think it can be resolved.''
sen. chic hecht, r-nev., a member of the senate intelligence committee, said, however, that the general question of futuristic weapons is a serious one and must be addressed sooner or later
hecht said u.s. intelligence reports show the soviet union has 10,000 scientists working on the development of futuristic weapons using lasers and directed energy
hecht said the information came from a classified intelligence briefing, but that he had been given permission to release it
byrd told reporters that the question of futuristic weapons had been addressed inadequately by the administration and it was not clear that they are banned by the treaty's restrictions
it is too important to risk going ahead,'' byrd said. ``it is better to be sure, to be cautious and to be right. i intend not to call it up until it is better resolved than it is now.''
the treaty has to be good for us,'' byrd said, adding that his decision to delay action on the treaty is ``a signal to the administration not to do in haste'' what should be done with care
on another treaty issue, a group of republican senators told reporters at a luncheon meeting they believed compromise eventually will be reached on a move by democrats to attach to the pact language intended to bind future presidents to the current view of the meaning and impact of the treaty
sen. daniel evans, r-wash., a member of the senate foreign relations committee, called the democratic effort ``an egregious insult to president reagan'' and said it will not be settled without a pitched battle
the democrats will not let the treaty die because of this but we might come perilously close before someone backs down,'' evans said
there is one group trying to kill the treaty and another group trying to embarrass the president, and neither group will win,'' evans said
sen. mitch mcconnell, r-ky., said he also believed the controversy will be resolved
the democrats will not let the treaty die on this issue,'' mcconnell said. ``i cannot believe that when push comes to shove they are going to want to be held responsible by the american people for failure to ratify this treaty.''
the dispute grew out the reagan administration's reinterpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty to permit the deloyment of a strategic defense system
the senate foreign relations committee voted 17-2 vote on wednesday to approve the treaty and send it to the full senate, where it was expected to be taken up following next week's easter recess
ambassador maynard glitman, the chief u.s. negotiator for the treaty, told the committee that the treaty does ban future weapons and that the soviets understands they are banned
glitman said the treaty calls for the elimination of all ``weapon delivery vehicles'' with a range from between 400 miles and 3,400 miles, asserting this covers all weapons, not just those armed with nuclear warheads. selection</head>
five statues of the late president john f. kennedy were displayed on a tabletop thursday for members of a special legislative board who will select one of the designs for a monument on the statehouse lawn
selection of the winning sculpture design will conclude a yearlong competition that included hundreds of entries from artists around the country
three of the statues on display at the john f. kennedy library were made of white plaster, one of bronze and one, still wet, of clay. they ranged in height from 2 feet to 3 feet
all the finalists show kennedy in traditional design in full figure. in one submission, he is wearing an open overcoat, which is blowing in the wind
the five semifinalist sculptors are: frederick hart of markham, va.; penelope jencks of newton; robert white of st. james, va.; isable mcilvain of concord, and norman legassie, jr. of old lyme, conn
for the past 25 years, since the death of john f. kennedy, massachusetts has been without an official state monument to its beloved native son,'' said state rep. john macgovern, the commission chairman. ``the absence of the late president from this state's proud display of monuments is about to be corrected with a memorial that every citizen of the commonwealth can be proud of.''
after a brief introduction by former kennedy aide dave powers, macgovern said the nationwide search for a sculptor was almost over. paraphrasing winston churchill, macgovern said, ``this is not the beginning of the end, it is perhaps the end of the beginning.''
commission members will be casting their votes for a memorial finalist over the next few days
caroline kennedy, kennedy's daughter and a member of the commission, will attend the april 7 news conference annoucing the winning sculpture
the jfk statue, which will be the commonwealth's official monument to kennedy, will be erected on the west front lawn of the statehouse. it is hoped that the dedication of the memorial will take place may 29, 1989, which would have been kennedy's 72nd birthday
kennedy, a democrat who was elected president in 1960 and assassinated in 1963, began his political career in the 1940s representing boston in congress
the deployment of more than 3,100 troops to honduras as a show of force and warning to nicaragua will cost at least $5 million, the pentagon said thursday
dan howard, the defense department's chief spokesman, said final figures won't be available for 30 to 60 days. but, he said, ``the total cost of the operation is estimated at somewhere between $5 million and $10 million.''
howard was asked about the cost of the so-called emergency deployment readiness exercise after announcing the last soldiers from the 82nd airborne division had returned home to fort bragg, n.c., thursday morning
some logistical support people will be returning tomorrow (friday),'' he added. ``all the equipment and supplies not expended in the operation will be returned to the united states.''
soldiers from the 82nd airborne and the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif., were airlifted on march 17 and 18 after nicaraguan troops crossed into honduras to mount an attack on u.s.-backed contra guerrillas
the american soldiers were then flown to different parts of honduras for exercises with honduran army units
we're very pleased with the accomplishments of this exercise,'' howard said. ``it demonstrates the responsiveness and deployability of the army's light forces in a joint operation.''
numbers lovers can rejoice. the latest edition of the statistical abstract is at hand with detail on everything they ever wanted to know, and probably more
the 108th edition of the volume goes on for 970 pages, including 1,425 tables and charts, compiled by the census bureau from a wide variety of sources
selling for $25 _ $5 more for hardbound _ the volume is widely used by students, teachers, journalists, government workers, businessmen and the just plain curious
a sampling of facts from the volume:
_the nation produced $18.7 billion worth of computers in 1985, nearly nine times the worth of those manufactured a decade earlier
_the u.s. fish catch totaled 8.2 million pounds in 1986. the biggest item, menhaden at 2.4 million pounds
_there were 909,000 americans in hospitals on any given day in 1985, a total that has been declining in recent years
_some 5.57 percent of mortgages were delinquent in 1986, down from 5.84 percent a year earlier
_alaska has the nation's highest birth rate, followed by utah and new mexico. the highest rate for abortions is in california, followed by new york and hawaii
regional communist party officials admitted they are powerless to end an ethnic dispute that has led to a massive work stoppage by armenians in a southern city, and they appealed to moscow for help, a newspaper reported thursday
the government daily izvestia said the stepanakert city committee unanimously passed a resolution calling on national party leaders to again take up the issue of the nagorno-karabakh region of azerbaijan
armenians are demanding that the armenian-dominated region be made part of their republic, which neighbors azerbaijan
the local committee's appeal, adopted at a meeting wednesday, did not persuade people to return to work, according to one resident in stepanakert, the main city of nagorno-karabakh
people aren't even thinking of going to work,'' said the resident, a man answering the telephone at the sovietsky karabakh newspaper thursday. he refused to identify himself
izvestia said the plenary meeting of the stepanakert city committee was stormy and that one speaker broke down and cried
the majority of the communists decisively condemned the tactic of `forced pressure' on the country's leadership, and along with that every speaker underlined that the nagorno-karabakh problem has not been removed, that it still needs a settlement,'' izvestia said
izvestia said the work stoppage gave new ammunition to people who say soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms permit too much outspokenness
izvestia quoted a stepanakert party official, robert kocharyan, as saying that ``continuing worker absences give supporters of the old (way) grounds to say: `here's your result! you let the people get out of hand. you shouldn't give them such an occasion.'''
izvestia did not provide other details of the meeting, and a woman answering the telephone at the city committee's offices referred all questions to the party central committee in moscow
stepanakert workers have vowed to continue the walkout, which began march 24, until the central government and party reverse their decisions to keep nagorno-karabakh under the control of azerbaijan
the communist party central committee refused the armenians' demand in february and was asked by the local committee to reconsider the decision. the presidium of the supreme soviet, the national parliament, ordered cultural and economic improvements for the region on march 23 but did not address the territorial issue
all but bakeries and dairies, some stores and some public transportation and medical clinics have been closed in stepanakert since the strike began
kocharyan said just 308 workers, only one-fifth of the force, showed up thursday at the silk factory where he works
for me that's zero, and as a party secretary, i'm ashamed for myself and my comrades,'' he told izvestia
the man at the sovietsky karabakh newspaper said there were no demonstrations in stepanakert and that few policemen were on the street
soviet foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov provided the first official confirmation that paruyr ayrikyan, a former political prisoner, was among armenian nationalists arrested last week in the armenian capital, yerevan
the spokesman, at a regular news briefing, said he did not know under which criminal statute ayrikyan was being held
the soviet government has forbidden foreign journalists from traveling to armenia and nagorno-karabakh. gerasimov was asked about that policy after he criticized israel's government for barring journalists from the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where unrest has raged since december
i have to reject your parallel,'' gerasimov said. ``we have not occupied anybody anywhere in this situation.'' he said journalists would have to ``wait a little while'' to visit the region, ``until the passions cool down.'' ownership.</note>
the pompidou center is displaying more than 400 works by the russian-born painter marc chagall that were turned over to the government in lieu of taxes
many of them have never been seen before in public
the value of the collection cannot be estimated,'' said finance minister edouard balladur. ``the government never could have afforded to allocate such sums to enrich the national heritage.''
chagall died in 1985 at his home in southern france at the age of 97. working steadily until the end, he left behind a vast private collection of oil paintings, drawings, mosaics, sketches, book illustrations, set designs, and engravings worth countless millions of dollars
the works, previously owned by the chagall family, are displayed in four galleries on the pompidou center's fourth floor
the works represent the second largest donation ever accepted in lieu of death duties. the largest one came from pablo picasso's heirs and constitute what is now the permanent collection of the picasso museum, housed in the hotel sale in central paris
government officials have not decided how the chagall collection will be dispersed among france's many national museums, but it is likely that works with biblical themes will go to the national museum of chagall's biblical message in nice
many of the works on show are known to have been among the ones the artist loved the best. they include ``bella au col blanc,'' (1917), a sensitive portrait of his first wife, bella, dressed in a low-cut dark dress, her graceful features and black hair set off by a wide, white collar
bella died in new york in 1944. chagall married valentina brodsky in 1952
the painting has a cubist touch, and many critics say it is reminiscent of picasso's masterpiece ``les demoiselles d'avignon.''
the paintings look fine in paris, but they weren't bad in my house either,'' said chagall's widow, known as vava, during a tour of the show
the exhibition, which runs until june 5, also features ``les maries de la tour eiffel'' (1938-39), set and costume designs created for moscow's jewish theater including those for gogol's ``revizor,'' and several self-portraits
the corporation for public broadcasting has published a booklet designed to teach ``latchkey'' children basic skills they will need to make their time at home alone safer
the 16-page booklet, titled ``what if i'm home alone? your family's guide to home and personal safety skills,'' teaches children such things as how to get home from school safely, how to use a telephone in an emergency, how to escape a fire and how to deal with strangers who knock at the door
the publication is written in an easy-to-read, entertaining style with large type and illustrations. it also includes a quiz at the end so parents can assess how well their children understand the safety tips
the booklet opens with a letter to parents suggesting ways they can make their home safer and includes a form for emergency and other phone numbers they can fill in and post near the telephone
the booklet is part of a cpb public service campaign designed to help american families cope with changes in society that have left a majority of families headed by a single parent or two working parents
an estimated 5 million to 6 million children ages 5 to 12 who daily come home to an empty house or apartment or have to care for younger siblings, cpb said
the campaign is being run in conjunction with public broadcasting's year-long, national ``child care america'' project being kicked off april 10. the project will focus attention on the issue throughout the year with outreach activities and programming, including a pbs documentary called ``who cares for the children?''
cpb is a private, nonprofit corporation funded by congress to develop noncommercial radio and television services
copies of the booklet are available for $1 each, by check, by writing to ``what if i'm home alone?,'' corporation for public broadcasting, p.o. box 33039-lk, washington, d.c., 20033. missiles and elections, reorder info. no pickup.</note>
the warning broadcast over the radio for the first time thursday was simple: three beeps, a pause, then three more beeps
that signal would mean iraq has launched a poison gas attack on tehran, where iraqi missiles have fallen day and night and where fears of chemical warfare by baghdad are growing
after the warning beeps on tehran radio, an announcer said: ``god willing, we hope no such thing will ever happen, but the enemy is so mean and despicable he could do anything.''
an official of the islamic guidance ministry escorting visiting western correspondents around the battered capital, a city of more than 6 million people, said the iraqis ``would pay dearly if they dared to do it.''
the city of tehran seems to have paid enough already. officials said half of its population has left since iraq's missiles began wrecking apartment houses, markets, shops, office buildings, hospitals and schools
on thursday, many tehran schools and stores stayed closed in case of attack, but people came up to the streets from underground shelters. there were few of the traffic jams for which tehran was notorious before the missiles
the missiles that have been rained on the city since feb. 29, when the iraqis began firing such weapons into tehran for the first time in the war
iraq says it has launched more than 100 surface-to-surface rockets at tehran in that period. others have have hit the holy city of qom, 100 miles to the south, and isfahan in central iran, which was the capital of persia during the 17th century
iran has fired about half as many missiles into baghdad, a city of 5 million
a statement by ayatollah ruhollah khomeini exhorted his people to ignore iraqi missiles and turn out for the april 8 parliamentary elections
even if the nation is subjected to missile and bombing attacks, it will go to the ballot box,'' said the statement, read on the radio by an announcer. ``i personally will participate in the elections under any conditions.''
by thursday, no iraqi missiles had exploded in tehran for three days, although other cities were hit. iraq declared thursday that it was suspending attacks for three days because of a visit to baghdad by turgut ozal, prime minister of turkey
officials in tehran said they believe the reason is the scheduled arrival monday of two u.n. experts, james holger of the united states and dr. manuel carmona of spain, to investigate the alleged iraqi gas attacks in kurdistan. a 1925 geneva agreement outlaws the use of chemical weapons
civilians usually have about four minutes notice of incoming rockets after they are detected by radar installations at the border, about 290 miles to the west
the radio and street loudspeakers blare warnings. people scurry to bomb shelters, basements and underground parking lots. yellow signs on walls show where shelters are located
state television broadcasts film of londoners sheltering in subway stations during the german blitz of 1940. the message seems to be that, like britain and its allies, iran will win the war
but it is poison gas that residents of tehran fear most, according to those questioned randomly on the streets thursday
iran said iraqi warplanes dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs on three kurdish towns in northeast iraq on march 16-17 after iranian troops have captured them
the iranians, at war with iraq since september 1980, said 5,000 civilians and some iranian soldiers were killed, and another 5,000 people were wounded. they claimed the iraqis dropped chemical bombs because the kurds, long in rebellion against iraq, welcomed their ``liberators.''
iran's official islamic republic news agency also said thursday that iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on villages in the marivan border region of northwest iran earlier in the day, killing several people
after months of international criticism for failing to comply with a cease-fire resolution the u.n. security council passed last summer, iran is making all the mileage possible from the claims of chemical warfare
tehran's official press has likened the alleged iraqi use of gas bombs in kurdistan to the americans dropping atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki in 1945, and demanded international condemnation of iraq. iraq has denied the claims
an iranian gunboat was seized last weekend by oman after an incident at sea during which the boat's skipper was killed in an apparent mutiny, pentagon officials said thursday
the officials, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, said a lone surviving iranian crewman remained in omani custody and that the body of the gunboat's skipper had been recovered
the sources stressed that details of the incident were still sketchy, primarily because the omani government had yet to share much information
but the officials said it appeared the captain was shot and killed by the surviving crewman after tossing a second crewman overboard to his death
a preliminary intelligence report suggests the altercation began when the two crewmen refused the captain's order to mount an attack on a nearby commercial ship, one source added
the officials said it remained unclear whether the iranian survivor had purposely motored toward oman after the incident or simply had become disoriented. in either event, he was intercepted by an omani patrol vessel and taken into custody sometime over the weekend, the sources said
the officials stressed the pentagon was not attaching any particular significance to the mutiny by suggesting, for example, it demonstrated widespread discord within iran's military
we think it's an isolated incident,'' said one source. ``but we think it's an interesting isolated incident.''
as recounted by the sources, the affair occurred aboard a swedish-built boghammer patrol boat. those vessels are about 43 feet long and have been modified by iran to carry machine guns and other weapons, and used extensively for attacks on persian gulf shipping
as best we can piece together, the two crewmen refused an order to mount an attack,'' said one source. ``so the skipper threw one of them overboard. at that point, the second crewman shot the skipper. then he either took the boat to oman or else got lost.''
a canadian military jet having problems with its oxygen system made an emergency landing thursday at charleston's yeager airport after the pilot became dizzy, officials said
the airport director said the single-seat f-a-18 and another traveling with it landed safely at 4 p.m. the pilot, who was not immediately identified, was treated at the scene and was reported to be ok
jeff bubar, the airport manager, said one jet experienced problems with its liquid oxygen supply and the pilot was forced to seek the nearest airport with military facilities
the pilot was having problems with his oxygen system and was feeling lght-headed and having problems breathing and decided to put it down,'' said robert greter of the civil air patrol
greter said the jets carry liquid oxygen that is coverted into gas
he didn't faint. he just felt slightly ill,'' said dr. jerill cavender, who treated the pilot
cavender said the pilot was flying at 33,000 feet when the system apparently had problems converting the liquid into gas
randy clark, air traffic control supervisor for the federal aviation administration, said the planes were en route from florida to canada on a training flight
the west virginia air national guard, which maintains facilities at yeager airport, refused to comment
firefighters late thursday afternoon still were keeping an eye on the slate-gray, 75-foot-long planes parked on a corner of the tarmac
the twin-engine attack jet, known as the hornet, was built by mcdonnell-douglas corp. the planes that landed in charleston appeared to have missiles beneath each wing, but it was not clear whether they were live
the plane is designed primarily for air-to-air combat and for air-to-ground bombings
one plane was decorated with an indian and crossed tomahawks on one of its two tailfins, and the other was decorated with a saber-tooth tiger
prime minister brian mulroney announced a major cabinet shuffle thursday, bringing in an old school friend and changing the key trade and immigration portfolios
this puts us in fighting trim for an election, when it comes,'' the prime minister said
mulroney is expected to call an election this fall or early in 1989, well before the august 1989 end of his progressive conservative party's five-year term. canadian governments traditionally call early elections when their popularity ratings are high
the most important change was the post of minister for international trade
the combative incumbent, pat carney, was transferred to presidency of the treasury board, which had been held by deputy prime minister don mazankowski
transport minister john crosbie, an affable newfoundlander noted for his witty ripostes in the house of commons, took over at trade
he will have the task of winning parliament's approval of the free-trade agreement reached with the united states last year and selling the country on the 10-year deal
at least two of canada's 10 provinces, including powerful ontario, oppose the treaty, which would dismantle tariffs and loosen other barriers in the world's largest trading partnership
once a contender for the conservative leadership, crosbie favored free trade long before mulroney was converted to the concept. referring to his reputation as a somewhat of a renegade, crosbie told reporters: ``i certainly want to be a cannon (but) not a loose one.''
the biggest surprise in the reshaping of the 38-member cabinet was mulroney's decision to bring in an old friend from his student days at laval university, lucien bouchard
bouchard, the canadian ambassador to france since 1985, was named secretary of state and a member of the inner cabinet as mulroney attempted to shore up support in quebec province following a series of scandals involving provincial ministers
bouchard is a former supporter of the separatist parti quebecois and voted in favor of autonomy for the province, dominated by french-speakers, in a 1980 referendum. the referendum was defeated, and bouchard eventually joined the conservative camp
i have to prove it is possible to be both a canadian and a quebecer,'' bouchard said thursday after new cabinet members were sworn in by governor general jeanne sauve in ottawa
a lawyer from chicoutimi, bouchard is not a member of parliament but can serve in the cabinet pending the next by-election for an empty seat from quebec. he replaces david crombie who resigned wednesday to head a commission on the development of the lake ontario waterfront
employment and immigration minister benoit bouchard and his deputy, gerry weiner, were both shifted from a department that has been criticized by the opposition for the influx of illegal aliens into canada, estimated at 2,000 per month. bouchard takes over as transport minister, while weiner becomes minister of state for multiculturalism
the bouchards are not related
the new immigration minister is barbara mcdougall, formerly in charge of privatization. her deputy is monique vezina, who moves from supply and services
foreign minister joe clark and finance minister michael wilson kept their jobs
the latest polls show the conservatives have rebounded this year from their third-place standing over the last two years
thanks to strong economic growth and a drop in unemployment to 7.8 percent _ a seven-year low _ the conservatives are neck-and-neck with the main opposition liberal party and socialist new democratic party
hog farmers continue to expand production, an agriculture department report showed thursday
as of march 1, the inventory of hogs and pigs in the 10 major pork states totaled an estimated 40.5 million head, up 6 percent from both a year ago and two years ago, the report said
the number of breeding hogs was up 4 percent and 10 percent from march 1 of 1987 and 1986, respectively, to 5.42 million head. that indicated further production increases in the months ahead
officials said the march 1 inventory of market hogs _ animals headed for slaughter and the consumer market _ totaled 35.1 million head, up 6 percent and 5 percent from the previous two years
the pig crop during the winter months of december, january and february was 15.8 million head, up 6 percent from the same period of 1986-87, the report said, and 11 percent more than in the winter of two years ago
looking a future prospects, the report said hog farmers surveyed intend to have 2.4 million sows give birth in the march-may period, 2 percent more than a year ago and 11 percent more than the actual farrowings of two years ago
the 10 leading hog states account for about 79 percent of the nation's pork. the following list shows the march 1 inventory. the first number, in thousands, is the total number of hogs in the state, the second is the march 1 figure's percentage of a year earlier
georgia         1,100  102 illinois        5,500  112 indiana         4,000  101 iowa           13,200  107 kansas          1,400  101 minnesota       4,270  107 missouri        2,850  104 nebraska        3,850  101 north carolina  2,400  104 ohio            1,900  101
the sovet union has bought an additional 101,600 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department said thursday
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 101,600 tons of corn would be about 4 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.90 per bushel at the farm level, meaning the sale could have a farm value of around $7.6 million
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 4.1 million tons of corn, plus more than 7.48 million tons of wheat; 818,400 tons of soybeans, and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal. discuss case. no pickup. adds byline.</note>
the assemblies of god state council that wanted jimmy swaggart barred from preaching for three months will meet friday and may endorse the harsher penalty demanded by the church's national leaders, a member said thursday
the tv evangelist had cited the louisiana district council's recommendation for a three-month ban when he said through his lawyer wednesday that he would defy the assemblies national leadership's order that he step down for a year
swaggart stepped down from the pulpit feb. 21 after tearfully confessing to an undisclosed sin. a prostitute has said swaggart paid her to pose nude for him
risking dismissal by national church leaders, swaggart plans to return to preaching may 22, three months after he stepped down, said his lawyer, bill treeby
juleen turnage, national assemblies of god spokeswoman at the church's headquarters in springfield, mo., said the louisiana district presbytery would meet in baton rouge on friday to discuss swaggart's case. she said she had no other details and the national office did not plan to send a representative
the rev. ansley orfila of slidell, la., one of 19 members of the louisiana council, said there was little the council could do to challenge the penalty imposed by the national body. he said swaggart probably will leave the denomination
referring to the church's national leaders, orfila told the springfield (mo.) news-leader: ``the executive presbytery may not have the right to discipline him, but they have the power. i don't think we'll meet to defy them. maybe it will be just to decide how to handle things.''
contacted thursday, orfila confirmed what he told the newspaper but declined to comment further
state church officials decided to meet friday after discussing the case in a telephone conference call, the newspaper said. the call was made shortly after the church's national officials announced tuesday that they had rejected the three-month ban as too lenient
the rev. forrest hall, secretary-treasurer of the louisiana district council, said the state church will probably wind up supporting the national recommendation. ``but the men of the district are independent-minded,'' he told the news-leader
gus weill, a spokesman for swaggart, said thursday he was unaware of any meeting by the district council
meanwhile, one of swaggart's fellow ministers said that swaggart claimed evangelist oral roberts had cast demons out of him and that swaggart's feeling of being released from sin might have played a role in his decision to return to the pulpit this spring
but a spokesman for the tulsa, okla.-based evangelist said roberts did not recommend swaggart's immediate return to the pulpit
if anyone is to report that oral roberts is recommending that jimmy swaggart defy the assembly of god ruling from springfield, that is not accurate,'' said roberts' son richard. ``my dad had nothing to do with his decision. we believe that that is a matter that jimmy swaggart must make his own decision and follow the leading of god.''
the rev. mike evans, pastor of the church on the move in euless, texas, said wednesday that while he was visiting baton rouge in february, swaggart told him of roberts' prayer
oral roberts called him up and told him that he saw demons with long fingernails digging the flesh into jimmy swaggart's body and he cast those demons out of his body,'' said evans. ``i think this explains some of the rationale behind jimmy's decision to return to television after three months.''
toni morrison felt ``kind of a redemption'' when she won the pulitzer prize in fiction for her spellbinding and searing song of slavery, ``beloved.''
i thought it was quite possible that the value of the book would not be allowed to be the only consideration that the (pulitzer) committee would have to consider, and that saddened me,'' morrison said thursday
the editor, playwright and author had been the epicenter of a literary earthquake and controversy
after ``beloved'' did not win either the national book award or the national book critics circle award, 48 prominent black writers and critics signed a statement deploring the celebrated writer's lack of recognition
morrison's ``song of solomon'' did win the national book critics circle award for 1977, but the two other awards are considered more prestigious
the statement, published as an open letter in the new york times book review in january, was signed by such literary figures as the writers maya angelou, amiri baraka, john williams and john edgar wideman, the poet june jordan and critic henry louis gates jr
beloved,'' they said, was ``a gift to our community, our country, our conscience.''
the statement said morrison ``has yet to receive the national recognition that her five major works of fiction entirely deserve.''
although morrison said she didn't know a campaign was being mounted on her behalf, when she read the letter, she felt wonderful
it says you're valuable to us. it doesn't say you're flawless; it just says we esteem you. it's kind of obit information _ the kind of thing you never expect.''
however, morrison said she was hurt by charges that she had manipulated other writers
the only manipulations are between the covers of the book,'' she said. ``there was an article some one read to me on the phone about `affirmative- action prizes.' that's depressing
somebody told me that i should simply come out and declare that i did not want the pulitzer,'' she continued. ``so i dismissed all of it very happily from my mind until today. and i had genuine astonishment that the committee made a decision on the merits of the book.''
the fiction committee consisted of julian moynahan, critic and professor of english at rutgers university; critic richard eder, a former pulitzer winner; and the writer alice adams
moynahan said the jurors made their recommendations six weeks before the letter was published and felt no pressure to recommend morrison's book
i think her book is one of the greatest american novels i've ever read in my life,'' he said
the best-selling ``beloved,'' published by knopf, is partly based on a true account of an escaped slaved named margaret garner who decided to kill her child rather than see her returned to bondage. it was a chilling choice faced by many during the horrors of slavery; many africans chose suicide in the atlantic during the crossing on slave ships, and others killed their children or wives before leaving the continent
in language rich and riveting, morrison tells the tale of sethe, who escapes from kentucky and struggles to survive in post-bellum ohio in a house haunted by her dead baby
the 57-year-old morrison, who grew up in lorain, ohio, had heard the garner story and found herself curious and puzzled by the woman herself
in spite of all the political furor about her, the woman was elusive,'' the writer said. ``she was described always as being so serene, so calm. but she said very little. the mystery was not the situation but what goes on inside a woman like that; what was she feeling?''
morrison, a former random house editor whose other works include the novels ``tar baby'' and ``song of solomon,'' and the play ``dreaming emmett,'' said ``beloved'' is the best writing she's ever done. ``ed meese. note grafs 3-4 embargoed for 8 p.m. est</note>
democratic front-runners michael dukakis and jesse jackson sharply attacked the reagan administration on thursday as they pointed toward next week's primary showdown in wisconsin. the white house said president reagan was ready to begin working for george bush, the republican nominee-to-be
democratic hopeful albert gore aimed his fire at his party rivals, saying that dukakis was ``afraid to say a single word about jesse jackson.'' gore said he would continue to criticize jackson, adding he intended to treat him like he would any other combatant in the race

following 2 grafs embargoed for 8 p.m. est

dukakis, criticized for campaigning in an aloof manner, served lunch at a senior citizen center and then served up a stinging up attack on the reagan administration in an evening speech
this administration has walked away from the american dream,'' he said. ``i'm running for president because during the past seven years i've seen too many people thrown out into the streets after decades on the job...and i've talked to too many local leaders who've seen their communities become ghost towns of boarded up hopes and foreclosed dreams.''

end material embargoed for 8 p.m. est

jackson called on embattled attorney general edwin meese to resign. ``it is not a question of guilt or innocence. he simple cannot fulfill the requirements of the job,'' jackson said
ed meese deserves due process. we deserve an attorney general,'' he said, referring to meese's troubled legal situation and recent resignations by high justice department aides
on the republican side, bush and his aides were looking ahead to general election strategy, and gop sources said one serious possibility was for treasury secretary james baker iii to resign and oversee the campaign
baker was bush's campaign manager in his unsuccessful 1980 run
in contrast, democrats were still trying to clear up their muddy nomination picture
gore defended his own criticism of jackson and characterized dukakis as timid on the same score as the democratic field pointed toward wisconsin, next way station on the campaign marathon
suellen albrecht, the state party chairwoman, said either jackson or dukakis figures to win in her state. but gore began running a television commercial attacking chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca for closing a plant in wisconsin, and sen. paul simon was campaigning in what could be his last stand
dukakis and jackson were in a close race for the lead in national convention delegates, although neither man had even a third of the 2,082 needed to win the nomination
jackson's victory in the michigan caucuses last week elevated him to the front rank of the race, to the dismay of some party officials who fear his race and liberal positions would lead to a massive democratic defeat in the fall if he should be nominated
rep. mickey leland, d-texas, a jackson supporter, told a capitol hill news conference that there is evidence of a ``stop jesse movement'' forming among southern democrats _ and he saw a certain irony in that
i would suggest to you that the people involved in this effort are probably people who did not want to see a mike dukakis or jesse jackson in this race. ... they're now coalescing behind a mike dukakis candidacy,'' he said
there is no question that jackson has been the talk of the race since his stunning michigan landslide last saturday
gore, who picked up the endorsement of the milwaukee sentinel on thursday, has criticized jackson in recent days for lacking experience and for associating in the past with plo leader yasser arafat and cuba's fidel castro
he said he was holding jackson to the same standard as he would any other politician, and added that dukakis ``is afraid to say a single word about jesse jackson.''
jackson spent the day foraging for votes in wisconsin, and he told an audience of high school students that it is not always the elected officials who lead the drive for change
the reality is that this drive for social justice, this drive for equal protection under the law was led by young america. i was part of the generation, of that leadership. i learned to lead by heading a student body as a college student,'' he said
jackson picked up an endorsemnent from richard congdon, an attorney who headed richard gephardt's now-defunct campaign in wisconsin
and he got some kind words from withdrawn candidate gary hart. the one-time front-runner in the race said jackson's campaign has been sending a message to the party's leaders that the voters are dissatisfied with politics as usual
jesse is as much a messenger to the party leaders as a bearer of his own message,'' hart said in an interview with the denver post. the former colorado senator also said he has advised jackson to deliver a series of speeches on the budget deficit, education, military reform and other issues _ and added that he was ``more than prepared'' to help himn write them
among the republicans, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater did not say when reagan would begin campaigning for bush. but he said the situation that once led the president to declare his neutrality in the gop race had changed following sen. bob dole's withdrawal from the campaign
pat robertson is bush's only active challenger, but fitzwater noted that the former television evangelist ``recognizes the realities of the situation.'' with defense comment and reference to april 8 sentencing date; inserts 2 grafs after 13th graf pvs bgng, `whatever his,' with additional defense comment</note>
former presidential aide lyn nofziger should be imprisoned for illegally lobbying the white house because he flouted the law and compared his offense to ``running a stop sign,'' a prosecutor said thursday in court papers
independent counsel james c. mckay said in a sentencing memo that remarks nofziger made following his conviction feb. 11 showed ``a total lack of remorse or contrition'' about violating the ethics in government act's ban on lobbying former colleagues less than a year afte leaving government service
nofziger, 63, should be fined and imprisoned to ``impress present and former government employees, as well as the general public, that congress intended those restrictions to be taken seriously and that they will be enforced with meaningful penalties,'' mckay said in the memo filed with u.s. district judge thomas a. flannery
minutes after the verdict, nofziger stood outside the u.s. courthouse and called the ethics statute ``a lousy law.'' he also said, ``i don't think i did anything wrong'' and compared the offense to ``running a stop sign.''
nofziger, president reagan's former political director, repeated his profession of innocence in a feb. 18 letter to the court that was quoted in the prosecution brief. ``i have never thought, and i do not think today, that i am guilty morally, ethically or legally of the crimes of which i am convicted,'' he wrote
mckay said ``that intransigent attitude is a consideration arguing in favor of a sentence that includes a period of incarceration.''
the sentencing is scheduled for april 8
to request jail time for a 63-year-old man with a spotless record of public service who did not intend to violate the law is ridiculous, unnecessary and totally lacking in compassion,'' said defense lawyer e. lawrence barcella
mckay said nofziger also ignored the advice of lawyers he consulted about the ethics law when he left reagan's staff in early 1982 to form a consulting business with mark a. bragg
the prosecution brief recounted an incident in which nofziger uttered a profanity when one of the attorneys, martin l. artiano, advised him not to make any white house contacts without first contacting the law firm
during the trial, associate independent counsel merrick garland related the episode to the judge during a bench conference out of hearing of the jury and the public, according to the trial transcript
garland told the judge that after responding with the profanity, nofziger said, ``these are my friends and i am going back to them if i want to.''
mckay noted in the sentencing memo that nofziger's defense lawyers have ``attempted to minimize the significance of this episode by asserting that defendant nofziger's profanity ... was characteristic of their client's jocularity.''
perhaps so,'' mckay wrote, ``but his lawyers at the time took the incident seriously. they have told staff members of the independent counsel that this episode caused concern'' within the law firm
whatever his choice of words, however, it is evident that defendant nofziger was alerted to and deliberately chose to ignore written and oral advice that section 207(c) (of the ethics law) applied to him,'' mckay said
lyn doesn't recall ever having such a conversation,'' barcella said. artiano only recalled it after ``a lot of prompting'' during ``repeated interviews with the independent counsel and numerous sessions with the grand jury,'' barcella said
even artiano has said lyn was joking when he said it and thereafter lyn came and asked for their advice about ethics in government act matters,'' barcella said
flannery did not allow the defense to argue during the trial that nofziger acted with advice of legal counsel when he lobbied the white house
nofziger could be sentenced to up to two years in prison and fined up to $10,000 on each of three counts of illegally lobbying the white house on behalf of wedtech corp., a maritime engineers' union and the manufacturer of the air force's a-10 anti-tank plane
mckay did not make a specific recommendation about the length of the prison term but said nofziger should be fined cumulatively for each of the three convictions
nofziger's special entree to the most powerful officials in government, including the president himself, epitomized the very danger to public perception about the integrity of governmental decision-making that motivated congress to enact the one-year no-contact prohibition,'' the prosecutor said. to mrs. reagan</note>
democrat jesse jackson called thursday for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii and said, ``it is not a question of guilt or innocence. he simply cannot fulfill the requirements of the job.''
the presidential hopeful, a longtime critic of president reagan's justice department, said he is ``appalled at the state of emergency'' there. he blamed the problems on reagan's tolerance of what he called a low moral tone in the administration
justice is the jugular vien of democracy. with justice, almost everything is possible,'' jackson told at rally of about 2,000 at the sheboygan armory. ``without justice, almost nothing is possible.''
jackson said meese must go because he is being consumed defending himself against allegations of wrongdoing. the candidate called the recent resignations of top justice officials ``a national disgrace'' because, he said, they left ``rather than have their reputations sullied in association with the attorney general.''
to an enthusiastic, mostly white crowd which cheered his attacks on meese, jackson said:
increasingly, the administration of justice is being sacrificed to the defense of the attorney general. ... this is not a question of the shameful prospect of an attorney general who spends more time in court as a defendant than as a prosecutor.''
the attorney general must take the lead in shaping national policies to cut drug traffic and reduce crime, activities that simply take a great deal of time, jackson argued
it is not a question of guilt or innocence. he simply cannot fulfill the requirements of the job. ed meese deserves due process. we deserve an attorney general,'' he said
jackson said meese will probably not resign, so reagan must ask him to leave
today in washington, once again there is a leadership vacuum in this collapsing administration,'' jackson said. ``ed meese does not have the judgment to submit his resignation. the president does not exercise leadership to ask for it. the vice president _ now leader of his party _ does not have the strength to get the president to act,'' jackson said. ``so the nation must depend _ once again _ on mrs. reagan.''
then, taking the line from mrs. reagan's drug campaign, the democrat added: ``when mr. meese asks mr. reagan whether he should stay on, mrs. reagan should advise him, `just say no.'''
jackson would not respond directly to attacks from fellow democratic candidate sen. albert gore jr. on his lack of govermental experience. but the civil rights activist did so by implication
some officeholders are not leaders,'' he said in sheboygan. ``all leaders are not officeholders.''
at pulaski high school in the heart of southside milwaukee, jackson talked to 2,000 students about the nature of leadership
he detailed major civil rights achievements _ the civil rights act, voting rights, open housing _ and then talked about who was responsible
these rich achievments are in some elected officials' resumes, but the reality is that this drive for social justice, this drive for equal protection under the law was led by young america. i was part of the generation, of that leadership,'' he said
southside milwaukee was the site of sometimes violent confrontations during the 1960s as activists marched into all-white neighborhoods to support open housing laws. jackson received a warm welcome from the mostly white crowd
in washington, rep. mickey leland of texas, who said wednesday he believes a ``stop jesse'' movement is afoot, told a news conference that ``while there is evidence that a movement aimed at stopping jesse has been mounted by jackson detractors, we have not yet identified exactly who they are.''
leland speculated that ``the architects of super tuesday are behind this.''
jackson picked up the endorsement of richard congdon, a waukesha lawyer who headed richard gephardt's campaign in the state
jackson is on the air in wisconsin with a $40,000 television buy, said campaign manager gerald austin. details of board changing categories on some awards</note>
the charlotte observer on thursday won the 1988 pulitzer prize for public service for its coverage of the ptl financial scandal that brought down jim and tammy bakker and created turmoil in televangelism
the north carolina paper, the wall street journal and the miami herald each took two of the awards
in its citation for the public service award, one of six pulitzers awarded to knight-ridder papers, the prize board said the observer revealed misuse of funds by the ministry ``through persistent coverage conducted in the face of a massive campaign by ptl to discredit the newspaper.''
the other prize-winning knight-ridder papers are the philadelphia inquirer, the herald, and the st. paul pioneer press dispatch
in the arts, novelist toni morrison _ whose failure to win other writing awards over the past year caused a literary controversy _ received the pulitzer for fiction for her novel ``beloved.'' ``driving miss daisy'' by alfred uhry and ``the making of the atomic bomb'' by richard rhodes won the prizes for drama and general non-fiction, respectively
winners reacted gleefully to the news. ``i'm in a state of slack-jawed dumbfoundedness,'' said tom shales of the washington post, who won the criticism award for his writings on television
tim weiner of the inquirer celebrated his national reporting award _ for a series of reports on a secret pentagon budget used to sponsor defense research and an arms buildup _ by climbing on a desk and lighting up a stogie, while listening to his colleagues' applause
weiner said he felt as if he had just received a ``$10 million check from ed mcmahon. i'm just a very happy guy and very lucky.''
pulitzers for general news reporting went to the alabama journal of montgomery for an investigation of the state's unusually high infant mortality rate, and to the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune for stories that showed flaws in the massachusetts prison furlough system
the chicago tribune's dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski won the pulitzer for investigative reporting for stories on ``the self-interest and waste that plagued chicago's city council.''
daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart of the wall street journal won the pulitzer for explanatory journalism for stories about an investment banker charged with insider trading and about the day after the october stock market crash. the journal's other pulitzer _ for specialized reporting _ went to walt bogdanich for a series on faulty testing by medical laboratories
thomas l. friedman of the new york times won the pulitzer for international reporting for what the pulitzer board termed ``balanced and informed coverage of israel.'' friedman also won a pulitzer for international reporting in 1983
the miami herald's two awards came in commentary and feature photography. dave barry won the former for what the board called ``consistently effective use of humor as a device for presenting fresh insights into serious concerns''; michel ducille won the latter for photographs of the decay and rehabilitation of a housing project with a cocaine problem
other journalism awards included:
_feature writing, to jacqui banaszynski of the st. paul pioneer press dispatch for her series about the life and death of an aids victim in a farm community
_editorial writing, to jane healy of the orlando sentinel for editorials that protested overdevelopment of florida's orange county
_editorial cartooning, to doug marlette of the atlanta constitution and the charlotte observer
_spot news photography, to scott shaw of the odessa (texas) american for his pictures of little jessica mcclure being rescued from the well into which she had fallen
winners are selected by the pulitzer board, which is guided but not limited by a series of finalists submitted by nominating juries in various categories
the alabama journal's investigation of infant mortality was entered in the public service category, where it was a finalist, but the board awarded it the prize for general news
weiner's series on the pentagon budget was entered in explanatory journalism and national reporting. it was chosen a finalist by the explanatory jury, but the board gave it a pulitzer for national reporting
other arts awards included:
_history, ``the launching of modern american science 1846-1876,'' by robert v. bruce
_biography, ``look homeward: a life of thomas wolfe,'' by david herbert donald
_poetry, ``partial accounts: new and selected poems,'' by william meredith
_music, ``12 etudes for piano,'' by william bolcom
except for the award for public service, which brings with it a gold medal, pulitzers carry a cash prize of $3,000. the winners are selected by the pulitzer prize board and announced by the president of columbia university, which administers the competition. attempt</head> appeared ... to correct friday to thursday.</note>
a sophisticated, ultralight aircraft run by human power made six successful test flights thursday preparing for a record distance attempt inspired by the 3,500-year-old greek myth of daedalus
the record attempt was to be made friday, but organizers of the 3-year-old, $1 million project postponed the flight until the weekend because gusts of up to 30 mph are expected friday
the massachusetts institute of technology project is aimed at breaking the world record for human-powered flight over the 74-mile distance from crete to the island of santorini, also known as thira
thursday's test flights each lasted less than three minutes in calm dawn weather above a greek air force base next to iraklion airport
flight director steve k. bussulari, an mit aerospace expert, told reporters the 68-pound daedalus 88 ``is in good shape ... and we may see favorable conditions'' for a flight saturday or sunday
five pilots _ four americans and a greek _ took turns pedaling the pink-and-silver ultralight at speeds of about 14 mph, flying about 15 feet above the tarmac
the craft is named in honor of the mythical inventor daedalus, who tried with his son icarus to escape from crete on wings made of feathers and wax. daedalus succeeded, but icarus flew too near the sun, the wax melted and he fell into the sea
the record flight requires temperatures below 70 degrees and almost dead calm
conditions appeared perfect thursday following nine days of blustery weather
frank scioscia, 27, a professional cyclist from scranton, pa., reported, ``it feels like a day for the record, pretty calm. i was flying the plane with no hands.''
but bussulari noted that daedalus 88 would have run into strong headwinds about five miles off santorini and that in any case, ``we felt we needed a test flight to shake down the airplane.''
the pilots are taking turns standing by in readiness for the flight. the pilot who had been scheduled to fly friday was greg zack, 26, of wilmington, n.c., whose father was born in greece
the pilot pumps bicycle pedals that turn the ultralight's propeller. he uses a joystick to steer the plane, coordinating with ground-based radio instructions
for the record the pilot must keep pedaling a steady 15 mph but the effort is equivalent to riding 23 miles an hour on land,'' said glenn tremml, a medical student from new haven, conn
tremml set the 37.2-mile world record for human-powered flight in california in 1987, flying a daedalus prototype
two backup flying machines are ready if needed
all the craft are made of lightweight composite material _ graphite epoxy, plastic fiber and mylar, an extra-thin plastic skin that covers the 112-foot wingspan
its organizers said the daedalus project has produced new information on endurance and low altitude flying aerodynamics and meteorology during its three years of development
project director john s. langford explained, ``the project does have a research and educational application, particularly in human physiology and aeronautics. the plane itself doesn't have any practical application. it should be seen as a work of art.''
israeli forces left their self-proclaimed ``security zone'' in south lebanon thursday afternoon in pursuit of lebanese communist guerrillas who tried to infiltrate, police reported
they said three guerrillas were wounded in a 30-minute firefight four miles into the foothills of mount hermon, north of the security zone. a guerrilla who escaped told reporters in the syrian-policed town of hasbaya there were at least four israeli casualties
israeli authorities did not comment on the claim and it could not be verified independently
police said the eight-man guerrilla squad was caught trying to infiltrate into the zone, which israel established north of its border in 1985 after withdrawing most of its occupation army from south lebanon
two helicopter gunships strafed olive groves on mount hermon's slopes as about 40 soldiers chased the fleeing guerrillas, police said
militiamen of the israeli-backed south lebanon army left the zone on wednesday to attack shiite moslem guerrillas in the village of kfar roumman, with the aid of israeli gunships
police said seven people, including two shiite guerrillas, were killed and 15 wounded in and around kfar roumman
the white house announced steps thursday to encourage american companies to withhold payments from panama and warned that mandatory action will be considered if the voluntary measures are not sufficient
the action follows the disclosure that some american firms are paying taxes and fees to panama for doing business there, undercutting the economic sanctions imposed by the united states to force the ouster of strongman manuel antonio noriega
announcing the new action, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``we are giving u.s. companies and persons an incentive and opportunity not to provide financial support to the noriega regime
should these measures prove insufficient, we will review additional legal steps that may be necessary to deny transfer of funds to the noriega regime from u.s. companies and persons,'' fitzwater said
fitzwater said u.s. government payments owed the government of panama will be deposited in the federal reserve bank in new york. the united states already is withholding canal fees, toll payments and other funds. fitzwater said withholding taxes for u.s. employes in panama and rental payments also will go in the new account
he also said the justice department will take part in legal cases by private parties who owe debts to panama, declaring president eric delvalle is the legitimate leader of the country. the u.s. treasury department will help establish an account for payment of funds in these cases
moreover, the internal revenue service will issue guidance explaining how tax credits can be claimed for panamanian income taxes paid into an account at the federal reserve bank in new york, instead of to the noriega government
fitzwater said he did know how much money would be involved by the action, but estimated it could deprive noriega of ``millions and millions.''
on capitol hill, meanwhile, the senate voted 92-1 to approve a resolution urging president reagan to act at once to cut off the flow of dollars from u.s. corporations to the noriega regime
panama has received an infusion of an estimated $19 million in quarterly tax revenues. about $5.5 million of that money reportedly came from taxes and fees paid by u.s. companies doing business in panama
texaco inc. and eastern airlines confirmed they had made payments to the panamanian government and said they were a routine part of their business there
fitzwater said the administration understands the legal concerns of the companies involved. ``i'm not trying to cast any blame or concern upon them. that was the system. they've got their laws. they've got things they've got to comply with and we're trying to help them through changes in irs regulation.''
he played down the amount of money involved, saying it was not significant
asked if it was not a setback for u.s. efforts, fitzwater said, ``it's a minor setback in the sense that one day there's zero (money) and the next day there's something, but these are fairly small payments in the total picture and are not going to solve mr. noriega's very serious and long-term problem.''
he said the administration was studying a plan by which the companies would make tax payments into an account in the united states controlled by president eric delvalle, who has been in hiding since demanding noriega's resignation
the united states continues to recognize delvalle as the legitimate head of panama's government
the senate resolution was introduced by majority leader robert c. byrd of west virginia
the use of these monies (paid by american companies) has enabled gen. noriega to buy himself time and prolong himself in power as he ruthlessly continues in his efforts to thwart the democratic will of the people of panama and crush the general strike,'' byrd said
the resolution urges reagan to use his authority under the emergency economic powers act ``to prevent future transfers to the noriega regime of currency and credit subject to the jurisdiction of the united states.''
it also urges reagan to consider placing such funds into an escrow account until noriega is ousted and democratic rule restored in panama
only sen. mark hatfield, r-ore., voted against the resolution. he did not explain the reasons for his vote
in another legislative move, sen. david durenburger, r-minn., introduced legislation to deny u.s. foreign tax credits to american companies which have made tax payments to noriega's regime
in effect, the u.s. taxpayer is not going to subsidize the illegal noriega government,'' durenburger said
texaco spokesman peter maneri said its payments covered corporate income, sales and excise taxes due for march. he said the company does not see any conflict with u.s. economic sanctions
we continue our operations in panama based on normal commercial considerations,'' maneri said. ``we do not become involved in any political activity in a host nation; we're just doing business down there.''
eastern spokeswoman virginia sanchez said the airline paid about $178,000 in cash for monthly operating fees, including navigational aids, communications, airport rentals and landing fees
there is nothing unusual or out of the ordinary about these payments,'' she said
meanwhile, a group of 13 senators urged the administration to make arrangements to help panama's banking system resume normal operations after noriega's departure
in a letter to treasury secretary james a. baker iii, the senators suggested the treasury use the resources of the exchange stabilization fund to provide the national bank of panama with a line of credit for the panamanian banking system
the senators said the funds should be made available only after the united states government is satisfied that panama acted to eliminate the use of panamanian banks ``by drug traffickers to shield illegal activities.''
the letter was signed by sens. robert w. kasten jr., r-wis.; daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; alfonse m. d'amato, r-n.y.; patrick j. leahy, d-vt.; dave durenberger, r-minn.; warren b. rudman, r-n.h.; tom harkin, d-iowa; john w. warner, r-va.; pete wilson, r-calif.; christopher j dodd, d-conn.; john f. kerry, d-mass.; and bob graham, d-fla
a bipartisan group of 31 senators urged the administration thursday to suspend all arms sales to saudi arabia until the arab kingdom withdraws the chinese-made missiles deployed in its desert
in a letter to secretary of state george p. shultz, the senators asked the administration to reconsider its planned notification to congress of a $450 million support package for awacs radar surveillance planes. the money is for training and maintenance of the sophisticated intelligence planes which the united states has sold the saudis
in light of recent revelations that saudi arabia is deploying chinese-made intermediate-range ballistic missiles with a range of about 1,850 miles, ``we strongly believe that our current policy toward arms sales to saudi arabia must be re-examined,'' the letter said
in light of the tremendous threat to regional security, the united states should reconsider any new arms sales to the kingdom until this matter is fully resolved and the chinese missiles are withdrawn,'' the senators wrote
they also urged the administration to ``make unequivocable its absolute opposition to the presence of the chinese missiles, which represent a new and grave threat to the peace of the region.''
shultz will be meeting with saudi officials in riyadh next week during a shuttle mission to the mideast which begins sunday. he will be lobbying for israeli-arab peace talks, but is also expected to bring up the chinese missiles
shultz already expressed u.s. concern about the sale of the css-2 rockets to the saudis when he spoke in washington earlier this month with china's foreign minister wu xueqian
the state department has said it views the missiles as part of a disturbing trend of missile proliferation in the gulf region and in the mideast
saudi arbia, an ally of iraq's, says it needed the missiles to protect itself in case of a further escalation in the iran-iraq war, especially in view of iranian threats
but u.s. officials say the saudis bought the missiles in frustration over repeated attempts by congress to block american arms sales
saudi arabia began negotiating the deal with the chinese in 1985, after congress blocked the sale of 48 f-15 jet fighters to saudi arabia. congress late last year agreed to sell the saudis 24 f-15s in order to maintain saudi air strength at its current levels
the css-2 rockets, which u.s. officials say are not yet operational, also have a nuclear capability. but both china and saudi arabia have assured the united states they do not intend to arm the rockets with nuclear warheads
we are also deeply concerned that the saudis hid the fact that they possess these weapons,'' the letter said. saudi arabia reportedly concealed from the united states the deal with china for two years, before u.s. aerial intelligence photos exposed the deal
i am most concerned that our intelligence services were unable to detect the acquisition of these missiles,'' said sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., in a letter to the chairman of the foreign relations committee. helms called on chairman claiborne pell, d-r.i., to hold hearings about the missiles when congress returns from easter recess next month
helms said the committee must discuss, among other things, ``what this (intelligence) failure suggests about our government's ability to detect'' intermediate-range nuclear missiles in the soviet union. helms is strongly opposed to the u.s.-soviet treaty which eliminates such missiles from both countries' arsenals
angola's main rebel movement called thursday for peace talks with the government of president jose eduardo dos santos to end a 13-year bush war
in a statement released in lisbon, the rebel national union for the total independence of angola said it was ``ready now to start talks with the (governing party) without preconditions.''
the note was signed by jonas savimbi, leader of the guerrillas, who receive aid from south africa and the united states. it said the future of angola ``depends on the will of all angolans to free themselves from foreign tutelage.''
the note also said ``peace will come necessarily from direct contact'' between the guerrilla group and the ruling popular movement for the liberation of angola
the guerrillas have fought the government since losing a civil war to the popular movement following angola's independence from portugal in 1975. the insurgents have demanded a power-sharing accord
angolan government officials estimate more than 9,000 south african troops are in southern angola aiding the guerrillas. soviet advisers and approximately 40,000 cuban troops aid the government forces
the note said the guerrilla group ``categorically rejects all fictitious interpretation of reconciliation in angola by way of amnesty, clemency or any so-called program of harmony.''
the point was an apparent reference to reports wednesday that the government was willing to offer amnesty to the guerrillas if south africa and the united states halt all support for the insurgents
the guerrilla proposal comes on the heels of discussions among the united states, angola, south africa and cuba on an end to foreign aid to both sides. with yakunin comments. picks up 10th graf pvs, filaret said ...</note>
church leaders said thursday they are working with the authorities to ease restrictions on religion in a society dominated by atheists, but may fail unless clerical dissidents stop causing trouble
metropolitan filaret of kiev and galitsky said the rev. gleb yakunin, a former political prisoner, and the rev. nikolai gainov were two of those in the russian orthodox church who seek ``to press on us methods of solving our problems that would lead to confrontation between church and state.''
he described the dissidents as a small group of priests and lay people
the church always has cooperated with the government, which is dominated by the officially atheist communist party, but its leaders say they want to moderate a 1929 law that requires registration of religious groups and prevents charitable activities and religious education of the young
although they did not directly attack the law during a news conference, their veiled criticisms appeared to be among the strongest in years
filaret stressed, however, that the church ``will continue to use the same method of solving problems it has used in the whole post-revolutionary period.''
last week, yakunin called for the resignation of patriarch pimen, 78, as head of the russian orthodox church on grounds he is ill and senile
the priest also has criticized the willingness of church leaders to subordinate themselves to the government, demanding greater freedom to practice religion and publication of more religious books
yakunin was excluded from the ministry for 20 years, but reinstated last year and assigned to a small parish outside moscow
contacted by telephone thursday night, yakunin said filaret's comments were moderate
earlier they (church leaders) would have taken our work away and imprisoned us. it's a sign of perestroika that they are willing to listen to us,'' yakunin said, referring to soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's word for restructuring of society
yakunin said he and gainov are not seeking confrontation between church and state but simply want to ``help the church improve its situation.''
we think church leaders are falling behind matters of perestroika and want them to work more actively,'' he said
filaret said the church has the right to discipline dissidents, but ``we are urging them to use common sense and join with us to solve the problems.''
archbishop kiril of smolensk said the government is rewriting the 1929 law and consulting russian orthodox officials, but described the consultations as a ``discussion of principle'' not involving the text
kiril said the law, adopted at the height of anti-religious fervor after the 1917 bolshevik revolution, was no longer appropriate for soviet society
he said the replacement statute should be ready soon, but the text was not complete and he could not provide details. the archbishop said church officials were optimistic that it ``will open the possibility for a fuller church life for all believers.''
a list was revealed of nine people who will be made saints during celebrations in june of the 1,000th anniversary of christianity in what is now the soviet union
metropolitan yuvenali of krutitsky and kolomensky granted that the list did not include anyone killed during the repression after the revolution, as critics have demanded. he said study of the issue would continue
yuvenali accused the russian orthodox church that split away after the revolution and now is based abroad of canonizing such people for political purposes
church officials said patriarch pimen participated in opening and closing ceremonies and fulfilled his other obligations during a three-day conference completed thursday. picks up 4th graf pvs: wreckage was ...</note>
a u.s. air force jet fighter slammed into the middle of this small town and exploded thursday, killing the american pilot and at least one resident, injuring 16 people and forcing scores to evacuate
the neighborhood looks like the bombed-out houses of world war ii,'' said herbert loef, a 52-year-old baker who lives down the street from where the f-16 crashed into at least five homes
in washington, air force spokesman capt. virginia cody identified the pilot as lt. thomas edward doyle, 24, of oroville, calif. he entered active duty in may 1985 and had been at hahn air base since september 1987. he graduated from the air force academy in 1985
wreckage was scattered over a wide area, and several hours after the flames had been doused, black smoke still billowed from forst, a town of 6,000 people
emergency crews evacuated more than 70 residents because the plane was carrying a canister of hydrazine, which is used to restart engines and which produces toxic gas when mixed with water. officials said there was no evidence of a gas leak
the plane crashed eight miles from a nuclear power plant, one day after a french jet fighter crashed and exploded just a mile from a nuclear plant in the west german state of bavaria. the pilot in that accident also was killed
the crashes sparked calls from members of west germany's opposition social democrats and the environmentalist greens party for more restrictions on military training flights
witnesses reported seeing smoke and flames pouring from the f-16 as it plunged toward forst, about 60 miles south of frankfurt. it struck the roof of one house, tore off the front of another and set several on fire, they said
hilde loef said her first thought when she saw the jet was, ``my god, the planes are coming awfully low today.''
then i saw smoke and flames streaming out of the jet,'' she said
the body of theo huber, 60, was found in the wreckage of his home, officials said. rescuers were searching for any other victims
twelve firefighters were hospitalized for smoke inhalation, two residents were treated for shock, and two more were being held for observation in a hospital after apparently suffering smoke inhalation, officials said
authorities said the 10 a.m. disaster could have been far worse had the plane crashed a couple of hours earlier, before residents left for work
u.s. air force maj. gregory smith told reporters at the scene that an investigation into the cause of the crash was under way. he said there was no live ammunition on the jet
the f-16 was part of the 50th tactical fighter wing based at the hahn air base in the nearby eifel mountains, said lt. col. edward neunherz, another air force spokesman
the crash occurred 185 miles west of wednesday's crash of the french jet fighter, which went down in the bavarian village of ohu near the isar nuclear plant
environmentalists maintained the country had escaped disaster by a ``split second,'' and the accident raised concerns about military flights over nuclear power plants. but officials said the concrete domes built over west german nuclear plants are designed to withstand the force of a plane crash, so there was no danger of a nuclear accident. mecham</head> charge. no pickup.</note>
after hours of backroom negotiations thursday, the arizona senate let stand its dismissal of the third and strongest impeachment charge against gov. evan mecham
the decision not to reinstate the charge cleared the way for final arguments monday on two other counts against the first-term republican. senators could vote monday or tuesday on whether he should be removed from office
is there any other matter to be taken up?'' asked arizona chief justice frank x. gordon as the senators convened in the late afternoon after a day of caucuses and private meetings. gordon's question was answered with silence
gordon then wished the senate luck in reading and understanding a thick stack of legal instructions given to them as they left for the weekend
mecham 63, is the first u.s. governor in six decades to face an impeachment trial
on wednesday, the senate decided 16-12 to dismiss a charge that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan and to vote to convict or acquit on two other charges _ that he tried to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat by a staff member and that he misused $80,000 from a protocol fund
the campaign loan charge was considered the strongest of the three because there is more extensive documentation of what occurred and because it is the only one that also has led to a criminal indictment against mecham
in contrast, the obstruction charge boils down in part to which of two people to believe, and the other in part to technical definitions of whether the $80,000 was public or private money
several senators, in voting for dismissal, had said they feared they would prejudice mecham's criminal trial april 21 if they took evidence on the last charge
alan stephens, democratic minority leader, said thursday neither he nor the 10 other democrats who voted for dismissal were willing to reconsider
one of those who voted on the prevailing side would have had to seek reconsideration for the matter to be reopened
there was a lot of backroom manipulating today,'' said stephens. ``people apparently made their decisions on the merits of the arguments and that didn't change in 24 hours.''
only five of the 19 senate republicans supported the dismissal of the last charge. senate rules gave members 24 hours to rescind any action
stephens said his main concern was not letting the trial drag on past mecham's scheduled may 17 recall election. but some republicans argued that they were duty-bound to hear all the evidence on all the charges
republican tony west complained angrily that the democrats had divided the impeachment proceeding along partisan lines for the first time since it began feb. 29. ``that action yesterday was political roulette,'' he said
if there are not the votes to convict, and gov. mecham is back on the ninth floor (in the governor's office) on wednesday ... they have dealt themselves a losing hand,'' west said
it would require a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate to convict mecham. if he is convict, the senate may then take a vote to disqualify him from ever holding office again
march went out like a lion in much of colorado on thursday, unloading more than 3 feet of snow, but the weather was more like the proverbial lamb in much of the east and south
in south-central colorado, 42 inches of snow were reported near rye by afternoon. near fort collins in the northern part of the state, buckhorn mountain logged 34 inches before noon, while bellevue recorded 27 inches
as the slow-moving storm continued to dump snow on the region, the weather service issued a winter storm warning for blowing and drifting snow and poor driving conditions as slush on roadways turned to ice at nightfall
at denver's stapleton international airport, crowded with holiday weekend travelers, spokesman norm avery warned that delays of two hours or more could be expected. snowfall at midafternoon at the airport was 8 inches
a winter storm watch was posted for northwestern kansas, where rain was expected to change to snow overnight and heavy snow was possible friday
advisories for snow and blowing snow were posted for southeastern wyoming and the southern nebraska panhandle. by midday, the snowy range ski area near laramie, wyo., reported 22 inches of snow
during the morning, high winds were reported in utah, where gusts reached 80 mph at centerville
elsewhere, a wind advisory continued in the mountains and deserts of southern california and in northwestern arizona. a freeze warning was posted for thursday night for higher elevations in southeastern arizona
skies were sunny in new england, and in much of the nation west of the rockies, while temperatures reached the 70s and occasionally the 80s from texas to the southern atlantic coast and in southern california
early afternoon readings were in the 30s and 40s in the upper mississippi valley, though, and were below freezing in the northern rockies
rain extended from the southern half of the great plains to the lower ohio valley, with thunderstorms mainly along the central gulf coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 16 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 84 degrees at avon park, fla., and fort myers, fla. the early-morning low for the nation was 8 degrees below zero at yellowstone park
heavier snowfall for the six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. est included 4 inches at denver and 3 inches at pueblo, colo. heavier rainfall included 0.68 inch at new orleans; 0.46 inch at memphis, tenn., and 0.45 inch at jonesboro, ark
the forecast for friday called for snow in the central high plains and the central rockies; showers and thunderstorms in the southern plains, the lower mississippi valley and the tennessee valley; rain showers from the central plains across the lower great lakes, ohio valley and mid-atlantic states, and fair to partly sunny skies will prevail across the rest of the nation
highs only in the 30s and 40s were forecast from northern new mexico and arizona to nebraska, and in the upper mississippi valley and the upper great lakes; in the 60s and 70s in much of oregon and western nevada, and across much of the southern tier of states and the mid-atlantic coast; up to the low 80s in california, the lower rio grande valley and florida, and in the 50s in most of the rest of the nation. engineer and that crash was amtrak's worst. pick up 3rd graf pvs, `the indictment ...'; adds two grafs at end with prosecutor's comment. adds byline.</note>
a former conrail engineer sent to prison on state charges in an amtrak crash that killed 16 people was indicted thursday on federal charges including lying to investigators about his drug use the day of the accident
rick l. gates, 33, of essex, was charged with conspiracy, obstruction of an agency investigation and making false statements, said u.s. attorney breckinridge willcox
the collision of the passenger train and three locomotives operated by gates was the worst accident in amtrak history
the indictment alleges gates lied under oath to national transportation safety board investigators after the jan. 4, 1987, crash near chase, saying he had not consumed any drugs that day
gates, however, shared a marijuana cigarette with brakeman edward cromwell that day, according to the statement of facts read into the record when he pleaded guilty in baltimore county circuit court on feb. 17
the indictment also alleges gates falsely testified about the status of the signals he saw in the three conrail locomotives and along the tracks that day and about what pre-departure tests he conducted
the conspiracy count alleges he joined with cromwell to develop a false story about what happened
gates was the only person named in the indictment. if convicted, gates faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count
on tuesday, gates was sentenced to five years in prison and fined $1,000 on a misdemeanor charge of manslaughter by locomotive
sixteen people were killed and more than 170 others were injured in the crash. gates originally was charged with 16 counts, but gates agreed to a plea bargain, merging the names of all 16 victims into a single count
willcox said he had deferred any federal action against gates until the state prosecution had ended
now that those charges have been resolved, it is appropriate to vindicate the strong federal interest in ensuring that the national transportation safety board hearings are not obstructed by those with the most direct and relevant information,'' the prosecutor said
supporters of slain judicial candidate julian pierce asked gov. jim martin on thursday to convene a special legislative session to allow another minority candidate to seek the post
martin was noncommittal after the closed meeting in his office. he said he would consult with pierce's former opponent, party and legislative leaders and others, and expected to reach a decision next week
pierce, 42, a lumbee indian attorney, was shot to death saturday at his rural home in racially troubled robeson county, where he was running for a newly created superior court judgeship
at first, authorities said the killing looked like a political assassination. but tuesday they arrested a young indian man and said a second suspect committed suicide, and attributed pierce's killing to a romantic dispute
pierce and robeson county district attorney joe freeman britt, who is white, were slated to meet in the may 3 democratic primary
under law, if a candidate dies more than 30 days after filing for a primary has closed, his opponent wins the nomination. in this case, there is no republican in the race, so britt would also automatically win the general election in november
supporters of pierce asked for a special session to amend the law to let another candidate enter the race
the governor, who planned to meet with britt on friday, told reporters: ``i'm going to do my best to try to get input that i need and then take a brief time to think about it very prayfully and come up with the best answer that i can.''
the new superior court judgeship was created under a law intended to help a non-white candidate get elected in a county where blacks and indians make up 58 percent of the registered voters
two months ago, the robesonian newspaper office was seized for several hours by two lumbees who said they wanted to call attention to racial injustice and official corruption
harvey godwin, who was manager of pierce's campaign, said that was pleased with the discussion with the governor and that martin ``listened to every word. ... i was impressed with him.''
pierce supporters have decided on a replacement candidate, godwin said, but he declined to identify the person
britt has not commented on the special session question
earlier, martin said there was no reason to doubt that pierce's slaying resulted from a romantic dispute. he chided those who continue to suggest otherwise, saying some want to stir up more racial strife in robeson county
there are people who want to take advantage of the problems ... and they're going to make up all kinds of theories,'' martin said
sheriff hubert stone said john goins, 24, killed pierce and later took his own life. goins blamed pierce for disrupting goins' relationship with the daughter of a woman pierce was dating, according to stone
the other suspect, sandy gordon chavis, is described as a longtime friend of goins
martin said that goins had left suicide notes and that there was solid evidence linking him to the slaying
vernon bellecourt, a representative of the american indian movement, said wednesday that goins' personal feelings ``could have been manipulated by those that would have motives to see that julian pierce was out of the way.'' 7th graf pvs, `the jimmy ...'</note>
a bikini contest planned for thursday night by a university of massachusetts fraternity to raise money for charity was canceled hours before it was to begin after women students threatened to picket
joe giarusso, assistant general manager of the off-campus pink cadillac bar where the contest was to have been held, said the makers of miller lite beer withdrew as sponsors
there are no prizes and the event has been canceled,'' he said. he refused further comment
women had earlier vowed to picket the bar, and 34 students had signed a petition denouncing the contest organized by delta upsilon as sanctioning ``ogling and girl watching.''
robert o'brien, chairman of the fund-raising committee of delta upsilon, said the contest was canceled ``because of a small, vocal minority. we did not back down. it is our legal right to have the contest.''
sue madden, a umass graduate student and an organizer of the protest, was making placards for the demonstration when she learned the contest was off
we're all stunned,'' she said. ``we're pleased that miller lite was sensitive to this issue to help us achieve our cause.''
often women are reduced to their body parts in this society and we don't think men have a right to judge us for our bodies,'' protester becky lockwood said earlier. ``this is objectifying women to make money off us.''
delta upsilon fraternity brothers said they didn't understand the furor
it's ridiculous,'' said fraternity president paul kearney. ``why should they be upset if it's a fund-raiser? they do it everywhere else.'' he added: ``if they go to the beach, are they going to call that sexist too?''
o'brien had said proceeds of the contest would be used by the fraternity, which has $10 in its account, for its yearly beer keg roll, a charity event that benefits the jimmy fund
the jimmy fund, the official charity of the boston red sox, raises money to fight cancer in children. last year delta upsilon raised $3,000 for the jimmy fund rolling empty beer kegs from boston 100 miles west to amherst
the fraternity circulated fliers last week saying the bikini contest was being presented by ``delta upsilon &amp; the jimmy fund in association with the amherst police'' department, but the event is not sponsored by the jimmy fund
jimmy fund associate director michael rafferty said he asked the fraternity not to use its name for the event
police chief donald maia, who had accepted an invitation to emcee the contest, changed his mind over the weekend, saying he had thought the contest was a beauty pageant
it's gone beyond that now,'' he said. ``it would be inappropriate for me to be there.''
roger libby, a former umass sex education professor who tours campuses lecturing on safe sex, said he would replace maia as emcee
jimmy fund planning director mark cummings said the organization approves only those activities that turn over entire proceeds to the fund. he added, ``it is in bad form and bad taste to use the jimmy fund with this contest.'' with comment from knight-ridder, cartoonist doug marlette, miami herald; picking up 9th graf pvs, `at the...'. inserts 3 grafs after 15th graf pvs, `i think...', to add comment from wall street journal winners. picks up 16th graf, `scott shaw...'.</note>
tim weiner blushed happily and climbed on top of a desk thursday as his colleagues at the philadelphia inquirer applauded after he captured the pulitzer prize for national reporting
but tom shales of the washington post was in shock
i'm in a state of slack-jawed dumbfoundedness,'' said shales, the winner for criticism for his writing on television. ``i'm shocked and delighted and very proud of the paper. it's an award that really comes to the paper _ not to me; it's a nice feeling to have brought it to the paper.''
reporters at the inquirer, which claimed its 14th prize in 13 years, crowded around the newsroom and applauded when word of weiner's prize moved on the associated press wire
the recipient, who won for his series on a secret pentagon budget used to sponsor defense research and an arms buildup, climbed onto a desk to say, ``i thank you very much.'' he then puffed on a cigar
weiner, 31, who came to the inquirer in 1982 from the kansas city times, said he feels like he just received a ``$10 million check from ed mcmahon. i'm just a very happy guy and very lucky.''
toni morrison, winner of the fiction award for ``beloved,'' said joy was uppermost in her feelings because ``i really was thinking dark and difficult thoughts about what was available to this book in terms of recognition.''
the book became a center of controversy when it did not win two other major literary prizes, and morrison said she respected the pulitzer committee for ignoring ``outside matters of speculation and gossip and some slander.''
knight-ridder newspapers won six awards, including two each at the miami herald and the charlotte (n.c.) observer and one each at the st. paul pioneer press dispatch and the inquirer
jim batten, knight-ridder president, said the group has ``worked hard over the years to attract some of the best people in the american newspaper business and create a climate that encourages people to do their best work.''
dave barry, the 40-year-old miami herald humorist who won for commentary, said he hopes winning the pulitzer ``will make me taller.''
it's fun to win a pulitzer; everybody should do it,'' barry said
his fellow miami staff member, photographer michel ducille, garnered his second pulitzer for photos of apartments inundated by the drug crack
i don't want to lessen the pulitzers, but i feel more proud that the photos ... made changes in the community,'' ducille said
cartoonist doug marlette, 37, who moved from the charlotte observer to the atlanta constitution during the year, was honored for work done at both papers
he said his biting approach can be traced in part to ``a grandmother bayoneted by a guardsman during a mill strike in the carolinas. there are some rebellious genes floating around in me.''
at the alabama journal in montgomery, ``there was a lot of dancing and yelling and singing when the announcement came over the wire _ but that's not unusual for the journal newsroom,'' quipped jim tharpe, managing editor
the journal and the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune each won an award for general news reporting; the alabama paper's series dealt with infant mortality
the journal decided it was time to commit some resources to the problem,'' said bill brown, executive editor of the journal and its sister daily, the montgomery advertiser
a pulitzer prize is nice,'' said tharpe, ``but it's a plaque on the wall. if we hope something will come of our work as journalists, it's that the state will deal with the problem of infant mortality.''
at the chicago tribune, the winners were dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski for investigative reporting on ``on the self-interest and waste that plague chicago's city council.''
we're thrilled. it's been quite a few years since we've won one here for local news coverage,'' said ellen soeteber, assistant tribune managing editor for metropolitan news
i think the team of reporters deserved this so much. ... it was their idea, and they brought it off beautifully,'' she said. ``i'm so glad some of the leaders in our profession recognized it.''
the wall street journal captured two prizes: walt bogdanich for specialized reporting and daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart for explanatory journalism
i know many great people who have only been recognized after they died, but all else being equal, it's wonderful to get recognition,'' said stewart, 36
if i can win the pulitzer prize, the cleveland indians can win the pennant this summer,'' said bogdanich
scott shaw, a photographer for the odessa (texas) american, said he had not been expecting to win the spot news award for his coverage of the 58-hour operation that rescued little jessica mcclure and fascinated a nation
i am pretty young. i am just pretty surprised,'' said shaw, 24. ``ever since i took the photo that night, the editors said i was going to win. they were sure of it that night. and so it happened.'' reason to invade, ordering military not to invade, white house action; no pickup.</note>
the government accused the united states on thursday of looking for a pretext to invade panama, and said it ordered its military not to harm americans in the country
government offices closed thursday for a long easter weekend that looks bleak for 130,000 public employees, who were left without paychecks for the second time this month
an eerie quiet gripped the streets of panama city, which had been filled in recent days with demonstrations against gen. manuel antonio noriega, the defense forces commander who controls the civilian government
manuel solis palma, the president installed by noriega, said in a letter to u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar that u.s. armed forces in panama and its waters constituted a threat to the country
in spite of the situation created by the mobilization of u.s. forces ... the defense forces of panama have orders to refrain from using lethal or destructive weapons at any time against the armed forces of the united states or against u.s. civilians,'' said the letter, released by the presidency
the ``mobilization'' of forces apparently referred to the passage this week of the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa through the panama canal, and u.s. military maneuvers in panama that began in early march
aware of the overwhelming power threatening it, the republic of panama ... will not provide the foundation for fabrication of a charge of aggression that could pretend to justify the launching of acts of war against panama,'' the letter said
the reagan administration has raised the possibility that the u.s. military might be used to protect the estimated 50,000 american citizens in panama against possible harrassment by that country's security forces
it made the suggestion after panamanian soldiers arrested and beat several journalists, including american reporters, during a raid monday on a panama city hotel
with most businesses and industries observing an 11-day-old general strike against noriega thursday, the largest congregations of people in panama city were found in the food lines of welfare agencies
leaders of the national civic crusade were meeting to plan new strategies in their frustrated effort to oust noriega
we'll be talking over the weekend, discussing where we go from here,'' said roberto aleman, a director of the crusade, a coalition of about 200 professional, business, labor, political and other groups
in caracas, former president carlos andres perez of venezuela said he understood noriega had promised to resign in may, the unofficial start of a presidential campaign leading to elections in may 1989. the general is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges
major supermarkets and drug stores, and a few small shops, were open thursday in panama city but most merchants observed the strike. the groceries and pharmacies reopened wednesday _ under heavy government pressure, according to reports
the government closed its doors without meeting another $33 million payday for most ot its 130,000 employees despite the collection this week of $19 million in quarterly tax revenues
about $5.5 million was said to be taxes and fees from u.s. companies doing business in panama, including texaco, eastern airlines and a banana-growing subsidiary of united brands
in washington, the white house announced tax incentives and other measures thursday to encourage american companies to withhold payments from panama. the reagan administration said mandatory action would be considered if the voluntary measures are not sufficient
most panamanians were short of cash and food as a result of the strike and the cash crisis, which was caused in part by a u.s. freeze on panamanian assets in american banks
the sanctions were imposed in february after noriega supporters in the national assembly voted to oust panama's civilian president, eric arturo delvalle, in retaliation for delvalle's attempt to fire noriega
banks have been closed since march 3
at a news conference in caracas, perez said noriega had promised monsignor marcos antonio mcgrath, the catholic archbishop of panama, that he would step aside upon completion of his term of service in may
but by law, military officers in panama are supposed to resign after 25 years of active service, and noriega's official biography shows that he entered the service in 1962, or 26 years ago
perez and the leaders of costa rica and spain asked mcgrath to serve as a mediator between noriega and his opponents. update with senate refusing to reinstate third charge.</note>
the arizona senate on thursday appeared to be just days away from the moment of truth in gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial after dismissing the third and most serious charge against him
senators declined to predict the outcome of next week's vote on the two remaining charges. a two-thirds majority of the 30-member senate would be needed to remove the first-term republican from office
i'm prepared to vote,'' republican sen. carol macdonald said one day after testimony was completed on the second impeachment count. like other senators, she declined to say what she had decided
many senators said they will wait until monday's closing arguments by prosecution and defense lawyers before deciding whether to remove mecham from office
the vote is likely to be taken monday or tuesday on impeachment charges that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official and that he misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
but before the vote could be taken, senators had to resolve a last-minute political imbroglio thursday over the dismissal of the third charge, that mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan
wednesday's surprise vote to dismiss that article and vote on the first two led to charges and counter-charges by republicans and democrats that each side was playing politics
after a day of backroom negotiations thursday, the senate decided against reinstating the third charge. wednesday's action was approved by all 11 democrats but only five of the senate's 19 republicans
attorneys had indicated wednesday it would take at least five weeks to present the case on the third charge
republican sen. greg lunn, who opposed throwing out the article, said the dismissal was a ``serious error'' and added, ``frankly, i'm resentful, at this late stage in these proceedings, that we're cutting deals as if this were an amendment to another piece of legislation in order to get us out before adjournment.''
senate republican majority leader robert usdane was more philosophical, saying, ``it's a political trial. it's just a matter of the way we work.''
mecham wanted the $350,000 loan count dismissed on grounds that having it tried first in the senate would taint his april 21 criminal trial on similar charges
the 16-12 vote to grant the governor's wish resulted from a combination of mecham's five staunchest gop backers _ who want all the charges dismissed _ and all 11 democrats, who have been trying for weeks to force the senate to vote on each impeachment article as evidence is completed
the democrats contended their strategy was aimed at ensuring a senate vote on whether to remove mecham from office well before he is to face a may 17 recall election
minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, said republicans possibly ``saw the potential for some to take advantage of this ... and create a situation where they would never, never have to cast a vote on this'' because mecham could be removed from office by the recall before the senate got a chance to vote
because the senate can make its own rules, lawmakers will not have to reach their conclusions ``beyond a reasonable doubt,'' as in a criminal trial. instead, they are to decide if there is ``clear and convincing evidence'' to convict mecham, and it's up to each of them to decide what that means
also, gop sen. bill delong noted, the governor does not have to be guilty of a crime to be convicted in an impeachment trial; mecham can be removed for malfeasance in office
there's more than just the guilt or innocence on the charges,'' delong said, adding that he expected senators to be told by the presiding officer that they must ``take action which is in the best interest of arizona ... based on (mecham's) ability to continue in office.''
editor's note: laurie asseo is covering her fourth arizona legislative session for the ap. picks up 4th graf pvs, ``issuance of ...</note>
leaders of the palestinian rebellion called thursday for riots during the visit of secretary of state george p. shultz next week, and israel's prime minister vowed to crush the uprising
soldiers shot one palestinian dead, bringing the arab death toll to at least 124 since violence began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where 1.5 million palestinians live. an israeli soldier also has been killed
israeli officials lifted a three-day closure of the west bank as scheduled at 3 a.m. friday (8 p.m. est thursday), allowing residents to travel out of their towns and villages. a curfew that confined people in the gaza strip to their homes was also ended at that time
five-hour nightly curfews imposed before the shutdown were scheduled to continue in gaza. the end of the three-day confinement meant that journalists could travel freely in the territories
issuance of leaflet no. 12 from leaders of the rebellion indicated israel had not removed its leadership despite mass arrests last week of more than 1,000 people, including those israel said were responsible for publishing the leaflets
arabs known to be involved have said that, if the israelis caught some of them, other people would be ready to take their places
prime minister yitzhak shamir told hundreds of cheering jewish settlers israel would crush the rebellion in the lands it has controlled since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
some arabs are going crazy down there. they are trying to harm what we have built,'' shamir said at herodion, site of the biblical king herod's palace
they say ... this land belongs to the rioters, the killers, the terrorists. but if somebody tries to harm this ... we will break his hand on these rocks.''
authorities put new restrictions on the 130,000 arabs of east jerusalem but greek orthodox christians, fearing for their safety, decided nonetheless to cancel pre-easter processions
soldiers allowed the 650,000 palestinians in the gaza strip to leave their homes for the first time in three days when the army lifted a curfew for five hours
street clashes between young arabs and soldiers soon began in khan yunis, rafah and the jabaliya refugee camp, and the army restored the curfew at jabaliya, israel radio said
one palestinian was wounded in rafah, the radio said. shifa hospital officials said another arab from khan yunis was shot in the neck and israel television said a palestinian was wounded in the west bank city of tulkarm
in the west bank city of yatta, soldiers shot an 18-year-old palestinian dead during several hours of clashes with protesters hurling rocks and bottles, the army said
mayor ismael abu hemaid said suleiman ahmed al jundi died of a stomach wound
the latest leaflet, signed by the palestine liberation organization, urged ``all the arab world to block shultz' plan and to stop him from killing the uprising.''
it ordered riots monday through wednesday of next week to protest the shultz visit and a proposed u.s. peace plan. the secretary of state is to begin a shuttle through the region sunday
we are telling the arab world, we don't need money. we are ready to starve. we will never kneel. we are going to die as martyrs,'' the leaflet said
shamir's equally tough declaration at herodion: ``we will continue to act against the violence until we stamp it out.''
military jeeps escorted shamir's car and a busload of journalists through an army roadblock sealing off the west bank. reporters saw six palestinian flags, which are outlawed, hanging from power lines
patriarch diodorus of jerusalem canceled three pre-easter processions of the greek orthodox church because of the violence, said the rev. thimoteus margaritis, church spokesman
he said it was the first cancellation since the 1967 war. margaritis said only 1,500 pilgrims were expected for the orthodox easter on april 10, compared with 10,000 last year
tourism to israel declined 13 percent in the first week of march compared with the same period of 1987, a tourism ministry spokeswoman said
benjamin netanyahu announced his resignation as israel's u.n. ambassador to protest a meeting between shultz and two arab-americans linked to the plo
it was the strongest indication yet of israeli displeasure over the meeting last saturday with the members of the palestine national council, which acts as the plo legislature
in remarks broadcast on israel radio, shultz said it was ``beyond the pale'' to suggest he could not meet with american citizens
the interior ministry imposed new travel restrictions on arabs in east jerusalem, requiring palestinians aged 16-35 to have special permits for trips to jordan, ministry spokeswoman tova elinson said. she said permits would be issued only for stays of nine months or longer
israel radio said the limitations were designed to stop the plo from sending couriers into the occupied territories. picks up 9th graf pvs bgng, `meanwhile, a bipartisan'</note>
despite an uncertain outlook, secretary of state george p. shultz was set thursday to try again to persuade arabs and israelis to open negotiations may 1
shultz made no prediction on how much progress the u.s. peace plan would make in the middle east during his shuttle diplomacy there next week, but he was cautiously upbeat, particularly about king hussein of jordan
the jordanians are quite intrigued with this,'' shultz said, ``and i look forward to intensive discussions with the king.''
he described the israelis, meanwhile, as having ``varying views.'' clearly referring to prime minister yitzhak shamir, shultz said he would point out that the peace conference he is proposing is not the active authority that is causing objections in jerusalem
it simply would set up direct negotiations between the arabs and israelis, shultz said
israel, jordan and syria all have neither accepted nor rejected shultz's proposal
when they are reluctant to say no, it means everybody understands the importance of trying to find a way to peace and security,'' he told reporters aboard his u.s. air force jet
after refueling here, shultz headed for rome for easter observances and meetings with italian officials. he is shopping for a new home for 72 u.s. f-16 jet fighters that spain will expel from the torrejon air base near madrid in 1991
italy is a prime candidate, along with portugal and turkey
then shultz flies to israel on sunday to begin a five-day mideast venture that also will take him to jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia. it will be shultz's second intensive tour of the middle east in a month
during his trip, shultz also hoped to make headway on lebanon in discussions with syrian president hafez assad
the state department's director of lebanon, jordan and syrian affairs, april glaspie, already is in damascus where shultz will see assad next week
u.s. and diplomatic sources said the syrian leader may be interested in arrangements for a new distribution of power among vying sects in lebanon's 12-year-old civil war
meanwhile, a bipartisan group of 21 senators urged shultz to refrain from meeting with members of the palestine liberation organization, saying his meeting last week with two palestinian americans ``sets a dangerous precedent.''
shultz met last saturday in washington with two university professors who are members of the palestine national council, the plo's parliamentary arm. he denied that his meeting violated u.s. law which forbids negotiating with the plo, saying that not all pnc members are also members in the plo
but the senators said they see ``no distinction between the plo and the pnc.''
the senators said they wished shultz success on his mission and hoped he would be able to meet with palestinians who are not plo members. an attempt by shultz to meet with 15 palestinians from the israeli-occupied territories during his last trip to the region several weeks ago failed when the plo refused to endorse the meeting and the palestinians did not show up
the mid-march deadline he set for a reply to his plan for negotiations has passed. but impelled by violence on the israeli-held west bank and in gaza _ 123 palestinian arabs and an israeli soldier have been killed in less than three months _ shultz is determined to keep trying
u.s. officials find some hope in the fact that while israel, jordan and syria have not accepted the plan they also have not rejected it. only egypt has given its endorsement
the plan calls for a mideast conference in april to launch the negotiations. they would open on may 1 and deal with providing some form of self-rule to palestinian arabs on the west bank and in gaza
israel would deal with a joint delegation of jordanians and palestinian arabs to work an interim arrangement to last three years
meanwhile, negotiations on an overall settlement of the arab-israeli dispute that also would involve syria would begin in december
primarily because of syria's key role in the middle east, shultz had drawn assad into the discussions after several years of icy relations, u.s. officials said
but they said shultz also was taking up with assad the possibility of new arrangements in lebanon, where the syrians have dominated politics. assad, meanwhile, may be interested in reducing syria's involvement in the country, said the officials, who spoke only on condition of anonymity. kabul if us could keep supplying rebels.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz said thursday the soviet union could keep arming marxist forces in afghanistan as part of a peace agreement, provided the united states could maintain supplies to the rebels
it would be better to have a moratorium,'' shultz said as he launched another overseas trip to pursue peace in the middle east
but, he told reporters aboard a u.s. air force jet en route to rome, ``to date, the soviets have not wanted to do that.''
the issue of u.s. and soviet military aid to rival forces is the main roadblock to an agreement to end the war in afghanistan after more than eight years
shultz proposed in march to soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze that both sides declare a moratorium. it would be in effect while the soviets withdrew their estimated 120,000 trroops and for three months afterward
the soviets accused the united states of posing a last-minute obstacle to an agreement. negotiations between afghanistan and pakistan, which were held under u.n. auspices, stalled
shultz, who will go on to jerusalem on sunday to begin a five-day mideast shuttle, made it clear he preferred a suspension of soviet aid to the marxists and u.s. support for the resistance group. u.s. aid has included stinger missiles that were effective against soviet aircraft and helicopters
but shultz said the overall goal was ``a balanced outcome.'' he said there was nothing in the geneva accords on afghanistan ``that tells us we cannot support our friends.''
he said, ``if the soviets exercise restraint, we are prepared to exercise restraint.''
shultz said he did not know whether the soviets would go along with providing equal levels of aid to the two sides
but he stressed the united states was prepared to guarantee a settlement even while aid kept flowing to the combatants
if we have signed the accords and see a need to support our friends, we will be able to do it,'' he said
shultz said he discussed the idea on the telephone wednesday with pakistani prime minister mohammad kahn junejo and that president mohammad zia ul-haq then called president reagan
so these things are in place,'' shnultz said. ``where we will all come out remains to be seen.''
u.s. officials in washington said earlier that the reagan administration was seeking moscow's approval for continued outside aid to the afghan combatants after soviet troops are withdrawn
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said there has been no indication of approval from the soviets. other officials sought to dispel the notion that the soviets had even indicated a willingness to consider the proposal
the united states, the soviet union, their clients in afghanistan and the government of neighboring pakistan, have been involved for months in u.n.-sponsored efforts to bring about a withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops fighting in afghanistan
the soviets have agreed in principle to begin the troop withdrawal two months after a settlement is reached and pakistan is eager for such a deal so that millions of afghan refugees on pakistani territory can go home
preventing a final agreement, however, has been a u.s. demand that the kremlin stop aiding the afghan government after soviet troops depart. until such aid ceases, the united states will continue backing the afghan rebels, reagan has said
during talks with shevardnadze in washington last month, shultz renewed a plea for what the united states has been calling a ``symmetrical cessation'' of superpower aid to the afghan combatants
the new proposal, rather than calling for symmetrical cessation of aid, envisions parallel continuation of assistance
we now express the policy in terms of `we will continue aid to the mujahadeen as long as the soviet union continues aid to the kabul government,''' fitzwater said
the basic point to make is that our policy has not changed in the sense that we will not desert the afghan rebels,'' the spokesman said. ``we will not cut off money to them as long as the soviets are providing aid.''
fitzwater did not explain how the new u.s. language might be more palatable to the soviets except to say ``there are some negotiating reasons why it could hopefully allow the agreement to be signed in geneva and clear the way for a pullout.''
a state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said ``it would go too far,'' to say shevardnadze signaled an interest in the proposal last week, although he did not specifically reject the idea
the source said that before the u.s. proposal was devised, some administration officials warned against making an agreement to continue aid to the afghan combatants part of a secret understanding with the soviets
it would be against u.s. law to sign an afghan peace accord that required a cutoff of aid to the resistance forces while agreeing privately with the soviets to continue such assistance, the official said
asked on thursday if a decision to continue aid would be part of an open agreement, state department spokesman charles e. redman said ``that's always been our stance.''
president mengistu haile mariam, in a rare mention of northern ethopian insurgents, said thursday his troops are fighting ``grim battles'' against secessionist rebels, radio ethiopia reported
it was the first government comment on reports of a new rebel offensive, which resulted in the capture last week of a strategic town and three soviet officers advising the ethiopian army
the rebel tigray people's liberation front claimed thursday it had also captured axum and adowa, two historic towns in northern ethiopia
assesa mamo, north american representative of the tigray people's liberation front, said rebels took the towns thursday after a three-day battle
mamo spoke from washington in a telephone interview with the associated press bureau in nairobi, kenya
state-owned radio ethiopia quoted mengistu as saying rebels in tigray and neighboring eritrea had launched a ``systematic and highly destructive campaign,'' disrupting transport and communications networks in their regions
western diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said mengistu's statement indicated the fighting must be serious. they said there were reports the ethiopian leader is preparing a huge counteroffensive against rebels of the eritrea people's liberation front and the tigray rebel group
it is believed to be the first time mengistu has conceded publicly that the rebels, whom the government normally calls ``bandits,'' are in any way effective
mengistu inherited the insurgencies 13 years ago when, with a group of army officers, he dethroned emperor haile selassie and helped set up a marxist government
mengistu made the comments about the rebels in a report to the eighth regular meeting of the central committee of his marxist workers' party of ethiopia
he appealed to ethiopians to ``rise in unity in the face of this new challenge,'' according to radio ethiopia
the radio gave no further details of mengistu's speech and it was not clear whether his comments concerned the rebels' claims on axum and adowa
axum is 110 miles south of asmara, eritrea's provincial capital, and adowa is 30 miles from axum
eritrean rebels said sunday they captured the town of afabet, killing or capturing 18,000 ethiopian troops. the rebels said one soviet officer was killed and three taken prisoner. afabet is 100 miles north of asmara
the rebels claimed to have wiped out three government divisions and captured tanks, weapons and other military equipment worth millions of dollars
there was no way to verify the rebels' claims. but western diplomats in addis ababa said the figure of 18,000 troops, a third of troops stationed in the north, sounded preposterous
the soviet union confirmed three of its advisers were captured, but said nothing of a fourth officer being killed
eritrean rebels have been fighting for 27 years in africa's oldest civil war
rebels in tigray claimed they captured three towns and more than 3,500 government soldiers in march. there is no way to confirm independently such rebel reports, on which the government refuses to comment
the fighting has aggravated relief efforts in the north, the worst-hit drought region of ethiopia. most of the 6 to 7 million ethiopians threatened with starvation this year live in the north
because of rebel activities, the government often closes roads in the region, cutting off truck convoys
the u.n. world food program reported thursday that a relief convoy reached the town of wukro in tigray province, bringing the first major food delivery to the drought-stricken area since january
the emergency shipment of 1,500 metric tons, enough to feed 100,000 people for a month, arrived sunday, said david morton, the u.n. representative in ethiopia. not contain the following items from the news digest: pm-israel-media; pm-school guide; pm-reagan-nicaragua; pm-reagan-meese; pm-meese; pm-political rdp; pm-brain implants.</note>
house approval of $48 million in humanitarian aid for the contra rebels and for children injured in nicaragua's civil war marks the first time in more than five years that lawmakers have been able to set aside partisan divisions on the issue
the house voted 345 to 70 late wednesday to approve the aid package and send what the chamber's leaders said was a strong signal of support to the rebels and the leftist sandinista government, which are trying to forge a long-term cease-fire
the winning margin came from 179 democratic votes and 166 gop votes. the largest group of dissenters seemed to be liberal democrats, many of whom oppose any form of contra aid on principle
contra rebels said they attacked sandinista soldiers in two areas of the country in violation of a temporary truce that is to be expanded into a 60-day cease-fire on friday
but the rebels' chief field commander said on wednesday he supports the peace accord with the leftist sandinista government that brought the truce
the two sides have not yet agreed on logistics of the cease-fire, during which the roughly 10,000 contra fighters are to move into five zones while a lasting peace agreement is negotiated. talks resume tuesday
television evangelist jimmy swaggart vows to return to the pulpit in defiance of church elders, saying preacher oral roberts has freed him of ``demons with long fingernails'' digging into his body
swaggart, accused of motel trysts with a prostitute, intends to return to the pulpit may 22, three months after stepping down,bill treeby, his lawyer and a board member of jimmy swaggart world ministries, said wednesday
swaggart said several weeks ago that he has undergone extensive prayer and counseling with roberts, the rev. mike evans of euless, texas, swaggart's friend and a fellow tv evangelist, said in a television interview wednesday
and he said to me that oral roberts called him up and told him that he saw demons with long fingernails digging their flesh into jimmy swaggart's body and that he cast those demon spirits out of jimmy swaggart,'' evans said
gen. manuel antonio noriega's regime, its opposition and the nation's roman catholic leader all expressed doubt at prospects for negotiating an end to panama's crisis
the reservations were voiced wednesday just hours after the mediation initiative involving archbishop marcos mcgrath was disclosed
also wednesday, a 10-day-old general strike lost ground with the opening of the capital's major supermarket chains. and the beleaguered government was reported to have received a transfusion of much-needed cash from u.s. companies that paid it taxes and other fees
hundreds of arabs took to the streets of the occupied lands to mark palestinian land day, confronting an unprecedented army clampdown and israeli gunfire that killed four palestinians and wounded dozens
in washington, secretary of state george p. shultz told israeli reporters palestinians must be part of a peace settlement and defended his middle east peace plan _ essentially a trade of land for peace with the arabs
also wednesday, 30,000 israeli arabs staged a show of support for their brethren in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, raising outlawed palestinian flags and chanting anti-occupation slogans in protests throughout israel
democratic vote-counters say the senate will easily approve the u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear weapons, despite republican complaints over an amendment limiting future presidential interpretations of the agreement
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., no. 2 in the democratic leadership, said his counts show no more than five of the 100 senators are likely to vote against the pact. ratification requires approval of 67 senators
i think there will be hurdles, but i don't expect it to be turned down,'' said sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., chairman of the foreign relations committee
jesse jackson's campaign is planning an intense effort to woo democratic ``super delegates'' as the likelihood increases that they will determine the party's nominee
jackson aides say the campaign also is planning to seek new money and hire an advance team, a staple of the other candidates' campaigns. and they said that as scrutiny of jackson increases, the press and public can expect to see him offering more details and specifics of his various domestic and foreign policy ideas
in two days of meetings here this week, jackson met with his top financial organizers and with prominent democratic leaders whom he hoped to pull into his camp, or at least milk for advice
retirees don't have to worry any more about being penalized for underpayment of estimated taxes on their 1987 pensions
the internal revenue service announced wednesday that it will waive penalties that otherwise would hit retirees who failed to pay sufficient tax in advance on their pensions
the idea is to have equity between retired people and wage earners,'' said irs spokesman johnell hunter. ``retired people will now have the same benefits as wage earners.''
more than 800 chinese students studying in the united states have signed their names to an open letter opposing china's policy to sharply reduce the number of students abroad, a student organizer said today
we have had an overwhelming response from fellow students across the country,'' said pei minxin, a 30-year-old doctoral candidate at harvard university. ``it's been a mixture of shock, anger and action.''
at a meeting late wednesday at the massachusetts institute of technology, about 300 chinese students shouted down a chinese consular official who came from new york to explain the policy, said two chinese sources speaking on condition of anonymity
jews are celebrating passover with an abundance of matzoh, the ancient symbol of freedom that is more available in moscow this year
other changes since last passover include a modest expansion of jewish culture, limited availability of some kosher foods and visits by soviet jews to relatives abroad
many of the capital's 200,000 jews have been flocking to the main synagogue to buy the thin, cracker-like unleavened bread eaten during the eight-day commemoration of the freeing of the ancient hebrews from slavery in egypt. news digest: washington _ meese; washington _ contra aid; washington _ us-panama; washington _ us-central america; washington _ us-mideast; tehran, iran _ iran-mood; new york _ pulitzers; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham-analysis; undated _ political rdp; washington _ bush-strategy; santa monica _ coronary care; boston _ steroids; beijing _ china-enterprise; undated _ easter series iv; los angeles _ general hospital.</note>
the fbi and italian authorities on thursday arrested more than 130 people and cracked a major sicilian mafia drug ring that used cocaine from the united states to buy heroin in italy for return to u.s. markets, officials said
the fbi said that 69 people had been arrested in the united states and 68 in italy by midday. authorities said 96 others were being sought by italian authorities
attorney general edwin meese iii called it ``the largest international drug case ever developed by the department of justice.'' he said it would have a ``significant impact on heroin imports into this country from italy,'' but he said he could not say what volume of drugs has been affected
the government shut its doors thursday for the long easter weekend and left thousands of public employees without paychecks for the second time in a month, facing a bleak holiday
the streets of panama city, filled with anti-government demonstrators in recent days, were eerily quiet, virtually abandoned by pedestrians and vehicles by midafternoon
with government offices and ministries closed and most businesses and industries shuttered by an 11-day-old general strike, the largest congregations of people were found in welfare agency food lines
leaders of the palestinian rebellion called thursday for riots during the visit of secretary of state george p. shultz next week, and israel's prime minister vowed to crush the uprising
soldiers shot one palestinian dead, bringing the arab death toll to at least 124 since violence began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where 1.5 million palestinians live. an israeli soldier also has been killed
israeli officials said they would lift a three-day closure of the occupied territories at 3 a.m. friday as scheduled
a 23-year-old wall street ``whiz kid'' pleaded guilty to mail and securities fraud charges thursday, admitting he bilked $10 million from scores of investors and spent the money on himself and friends
i obtained money from investors, and told them i would invest their money in securities. ... instead i spent the money on art, automobiles, two homes and furnishings,'' david bloom told u.s. district judge david edelstein
bloom, a 1986 graduate of duke university, faces five years in prison and a maximum fine of double the amount lost by investors on each count
the northeast has become the nation's least populated region, falling behind the west for the first time, but it continues to be the most densely settled, the census bureau reported thursday
the bureau also projected that texas will surpass new york for second place behind california in population by 1995. and between now and the year 2000, half of all u.s. population growth will occur in just three states: california, texas and florida, the report said
the projections are based on assumptions about trends in births, deaths, immigration and movement within the country, said bureau demographer signe wetrogen
the teamsters union and the trucking industry reached tentative agreement thursday on a new three-year national freight contract covering 200,000 drivers and warehouse workers
the new national master freight agreement, unless rejected by at least two-thirds of the affected union members, will replace a contract of similar length that expired at midnight thursday
terms of the accord were not disclosed. but teamsters president jackie presser said in a statement that it ``addresses the economic needs of our members and advances their legitimate claims for job security.''
the virus that causes aids actually changes and grows more powerful as the immune deficiency disease progresses, according to studies at the university of california in san francisco
in a report to be published friday, dr. jay a. levy, professor of medicine at ucsf, said he and a group of researchers discovered the changing virus by studying blood samples taken over a four-year period from four men who were infected by the human immunodeficiency virus, or hiv
the scientists found that as the aids patients became sicker, the virus seemed to evolve and strengthen
comedy makes a rare appearance in this year's academy awards, with stand-up comic robin williams vying with four dramatic performers for the prize as best actor
some critics of oscar's seriousness argue that steve martin should have been nominated for best actor because of his modern-day cyrano in ``roxanne.'' but in a year that saw a number of impressive performances by comedians, only williams drew the nod for his manic disc jockey in ``good morning, vietnam.''
williams plays adrian cronauer, the real-life announcer who regaled american troops with jokes and rock 'n' roll over the army radio service. the funny side of the role was a breeze for williams, and director barry levinson allowed him free rein
obviously, the radio part offered me a chance to do some open-field running,'' williams says. ``barry had been a comic himself, and he would spark to some of my suggestions and let me go with them. many of the things in the movie, like the james brown impression and playing records at different speeds, happened spontaneously.''
williams' depth of feeling in the later, dramatic scenes of ``good morning, vietnam'' surprised some reviewers. williams studied drama under john houseman at the famed juilliard school in new york, but even then his comedic side was emerging. one of his teachers chided him: ``you're mimicking people. where is your voice?'' he soon found it. after a broken romance, williams dropped out of juilliard and began playing west coast comedy clubs
the comic's contenders in the best actor race are thought of as being more dramatic thespians
michael douglas was considered for two powerful roles: as the venomous inside trader of ``wall street'' and the erring husband of ``fatal attraction.'' the actors branch of the academy decided to nominate him for ``wall street.''
it was a marvelous role that oliver stone wrote,'' douglas says. ``i don't know why he chose me for the part, but he must have seen something in me that even i didn't even know about
playing a heavy is just fantastic; it's so much more fun than being the good guy. i can understand the attraction that (villains) have for actors
all of us try to be civilized human beings, but deep down inside we have this feeling to tell everything like it is. the part of gordon gecco was a wonderful opportunity for this release. after playing moral redeeeming characters and goodie guys, it was a ball.''
can an actor win an oscar for a performance in a foreign language? sophia loren did it in 1961 with ``two women.'' now marcello mastroianni stands a chance for his role as the vain italian aristocrat who pursues a new love to russia in ``dark eyes.''
mastroianni has acted in 116 films, and he still averages three a year. why does he work so hard at 64?
basically, i am an empty person,'' he said. ``when i act i feel complete because i use the personalities of these characters to fill this emptiness. i am also a childish person, and what better way to live life than by traveling to all these countries and getting paid to have fun and act like a fool, no?''
what william hurt feels about acting is not publicly known, since he is one of the least interviewed of film stars. obviously, he is doing something right, since he has been nominated three times in seven films and won the oscar for ``kiss of the spider woman'' two years ago
his latest nomination came for his portrayal of tom grunick, the handsome but not-too-bright network anchor man in ``broadcast news.'' hurt's few interviews have produced somewhat turgid quotes. as he himself explains: ``i have, fortunately or unforunately, skill at going down paths of endless non sequiturs
in a recent premiere magazine interview, hurt expounded on what he considered the major question of ``broadcast news.''
what is the nature, to put it simply, of romance in our time? what are our motives in wanting to be together? how do we pair up? who do we mate with, and why do we do it? a lot of us don't know the answer, a lot of us feel in flux,'' he said
jack nicholson has also been recently scarce in the media, apparently content to do his work without theorizing about it in public. in 1987, he shone in three roles: as the devil in ``the witches of eastwick''; as the depression bum in ``ironweed''; as star network anchor in ``broadcast news.'' he won his ninth nomination for his role as the former big-league ballplayer in ``ironweed.''
despite the cynical roles he has played, nicholson has maintained that he remains an optimist. in a 1986 interview he remarked:
i don't want to do what i accuse other people of doing: not taking the time to smell the roses. something very wonderful has happened to me. i don't want the fact that i see this endless din and gloom in the world to make me incapable of expressing something that's quite frankly wonderful. i'm a very fortunate person to be where i am and do what i do.''
anne ramsey found out that she had been nominated for an academy award as supporting actress when a friend called her at 5 a.m
within 15 minutes a television crew was at the house,'' she said. ``i had time to wash my face, and that was about all. i was absolutely flabbergasted.''
the nomination of ramsey, danny devito's horrendous mother in ``throw momma from the train,'' provided one of the highlights of a race that includes a 60-year veteran of films, the cousin of a presidential candidate, a classic argentine actress and a young actress who stood her own against a galvanizing performance by glenn close
here is a look at the nominees:
norma aleandro played the mexican indian who devoted her life to be the constant companion of a severely handicapped girl in ``gaby.'' a distinguished theater actress in buenos aires, she was forced into exile by the military government of argentina. after the junta was overthrown, she returned home to star in the oscar-winning ``the official story,'' which dealt with the atrocities of the regime
gaby'' was miss aleandro's first film in english. she regrets that the movie has found a limited audience, apparently because people were scared away by its theme
it's not a sad movie,'' she says. ``we are not speaking about sadness. we are speaking about people, about seeking freedom. sometimes people forget that freedom is in the mind.''
anne archer was nominated for the part of michael douglas' wife in ``fatal attraction.'' considering the galvanic role afforded glenn close as the vengeful other woman, you might think that archer would have had reservations about her role
not at all,'' she says. ``i always thought that (the wife) was a strong and interesting character, and she got to go through an interesting change. that is something you always look for: it's important that a character be different at the end of a script than in the beginning
she was sexy and vulnerable and strong. an interesting lady. i never felt even remotely that she would be overshadowed.''
ann sothern made her first movie in 1929, according to the record books. after a long and diverse career in films and television, mostly in comedy, she won her first academy recognition for a serious role in ``the whales of august.''
along with co-stars bette davis, lillian gish and vincent price, sothern filmed ``the whales of august'' on a remote maine island
there was no hotel, only a tiny store,'' she recalls. ``we all stayed in private homes; mine was a lobster fisherman's. the weather was murder: beautiful and sunny in the morning, and stormy in the afternoon
there was absolutely nothing to do at night. fortunately, i brought my cook and my poker chips.''
olympia dukakis has long been a working actress in theater, films and television, but she didn't impress a national audience until ``moonstruck.'' her success came at the same time her first cousin, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, sought the democratic nomination for president
she grew up in a greek family in which everybody argued politics. after graduating from boston university, she worked as a physical therapist to earn enough money to return and study theater arts
despite her newfound fame, she intends to remain in the theater; she is the artistic director of the whole theater in montclair, n.j
i'm not convinced this being a celebrity is going to be long-lived,'' she says cautiously
fame was also a long time coming for ramsey: ``thirty-nine years later, after everything i've tried to do and everything i've wanted, this has happened. what a curious moment. thank god, thank danny (devito, who directed `momma'), thank everybody.''
ramsey has more to be thankful for than an academy nomination. a year and a half ago, she underwent surgery for cancer of the tongue. she apparently has recovered, but reconstruction of her tongue gave her slurred speech. happily, it fit perfectly into the character of the fierce momma
the actress admits that she dreamed of an oscar as a child growing up in suburban new york
i have a diary in which i wrote about it,'' she said. ``i was a real movie buff when i was a little girl. i read all the fan magazines, and i wrote for autographs and pictures from the stars. i wanted to be an actress from the time my father took me to see `the petrified forest' at the age of 4
i fell in love with actors, especially in the romantic films _ tyrone power, errol flynn, greer garson, walter pidgeon. i just loved movies. and now this (nomination) has happened. it's unbelievable.''
oradour-sur-glane, france (ap) _ just after lunch on the warm afternoon of june 10, 1944, the nazi ss began rounding up people in this prosperous country town and dividing them into groups. then they tortured, shot and burned them
historians have long pondered the reasons for the slaughter of 642 children, women and men and the destruction of oradour-sur-glane, carried out four days after the allied invasion of normandy in a village with no history of ties to the french resistance
a new book by a british businessman, robin mackness, claims to solve the mystery, suggesting that the massacre was a desperate attempt by the nazis to find a lost fortune in gold
survivors of the massacre and the families of those who died have vowed to stop publication in france of ``oradour, massacre and aftermath,'' already no. 5 on the british bestseller list and scheduled for publication by random house in the united states this fall. they claim the book warps history and insults the memory of oradour's ``martyrs.''
robert hebras, 62, who says he hid under the bodies of his neighbors to escape nazi bullets, put it more bluntly
everyone makes money from the name of oradour-sur-glane. this must cease.''
oradour has been preserved _ in ruins _ exactly as it was the day the germans marched off after the slaughter. in 1945 the french government declared the centuries-old village near limoges a national historic site and it has been visited by more than 500,000 people each year
plaques mark the sheds, cellars and barns where men were shot in the knees, interrogated, then machine gunned and their bodies burned
a cross stands outside the church where women and children huddled in terror for hours listening to gunfire kill their menfolk before the ss came to gun them down and set the sanctuary ablaze
a piece of twisted metal in the corner of the altar was once a baby carriage. a car on the village green rusts where it was parked by the mayor's son
only 13 people survived
my wife lost all her family, her mother, sister, uncle, aunt,'' said rene montaigne, a spokesman for the survivors' association. ``she still goes to the ruins because she feels at home there. she sees them all, even though they are dead.''
the new oradour-sur-glane, built adjacent to the ruins, has taken decades to recover
no one got married here for 20 years and it was only a couple of years ago that we had a wedding in june,'' said dr. robert lapuelle, mayor of the town since 1959. ``it was 1963 before we had enough youngsters to make a soccer team
no wonder people here are upset about this book.''
mackness' story is full of intrigue and personal adventure involving smuggled gold ingots and a shadowy figure named raoul
mackness writes that raoul told him that the ingots were a part of more than half a ton of gold that he and a few french resistance companions seized during a midnight ambush of an ss convoy
according to the book, the only survivors of the ambush were raoul, who buried the treasure by the side of the road, and a german soldier who reported the event
the gold apparently was a sort of floating pension fund for some officers of the 2nd ss panzer division, planning to stash it in swiss banks for after the war, mackness writes
it goes on to say that following the ambush, ss maj. otto dickmann rushed to the scene and, finding nothing and panicking, dashed to oradour, the nearest village
about 10 books have offered different explanations for the slaughter. but all have left questions dangling
mackness claims to answer many of these, but he seems to be having trouble getting anyone to accept his story because his sources are concealed
dickmann and raoul are dead. mackness refuses to divulge the names of his living sources, many of whom, he says, fear prosecution for the massacre
for many historians, mackness' word isn't enough
no historic fact allows me to give this business the least credibility,'' jacques delarue, a french historian, was quoted by the french newspaper le figaro as saying
but mackness stands by his story
it fits the known historical facts,'' he said in a telephone interview from london
the people in france who object to my book haven't read it because it hasn't been, and may not be, published there.''
in oradour, mackness is accused of dancing on the graves of the dead
mr. mackness' ambush never happened, at least not near oradour,'' said mayor lapuelle, who added that the villagers want to preserve the simple, brutal truth of the event, so ``this will never happen again.''
i had a brother at khe sahn,
fightin' off them viet cong
they're still there
he's all gone.''
_ bruce springsteen
bruce springsteen has turned down untold amounts of money for commercial use of his song, ``born in the u.s.a.'' he gave it to the makers of hbo's ``dear america: letters home from vietnam'' for free
filmmaker bill couturie edited thousands of feet of archival footage into a backdrop for the letters in this devastating 90-minute documentary, premiering sunday on hbo
besides springsteen, the soundtrack includes vintage '60s rock from such artists as the rolling stones, bob dylan and marvin gaye. the letters are read off-camera by a star-studded cast of voices, including robert de niro, kathleen turner, robin williams and michael j. fox, who all donated their time
at a recent screening in new york, some members of the audience were so moved by the film they were unable to get out of their seats when it was over
the documentary is based on the book of the same name and plays on hbo throughout april
dear america'' is different from other vietnam movies in that it is told in the words of the vets themselves in the often strikingly eloquent letters they wrote to loved ones back home:
_ a lieutenant who had just seen a soldier lose his leg writes to his brother, ``i've never seen such bravery and guts before and i'm stunned by it. you shoulda seen my men fight. they were going after wounded men no one else would go after. you shoulda seen my brave men.''
_ writes army nurse lynda van devanter, ``i'm sick of facing, every day, a new bunch of children ripped to pieces. they're just kids _ eighteen, nineteen years old! it stinks! whole lives ahead of them _ cut off. i'm sick to death of it. i've got to get out of here ...''
almost all the footage came from the heretofore untapped nbc news archives. abc's vietnam footage had already been used in several movies, and cbs does not allow outside producers to use its archives. nbc's library had been closed to filmmakers until general electric bought the network and changed the policy
i happened to be at the right place at the right time,'' said couturie
hbo said that because couturie shot none of the film, the academy awards committee turned down the documentary for oscar consideration, but hbo plans to put it up for an emmy
couturie said his interviews with vets from an earlier project convinced him of the importance of the letters, virtually the only link between those in vietnam and ``the world.'' the other link was rock 'n' roll
the soundtrack is an '60s treasury. but springsteen's ``born in the u.s.a.'' became the anthem of vietnam veterans' disillusionment and courage in the '80s
springsteen had allowed the song to be used once before, in the vietnam play ``tracers,'' produced by tom bird, co-producer of the hbo film. couturie just had to have the song for the ending of ``dear america.''
we went to springsteen and asked him if we could use it, and he immediately said yes. it didn't take one second for him to say yes. in fact, his comment was, `it's the vets' song. of course, you can use it,''' couturie said
springsteen donated the song on the condition that all the music be donated, giving the producers leverage to obtain the other music without cost
the film is structured chronologically and punctuated by stark graphics describing the escalation of the conflict. the combination of music and pictures evokes the era, not just the war
but above it all are the words
couturie knew what he wanted in the reading of the letters _ a delicate balance of emotion that didn't go over the edge into melodrama. he found himself giving direction to the biggest names in acting _ de niro, williams, turner, fox, martin sheen, sean penn, willem dafoe, brian dennehy, john heard, harvey keitel, randy quaid, howard rollins jr. and john savage, among others
ellen burstyn reads the last, most devastating letter, from a mother to a son who died in the conflict 15 years earlier
when burstyn arrived at the studio, couturie said, she brushed him off, insisting brusquely that they just get on with it
my heart was sinking,'' he said. ``i was going, oh, god, this woman has a lunch date or something and wants to get out of here, and this is the most crucial letter in the film, and i really blew it, i've picked the wrong person.'' she was not the wrong person. she had been rehearsing the letter on her own and couldn't discuss it, she had to just do it
that's the only letter that was done in one take,'' couturie said. ``she went in and just nailed it. it was an awesome performance.''
elsewhere:
clapton talks _ rock guitar legend eric clapton will be the subject of a special on the bravo cable network in may. ``the south bank show: eric clapton'' features clapton and bass player jack bruce performing cream songs for the first time since 1969. it also includes interviews with clapton, elton john, phil collins, sting and pete townsend
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
country singles
1.``famous last words of a fool'' george strait (mca)
2.``i wanna dance with you'' eddie rabbitt (rca)
3.``i'll always come back'' k.t. oslin (rca)
4.``it's such a small world'' rodney crowell &amp; roseanne cash (columbia)
5.``timeless and true love'' the mccarters (warner bros
6.``cry, cry, cry'' highway 101 (warner bros
7.``strangers again'' holly dunn (mtm)
8.``the last resort'' t. graham brown (capitol)
9.``it's only make believe'' ronnie mcdowell (curb)
10.``i'm gonna get you'' eddy raven (rca)
11.``love will find its way to you'' reba mcentire (mca)
12.``everybody's sweetheart'' vince gill (rca)
13.``young country'' hank williams jr. (warner-curb)
14.``baby i'm yours'' steve wariner (mca)
15.``americana'' moe bandy (curb)
16.``if ole hank could only see us now'' waylon jennings (mca)
17.``santa fe'' the bellamy bros. (mca-curb)
18.``she's no lady'' lyle lovett (mca-curb)
19.``if my heart had windows'' patty loveless (mca)
20.``the factory'' kenny rogers (rca)
adult contemporary singles
1.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
2.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
3.``anything for you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
4.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
5.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
6.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
7.``what a wonderful world'' louis armstrong (a&amp;m)
8.``one step up'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
9.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
10.``talking back to the night'' steve winwood (island)
11.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
12.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
13.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
14.``theme from `l.a. law''' mike post (polydor)
15.``i don't want to live without you'' foreigner (atlantic)
16.``out of the blue'' debbie green (atlantic)
17.``set the night to music'' starship (rca)
18.``piano in the dark'' brenda russell &amp; joe esposito (a&amp;m)
19.``when we was fab'' george harrison (dark horse)
20.``you don't know'' scarlett &amp; black (virgin)
more
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
black singles
1.``ooo la la la'' teena marie (epic)
2.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
3.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
4.``da `butt'' e.u. (emi-manhattan)
5.``wasn't i good to ya?'' da'krash (capitol)
6.``lovin' on next to nothing'' gladys knight &amp; the pips (mca)
7.``sweet sensation'' levert (atlantic)
8.``all in my mind'' full force (columbia)
9.``that's what love is'' miki howard (atlantic)
10.``you are who you love'' gavin christopher (emi-manhattan)
11.``lovey dovey'' tony terry (epic)
12.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
13.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
14.``nite and day'' al b. sure! (warner bros
15.``pink cadillac'' natalie cole (emi-manhattan)
16.``i've been a fool for you'' miles jaye (island)
17.``going back to cali'' l.l. cool j. (def jam)
18.``here comes the night'' melisa morgan (capitol)
19.``don't you know'' heavy d. &amp; the boyz (mca)
20.``fishnet'' morris day (warner bros
top pop compact disks
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
2.``naked'' talking heads (sire)
3.``now and zen'' robert plant (esp-atlantic)
4.``past masters, vol. ii'' the beatles (capitol)
5.``faith'' george michael (columbia)
6.``past masters, vol. i'' the beatles (capitol)
7.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)
8.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)
9.``intro. the hardline according to terence trent d'arby'' terrence trent d'arby (columbia)
10.``more `dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
11.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)
12.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
13.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
14.``lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
15.``kingdom come'' kingdom come (polydor)
16.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
17.``phantom of the opera'' original london cast (polydor)
18.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
19.``tear down these walls'' billy ocean (jive)
20.``the joshua tree'' u2 (island)
try as they might, lutherans in this proud mill town can't seem to forgive or forget the controversy that shook their church when a mild-mannered pastor added protest to prayer
sunday after sunday four years ago, d. douglas roth preached against ``corporate evil'' and the moral imperative of helping workers in this economically strapped area
often the sermons were delivered after he and others burst into services attended by steel industry executives. the protesters put dead fish in safe deposit boxes, and sprayed skunk oil at banks
the protests climaxed in january 1985 when seven of roth's supporters, including his wife, barricaded themselves inside trinity lutheran church in defiance of a court order, only to be routed by sheriff's deputies
now, many of the faithful are back in their pews, worshipping with a new minister. roth, now defrocked, conducts lutheran-style services every sunday for a smaller flock at a pentecostal sanctuary across town
the protest group, denominational ministry strategy, has changed its name to dmx to mimic its main target, usx corp., which used to be united states steel corp
and the controversy surrounding dmx's tactics rumbles on
this group can't back off and say, `well, maybe we were wrong. we've caused a lot of heartache and we're sorry,'' said mary gahagen, 70, a lay official at the newly organized lutheran church of the holy spirit in what used to be trinity lutheran
for the ones living here, they'll never get over it,'' said the rev. walter koehler, 61, the church's new pastor. ``it's not hatred, but it borders on that.''
roth and other dmx supporters take it all in stride
they think we're crazy,'' said roth, 36, wearing, as always, his clerical collar. ``they know we'll do whatever it takes.''
roth's latest brush with the law came march 4 during prince charles' visit to a pittsburgh area jobs center for the unemployed. roth and another dmx supporter were arrested while protesting outside, but were cleared of disorderly conduct charges
we're upsetting and making all sorts of impact without even having to lift a finger,'' boasted daniel solberg, 37, another defrocked lutheran minister and a dmx leader. his brother, actor david soul, periodically has lent his support
gone are all but a half dozen of the lutheran pastors who helped organize the church-sponsored ministry in the early 1980s. the group soon charged pittsburgh-area corporate giants like usx and mellon bank with abandoning once-prosperous steel towns along the monongahela and ohio rivers
this is a small but vocal minority. i think people understand that,'' said the rev. edward kappeler, 56, an official of the southwestern pennsylvania synod of the evangelical lutheran church in america. ``the broad consensus of the lutheran church is that the church is doing what it can in the areas the dmx has always professed to be concerned about.''
gone, too, are the unionists who backed the rebel clergymen's cause. ``it became a church battle, that's what happened,'' explained ron weisen, 51, a former united steelworkers local president
as for roth, he says his defrocking and going on welfare have helped him empathize more with the problems he was protesting and made him more credible among the unemployed
there are prices to be paid, particularly in the family,'' said roth, a father of four. ``but family is exactly why you do this. how can you look your children in the eyes and say, `well, we have to take care of ourselves'? it's very bad theology.''
the unorthodox crusade began in earnest on easter 1984 when dmx supporters stormed into an affluent pittsburgh church and railed against ``corporate evil.'' they declared that overseas investments by steelmakers and other businesses were contributing to the area's high jobless rate
the next sunday, and the next and the next, similar disruptions were staged at other churches in this rusting steel mill valley
as the hostilities escalated, roth's congregation sought and won his removal. refusing to leave, he was arrested at trinity lutheran's altar in november 1984 and jailed for 112 days for civil contempt of court
because of the turmoil, the synod's executive board ordered the 60-year-old stone church locked and the 145-member congregation disbanded. koehler arrived in september 1986, and the new parish was organized last october
koehler's first sermon touched on forgiveness, although he ``didn't beat it to the ground.''
he's since had his own faith and patience sorely tested. he said the words ``scab pastor'' have been spray-painted on church property, glue has been squeezed into door locks, a stained glass window was shattered by a rock, and an outside gas meter mysteriously was turned off one bitterly cold night
i was prepared for a lot worse than has happened,'' koehler said. ``i brainwashed myself before i came here that i was not going to let their nonsense get to me.''
while the dmx has not claimed responsibility for the vandalism, roth acknowledged ``people are still upset that this abomination of church is there. they're just reacting to the removal of this valid ministry.''
he's appealing the synod executive board's decision to declare the congregation defunct. he's also appealing two jail sentences that are pending as a result of past protests
i will be back as an ordained pastor. i will be at trinity without a doubt,'' he said, nodding emphatically. ``it's just a matter of how much more do they want to lose before i win.''
retarded men and women around the nation are being shown an explicit videotape about sex in hopes it will help keep them safe from aids
the video uses startling illustrations _ including still photographs of surrogates in specific sexual positions
you can't generalize or use words. they don't know what you're talking about,'' explained alice rose, program director of the cerebral palsy association of san francisco, which will present the video at 12 group homes
their ability to abstract information is impaired,'' added rebecca porper, a public health educator from the new york city department of health who appears in the film. ``you have to deal absolutely in black and white, with no grays, and it has to be reiterated in several ways, preferably multi-sensory.''
the young adult institute, the non-profit agency that created the 17-minute video, with help from the city health department, acknowledges the idea offends some people
someone called from iowa and said, `how dare you put homosexuals on the tape?''' said perry samowitz, the institute's training director. ``we don't want to come across as crazy liberals from new york who are promoting promiscuity. but what are the alternatives? we don't want our clients to die _ no matter who gives us flak.''
the main goal is ``to make sure a condom is worn'' if a retarded adult decides to have sex, samowitz said
for tina mills, who has down's syndrome and lives with 14 other mildly retarded people in their 20s and 30s at a suburban yonkers apartment building, talking about aids is scary. but after she saw the video, she said, ``i tried to urge that (condom use) to a friend at the workshop.''
there are times i don't really want to talk about it or think about it,'' agreed fellow resident dan sigman. ``it's kind of painful, but it's better to learn all about it. aids kills.''
no statistics indicate how many aids victims are retarded, according to chuck fallis, spokesman for the federal centers for disease control. ms. porper said she knew of eight aids cases among the retarded in the metropolitan area, and a retarded new yorker died last year of aids contracted through a blood transfusion, according to lou ganim, a spokesman for the state office of mental health and developmental disabilities
the risk of aids is no less real for the retarded. and so the film is explicit
in one photograph, male surrogates are positioned as if they were about to engage in anal sex so viewers can understand the link between that practice and aids. oral sex and the use of condoms in heterosexual intercourse are also illustrated
i'm sure we'll get one or two people who will go bananas about it,'' said ms. rose. ``a small proportion of people do not believe that their children, whether adults or not, have a right to be active or have knowledge of sexual activity.''
i don't dare bring it up with my parents,'' said abbie colpoys of the yonkers group home
my parents talk a lot about that kind of thing. they warn me about what could happen to me,'' said ms. mills. ``i say, `ma, please _ i can take care of myself. i care about myself.'''
teachers stress in group discussions that the film is not intended to advocate any act, and that abstinence is acceptable. role-playing is included to help participants refuse unsafe sex
it teaches them how to be sensitive and relate to people in a caring, responsible way,'' said joel m. levy, executive director of the yai, which runs 50 programs for the retarded in the new york area, including 24 group homes
group home residents also practice putting condoms on a plastic penis and are told to use condoms themselves, even when it's not clear where a romantic moment will lead
the mildly and moderately retarded know their judgment is impaired,'' said ms. porper. ``if you give them a choice they are incapable of making _ like when to put on a condom _ it raises tremendous anxieties in them.''
some professionals have qualms about the film's approach
i think the general feeling of our staff is that it was too negative, too scary,'' said cathy berger, prevention specialist with the wisconsin council on developmental disabilities. yai sent the tape to 150 agencies, and the wisconsin council was among five that returned it, said samowitz
they (the filmmakers) see this as a very serious issue and their intent is to make people aware of it by scaring them. we're concerned about that approach,'' said ms. berger
it also concerns yonkers group home resident sandy mintzer. she and her boyfriend understand safe sex, but cannot use condoms because of poor hand coordination _ a problem for some retarded people
it's hard to talk about because it's scary,'' said ms. mintzer, who adamantly refused to see the film a second time
sometimes, denial is an easier way of dealing with scary feelings,'' the residential supervisor, laura eldridge, told others in the group. ``but i don't feel it's healthy.''
some members of the wisconsin council also were bothered by the film's explicit nature or felt that it ``left some questions that might confuse people,'' said ms. berger
they agree the retarded need aids education, she said. ``but it's not like there's a canned program that works for everybody. agencies have different perspectives, and communities have different attitudes.''
the film is out of the question for roman catholic programs for the retarded because of religious doctrine against condoms and premarital sex, said monsignor james cassidy, director of health and hospitals for the new york archdiocese
we'd be against it purely from the medical point of view,'' said cassidy. ``condoms fail. if we relied solely on condoms, we'd have every darn one of the females pregnant.''
instead, abstinence is taught to the 350 retarded adults served through archdiocese programs. ``it's just a reinforcement of what we've been doing all along,'' said cassidy
ganim, the spokesman for the new york mental health office, felt ambivalent about the film
i certainly know it's explicit and some people have expressed concerns about that,'' he said. ``but by and large, what we have heard back about the tape has been positive. they've brought up the fact that there is a need for this kind of thing.''
dr. lloyd kolbe, chief of the cdc's office of school health and special projects, said no one has studied what kind of aids information is available for the retarded and what might be effective
kolbe said cdc guidelines issued in january suggested that schools address the issue of aids education for the disabled
we need to think about it,'' said kolbe. ``the questions, i think, are important ones.''
it's not like you should just forget about it and pretend aids doesn't exist,'' said lauren hoffman, a resident at the group home. ``a woman has to be prepared.''
rod matthews was a sullen, introverted boy, fascinated with death, obsessed with fire. shaun ouillette was outgoing and happy; he played hockey and talked of counseling troubled youths
sixteen months ago matthews beat ouillette to death with a baseball bat. last month the 15-year-old was found guilty of second-degree murder and given life in prison
the horrible crime wasn't the only link between murderer and victim. both took ritalin, a stimulant used to calm hyperactive children
and while the trial served as a stage to the debate over the drug, it also provided testimony on how ritalin, in combination with other treatment, can help children, and how its casual use can allow deeper problems to go undetected
matthews' attorney, john philip white, claimed the drug nudged the boy into the madness it took to plan and commit murder. the citizens commission on human rights, an anti-psychiatry group connected with the church of scientology, trumpeted the case as an example of the dangers it associates with the drug
a stream of psychiatrists and psychologists gave offsetting testimony. defense witnesses said matthews was psychotic, that the ritalin ``enhanced'' his obsession to kill. prosecution witnesses said the boy's emotional problems were not enough to obscure his notion of right and wrong. ritalin, they said, played no factor
ironically, ouillette's mother, jeanne quinn, says ritalin helped her son, calming him enough to allow the counseling and therapy that taught him how to control himself
guidelines by the american academy of pediatrics say ritalin should be prescribed after detailed diagnosis and used only in combination with counseling and careful monitoring. according to testimony, matthews received ritalin without other therapy
his mother, janet, portrayed him as a quiet child who said little more than yes or no in his early years. when he became a behavioral problem in the third grade, a pediatrican prescribed ritalin
mrs. matthews said there were no special psychological or physical tests, no monitoring of her son's progress over the next five years
mrs. matthews said her son went off the drug a few months before the killing, then asked for more pills a few weeks later. a bottle of ritalin was found in his school locker; no one knows if he was taking the drug at the time of the killing
in contrast, mrs. quinn said her son ``went through all kinds of tests'' before he was diagnosed as hyperactive and given ritalin at age 7
she said she attended sessions for parents with hyperactive children, watched her son's diet and diverted his energies into activities like hockey and bicycling
after four years, ouillette was weaned from the drug
we had taught him to learn self-discipline and self-control,'' she said
white said the effect ritalin had on his client remains a mystery, but he believes that reliance on the drug, instead of testing and therapy, played a role in the tragedy
the whole affair was a lost opportunity to spot a potential problem,'' he said. ``as a result, we've got one boy in prison and another boy dead.'' 
one hyperactive student is greatly helped by ritalin, so the teacher encourages the parents of others to try it _ and they tell other parents about the happy results. ritalin's success many have led to its excess: some fear it's now overused. the second story in a three-day series, `r' is for ritalin, looks at the increased role of a prescribed drug in the nation's schools
something new is tucked amid the workbooks, pencils and sandwiches in an increasing number of school backpacks each day. it is a pill, no bigger than button candy, prescribed to help youngsters get through their multiplication tables, spelling tests and geography lessons
the pill is ritalin, a stimulant that can assist hyperactive children in concentrating, completing their work and controlling frenzied outbursts that turn classrooms to chaos
some parents describe ritalin as a godsend
it was like the difference between day and night,'' said nancy anderson, a buffalo, minn., mother whose daughter, 11, and son, 8, take the drug. ``the first day sarah took ritalin was the first time she was able to read something and understand it. that night she told me and started crying
i cried, too.''
but ritalin's success may be leading to its excess. as many as 1 million children may take the drug, and happy endings like the andersons' are encouraging more doctors to prescribe it, sometimes with less triumphant results
many doctors say superficial diagnosis and limited follow-up have led to the medicating of the children who don't need it, or who need additional counseling to learn how to tame the confusion inside their minds
i know of several communities and school districts where people are excessively prescribing medication for children without adequately evaluating them,'' said russell barkely, director of psychology at the university of massachusetts medical center. barkely said these communities to the west and north of boston ``may be seeing the children once a year and renewing the prescription by telephone.''
the five states with the highest per-capita consumption of ritalin _ utah, maryland, georgia, minnesota and michigan _ have begun investigating its use
georgia officials alarmed by high ritalin use in suburban atlanta found school personnel were urging ritalin treatment on parents
we looked at what was driving the marketplace and wound up with the conclusion that it was the school systems,'' said andrew watry, executive director of georgia's composite state board of medical examiners. ``parents were calling us with a lot of anecdotal information about how their arms were twisted to take the medication.''
lavarne parker, a suburban atlanta mother, believes ritalin is used as a chemical billy club to subdue problem students. she has filed suit against the doctor and school officials who encouraged her to medicate her son
it's almost like someone said we've got a pill to give a child who won't do what you want him to do,'' she said
when susan marshall's son, bradley, had trouble in first-grade at hingham, mass., she sought medical help on the school's advice. her pediatrian prescribed ritalin
but bradley did not improve and, according to his mother, suffered from insomnia, depression and a loss of appetite. mrs. marshall finally took bradley to a neurologist who found the boy's problems were due to a hemiparesis, a limited brain injury not treatable by ritalin
the marshalls are suing the pediatrician
he simply prescribed ritalin,'' she said. ``we were not given a diagnosis.''
parents like mrs. marshall and mrs. parker claim ritalin carries harsh side effects, from facial tics and lost appetite to depression and suicide. their anxieties are fed by the citizens commission on human rights _ a group, supported by the church of scientology, that opposes psychiatric treatment and is conducting a nationwide media campaign against ritalin
doctors and government regulators dismiss most charges against ritalin as exaggerated and unsubstantiated, citing some 500 research papers that mostly agree side effects are temporary and minimal
manufactured by ciba-geigy corp. and known generically as methylphenidate, ritalin is one in a small group of drugs used to treat childhood behavioral disorders and narcolepsy. as a class ii drug, it is listed, along with amphetamines, morphine and the painkiller demerol, as a drug with legitimate use but high potential for abuse
prescribing drugs for problem children is not new. the roman physican galen suggested opium for overactive children in the first century. research in the 1930s indicated that treating hyperactive children with stimulants, usually amphetamines, helped calm them. ritalin was developed in 1955 as an alternative to amphetamines
what has changed in the last decade is the awareness _ some say overawareness _ of the malady that ritalin is used to treat
known variously over years as hyperactivity, hyperkinesis and minimal brain disfunction, the syndrome is now called attention deficit disorder, a catch-all of symptoms ranging from wild, destructive behavior to an inability to concentrate or, in educational jargon, ``stay on task.''
researchers say 3 to 10 percent of the nation's 45 million schoolchildren exhibit some symptoms of add
the american psychiatric association's diagnostic bible lists add symptoms such as fidgeting, difficulty awaiting turns at games, blurting out answers before being called on, excessive talking and a penchant for losing things
while many parents would recognize some of these noisome habits in their children, add parents say it is the intensity of the behavior that separates theirs from normal children
it's the constantness of it,'' said jean conner harrison, a west newbury, mass., mother who publishes a newsletter for add families. ``you are trapped in it. you can't take these children anywhere, you can't get babysitters to stay with them. it is so emotionally tough to get through this day by day.''
add is the single most researched area of child psychology. some 600 research papers on the subject were published last year. add seminars are commonly held around the country for doctors, educators and parents
regional diagnostic clinics have sprung up, often near research centers in states with high ritalin use. as a result, more and more children are being diagnosed with add and treated with medication
critics note with alarm that ritalin production has doubled since 1983. but the u.s. drug enforcement administration, which sets production levels, says that statistic sheds little light on how many people take a drug
a better gauge is number of prescriptions. an fda report shows 2.2 million prescriptions for ritalin and related drugs were filled and refilled in 1986. the figure does not show the number of people using the drug, but it does indicate an increase in use _ the number is 14 percent higher than in 1983
that's unusual,'' said carlene baum, an fda psychologist. ``the average annual increase in prescriptions for most drugs is 1 percent.''
no one is certain how many of the nation's children get a daily dose of ritalin. daniel safer, a johns hopkins university child psychiatrist who has studied surveys at various school districts, believes 600,000 to 800,000 schoolchildren receive stimulant medication, mostly ritalin
it's been going up steadily,'' said safer, ``and i don't see it going down.''
eds: this sty may be considered complete in one take. a second take follows for those desiring more detail
in 1971, 1.1 percent of baltimore county school students were taking ritalin, safer said. by 1983, the number was up to 3.5 percent
the increase is a multiple of factors: parent-teacher satisfaction, the ease of treatment and its relative success,'' he said
most maryland school districts recommend parents seek medical help only after teachers, counselors and administrators have met to discuss a problem student
we don't prescribe ritalin,'' said robert dubel, superintendent of the baltimore county school district. ``all we do is refer children to medical help, the same as we would if a child had problems seeing a blackboard. we would tell the parents and they would have the child's eyes examined.''
yet when baltimore county officials, threatened with a lawsuit, reviewed their policy late last year, they found such a measured response was not always the case
i am convinced that we probably do have some people out there who sidestep some of the procedures and say `you have to get that child on ritalin,''' said thomas farley, an assistant county attorney
in georgia, watry, the director of the medical examiners' board, tells of one school counselor who would ``pressure parents on a mass scale to use ritalin.''
he told parents he was playing the percentages because it had helped with so many cases,'' said watry
late last year a special study group for the georgia department of education recommended school personnel be warned against ``pressuring'' parents to seek medication and leave diagnosis and treatment to medical professionals
but often these professionals are not doing a complete job
the american academy of pediatrics recommends extensive testing and discussion among doctors, parents and educators before prescribing medication
guidelines also stress that medication is only part of the solution. counseling, therapy, tutoring, even special classes for parents are recommended
almost everybody in the field will say you have to do more than give the pill,'' said james satterfield, a los angeles-area psychiatrist whose research found hyperactive children responded dramatically better to a combination of therapy and ritalin
we've heard about pediatricians who have said, `here's six months of prescription, come back when it runs out,''' he said. ``that gives a message to parents that here's this magic pill, you don't need any other treatment.''
but some question if many of those getting treatment need it
thomas long, a psychologist and director of the national center for family studies at the catholic university of america, believes doctors choose medication when counseling and different parenting might be enough
we have created a society that relies on medication to solve our problems,'' he said. ``the first thing you go to when you have a problem is some kind of pill.''
each weekday morning our 7-year-old son tom starts breakfast with a tiny white tablet he calls his ``daydream pill.''
the pill has become part of our daily routine. there was a time when my wife and i, people who think twice before taking aspirin, would have been incredulous had you told us we'd be giving our child a behavior-modifying drug
as tom grew into an active toddler, he gave no indication anything was amiss; we were sure he was a superstar. with blond curls and a sturdy well-coordinated body, he was quick and good at everything: an early walker and talker, a cheerful elf full of eager questions
but by the time tom was ready for kindergarten, we were concerned. he couldn't seem to keep his mind on a task. he didn't like to play alone, and he didn't stay with an activity for more than a few minutes
we hoped it was just immaturity. perhaps we had spoiled him?
with his quick mind and pleasing personality, tom drifted through kindergarten. we wondered why he wasn't picking up academic skills as quickly as we'd anticipated, but his school reports were generally good and he was having a good year with soccer and t-ball
everything changed in first grade. he was one of 30 classmates, and most of the school day required independent seatwork
we realized something was very wrong when tom began collapsing into tantrums of free-floating rage and frustration after school. we were completely taken aback, especially because we had high confidence in his small, caring school
we were mystified by our little soccer player's rage. at what? was it the oversized class?
the school principal assured us that, although the class was large, the children were doing fine
we spoke to psychologist friends about whether some deep-seated anxiety could be surfacing
tom himself was unable to give us any clues until one night in the midst of an emotional collapse, he said, over and over, ``i'm dumb.''
fortunately for us all, tom's class took a group intelligence test about this time. tom's score was so high in comparison with his performance that the principal called us in. she wanted to do further testing and mentioned ``attention deficit,'' a term that seemed to fit the child we knew
the principal also mentioned ritalin, saying she had seen dramatic changes in kids like tom. we were appalled by the suggestion we give our boy a drug, skeptical that this was the proper way to approach a learning problem
instead, we tried a highly publicized diet and spent an agonizing month keeping tom from many of his favorite foods, ones with cyclamates and additives. the stress of the diet increased tom's rage and frustration
we next urged the school to institute behavioral techniques, such as rewarding tom for even brief periods of concentration. these helped, but only moderately, and we started to reconsider
after reading all the research we could find, and considering the side effects (such as the possibility tom would be one-quarter inch shorter as an adult), we concluded the risks of trying ritalin were minimal
a factor in our decision was our own dependence on our morning cups of coffee, which help us get going and stay focused. were we depriving tom of the equivalent of a morning cup of coffee?
the pediatrician said tom might temporarily lose his appetite or have trouble sleeping. none of this happened, and tom was surpringly amenable to taking the tiny pill
indeed, tom was the first to let us know it was making some difference. he started calling it his ``daydream pill,'' saying it helped him control the daydreams that distracted him in class. his teacher soon reported his behavior was improving, and we saw this reflected in his school work
still, we couldn't be certain it wasn't just a placebo effect on tom and the teacher
this year, with a new teacher who shared our lingering reservations, we withheld the ritalin for a couple of weeks. simultaneously, tom and his teacher reported he couldn't concentrate and urged us to return to the pill
with the increased demands of second grade, tom has begun taking an additional 5 milligrams at lunch. occasionally, when he's having trouble staying with his homework, he'll say, ``maybe i should take a pill.'' last week we filled yet another prescription at the pharmacy where we are now recognized as regulars
last month, tom proudly brought home a report card with b's in math and english and a's _ his first ever _ in reading and spelling. in categories such as deportment, handwriting and follows directions, which last year produced a string of f's for failure and n's for non-satisfactory, there were 2 n's and 13 s's _ for satisfactory
is ritalin a panacea? no. even with the pill, tom's attention deficit still requires the guidance of a skillful teacher
are we comfortable about him taking medicine? yes and no
we like the results but are uncomfortable treating a symptom, the cause of which no one knows. we are especially uncomfortable that the psychologists and doctors seem unconcerned why tom has trouble paying attention
will we keep giving him the pill? yes, at least while tom thinks it's helpful. we'll also keep trying to find a deeper understanding of what's involved
as tom says, ``it's not perfect, but it works, some.''
strat douthat is the ap southeast regional reporter, based in atlanta. his wife, attorney gail falk, helped write this article about their son, tom
for parents facing a decision on whether to medicate a child with ritalin, psychiatrists and pediatricians offer some advice: make sure the diagnosis is made carefully and the treatment involves more than just taking pills
ritalin is commonly prescribed for hyperactive children with attention deficit disorder, but too often they are diagnosed without proper testing and evaluation, they say
and if a treatment does not include counseling and educational therapies, it probably is faulty, the experts add
i think there are children given the drug who do not have add,'' said dr. jerry wiener, president of the american academy of child and adolescent psychiatry. ``and if they do, drugs alone are not going to resolve that. very often mistakes are made of making the diagnosis and then only prescribing the drug.''
parents, wiener said, should expect five things of their physician:
_ a complete and thorough diagnosis
_ information about possible side effects
_ close monitoring of the effects of medication through regular visits
_ information about alternative treatments
_ an explanation of the consequences if medication is not used
if the physician does not do these things, parents have every reason ... to seek medical help elsewhere,'' wiener said
the american psychiatric association's diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders says an add diagnosis must include signs of inattention and impulsivity, as well as onset before age 7 and duration of at least six months. other disorders must be ruled out
an add study group appointed by the georgia department of education called add ``one of the most time-consuming of the disorders of childhood to evaluate.''
dr. michael levine, a san antonio, texas, child hyperactivity expert, said he spends two hours taking history and 10 hours testing before making an add diagnosis
when you see johnny staring out the window or bouncing off the walls, you don't know if he's off-task because of a brain filter problem (treatable with ritalin), a learning disability or a behavioral problem,'' levine said
once an add diagnosis is made, experts say, too often the child is treated only with medications such as ritalin _ the prescribed way to go until as recently as 1970. the latest research shows that a more effective treatment combines medication with therapy and counseling
everyone agrees that you have to do something more than give a pill,'' said dr. james satterfield of encino, calif., who pioneered some add research. ``in the real world, most of the children get one treatment, seldom two, never three _ and the most common would be medication.''
daily doses of the drug ritalin are increasingly the treatment of choice for children diagnosed with attention deficit disorder. not surprisingly, more and more clinics are specializing in such diagnosis and treatment. and schools are often enthusiastic about ritalin's success. two stories offer inside looks at one such clinic, where an 11-year-old girl learned she would begin what might be years of ritalin therapy, and at a school where teachers credit ritalin with helping children conquer their emotional and academic despair. a third story looks at utah, the state with the youngest population, a reputation for moral conservatism _ and the highest per capita use of ritalin in the nation
her school principal had urged her mother to make the four-hour drive from rural northern michigan. now 11-year-old chrissie sat in a tiny, windowless office where a psychologist peppered her with questions
the morning would end with doctors at the attention deficit disorder clinic of children's hospital telling chrissie her baffling problems at home and in school would mean treatment with the stimulant ritalin, quite likely for years
but first doctors tested chrissie: spelling tests, math tests, reading tests, questions about her family life. they probed her moods, whether she ever felt like committing suicide (``once or twice,'' she said.) they examined her school grades, read reports from teachers
they even had chrissie, a sliver-thin, pretty girl with straight blond hair, draw a picture of herself. the 2-inch-high sketch spoke volumes to the psychologist about the youngster's poor self-image
finally the psychologist asked chrissie for three wishes
a horse ranch,'' the girl said after several moments. ``a happy life. and people who care who can help me through this tough time
i haven't really been happy since i was 2 or so. i yell at my parents. later i wish i hadn't done it. they're very good to me. so i haven't had a very happy life.''
chrissie, which is not the girl's real name, indeed had many problems, the doctors concluded. but she hardly fit the popular, often mistaken, stereotype of children who take ritalin
first, boys are eight times more likely than girls to be diagnosed as having add. second, chrissie wasn't ``bouncing off the walls.'' in fact, many youngsters recommended for ritalin treatment are not discipline problems and appear calm in most situations
chrissie, said psychologist arthur robin, is ``a classic case of a kid whose add was not caught as a young kid.'' pre-adolescents and teen-agers who unexplainedly struggle with school for years often arrive at add clinics deeply depressed as a result of their attention problems
the key was her inability to complete tasks and concentrate. tests suggested she was weak in math, easily frustrated, dangerously depressed, and had a poor self-image
chrissie knows she has troubles. ``i have quite a problem paying attention in school. i've had it since kindergarten,'' she told a visitor in a brief break from testing. ``i sometimes just have to get out of my seat. i go to the drinking fountain, and i'm not even thirsty. it's weird
if i have a problem, i'd really like to know about it.''
fewer than 100 such add clinics operate around the country, according to wade horn, a psychologist who heads one at children's hospital national medical center in washington, d.c. nearly all start with the assumption that add is essentially a physiological disease that in most cases can be treated chemically
some clinics simply juggle prescriptions, using placebos and ritalin or other stimulant drugs alternately to find the most effective treatment. they leave the followup and monitoring to others, often the family pediatrician
others, like the detroit clinic, employ pediatricians, psychologists and social workers to look at the child in totality. that means that counseling and changes in lessons or surroundings are often part of the treatment. but at the heart of these clinics is the conviction that ritalin therapy helps most patients
since it opened in september 1986, the add clinic here has examined some 600 patients and has a three-month waiting list, said dr. sheldon brenner, a pediatrician and co-director of the clinic. at least three-quarters were diagnosed as having add, and about 85 percent of those were placed on medication, usually ritalin
once treatment begins, doctors rely on teacher questionnaires, report cards and parents to monitor whether ritalin is helping the child in school and whether it is having side effects
chrissie's teacher wrote this description of her on a conners questionnaire, the standardized form used to evaluate children suspected of having attention deficit disorder:
chrissie is not a behavior problem,'' her teacher wrote. ``i just do not have her attention 90 percent of the time. ... on the day we had our first bit of snow last fall, i was trying to help her understand something. she looked at me and smiled, saying `i wonder what my kitten thinks of snow? she never saw it before.' sometimes it seems her mind is way off somewhere else.''
chrissie and her mother sat expressionless as the doctors later told them that ritalin and psychological counseling ``should make a difference.''
her mother expressed mild surprise over the prescription. ``ritalin has a bad name,'' she said after the doctors had left the room. ``i was somewhat surprised because i associated ritalin with hyperactivity.''
how is chrissie doing? after six weeks of ritalin and counseling, chrissie's teachers told doctors she had shown mild improvement in attention span and a marked improvement in her ability to sit still and stick to school work. even with an increase in dosage, to 30 milligrams a day, she has exhibited no side effects
progress, but no quick miracles, then, for chrissie. the ritalin therapy continues. iii-clinic</note>
one of jane easton's pupils takes the drug ritalin to calm his hyperactivity and help him pay attention. she challenged a visitor to guess who
chris was the obvious choice. seated with three other boys at a semicircular desk in a special education class at scotch elementary school, the third-grader fidgeted in his chair, got up several times to sharpen his pencil, drummed his fingers, asked questions repeatedly and never seemed to hear the answers
the guess was wrong. instead, the child on ritalin was a slender boy with flaming red hair who calmly sailed through a reading comprehension quiz and listened attentively to a lesson on homonyms. easton says he's doing so well he probably will leave handicapped classes forever in the fall
at scotch elementary, they believe in ritalin _ and teachers point to cases like these to vindicate their faith in the controversial drug
far from thinking ritalin creates passive ``zombies,'' as some critics have charged, teachers and parents alike in this affluent northwest detroit suburb seem convinced of ritalin's track record for turning emotional and academic despair into success
grades and attention span often improve, and some youngsters who might have spent entire school careers isolated in classes for the disabled have managed to rejoin their regular peers with the help of the drug
most of all, teachers like easton resent the assertion by some that ritalin is merely a cynical way for schools to silence problem children while claiming they are trying to help them
i read that this is the way we treat kids we can't handle. it's not true. it's just not true,'' said easton, whose daughter has taken the drug for four years
while an estimated 1-2 percent of the nation's 40 million schoolchildren take ritalin, dr. paul h. wender, a salt lake city psychiatrist and author of several books on attention deficit disorder, or add, believes 3-to-10 percent of all children have hyperactivity problems
at scotch elementary, approximately 5 percent of the 550 pupils drop by principal carl childress's office each day to take a pill
several elements help explain why ritalin is commonplace at scotch elementary; teachers and school administrators have attended seminars and taken other training to recognize symptoms of add. area doctors are not only willing to prescribe ritalin but also to work with teachers and schools to monitor its success. and parents generally seem to accept the professionalism, good faith and judgment of the teachers and doctors
when you first start talking to parents about this, they're devastated,'' said principal carl childress. ``then 90 percent react that it is a medical problem.''
childress tells of a youngster named george who has taken ritalin for two years. he had been assigned to a ``resource room,'' where handicapped children get individual instruction for part of each day
he had an incident every day of losing his temper, punching someone or screaming in vile terms,'' said childress. ``now he's out of special education. he's a winner.''
childress, like other educators, insists ``we never recommend medication.'' but that's only partly true. if the school's psychologist, social worker or reading specialist believes a child has add, they know which doctors will nearly always prescribe ritalin
at the top of the list is dr. ruth robin, a pediatrician who operates the attention deficit center in nearby southfield, mich. schools from all over michigan and northern ohio recommend her, and prospective patients often wait 6-8 weeks for an appointment. she now treats 1,500 youngsters for add, some as young as 3. almost invariably, she prescribes ritalin or similar medication
i work magic with the medicine,'' she said in an interview in her office. ``i'm willing to try things
we're talking about large numbers of kids who are getting a bum steer in life, from kindergarten on. some look like couch potatoes. they don't all look alike,'' she said
but even ritalin's advocates admit it isn't always well-monitored. teachers are supposed to provide crucial information enabling doctors to set the right dosage, or to determine if drugs are necessary at all to academic success
such monitoring is frequent when medication first begins. after that, ``there really isn't that much to do unless there's a problem,'' the doctor said
childress said robin and other add specialists typically send teachers questionnaires to fill out for the first 2-4 weeks of medication, then gradually less frequently until ``we feel we're on a steady course. at a certain point we step out of the picture unless the teacher notices a problem.''
still, ritalin remains a ``last resort,'' said childress. teachers might, for example, put distractible children in study carrels _ desks with three sides blocked off so the child can't see in front or to either side
but when ``we've exhausted all those things ... logged the classroom observations,'' childress said, ``we would just as soon get a recommendation to try something else.''
utah is a state of large, close-knit families whose religion frowns on the use of liquor and caffeine. it is also a state with the nation's largest appetite for the stimulant drug ritalin
the drug enforcement administration said that in 1986 pharmacies along the state's wasatch front received 25,000 grams of the drug used for hyperactive children, or 1,558 grams for every 100,000 population
that figure compares to 1,218 grams per 100,000 residents of maryland, the next highest ritalin state. in new york, the figure was 347 grams per 100,000
the reasons for utah's high use of ritalin are many. they may point the way for the future in other parts of the country
what we are doing here is, in some ways, ahead of many parts of the country,'' said paul wender, a psychiatrist and researcher at the university of utah
utah has the youngest population of any state, with nearly a quarter of its residents aged 5 to 17. it also leads the nation in the size of individual families, about 4.3 children per household
consequently it has the nation's most crowded classrooms with 24.6 students per teacher. although utah ranks near the top of the list in the amount of state money, 47 percent, going to education, it is last in per capita spending on education, at $2,372 per student
so when the fragile balance in these overcrowded classrooms is threatened by disruptive children, ``the pressures on parents and teachers are going to lead people to look for solutions ... and one of the solutions is medication,'' said stevan kukic, state director of special education
in the salt lake school district, an estimated 2 percent of the 60,000 students receive ritalin or one of its cousins for attention deficit disorder, a syndrome that includes hyperactive as well as inattentive pupils
it is becoming more acceptable in the parents' minds and the teachers' minds,'' said julie miller, a special education teacher whose son takes ritalin. ``when the teachers see the dramatic effect it can have on problem students, they want them medicated so they can learn.''
sam goldstein, a psychologist who saw 100 add children at his clinic last year, estimates a quarter of his patients are referred by the schools. another 25 percent come at the suggestion of other parents whose children take ritalin. half his patients were sent by pediatricans
utah's medical community also contributes to ritalin use. reseachers at the university of utah are considered leaders in add study. their philosophies are passed on to their students, many of whom later set up practice nearby
as a result, salt lake has three clinics that specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of add children _ many larger cities across the country have none. psychologists, psychiatrists and pediatricians share information and refer patients for treatment
in a community this size it is easier to make an impact with an idea, especially an idea that appeals to people,'' said goldstein
parents of add children describe their successes with ritalin as more than appealing. kathy miner cries when she talks about the effect ritalin has had on her 11-year-old son, jeremy
there has been such a remarkable change in this child,'' she said. ``from the time he was 7 he talked about suicide. now he's on the student council and is so thrilled with life.''
mrs. miner has joined others in a local support group for add parents. the gatherings can be emotional: laughter about the bruises and stitches their children have collected while rocketing around the house, tears as they talk about the difference treatment has brought
i wanted to share the knowledge with other families,'' said the group's founder, terri steineckert, whose son, tyler, 11, has taken ritalin for more than a year. ``it is very traumatic to put a child on drugs, but if you have a good experience, you're converted,'' she said. georgia</head>
fifteen years since six members of the alday family were murdered on their farm, shock has turned to bitter impatience as retrials of three defendants threaten to take the case into the next decade
the retrials, ordered despite what a federal court called obvious guilt, have burdened tiny, rural seminole county
tucked into georgia's southwest corner and with just 9,500 people, seminole county has about $1 million a year to spend. the cost of the appeals is expected to exceed $600,000. other counties are holding the retrials, but they send their bills to seminole, the site of the murders
the second retrial, of wayne coleman, 41, starts monday in decatur
judicial juggling replaced questions of guilt or innocence years ago, and that rankles here, where concepts of right and wrong are stark and pure
ned alday, 62, his brother aubrey, 57, and sons jerry, 35, jimmy, 30, and chester, 25, were shot to death in jerry's trailer as they arrived singly or in pairs may 14, 1973. jerry's wife, mary, 26, was raped there, driven to a field six miles away, raped and sodomized again and shot twice in the back
their graves, marked by a $20,000 black marble slab, lie near a cedar tree planted more than a century ago at spring hill baptist church by isaac alday
an irrigation well stands on the site of the trailer 12 miles from donalsonville
but faded ``remember the aldays'' stickers remain on a few vehicles, and in the local courthouse is a cartoon depicting the appellate judges who overturned the convictions as the three stooges. ``remember them in may during `respect for law week,''' reads the caption
there won't be justice for the alday family until (the killers) all fry,'' said eddie gail, nursing a soft drink at the local pool hall. ``the court found them guilty, they know they're guilty, and that should be the end of it.''
coleman, then 26 years old, his half-brother carl isaacs, 19, and george dungee, 35,, all escapees from a maryland prison farm, were arrested in west virginia shortly after the killings
mary alday's wristwatch was in dungee's pocket. the men had three of the weapons used to kill the aldays. coleman's confession was read in court
the three were tried separately in donalsonville and sentenced in 1974 to die
billy isaacs, carl's 15-year-old brother, had been picked up in baltimore county after the prison break. a witness to the murders, he turned state's evidence and was sentenced to 40 years in prison
billy testified that carl laughed after killing aubrey alday. ``i asked him what was so funny,'' billy recalled. ``he said, `that bastard begged for mercy.'''
he testified his brother shot four of the victims and that coleman and dungee killed one each. some of the aldays were shot in the head as many as seven times
in 1985 the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals, while citing ``overwhelming evidence of ... guilt,'' ruled there also was ``overwhelming evidence that the community had prejudiced both guilt and sentence.''
a lower court had ruled that the convictions and sentences were based on ``the overwhelmingly uncontroverted evidence of their willful participation in what is generally regarded as the most heinous criminal orgy in the history of the state.''
but the appellate ruling held that the trials should have been moved because of pre-trial publicity and inflammatory statements by some officials. failure to overturn the convictions, it said, ``would mean an obviously guilty defendant would have no right to a fair trial.''
more than 100,000 people signed petitions calling for the impeachment of the three judges, but the u.s. supreme court upheld their decision
the judges and lawyers that did that are the ones who should be hung first,'' said mel johnson, who operates a crossroads store not far from where the aldays are buried
he said time had not dulled emotions
when people around here get to talking about it, they get so mad they almost start to fight,'' he said. ``it's still very much alive. and not a day goes by but what someone doesn't stop by here and ask for directions to the cemetery, people from all walks of life, some of them from as far as new york.''
according to retrial testimony, the defendants were heading back to maryland from florida in a stolen car. they were burglarizing the trailer when aldays started arriving
in 1977, carl isaacs, in a television documentary interview, said the four were after money but didn't want to go back to jail. ``we figured that they couldn't take us back to prison if they couldn't talk.''
isaacs was retried earlier this year in perry, convicted and sentenced again to death. dungee will be retried in columbus later
meanwhile, the bills for everything from lawyers to false teeth keep piling up
since 1985, seminole county has paid about $327,400, most of it to other counties for lodging the prisoners, holding hearings, transportation, security and lawyers' fees
county clerk bobby nichols said costs for the isaacs trial were about $160,000, and he wasn't optimistic that costs for coleman's retrial would be lower
(houston county, where isaacs was tried) charged us $890 just for opening and closing the courtroom. they called it extra custodial service. when isaacs needed a new suit to go to trial in, we paid for that.''
coleman has no teeth. at a recent competency hearing, for which seminole county also paid, his lawyers asked that he be provided dentures for the trial
in july of 1987, we provided him with upper and lower dentures at a cost of $350,'' nichols said with a frown. ``if it were up to me he wouldn't get another set.''
he said seminole county is feeling the pinch
we have been able to continue basic services thus far,'' he said. ``i don't know how much longer we will be able to. we depend on agriculture here, and agriculture is in disarray with foreclosures and all.''
the county borrowed $210,000 so it could function while it paid retrial costs
if we don't get a lot more help from the state it could leave us in a very precarious way,'' he said. the state has paid $153,000 so far
nichols said the cost of the initial trials was less than $10,000, and each lasted less than a week. lawyers say appeals could last another decade
at eds pool room, as in the rest of donalsonville, memories of the aldays and the killings are becoming the stuff of legend
the small group gathered there remembered ned alday as a man who could stretch facts to transparent thinness
but he only told lies on himself,'' said one patron quickly. ``they used to say about him that he had to hire (someone) to call his hogs because he told so many lies his hogs wouldn't believe him.''
there was a silence
people liked ned,'' eddie gail said. ``and those boys was good boys, as far as i knew. and she was a good woman.''
michael dukakis' cousins in greece like to tell how his father ran away from his home on the turkish mainland to a merchant uncle who lived on the greek island of mytilene, after being forbidden to leave for america
a telegram was sent home saying that young panos was safe. ``and the answer came, `tie him up in a bundle if necessary and send him back,''' said elly petridou, a retired bank employee who still lives on the island
but my grandfather _ panos' uncle _ knew the future lay in america and didn't obey,'' she said. ``instead, he found panos an english teacher and later on paid his fare from mytilene to america. ... and eventually his parents followed him there.''
that was early in this century. today, at least a few ``mike dukakis-president'' stickers are showing up as far away from america as this northern aegean island where his father lived, as greek interest grows in the massachusetts governor's campaign for the white house
greek television newscasts lead off with coverage of the u.s. primaries, and athens newspapers run front-page stories detailing dukakis' progress
politicians and analysts discuss the 54-year-old democrat's lack of experience in foreign affairs. and they study his campaign speeches for clues to what might be future american policy
dukakis, in interviews with greek media, stresses his greek heritage. but he avoids comment on eastern mediterranean disputes such as the greek-turkish disagreement over aegean oil rights and the divided island of cyprus
a mix of pride and caution marks the mood among the half-dozen cousins and their families who make up the dukakis clan in greece
we all think mike is an exceptional person and we're convinced he'll win the democratic nomination. but that's still a long way from getting to the white house,'' patra zourelli, a second cousin who lives on mytilene _ also known as lesbos _ said in an interview
from a political standpoint in the united states, ``i can tell you it's an advantage to be an immigrant's son,'' dukakis was recently quoted as telling the athens daily vrathyni. ``the minorities see in me their children's opportunity to get ahead.''
dukakis' father, panos, became a respected family doctor in brookline, mass. his mother, euterpe, now 83 and campaigning actively for her son, was one of the first greek-american women to qualify as a teacher
dukakis is probably unique in that his parents made it to the professional classes. ... usually it's the second generation which makes that jump,'' alexander kitroeff, a historian who teaches at queens college, new york, said in a telephone interview
dukakis' father was the youngest of four brothers who left greece as teen-agers in the early 1900s. it was a time when greeks flocked to america, working in textile factories, flower stalls and shoeshine parlors to escape dire poverty at home
mytilene, lying close to turkey and covered with millions of olive trees, boasts a literary tradition that began in the 7th century b.c. with sappho, europe's first woman poet. another lyric poet from the island, odysseus elytis, won the nobel prize for literature in 1979
the dukakis family came from pelopi, a cluster of stone houses reached by a dirt road winding up mytilene's highest mountain and still considered one of the poorest villages on the island
dukakis' grandfather moved away in the 1880s to make a better life on the nearby coast of turkey, where greeks prospered as store-owners and merchants
mike's grandfather and mine were cousins who both left the village of pelopi and settled in edremit on the turkish side. his grandfather ran a general store and mine ran a bakery,'' george grigoriou-dukakis, 76, a retired agronomist, said in an interview
the dukakis property at the top of the village was sold in 1933 and yiannis manolis, the villager who bought it, keeps the yellowed sale contract in his pocket
i want to stay around long enough to welcome michalis back here as president,'' said manolis, 81, who lives in a two-story house he built on the ruins of the dukakis home
there are no records surviving to clarify whether dukakis' father was born on mytilene _ then ruled by turkey _ or in edremit
dukakis' mother was born in the northern city of larissa, then a sleepy farm town but now a booming center for the thessaly region
cousin euterpe is a tough lady who'd be called a feminist if she were young now. ... her family all left for the states in the early 1900s after losing their land to the turks,'' said nikos milingos, a third cousin who runs a farm chemicals business
like most of the relatives, the milingos family first met dukakis when he came to greece in 1976 during his first term as governor. now they visit massachussetts regularly
we found him very warm and welcoming, but he's certainly a man of principle,'' said olympia milingos. ``when we went for dinner at their home in the days of energy-saving, euterpe told us to take sweaters because the heating would be low _ and it was.''
the greek-american community in the united states, numbering between 1 million and 3 million by various estimates, is pouring in funds to back its ``patrida'' (homeland) candidate
according to dukakis aides, around 25 percent of his first $15 million in campaign funds came from greek-americans
apart from the wish to claim a u.s. president of greek descent, many in greece say that dukakis' election would repair the damage to their self-image caused by former vice president spiro agnew
spiro agnew was an embarrassment to greece and the migrant tradition. it's a bad memory for us that we'd like to erase through dukakis,'' said former culture minister dimitris nianias, a member of parliament for mytilene
it is the evening of april 4, 1968. the rev. martin luther king jr. leans over a balcony railing at the lorraine motel. the crack of a single shot from a high-powered rifle shatters the air
suddenly, he's gone
this much is clearly documented. but who killed the 39-year-old civil rights leader and winner of the nobel peace prize?
james earl ray, the small-time thief who pleaded guilty, has spent the past 20 years trying to prove he didn't do it. he talks of a shadowy ``raoul.''
other principals in the case hold widely varying opinions: ray's attorneys disagree on whether he was the triggerman; the prosecutor acknowledges he wasn't confident about the case; the chairman of a congressional committee that studied the assassination says he still thinks ray was part of a larger, unsolved conspiracy
the questions remain. what of the cigarette butts found in the getaway car _ given that ray did not smoke? what of the clothing in two sizes in the car's trunk?
the fatal shot came from a communal bathroom at the rear of a flophouse across a narrow street from the lorraine motel. ray maintains he was not in that bathroom when the shot was fired
i was a few blocks away, trying to get a tire fixed on my car,'' he said in a recent interview with the associated press at brushy mountain state prison, where he is serving a 99-year sentence. ``when i started back to my room i saw a police roadblock had been set up; it was about that time that i heard on my car radio king had been shot and the police were looking for a man in a white mustang, the same kind of car i was driving, so i took off for atlanta.''
ray, who had checked into the rooming house the day king was killed, said he was in memphis to take part in an illicit gun-running scheme. he said the scheme was concocted by a mystery man named raoul, an international smuggler whom ray contends he met several months earlier at a waterfront bar in montreal
he also says raoul, whom he describes as a blond man with a latin american accent, set him up to be framed for king's murder
the fact is i don't know who killed king,'' said ray, who recently turned 60. ``i only pleaded guilty because i was desperate. i had been in isolation for eight months in the memphis jail, and percy foreman was pressuring me to cop a plea. he was telling me my family would get in trouble and i'd get the death penalty if i didn't do what he said.''
foreman, the houston attorney who represented ray when he entered his guilty plea march 10, 1969, angrily disputes these assertions
the s.o.b. got down on his knees and thanked me for saving his life when i told him i had gotten the prosecutor to go along with a guilty plea,'' foreman said when contacted in houston recently
foreman, now in his mid-80s, says he thinks ray was extremely fortunate not to have stood trial. he also rejects ray's story about raoul. ``i think he acted alone,'' he said
asked what might have motivated ray to commit such an act, foreman said, ``it was racism. his conversations simply steamed with racist remarks.''
ray, who was a fugitive from the missouri state penitentiary at the time king was killed, denies he harbored any ill will toward king and defies anyone to prove otherwise
king was just another politician to me,'' he said. ``why would i want to do something like kill a big-shot politician, me a fugitive, and bring all that heat down on myself?''
he admits buying the rifle, a remington gamemaster, 30.06 caliber, that authorities say was the murder weapon. but he says he bought, at a birmingham, ala., gun shop, at raoul's instruction and with money provided by raoul
i gave the rifle to raoul,'' ray said. ``if i had been buying it to kill king, you can bet i wouldn't have bought it at a gun shop. i would have gotten it from a fence, so it couldn't have been traced.''
birmingham lawyer arthur hanes sr. said he tends to believe that story. he represented ray for four months before foreman
i've never believed ray shot king,'' said hanes, a former fbi agent and one-time birmingham mayor. ``i personally stood in that flophouse bathroom and looked across to the motel balcony where the rev. king was standing when he was shot. it was a difficult angle. ray simply didn't have enough expertise with rifles to make a shot like that, in my opinion.''
hanes also said he had never heard ray utter a single racist statement
i've given this case a lot of thought, and i've concluded someone assisted ray,'' he added, ``but i can't say who.''
the case should have gone to trial, he said, ``to clear the air, if nothing else. i tried to get the judge to try the case, but he said there was too much pressure, from the government and the memphis business community, to accept a guilty plea and avoid the publicity that a trial would generate.''
the judge, w. preston battle, died a week after ray's guilty plea. however, the chief prosecutor, philip canale, acknowledged last week that, contrary to foreman's assertion, he had been happy to get a plea from ray
it would have been a big, time-consuming and expensive trial with dozens and dozens of witnesses from all over the country,'' said canale, now an assistant u.s. attorney in memphis. ``i have never regretted the guilty plea because we got a substantial sentence. also, i didn't want to take a chance on getting a cranky juror and having a mistrial.''
canale added that although he had no eyewitness and the evidence against ray was largely circumstantial, he doesn't buy the conspiracy theory
i think he acted alone,'' he said, noting that the fbi had found ray's fingerprint on the rifle discarded by the gunman near the scene of the crime
however, supporters of ray's story say his fingerprint was on the rifle because he had purchased it. they also note that, while ray is a lifelong non-smoker, viceroy cigarette butts were found in the rooming house bathroom and in his car ashtray, and that two sizes of clothing were found in his trunk
ray said the fact that raoul often used his car may explain the butts in the ashtray and clothes in the trunk. ``as for cigarettes in the bathroom i can't say because i was never in that bathroom,'' he said. ``my prints were never found in there, you know.''
then there were the two white mustangs. the late guy canipe, whose amusement company was located next door to the flophouse, told investigators he saw a fleeing man ditch a rifle and a small overnight bag in front of his store and then drive away in a white mustang, one of two that had been parked in front of the store that afternoon. he described the man as having dark hair and a beard
ray, who was captured in london two months after king's death, says the fact that the gunman ditched the rifle and his bag _ which ray says he had left in his room when he went to get the tire fixed _ shows somebody was trying to frame him
why would i have dumped my stuff there for the police to find when all i had to do was put it in the car and drive away?'' he asked
after two years of hearings, ending in 1978, the house select committee on assassinations couldn't answer that question. the committee issued a report saying ray probably had been part of a larger conspiracy
but while the committee couldn't say who else had participated in the plot, it did exonerate the cia and fbi, both of which had conducted extensive illegal surveillance and smear campaigns against king throughout the 1960s. former fbi director j. edgar hoover was known to have hated king
fbi agents testified that no evidence could be found of conspiracies involving the mafia, ku klux klan or foreign communists
some of king's friends, however, still feel that letting hoover's fbi investigate king's assassination was like letting a hungry fox guard a henhouse
i have no proof but i feel in my heart that the government, probably the fbi and j. edgar hoover, and perhaps the cia, were involved,'' says the rev. ralph david abernathy, who was with king when he died in a memphis hospital an hour after the shooting
it's just a pity but, given the way things were back then, we'll probably never know the whole truth about one of the greatest tragedies of our time.''
strat douthat is the ap southeast regional reporter, based in atlanta
james earl ray has spent most of his ``free time'' at brushy mountain state prison plotting ways to get out, either by going over the wall or into a courtroom
so far, he's been more successful at breaking out. in 1977, inmate no. 65477 managed to scale the wall and remain free for three days before being apprehended in the rugged hills near the prison
a couple of years earlier, he escaped from his cell through an air vent only to be captured inside the prison walls a few hours later
but the 60-year-old alton, ill., native hasn't been able to get back into court since march 10, 1969, the day he pleaded guilty to killing the rev. martin luther king jr
and although he is doggedly determined to win a day in court, ray apparently has become more resigned to prison life than he was in his escape-artist days, which included a 1967 breakout from the missouri state penitentiary, where he was serving 20 years for armed robbery
he's a good inmate,'' said james worthington, an officer at brushy mountain, a maximum security prison 40 miles west of knoxville. ``he does good time and doesn't cause us any trouble _ not of late, anyway.''
ray works in the prison laundry, earning $1 a day. he shares an 11-by-8-foot cell with another inmate and spends most of his weekends in the prison law library
i work five days a week, from 7 a.m. to 3 o'clock in the afternoon,'' he said in a recent interview with the associated press. ``we get an hour a day for exercise in the yard through the week and two hours on saturdays and sundays.''
he maintained, as he has ever since pleading guilty, that he didn't kill king and doesn't know who did. he said he pleaded guilty only because he was pressured into it
ray speaks in a quiet but determined voice when discussing his legal problems. although he has spent nearly half of his life behind bars he still looks fit: his hair is dark, with white sideburns, his dark blue eyes are alert and his body is trim in a blue denim uniform
it's always a good idea to keep fit in prison,'' he said, rubbing a scar on his left cheek, the result of an attack by three black inmates in 1980. two of his attackers got 60-year sentences for attempted murder, and the third was given 20 years
i got careless for a moment,'' he said, recalling the assault. ``like a fool i went into the law library when there were no guards present. but, then i was lucky, too; they stabbed me in the arm, face and chest but never hit an artery.''
worthington describes ray as a quiet loner who usually keeps to himself when he goes out to the prison yard for exercise with other prisoners
although married in 1983 to a nashville artist who was teaching art appreciation to inmates, ray hasn't had a visitor since last fall. to pass the time, he reads and paints _ mostly watercolor landscapes from memory
he recently helped prepare a second edition of his autobiography, which he said he wrote to tell his side of the story about the king assassination
as for his 99-year sentence, he said, ``i really don't think i should have had to spend all this time in prison. i didn't kill anybody.''
strat douthat is the ap southeast regional reporter, based in atlanta
a day of reckoning for the rival suitors of federated department stores inc. passed without ushering one of them _ campeau corp. or r.h. macy &amp; co. _ to the altar, but it appeared macy raised the stakes in the $6 billion takeover battle
federated's board of directors was expected to choose between the companies' final bids wednesday, but deliberations dragged on all day and into the night with no sign of an end to the 2-month-old contest
federated spokesman jim sluzewski said late wednesday evening he did not know when a decision would be announced
american stores co. stock soared amid market rumors that lucky stores inc. might be planning a ``pac-man'' takeover bid to counter its supermarket rival's acquisition offer
american stores has launched a $45-a-share tender offer for lucky, which would produce a deal worth about $1.74 billion. american later said it would boost the offer to $50 a share, or $1.93 billion, if lucky's management supported the acquistion
lucky declined to comment wednesday, but analysts said lucky might be considering making its own bid for american stores. in new york stock exchange trading, american stores jumped $2.75 a share to $59.75, while lucky fell $1.50 a share to $48.37{
the second consecutive monthly decline in orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods is no cause for alarm, analysts say
the commerce department said wednesday that orders for durable and non-durable goods dropped 0.8 percent to a seasonally adjusted $210.86 billion last month following a 0.6 percent decline in january
economists said while businesses cut back on orders in the early part of the year, the cutbacks were moderate and may set the stage for faster growth
contracting for future construction projects jumped 10 percent in february, recouping january's 8 percent decline, a new report says
the survey, released wednesday by the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co., estimated the annualized value of all newly started construction projects in february at $249.7 billion, the highest level since last october
prices farmers got for raw products this month were unchanged from february and up 7.4 percent from a year earlier, the agriculture department says
the department's agricultural statistics board reported wednesday higher prices for lettuce, cattle, eggs and broiler chickens, while farmers received lower prices for hogs, milk, wheat and sweet corn
consumer food prices are expected to rise 2 percent to 4 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent average increase in 1987, the government says
five japanese automakers have been dumping small trucks on the u.s. market, costing u.s. workers jobs and the u.s. auto industry $500 million in lost wages, sales and profits, a study commissioned by u.s. automakers says
the 42-page study released wednesday said the five japanese companies are illegally selling compact pickup trucks for 10 percent to 48 percent less in the united states than they charge in their japanese home market
one of the companies accused, toyota motor corp., immediately denied the charges. the study was conducted on behalf of the big three u.s. automakers
the internal revenue service says it will waive penalties for underpayments of estimated tax on most types of retirement income for 1987
the agency earlier had decided not to impose such penalties on wages earned in 1987, because of widespread confusion about the new tax law and a complex w-4 withholding form
in another decision affecting retirees, the irs said wednesday that owners of multiple individual retirement accounts who passed the age of 70{ in 1987 will be allowed more discretion in choosing from which account to take a distribution. such owners are required to take money from an ira by april 1
federal spending averaged nearly $3,433 per american in 1987, about $41 more than the year before, the census bureau says
alaska led, with u.s. spending there averaging $5,421, more than double the $2,536 spent per resident in last-place wisconsin, according to the report released wednesday
if it were a state, the district of columbia would be the easy winner, however, with spending averging $23,360 per capita
treasury secretary james a. baker iii says he strongly disagrees with proposals to forgive some of the third world's $1 trillion debt
i believe this path leads both debtors and creditors off the cliff,'' baker told a senate panel on wednesday. ``this approach would irreparably politicize the debt problem.''
he argued for a u.s. contribution to increase the capital of the world bank, the largest single source of aid loans to third world countries
thursday is the last day to qualify for the big airlines' triple-mileage programs, and travelers have been flocking to the skies to beat the deadline
to drum up business in the slow winter months, the major airlines offered to triple all mileage credits accumulated by participants in frequent-flier programs this year _ if the member took at least one round-trip or two one-way flights on that carrier by the end of the day thursday
the deadline, coupled with the approach of easter and school vacations, seems to have touched off a flying spree, travel experts said wednesday
mcdonnell douglas corp. became the pentagon's top research contractor in fiscal 1987, winning awards totaling $1.7 billion, the defense department says
among educational and non-profit entities, the massachusetts institute of technology continued to hold down the top ranking, winning research contracts during the year worth $407.6 million, the pentagon reported wednesday
overall, the pentagon increased its spending on research by more than 10 percent during fiscal 1987, with awards reaching a grand total of $21.8 billion. that compared with $19.8 billion in fiscal 1986
stock prices finished lower wednesday as an early advance was wiped out in a late-afternoon decline that sent the dow jones average of 30 industrials down 20.22 at 1,978.12
the dollar fell despite modest central bank intervention
bond prices were mostly lower in light trading
platinum futures prices soared, copper and precious metals futures advanced, energy futures were higher and livestock and meat prices retreated
a positive new report on u.s. stocks of refined oil products has helped lift oil prices out of a temporary slump
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for may delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, settled wednesday at $17.08 per 42-gallon barrel, up 10 cents from tuesday's close
among refined products, the april contract for wholesale heating oil jumped 0.45 cent a gallon to 48.60 cents. unleaded gasoline for april rose by 0.39 cent a gallon to 48.65 cents
trading on the exchange was described as light, muted by the approach of the easter holiday weekend
the advance came on the heels of a modest decline on tuesday _ which had broken a four-day rally as many investors sold futures contracts and took profits
the recent strength stems from hopes that the pricing committee of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries will achieve an agreement to prop up prices, analysts say. the pricing panel is due to meet in vienna, austria, starting april 9
prices have risen in nine of the last 12 trading sessions on the mercantile exchange
traders said prices got an additional boost in wednesday's session from the latest weekly report on u.s. oil stocks compiled by the american petroleum institute, an industry group based in washington
the api statistics, released after the market closed on tuesday, showed substantial drawdowns in stocks of both gasoline and heating oil in the week ended march 25 compared with the previous week
the decrease in product inventories was seen as indicating a continued robust demand, analysts said
we had a fairly rational reaction here'' to the api figures, said bob baker, an oil futures analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
economists shrugged off an 0.8 percent decline in orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods during february, even though it represented the second consecutive monthly decline
the financial markets put in a mixed performance wednesday. on wall street, the stock market faltered but the dollar showed signs of steadying in foreign exchange, where the british pound stole center stage. bond prices were little changed
orders for durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $210.86 billion last month following a 0.6 percent decline in january, the commerce department said
the february setback was the biggest since a 1.4 percent drop last august and marked the first time that factory orders have fallen for two consecutive months since the summer of 1986
economists said the declines indicated that businesses cut back on orders in the early part of the year to help trim high levels of unsold goods that had built up in the final quarter of 1987
while this process will dampen growth, economists said it appeared that the cutbacks had been moderate and would set the stage for faster growth in the months ahead
on wall street, the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in the early going, closed with a 20.22-point loss at 1,978.12
investors were reluctant to take large positions ahead of the upcoming three-day easter weekend
the dollar showed signs of steadying after a wave of tumbles, but it was the pound that posted far greater gains, rising in new york to $1.8780 from $1.86425
in the past seven years, the pound has hit a low of $1.0470, in february 1985, and a high of $2.4525 in november 1980
in jumping to its highest levels in two years, the british currency has been boosted by a strong economy, britain's relatively high interest rates and prime minister margaret thatcher's unrelenting grip on inflation
bond prices eased slightly. the treasury's bellwether 30-year issue fell 7-32 point, or about $2.50 per $1,000 in face value, to yield 8.77 percent
oil prices rebounded from a temporary setback. on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for may delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, settled at $17.08 per 42-gallon barrel, up 10 cents from tuesday's close
switzerland has displaced west germany as the world's second most creditworthy nation behind japan, a new survey of international bankers reveals
the united states _ for many years the bankers' no. 1 darling _ remains stuck in fourth place. and in general the world's bankers seem to be taking a gloomier view of the world debt situation
in a survey of 112 nations, institutional investor, an american financial magazine, finds that the average country's credit rating in march has dropped considerably from a similar survey last september
every six months the new york-based monthly asks about 100 international banks to rate the creditworthiness of more than 100 nations on a scale of 0 to 100. in the magazine's march survey japan ranks first with a score of 94.6, and north korea 112th with 4.0
the global average rating was 38.9, down 0.4 points from last september, and down 1.1 points from march 1987. institutional investor notes that this is the fourth consecutive drop from the peak of 40.6 attained in march 1986
countries with higher credit ratings generally find it easier to borrow from international commercial banks and are likely to obtain more favorable credit terms
the most stable region in recent surveys has been western europe,'' the magazine says, ``but this time it registered the biggest gain of any region, rising 0.6 points to 73.9.''
one banker noted that a rising german mark may cause export difficulties for west germany and it faces greater unemployment difficulties than switzerland
portugal's rating rose 2.2 points, thanks largely to ``an austerity program... european community entry, and...full-fledged transition to democracy.''
despite japan's pre-eminence, the asia-pacific region, comprising 19 countries ``led the decliners with a sizable 1.4 point fall'' in the average country rating
australia fell 2.2 points, the second-largest drop in the survey, due mainly to ``continued balance of payments deficits... and the fact that its borrowing has now reached a very high percentage of gross national product.''
the middle east, comprising 14 nations, was up an average 0.4 points ``largely because no news is good news for the region
the biggest gainer was cyprus, up 1.9 points, because of... consistent improvement in the current account.''
in eastern europe ``the big gainer was rumania, up 2.2 points because of increased banker confidence that it would maintain its repayment schedule.''
africa had more gainers than losers _ 14 nations to 11 _ yet its overall rating fell 0.3 points.''
the congo fell 2.0 points, the third-biggest drop in the survey,'' probably due in large part to a lack of financial information on the country
in north america the united states dropped 1.5 points, due mainly to the budget and foreign trade deficits and the decline of the dollar
in latin america ``brazil fell 2.3 points, the biggest decline in the survey'' because of political uncertainties and the lack of a coherent economic policy in the third world's biggest debtor nation
here is how 112 nations rank for creditworthiness, according to the latest six-month survey of bankers by institutional investor magazine
approximately 100 banks were asked to rate each country on a scale of 0 to 100, and the magazine then ranked the nations by their average rating
1. japan, 94
2. switzerland, 94
3. west germany, 93
4. united states, 91
5. netherlands, 87
6. united kingdom, 86
7. canada, 85
8. france, 84
9. austria, 84
10. sweden, 80
11. norway, 80
12. finland, 78
13. italy, 77
14. belgium, 77
15. taiwan, 76
16. singapore, 75
17. spain, 73
18. denmark, 73
19. australia, 70
20. hong kong, 69
21. soviet union, 65
22. new zealand, 65
23. china, 64
24. south korea, 62
25. ireland, 62
26. saudi arabia, 60
27. kuwait, 58
28. east germany, 58
29. portugal, 56
30. united arab emirates, 56
31. thailand, 55
32. malaysia, 54
33. (tie) qatar, czechoslovakia, 54
35. bahrain, 53
36. iceland, 52
37. oman, 50
38. india, 49
39. bulgaria, 47
40. greece, 46
41. hungary, 46
42. indonesia, 43
43. algeria, 42
44. cyprus, 42
45. turkey, 40
46. colombia, 39
47. trinidad and tobago, 38
48. papua-new guinea, 37
49. (tie) cameroon, jordan, 36
51. venezuela, 35
52. israel, 34
53. gabon, 33
54. barbados, 33
55. rumania, 33
56. tunisia, 33
57. south africa, 32
58. pakistan, 31
59. kenya, 30
60. brazil, 29
61. yugoslavia, 29
62. panama, 28
63. uruguay, 28
64. mexico, 28
65. paraguay, 27
66. mauritius, 27
67. chile, 27
68. ivory coast, 26
69. argentina, 24
70. morocco, 24
71. philippines, 23
72. egypt, 23
73. (tie) ecuador, libya, 23
75. sri lanka, 23
76. zimbabwe, 23
77. nepal, 22
78. nigeria, 20
79. senegal, 19
80. iran, 18
81. syria, 18
82. poland, 17
83. costa rica, 17
84. bangladesh, 17
85. swaziland, 16
86. jamaica, 15
87. malawi, 15
88. iraq, 14
89. dominican republic, 14
90. peru, 14
91. guatemala, 13
92. congo, 13
93. seychelles, 13
94. honduras, 12
95. cuba, 12
96. angola, 11
97. zambia, 10
98. zaire, 10
99. liberia, 10
100. tanzania, 10
101. grenada, 9
102. mozambique, 9
103. bolivia, 8
104. ethiopia, 8
105. el salvador, 8
106. haiti, 8
107. lebanon, 7
108. sierra leone, 7
109. nicaragua, 5
110. sudan, 5
111. uganda, 5
112. north korea, 4

regional averages:
north america, 88
western europe, 73
asia-pacific, 49
eastern europe, 44
middle east, 37
latin america, 21
africa, 19
worldwide, 38
lucky stores inc. may turn the tables on rival grocer american stores co. to thwart the pursuer's $1.74 billion buyout offer, analysts say
talk of the rarely used ``pac-man defense'' pushed american stores stock up $2.75 to $59.75 a share on the new york stock exchange wednesday, while lucky lost $1.50 a share to close at $48.37{
earlier this week american stores launched a $45-a-share tender offer for lucky. but the salt lake city-based supermarket giant later said it was prepared to boost the offer to $50 a share, or $1.93 billion, if lucky's management supported the acquisition
lucky has declined to comment on the offers, but analysts said rumors focused on whether lucky might be considering making its own bid for american stores
a combination of the two companies would rival kroger co. as the nation's largest supermarket operation
lucky stores spokeswoman lissa perlman said the company ``doesn't comment on rumors.'' the only comment lucky has made is that its board is studying american stores' two proposals
there has been conjecture all along about what options lucky might have,'' said jonathan ziegler, an analyst with the investment firm sutro &amp; co. in san francisco
ziegler noted that lucky, which operates in the lucrative california market, would have to take on a huge amount of debt to acquire american stores
analysts specualted lucky might be trying to put american stores stock ``in play'' on wall street to take the spotlight off itself
the rumors came a day after american stores chairman l.s. skaggs complained of ``various reports'' that lucky might be considering a ``defensive acquisition'' of another company to make itself financial unattractive
in a letter tuesday to lucky's board of directors, skaggs cautioned against a maneuver that could interfere with his company's takeover plans and warned that any attempt to ``frustrate the choice given to your shareholders through a defensive acquisition'' would affect american's willingness to increase its tender offer to $50 a share
skaggs reiterated that american stores would consider divesting stores if it acquired lucky, in order to mitigate any antitrust concerns that might exist
american stores is the nation's third largest grocery retailer with 1,700 stores and annual sales of $15 billion. lucky is the sixth largest with 480 stores and sales of $7 billion
american stores filed a lawsuit last week in delaware charging lucky and its executives with breaching their fiduciary duties by ``following a course of conduct directed toward entrenching themselves in control of lucky stores.''
as part of defensive measures taken over a year ago to stave off corporate raider asher edelman, lucky voted senior management lucrative ``golden parachute'' contracts and announced a restructuring plan that included changing the company's state of incorporation from california to delaware and a buy-back of 27 percent of its outstanding shares
the company has noted that its bylaws also contain an anti-takeover provision limiting the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
lotus development corp. has announced its blueprint tool kit, an upgraded product by lotus development corp. to give its computer users easy access to a wide range of non-lotus data bases
i tend to view this as a building block kind of an announcement,'' said david readerman, an analyst at smith barney &amp; co. in new york. ``they are trying to build a better connection between third-party data bases and their own pc software tools.''
it fits in their long-term strategy,'' said john maxwell iii of dillon read &amp; co. inc. in new york. ``it's a positive step for the future.''
analysts say blueprint is part of lotus' strategy to expand applications for its software in a period of increased competition from spreadsheet manufacturers, such as borland international corp. of scotts valley, calif
lotus stock rebounded slightly following wednesday's announcement
the stock had tumbled nearly $7 a share since last week after the cambridge-based firm announced plans to delay release of the lotus 1-2-3 release 3 spreadsheet software until the fourth quarter. the delay caused analysts to cut 1988 per-share earnings estimates from about $1.95 to about $1.50
lotus stock closed up 50 cents a share to $22.50 in over-the-counter trading wednesday
the blueprint kit, scheduled to be released late this year, will aid data base manufacturers in creating drives that will greatly streamline the process of accessing software not specially designed for lotus systems, said lotus spokeswoman betsy kosheff
the drives will be sold to consumers by data base firms including oracle corp. of belmont, calif., which has formally announced plans to place a blueprint drive in its upcoming product line. other firms expressing interest in blueprint include microrim inc., pc publishing inc. and synex systems corp., according to the lotus statement
kosheff said the drive will allow lotus system users to hit one key to connect with various data bases, rather than the many steps now required. data obtained through blueprint drives will be compatible with existing and planned lotus software, including spreadsheets and graphics, she said
lotus spokesman philip greenough said blueprint is an enhancement of application connection, a lotus-created data base connection drive introduced in 1986
the blueprint drives will be available for use on all sizes of lotus computer systems, said greenough
the dollar fell against all major currencies in early european trading today. gold prices rose
in london, the british pound, spurred by market expectations that britain's conservative government would not move to hold it down, rose to $1.8798, up from $1.8790 late wednesday
dealers anticipated quiet trading ahead of a four-day easter holiday weekend
in tokyo, where trading ends before europe's business day begins, the dollar dropped against the japanese yen to close at the day's low of 124.50 yen, down 0.93 yen from wednesday. later, in london, the dollar fell further and was quoted at 124.28 yen
profit-taking dollar selling brought the dollar down, but besides that there was no notable movement in the market,'' said ken iiya of the bank of tokyo
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late wednesday's rates, included: 1.6584 west german marks, down from 1.6625; 1.3677 swiss francs, down from 1.3732; 5.6265 french francs, down from 5.6505; 1.8632 dutch guilders, down from 1.8725; 1,230.25 italian lire, down from 1,235.50; 1.2355 canadian dollars, down from 1.2370
gold opened in london at a bid price of $457.30 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $453.60. at mid-morning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $458.00
in zurich, the noon bid price was $458, up from $454.50 late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.02 to close at a bid $458.81
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.76 a troy ounce, up from late wednesday's $6.65
the dollar dropped sharply against the yen today while stock prices fell slightly after three days of substantial gains
after opening lower at 125.15 yen, the dollar dropped further and closed at 124.50 yen, the day's low, down 0.93 yen from wednesday's close of 125.43 yen
the bank of japan appeared to step into the market to support the dollar late in the morning and at the outset of the afternoon session, traders said
profit-taking dollar selling brought the dollar down, but besides that there was no notable movement in the market,'' said ken iiya of the bank of tokyo. the market still is anticipating a weaker dollar, he said
another trader said market participants were hesitant about trading while awaiting the scheduled release of u.s. economic data on friday. in addition, he said, new york markets will close for a holiday friday and will not provide any lead for tokyo after the data is released
figures to be released friday include u.s. unemployment in march and construction expenditures in february
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which rose 366.89 points wednesday to a post-crash high, sliped 59.81 points, or 0.2 percent, closing at 26,260.26 points
the market has come to a rest as investors stepped to the sidelines, following the three days of sharp gains,'' said yoshio shimoyama of nikko securities. the nikkei average gained more than 1,000 points in the three days
the dollar's fall did not affect the market, which kept a positive mood about prospects for the new fiscal year beginning friday, he said
investors also were cautious while awaiting the u.s. economic data, traders said. the volume of the first section was estimated at 1.4 billion shares, down from 1.8 billion shares wednesday
prices fell on the london stock exchange today, depressed by the continuing strength of the british currency and by previous declines in new york and tokyo
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index was off 12.3 points, or 0.7 percent, at 1,744.6 at midday
volume was a low 175 million shares, down from 232 million shares a day earlier
volume was light on the last day before the extended easter holiday weekend. the london market is closed on friday and monday
the market remained in negative territory all morning, moving in a narrow range after an early markdown, dealers said
the early markdown was caused by the previous drop in new york and tokyo and by sterling's recent rise against the deutsche mark
sterling was boosted by comments on wednesday by chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, who emphasized the government's commitment to fight inflation
currency dealers interpreted lawson's statements as evidence the government will tolerate further rises in sterling without cutting interest rates again
sterling's rise depressed the major exporting companies' stocks that get a competitive advantage from a weak pound. picks up 4th graf pvs bg'ng, news releases ...</note>
mythology failed to record who supplied the wax and feathers for daedalus' wings 3,500 years ago. that omission is not being repeated in 1988
thanks to the miracle of modern public relations, corporate backers are getting a share of the acclaim in the current attempt to recreate the mythical flight of daedalus from the greek island of crete
a high-tech human-powered aircraft made a successful series of test flights today in iraklion, crete, in preparation for a world-record distance attempt that also will recreate the ancient daedalus myth
the 68-pound ultralight daedalus 88 completed six flights lasting less than three minutes each in calm dawn weather above a greek air force base adjoining iraklion airport
five athlete pilots took turns to pedal the shimmering pink-and-silver plane at speeds of around 14 mph, flying about 15 feet above the tarmac
news releases, an innovation unknown in ancient greece, have let it be known to the world that arrow gear co. of downers grove, ill., supplied gearboxes for the daedalus aircraft
poly-flex inc. of walworth, wis., donated plastic wheels. polar-electro ky of kempele, finland, contributed heart rate monitors. anheuser-busch cos. inc. sponsored the prototype light eagle aircraft
the design and construction of the daedalus is mainly the work of students, faculty, staff and recent alumni of massachusetts institute of technology
john s. langford, the program manager, is on leave from the institute for defense analyses in alexandria, va
the attraction of the daedalus project for a corporate sponsor is obvious. it brings together high technology, teamwork, imagination and daring
it's been a super project. it's a natural fit for us,'' said clare hertel, a spokeswoman for san francisco-based shaklee corp
shaklee sponsors the daedalus crew and united technologies corp. is the financial sponsor of the aircraft itself. the two companies are treating the project as part of their research-and-development efforts
shaklee says the energy drink it is developing for the daedalus pilots might lead to a beverage for endurance athletes that could be sold commercially
in cooperation with yale university's ethan nadel, shaklee has developed a drink containing easily digestible carbohydrates for quick energy
if they (pilots) run out of energy or feel fatigued, no matter how wonderful the plane is, the engine might run out,'' said james whittam, shaklee's vice president for science and technology
whittam said shaklee has recently improved the flavor of its experimental beverage, but won't describe the flavor
it won't be a fruit punch, i can tell you that,'' whittam said. ``it's our secret weapon.''
shaklee, a company with an eye for the dramatic, has also sponsored the u.s. ski team, the around-the-world flight of the voyager and ned gillette's rowboat trip from south america to antarctica
the engine of the daedalus is a human being, so the jet engine builders at united technologies' pratt &amp; whitney don't have much to learn from it. but the air conditioner makers at carrier could gain insights into how to keep air flowing smoothly over slowly turning blades, said russell meyerand jr., chief scientist of the hartford, conn.-based company
better understanding of air flows could also help in streamlining the exterior frame of otis elevators. it could even help the company develop concepts for a solar-powered aircraft that would hover at 100,000 feet and serve as a communications relay station for communications, meyerand said
the high-altitude aircraft would presumably have military uses. meyerand said it would be developed only if it received government support
united technologies says it has contributed $430,000 to the daedalus project, plus engineering and materials support. shaklee says it has contributed about $225,000, including food for the athletes and research at yale university on the high-energy drink
united technologies sees its participation in part as a way of recruiting engineers from colleges such as mit and inspiring a new generation of students
i hope that young men and women ... might be encouraged,'' meyerand said. ``rather than becoming a lawyer _ there are too many of them anyway _ they might go to engineering school.''
audi of america inc. is lashing out at critics of the shift lock on its 5000s models with automatic transmission, which it says has prevented sudden acceleration
they have refused to accept, and to audi's dismay, continue to refuse to accept, the truth about unintended acceleration,'' the importer said. the shift lock ``has been recognized worldwide as the best device available to prevent unintended acceleration,'' audi said wednesday
the automaker made its comments as part of a report in which it said it had received nearly 400 complaints about the shift lock
the lock prevents drivers from shifting out of park unless a foot is on the brake pedal. a car's engine cannot overcome its brake, nor can a defect in the engine or transmission affect the brake system because the systems are not connected
following studies of reports of unintended acceleration in the audi car and in vehicles by many other automakers including general motors corp. and mercedes-benz, the national highway traffic safety administration labeled it an industry-wide phenomenon apparently caused by driver error
the shift lock prevents drivers from making the error _ hitting the gas pedal instead of the brake. most japanese automakers are planning to install them as standard equipment
audi said critics' attempts to discredit the shift lock serve as attempts to prevent drivers from increasing their awareness of which pedal they are stepping on
in a report to the nhtsa, audi submitted an analysis of the device's performance and information on 396 consumer complaints received on models with shift locks
audi installed shift locks on 1978-1986 models during a recall that began in september 1986 and remains in effect. it included them as standard equipment on 1987 and 1988 models
of the 396 compaints, audi said, all but 22 did not fit the pattern of unintended acceleration. of the 22, 15 involved improperly installed shift locks. in the other seven cases, drivers shifted into gear from neutral instead of park
the device has no effect when the car is in neutral. in all 22 cases, tests found the brakes functioned properly, audi said
audi said it has received no complaints of sudden acceleration in 1988 models. it received 16 complaints on 1987 models, but none proved to be cases of sudden acceleration, audi said
audi said it has installed shift locks on more than 170,000 cars, including 93 percent of its 1984-1986 fleet and 38 percent of its 1978-1983 fleet
both audi and the federal agency continue to urge all owners of cars which have not yet responded to make dealer appointments as quickly as possible,'' the company said
the automatic shift lock is an effective cure,'' audi said in the conclusion of its report to nhtsa. ``accident records and insurance statistics demonstrate that the audi 5000 is among the safest cars in the united states.''
the stock market showed no clear trend today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials edged up 2.48 to 1,980.60 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 2 to 1 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 308 up, 632 down and 471 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 18.95 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report coming friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ends with today's trading
among actively traded blue chips, american express rose ] to 24[; international business machines [ to 105\, and american telephone &amp; telegraph \ to 26}. but general electric was unchanged at 40\ and ford motor slipped [ to 43{
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .02 to 146.20. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .34 at 293.33
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average closed with a 20.22-point loss at 1,978.12
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 on the nyse, with 568 up, 918 down and 468 unchanged. big board volume totaled 151.81 million shares, against 152.69 million in the previous session
contel corp. will pay a former president $275,000 a year for life in return for his agreement last year to resign, the company said this week
john lemasters, 53, will also receive stock and medical benefits from atlanta-based contel, the former continental telephone co., the company said in its proxy statement mailed to shareholders
a contel spokesman said the benefits would continue for the rest of lemasters' life
lemasters resigned as head of the $3 billion company april 30, 1987, following the failure of a proposed merger he had spearheaded with communications satellite corp. of washington, d.c. he headed contel for two years
contel officials acknowledged wednesday they had received telephone calls from some shareholders criticizing the termination agreement, reached last year
a contel spokesman said the agreement was a compromise to persuade lemasters to give up his original contract, which included a $380,000 base salary in 1986 and a special stock bonus worth more than $800,000 over four years. lemasters also agreed not to work for a competitor
lemasters, now president of a pompano beach, fla., computer firm, is to provide consulting and other services to contel until aug. 3, 1988
the ritz-carlton hotel co. has settled its dispute with the owner of hotels in two cities over use of the ritz-carlton name
william b. johnson, chairman of the atlanta-based ritz-carlton hotel co., issued a joint statement wednesday with william b. coleman, owner of ritz-carlton hotels in new york and washington, d.c., saying they have agreed to work together to operate and market coleman's hotels in those cities
the atlanta-based hotel company filed suit two years ago to prevent coleman from using the ritz-carlton name. johnson's company, w.b. johnson properties inc., bought rights to the ritz-carlton name when it acquired boston's ritz-carlton hotel in 1983
the joint statement said further details of the operations agreement would be forthcoming
the ritz-carlton hotel co. operates hotels in atlanta, boston, laguna niguel, calif., naples, fla., and rancho mirage, calif
the stock market gave ground today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 3.32 to 1,974.80 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 421 up, 741 down and 509 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 41.03 million shares at midmorning
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report coming friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ends with today's trading
among actively traded blue chips, american express rose | to 24]; international business machines \ to 105], and general electric [ to 40]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .34 to 145.88. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .38 at 293.29
ailing first republicbank corp., a major bank holding company that recently received a $1 billion federal bailout, said it expects a significant first-quarter loss
the dallas-based company also reported wednesday in documents filed with the securities and exchange commission that it may default on about $33 million in long-term debts, a move which could prompt creditors to demand immediate repayment
these factors, among others, indicate that the corporation may be unable to continue in its present form,'' first republicbank said in a draft of its annual report to shareholders filed with the sec. shareholders have not yet received the report
meanwhile, two class action suits have been filed by investors against the company and seven of its top executives in federal district court in dallas
first republicbank, texas' largest bank holding company and the 13th-largest in the nation, said it expects a ``significant loss'' during the first quarter of 1988. company insiders expect the loss to exceed $500 million
the loss was caused by major deposit outflows, increases in funding costs and in problem loans, especially in real estate
the company received a $1 billion bailout from the federal deposit insurance corp. on march 17
in giving the aid, the fdic said no protection was offered for first republicbank's creditors and shareholders. at the same time, the company suspended dividend payments to holders of preferred shares
the two class action suits accuse first republicbank of misleading investors about the company's financial health
the investors allege misrepresentation and fraud in the sale of securities issued before republicbank corp. acquired interfirst corp. last june
in the first suit, new york investor martin theodores claims that he and other investors saw the value of their first republicbank securities plummet after the company's bailout request. he claims that investors weren't adequately informed about first republicbank's condition and the possibility that the company would seek federal assistance
first republicbank spokesman joe bowles declined comment on the litigation
in documents filed with the sec, first republicbank said it may default on about $33 million in long-term debt during the first half of the year
if that happens and creditors demand immediate repayment, the company said, ``the holders of as much as approximately half of the consolidated long-term debt of first republic may have the right to accelerate the due date of their debt.''
grain and soybean futures opened narrowly mixed today in very light activity on the chicago board of trade
little price movement was expected with many traders taking to the sidelines ahead of two eagerly awaited agriculture department reports due out after the close, analysts said
the annual report on spring planting intentions will give the market a broad indication of the potential size of this year's corn and soybean crops
the quarterly grain stocks report will reveal the levels of grain on hand as of march 1
together, the reports will indicate whether futures prices should go higher to encourage more planting to meet the expected demand, or lower to discourage plantings
people are afraid to take any position going into these reports whether the news is positive, negative or neutral,'' said steve freed, an analyst with dean witter reynolds inc. ``it's been a good four or five years since we've had that kind of situation.''
in early trading, wheat was { cent to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.02} a bushel; corn was \ cent to { cent lower with may at $2.09\ a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent lower with may at $1.60 a bushel; soybeans were { cent lower to 1\ cents higher with may at $6.48{ a bushel
most cattle futures were higher while pork futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .08 cent to .10 cent higher with april at 75.02 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .02 cent lower to .05 cent higher with march at 82.75 cents a pound; hogs were .20 cent lower to .12 cent higher with april at 45.25 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .30 cent to .35 cent lower with may at 55.55 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures retreated on wednesday
it's been slipped into everything from frying pans to space suits to the nation's political vernacular, and now teflon, still the slickest solid on earth, is sliding into its second half-century
discovered accidentally april 6, 1938, by a young chemist named roy j. plunkett, the waxy white plastic turns 50 this week, still dominating dozens of scientific and consumer uses with no hint of a higher-tech replacement
it keeps the eggs from sticking to frying pans, for sure. but it also coats electrical wires, chemical tanks, jogging suits and lightbulbs. it's used to patch human hearts. it keeps the statue of liberty from rusting
the applications, as far as i can tell, are no smaller than our imaginations,'' says plunkett, now a septuagenarian retiree from the du pont chemical company. ``i'm amazed at the impact. and there's more to go.''
the reason for teflon's endurance is simple: nothing else is so slippery, so tough and such a good insulator, all at the same time. even after five decades, ``it is unique in these qualities,'' says professor fred mcgarry, a specialist in such materials at the massachusetts institute of technology
it's a discovery that almost slipped away. plunkett, two years out of college, was working with refrigeration gases in a du pont lab in deepwater, n.j., when an assistant pulled a cylinder of freon out of a dry ice storage bin, turned it on _ and nothing came out
someone else might have assumed the cylinder had leaked and tossed it away. plunkett didn't. he weighed the cylinder. he shook it. he cut it open
a white solid material was obtained, which was supposed to be a polymerized product'' of the freon compound, plunkett recorded laconically in his lab notebook entry of 4-6-38
voila
people describe it as a lucky chance, a bit of serendipity or a flash of brilliance,'' says plunkett, an inductee into the national inventors hall of fame. ``i like to think of it as a combination of all three.''
the serendipity, he notes, extended beyond the discovery itself. it soon was found that the chance chemical reaction that produced teflon can have unhappy consequences. ``if there was any luck involved in the discovery,'' says plunkett, ``probably part of it was that we didn't get blown up.''
du pont testers gradually established teflon's extraordinary properties. it is ``damn near inert,'' says mcgarry; it won't react with chemicals or break down in the environment. it withstands temperatures from 400 degrees below zero to 500 degrees above. energy passes through it without heating it up. it holds together in a vacuum, meaning it's perfect for use in outer space
lawrence english, editor of materials engineering magazine, likens the impact of teflon to that of the transistor. ``there's nothing quite like it,'' he says. ``it's pervasive in technical environments _ all over the place, in a lot of really curious and diverse applications.''
at the beginning, it was under wraps, restricted to government defense work from 1941, when du pont first was able to produce it, until 1948. it was used in the manhattan project for gaskets and vessel linings to contain a highly corrosive chemical needed in the production of the atom bomb
it also coated wires in electronic devices, making them considerably fire resistant. today, the greatest commercial use of teflon is in wire coating, followed by gaskets and shaft seals and pipe and tank coatings
teflon didn't reach the public eye until may 1956, when a store in nice, france, put the fist teflon-lined pan on its shelves. the idea stuck, and an estimated 500 million pots and pans coated with teflon have been sold since
it wasn't until 20 years later that teflon moved from kitchen to clothes closet. robert gore, who was in the wire coating business, found that a piece of stretched teflon has pores big enough to let water vapor out but too small to let water droplets in. he stuck it to fabric and called it gore-tex, the first waterproof-breathable clothing
teflon's next frontier was the language. that breakthrough came the morning of aug. 2, 1983, as pat schroeder was cooking eggs for the kids. schroeder happens to be a democratic congresswoman, and as she slid the eggs out of a frying pan, she reflected on the way political accountability, in her view, slid off president reagan
i said, `he's just like this pan,'' she recalled last week. ``nothing sticks.''
members of congress may start the day's session with one-minute speeches, and this is how schroeder started hers that day: ``mr. speaker, after carefully watching ronald reagan, he is attempting a great breakthrough in political technology _ he has been perfecting the teflon-coated presidency.''
the phrase, picked up by the papers, caught on within weeks. ``americans love shorthand descriptions of things,'' reflects schroeder. ``the only problem was that it didn't work. still nothing stuck to him.''
political efficacy aside, one outfit that didn't appreciate the publicity was du pont, which holds the teflon trademark even though the patent on the formula has long expired
they were most unhappy. a guy came by my office from their corporate headquarters and kind of snarled and growled about it,'' even threatening a copyright infringement lawsuit if she kept using the phrase, schroeder says. ``i could hardly keep a straight face.''
but when it comes to teflon, there hasn't been much else for du pont to snarl or growl about _ a spokeswoman says the company has sold 2.4 billion pounds of teflon. the current price is about $5.50 a pound
as for plunkett, his work with teflon ended almost as soon as it was begun. after three months, he was transferred to another du pont lab. he spent his career working with freon, not teflon
plunkett did not get a direct share of teflon profits. du pont doesn't work that way. but the company has two bonus pay systems, one for outstanding work and another for a contribution beyond the call of duty
says plunkett: ``i got 'em both.''
mci communications corp. expects that by early 1989 the company will achieve a positive cash flow for the first time in its 20-year history, a company spokesman confirmed thursday
once that goal is achieved, mci plans to reduce its debt and later begin buying back the 16 percent stake in the company held by international business machines corp., said spokesman bernard goodrich
the company, the nation's second-largest long-distance carrier, wants to reduce its debt-to-equity ratio from 67 percent to around 40 percent over the next four years, goodrich said
at that point, we would look at the market and see if the next step is to buy back the ibm stock,'' he said. ``we're talking three to four years before we would consider that and then we'd have to consider market conditions.''
goodrich confirmed a report in thursday's editions of the wall street journal, in which mci officials outlined the company's future plans
financial pressures on the company have eased now that it has finished building its digital network. it also has added 800 service, operator services and direct-dial service virtually worldwide to match the offerings of industry leader american telephone &amp; telegraph co
mci acquired ibm's share of satellite business systems in 1986 in exchange for 47 million shares of mci stock. under the agreement, ibm cannot acquire more than 30 percent of mci's stock without the company's approval
with a stock repurchase, mci could assure its independence and increase its earnings per share, goodrich said
mci ended 1987 with earnings of $88 million, or 31 cents per share, on revenues of $3.94 billion. the company's capital and other expenses exceeded its cash flow by $200 million last year
ibm had no comment on mci's stock-repurchase plans
a company achieves positive cash flow when its net profit plus depreciation is greater than its expenditures on dividends and investment in plant and equipment. mci does not pay dividends
among the benefits proclaimed for the tax reform act of 1986 were simplicity and fairness, but with each tax return filed this year those claims become more questionable
simplicity obviously hasn't been achieved. and fairness? while a quality such as this involves less obvious and more subjective judgments, there is evidence to suggest it is absent from many chapters of the 1986 law
consider this: an investor in mutual funds could be forced to pay taxes on profits never realized _ in fact, pay taxes on money lost
mutual funds, remember, are viewed as the sanctuary of the small investor who doesn't have time or inclination to challenge the marketplace. what could be simpler, such people reason, than to turn over funds to professionals?
the problem with this reasoning, as experienced investors know, is that there are good funds, mediocre funds and poor ones, just as there are superior stocks, ordinary stocks and stocks that go nowhere but down
while that can be surprising enough to some folks, it is nothing compared to the shock of finding, as many will, that they have incurred taxes while losing money, thanks to the 1986 tax law
howard ruff, publisher of the ruff times, a widely circulated economic newsletter, calls attention to this bizarre twist. its elements are easy to follow:
1. unlike individual investors who can decide when to buy or sell an investment, a mutual fund investor leaves that decision to the fund's manager
2. when a fund sells investments, 98 percent of the net gains must be paid out as a distribution to the fund's shareholders
3. the money is either given in cash or automatically reinvested in more fund shares. but either way, the shareholder must pay tax on the distribution. all shareholders in the fund are equally liable
4. however, because the fund made money on its investment does not mean the shareholder made money on his or her investment. it's a matter of timing
5. that timing becomes especially relevant because of the enormous, 5-year price runup of many funds _ and the sudden collapse on oct. 19. those who were with the fund for five years did indeed gain; many others didn't
6. for example, an individual who bought on oct. 15 might have paid a premium for fund shares. the fund then sold some investments for a profit. the investor didn't share in those profits _ but he is taxed as if he did
7. making the situation more outrageous, says ruff, is that such an investor might have seen his investment plummet, for two reasons:
first, whenever a fund makes a distribution, the fund's net asset value is reduced by the amount of the distribution. secondly, the crash reduced the value even more, in some instances by huge percentages
ruff offers this example:
let's say you paid $18.11 per share for a fund after bloody monday. since then the fund has distributed $2.42 in capital gains
the net asset value of the fund was reduced by the $2.42 distribution, and has subsequently fallen another 34 cents. but, since you must pay 68 cents in capital gains taxes on the $2.42 distribution, your real loss is $1.02.''
remember, the fund might have had a gain on the particular stock it sold. you might not have had a gain, and you might have had a loss. it doesn't matter
this is the worst of both worlds, says ruff. ``first you get zapped by the bear market, then uncle sam rubs salt in the wound by taxing a gain you never realized.''
the stock market lapsed into a broad decline today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 9.95 to 1,968.17 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by more than 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 381 up, 913 down and 488 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report coming friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ends with today's trading
losers among the blue chips included general motors, down { at 70}; merck, down 1{ at 156; international paper, down 1 at 40\, and procter &amp; gamble, down { at 77|
atlantic richfield rose 1{ to 83. the company said its first-quarter earnings are expected to come in above $2 a share, against $1.31 in the comparable period last year
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .77 to 145.45. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .51 at 293.16
volume on the big board came to 67.27 million shares at noontime, down from 74.81 million at the same point wednesday. wires</note>
house and senate negotiators broke a longstanding deadlock today and moved to place sharp import curbs on toshiba corp. and a subsidiary for selling submarine-silencing equipment to the soviets
approval of the toshiba provision as part of a sweeping trade bill came despite reagan administration opposition and a major lobbying campaign by the japanese electronics manufacturer
on the eve of the action, several cabinet officials warned lawmakers that a stringent punishment for toshiba could precipitate a presidential veto of the 1,000-page trade bill. they said the president should have more flexibility in determining national security and trade relations with other countries
i was elected as a u.s. senator to represent the state of utah in the u.s. senate and not toshiba and not england and not the state department and not frank carlucci,'' declared sen. jake garn, r-utah, in urging lawmakers to defy administration opposition
he said he was embarrassed that a republican administration would fight the sanctions, adding, ``the state department has been kicked in the shins and instead of saying ouch they have chosen to surrender
the provision was accepted by a subcommittee of a house-senate conference committee working on a compromise version of the trade bill
it would ban for three years u.s. government procurement of toshiba corp. products. the company has massive sales within the united states of televisions, microwaves and other electronic products
it would ban import for three years of products manufactured by toshiba machine corp., the subsidiary involved with the norwegian firm of kongsberg vapenfabrikk in selling sophisticated computerized milling equipment to the soviets that the administration says has greatly submarine propeller noise
there would be exemptions for national security
the measure also provides for a two to five-year ban in the future on imports of products by foreign makers that violate the so-called cocom agreement under which western nations act to keep high-tech equipment with military uses out of communist hands. but the president could waive such action against parent companies in some cases
lawmakers are pushing to put the finishing touches on the trade bill before starting on their spring break
we're going to give it our best,'' sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said wednesday as a house-senate conference committee plowed through a stack of proposals but stopped short of the big decisions
congress wants to have all the provisions wrapped up except a few minor loose ends before heading for its spring break at the end of the week
the committee, attempting to fashion a compromise between rival 1,000-page trade bills passed by the two houses, heard rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., appeal to lawmakers to save the heart of his controversial trade plan
the plan to force 10 percent annual reductions in unfair surpluses that other countries run with the united states formed the centerpiece of gephardt's abandoned campaign for president
he said any final version should focus on key countries that make unfair trade practices part of a systematic trade strategy. wholesale negotiations should be shunned in favor of working on major trade trouble spots, he said
mandatory retaliation is needed when negotiations fail, he said. ``you have to have a stick in the closet,'' he said. but he added that flexibility is necessary in dealing with trading partners and the president should have the power to waive retaliation
investor donald trump gave up his $22-a-share tender offer for the resorts international inc. stock he doesn't own, saying he is confident a takeover bid by entertainer-businessman merv griffin will never be approved
control of resorts international is now held by trump, who owns nearly all of resorts' 572,000 class b shares that have 100 votes each, giving him 88 percent of the company's voting power
on wednesday, griffin revised his offer for $36 a share for all of the company's class a stock and called for resorts to sell griffin 1.2 million new class b shares at the same price. the new stock would give griffin voting control
the company has 5.7 million class a common shares that have one vote each
trump said late wednesday he will return all tendered shares after his offer. the merger agreement expires at midnight tonight
trump said he will never sell his class b stock and will not pay more than $22 for class a stock
griffin said wednesday he is no longer making his offer contingent upon trump tendering his class b stock or terminating a five-year management contract valued at about $100 million for resorts' hotel-casinos in new jersey and the bahamas
consummation of the offer would result in griffin owning a majority of the voting power and more than 90 percent of the equity of resorts
trump would be able to participate in griffin's new offer only by converting his stock to class a shares
griffin, through his privately held investment firm, griffin co., made his revised offer to resorts' outside directors, noting he believes only those board members should vote on the proposal
the other directors have interests in mr. trump's competing bid,'' griffin said
three of resorts' six directors are nominees of trump, who is the company's chairman
resorts referred media inquiries to trump. trump's attorney, jack nusbaum of new york, said trump would continue to use his voting power to resist griffin's offer and it was unlikely resorts' outside directors would meet independently to consider the proposal
trump is offering $22 a share to buy the resorts stock he doesn't already own and take the company private
in mid-march, griffin countered with a bid of $35 a share, or $225 million, for all of the company's stock, but it was contingent upon trump tendering his stock and terminating the management pact. trump has repeatedly indicated he wouldn't agree to either contingency
griffin subsequently said he would boost his bid to $295 million, with resorts' board members able to decide how to apportion the additional $70 million between class a and class b holders. the move was seen as a way to pay a higher price to trump, but the new yorker again said he wasn't interested
long-distance calling options are many and prices are competitive, but residential consumers as well as small and larger businesses still can save money by shopping around, according to a private survey
the report by the telecommunications research &amp; action center shows that most of the long-distance companies offer various calling plans, each one benefiting different calling patterns
the nonprofit, consumer group recommends that residential consumers periodically compare available options _ annually for those whose long-distance costs are less than $10 per month and more often when monthly bills are more than $25
though cost gaps between competing companies and plans have narrowed, ``the risk in picking the wrong plan can result in paying substantially more in long-distance service,'' said samuel a. simon, a consultant to the consumer group
the survey outlined the options available from eight of the largest long-distance carriers and the costs, calculated in various call volumes, of the plans
the survey also compared costs for businesses that spend up to $8,000 a month on long-distance calling. for these business callers, some of the calling plans available _ including new ``virtual wats'' plans _ can save 25 percent over standard rates of even the lowest cost companies, trac says
unlike traditional wats service, the new ``virtual wats'' plans offered by all the major companies require no special installation or dedicated lines
the residential and small business comparisons include the option of access-code dialing, or casual calling, which allows a caller to reach a long-distance carrier other than their chosen one by dialing an access code, 10 plus a different three-digit number for each company. this option can be cheaper than some ``dial 1'' plans at lower call volumes, but volume discounts are generally not available with code dialing
a comparison of the costs for a sample residential monthly bill _ 20 calls totaling 380 minutes, 70 percent of which are calculated at night-weekend rates _ showed at&amp;t's reach out america bonus plan was the cheapest at $53.84
midamerica standard service followed at $54.06, us sprint standard service at $54.60, at&amp;t's reach out america basic plan at $55.14, us sprint 10333 and 10777 access at $55.24, mci standard rates at $55.62
when a sampling of 33 calls were priced, us sprint standard rates were least expensive, followed by us sprint 10333 and 10777 access, mci standard rates, mci's prime calling option and the at&amp;t reach out america plans
another sample of 20 calls, this time with 70 percent of the 380 minutes calculated at daytime rates, was analyzed to assess the costs a small business might pay. in that comparison, mci standard rates were least expensive at $88.88, followed by us sprint standard rates at $89.32, allnet standard service at $89.95, tdx standard service at $90.08, and mci 10222 access at $90.03
the survey's residential and small business results are available in a chart for $1, the business chart for $10. include a stamped, self-addressed, business-size envelope and mail to trac, p.o. box 12038, washington, d.c. 20005
cocoa prices reacted to forecasts of large world surpluses by falling thursday to their lowest levels in nearly six years, traders said
cocoa beans for may delivery fell to $1,692 a metric ton, $30 lower than overnight levels and their lowest price since mid-1982
traders said the market reflected the prospect of a fourth consecutive season of surpluses, with record world production forecast in the current season running from october 1987 to september 1988
international merchants gill and duffus said in a report released thursday that, based on expected record crops in the ivory coast, brazil and malaysia, it is forecasting 1987-88 world output to hit a record 2.106 million tons _ up six percent from 1986-87
they said this ``remarkable growth'' in production would cause output to exceed consumption by 122,000 metric tons, despite a 3.6 percent rise in consumption over 1986-87
such an imbalance would take accumulated inventories by the end of the present season to 713,000 tons, the highest since 1964-65, they said
the ivory coast crop is estimated to be 630,000 tons compared with 590,000 in 1986-87; brazil's 426,000 tons vs. 369,000; and malaysia's 190,000, up from 164,000
gill and duffus projected nigerian output will be 135,000 tons, up 55,000 tons from 1986-87 and the biggest since 1984-85. ghana's harvest is forecast at 185,000 tons, down slightly from 228,000 last season
the cocoa market has been regulated by supply and demand mechanisms since feb. 25 when intervention buying by the international cocoa organization was halted indefinitely because purchases had reached the maximum 250,000 tons permitted by treaty
importing and exporting member countries failed to agree on supplementary market-support schemes at a meeting here in march
the organization is not scheduled to meet again on the issue until september
domestic automakers were scheduled to produce 181,925 cars and trucks this week, down from last week's 237,295, ward's automotive reports said thursday
automakers produced 237,889 cars and trucks during the same week a year ago. they were were scheduled to make 116,970 cars this week, compared with 149,951 a week ago and 165,348 in the same week in 1987
truck production for the week was scheduled at 64,955, compared with last week's 87,344 and last year's 72,541
canadian automakers were to build 22,020 cars this week, compared with 26,492 last week and 16,670 in the same week last year. canadian truck production was scheduled at 15,319, compared with 20,266 last week and 17,948 in the same week last year
the stock market drifted in a narrow range today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down about 10 points at its midsession low, was up 4.64 at 1,982.76 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 545 up, 853 down and 504 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report coming friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ends with today's trading
gainers among the blue chips included international business machines, up 2| at 107}; american telephone &amp; telegraph, up \ at 26}; exxon, up { at 42\, and american express, up | at 24]
atlantic richfield rose 2 to 83{. the company said its first-quarter earnings are expected to come in above $2 a share, against $1.31 in the comparable period last year
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks added .02 to 146.24. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .54 at 294.21
volume on the big board came to 97.89 million shares with two hours to go
in new public service commercials for the united way, a mugger tears a coat off the back of a homeless man, an assailant grabs an unsuspecting woman and an older man is felled at the office by a heart attack
by the end of the 30-second ads, the homeless man gets a new coat, the distraught woman dresses up to face the world again and the older man enjoys restored health on a beach
they each got help from agencies assisted by donations to the united way
roberta van der voort, a senior vice president of united way of america inc., said thursday that by showing people the ``vital link'' between their donations and good deeds, the ads may help dispell skepticism about charitable organizations
ruth wooden, president of the advertising council, the non-profit organization that oversees $1.1 billion a year in public service advertising, said the united way is the first organization to address the issues of homelessness and rape in a national advertising campaign
she said she expects ``exceptionally strong media play'' for the campaign with the media donating more than $70 million in free time and space this year, up from $40 million donated for the national united way campaign last year
the ads were created by the new york-based agency lowe marschalk inc., which took over responsibility for the campaign this year. the ads continue the theme ``the united way. it brings out the best in all of us.''
van der voort said the united way raised about $2.6 billion last year and channelled the money to 37,000 agencies that help people in some way
but she said research showed many people were unaware that united way donations helped organizations such as the salvation army provide coats to the homeless, rape crisis centers counsel abused women and the red cross provide training that often helps save the lives of heart attack victims
she said lowe marschalk was asked to ``tell a story in 30 seconds'' that demonstrates how donations help people in the community
twenty minutes ago, this man's last shred of dignity was stripped right off his back,'' a narrator says in the spot where a mugger tears the coat from a homeless man
where do you go when your world is this cold, this cruel,'' the voice asks as the homeless man shivers in the shadow of a stone column
the commercial then shows the man putting on a new coat, as lowe marschalk makes the connection it has been asked to draw in three succinct phrases
he got help at the salvation army. they got help from the united way. thank god, the united way got help from you,'' the narrator says
the advertising council is distributing the commercials and radio versions of the ads to networks, cable outlets and local stations across the country. print versions of the campaign should be ready in a month, said lowe marschalk's president, andrew j. langer
the agency has previously created public service campaigns for a free press, amnesty international and the city of new york
a company fined $604,000 for using foreign-made steel in hacksaws sold to the government will appeal a verdict that found it violated the buy american act, its attorney said thursday
it is not a rational interpretation of the buy american act,'' said jerome facher, who represented rule industries in the case
a u.s. district court jury on wednesday convicted rule industries and two of its executives of 302 violations of the act, which calls for goods purchased by the federal government for public use be manfactured with mostly american-made parts
the number of violations corresponds with the number of invoices the company submitted during its contracts with the general services administration in 1981 and 1982 totaling $1.3 million
the jury ruled the company was liable because it purchased 10-inch steel ``blanks'' from suppliers in sweden and japan. the blanks were milled, hardened and tempered in the united states
rulings in the case indicated that it would not have been a violation of the act had gloucester-based rule industries purchased sheets or coils of steel from foreign suppliers and cut the blanks from them
the act is really being interpreted in a bizarre fashion,'' facher said. ``it's a very complex and old piece of legislation that dates back to the depression and has never really been definitively interpreted by a court.''
the case is believed to be the first jury trial in the enforcement of the 55-year-old act, u.s. attorney frank l. mcnamara jr. said
mcnamara had filed a civil lawsuit in 1985 against rule industries, a diversified manufacturer of marine and hardware products; its president, william anastos, and its vice president, gary sable. each was charged with violating the act
the jury said the defendants falsely represented that domestic steel was used to fulfill four contracts with the gsa, the main contracting arm of the federal government
rule industries officials had said when the suit was filed the gsa was well aware of its steel-purchasing practices
during the trial, several former employees testified that rule industries executives hid the source of the steel by destroying containers shipped from overseas, blackening out foreign markings and removing shipping labels from packages
there were a number of very honest employees who got offended when their company lied to the government,'' said richard stearns, a first assistant u.s. attorney
the board of federated department stores inc. put off until friday a decision on whether to reaffirm its merger agreement with r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. or accept the competing bid of campeau corp
in a statement today, federated said both suitors presented revised bids of more than $6.6 billion each to the board at its day-long meeting wednesday
the board had been expected to announce today whether it would reaffirm its support for its agreement with macy or reverse itself and choose campeau's offer
however, federated said macy submitted another revised offer this morning and the board would meet again friday morning to consider both bids
for the first time since it announced its cash-and-stock offer a month ago, macy put a value on the stock end of its bid and also gave shareholders the option of taking all cash for their shares, federated said in a statement
in its bid today, macy offered $78.92 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares, and said it would pay $60 in cash or exchange five shares in a new company, macy's-federated inc., for each remaining federated share
the deal had a blended value of $75.14 a share, or a total of $6.73 billion, federated said
in its latest bid, campeau offered to pay $74 a share for approximately 80 percent of federated's shares, and the same amount for the remaining 20 percent after a merger, federated said. that would make the toronto-based developer's bid worth $6.62 billion
thomas tashjian, an analyst with seidler amdec securities inc. in los angeles, said macy had an edge over campeau with the offers now on the table, but he cautioned, ``campeau could always come out and say they're going to offer a higher bid.''
wall street analysts had said macy would be forced to put a value on the ``stub'' _ or securities _ portion of its offer to compete with campeau. many investors, including arbitragers who hold a sizeable portion of federated stock, were leaning toward the certainty of campeau's all-cash offer
investors reacted enthusiastically to the higher bidding. federated stock was up $2.25 to $72.50 in early afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange
before wednesday's meeting, campeau offered $73 a share in cash, or $6.53 billion. campeau had said it would pay $82 each for 70.5 million federated shares and $37 for each of the remainder of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares in a subsequent merger
campeau also had proposed a friendly merger under which it would pay $73 a share for 70.5 million shares in a tender offer and $73 for the remaining shares following the merger
macy's offer prior to the federated board meeting on wednesday was $77.35 a share in cash for 70.43 million federated shares, for a total of $5.4 billion. macy said it would exchange shares in the merged company and issue convertible debt securities for the remainder of federated's shares. analysts valued the offer at $6.3 billion
federated said macy presented an offer at the meeting similar to today's proposal, but which had an aggregate value of $73.88 a share or a total of $6.61 billion. that offer was superseded by today's bid
campeau had no comment on the latest macy bid, campeau spokeswoman joele frank said
federated gave macy chairman edward finkelstein and campeau chairman robert campeau the opportunity to address the board on wednesday, but the new york times reported in today's editions that campeau declined to appear. finkelstein spoke to the directors and presented ``his vision of the combined company,'' the times said
campeau has fought the merger agreement federated forged with macy a month ago with lawsuits and higher bids. if federated's directors again select macy's offer, toronto-based campeau is expected to continue in court the battle it began with a $47-a-share offer on jan. 25
macy's offer was scheduled to expire monday. the expiration of the campeau offer was uncertain, pending completion of financing requirements for the acquisition
federated had given both companies the chance to submit what it called ``final bids'' after campeau's most recent offer
on tuesday, the companies were in court after federated announced procedures for the submission of final offers. campeau objected to the guidelines on grounds they favored macy, but u.s. district judge leonard sand denied the canadian company's request for a temporary restraining order blocking the procedures
campeau argued the procedures were illegal because they embraced federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense and agreements between federated and macy
federated asked that whichever company was not chosen either terminate its offer or extend it for 30 business days. an extension would give the advantage to whichever company federated backed, because shareholders would likely tender their shares to the suitor whose offer expired first
sand stipulated that federated could not invoke defensive measures _ including its controversial poison pill _ before the losing party had a chance to challenge those measures in court
the poison pill would make a takeover attempt more expensive by allowing the retailer's shareholders to buy more company stock at a discount, unless federated's management supported the bid. campeau had sought unsuccessfully in court to have the pill invalidated
campeau also objected to an agreement under which federated would pay macy ``break-up'' fees if a macy-federated merger failed for reasons other than a macy default
federated's divisions include bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department stores; ralphs supermarkets; gold circle discount stores; and main street and children's place specialty stores
macy owns nearly 100 department and specialty stores
campeau, which started in real estate development in canada, moved into the u.s. retail market at the end of 1986 by acquiring allied stores corp
postal instant press inc., the nation's largest franchiser of printing centers, said thursday it has agreed to be taken private by a management-led investor group for $67.9 million, or $17.41 per share
the pact ends six weeks of on-again, off-again acquisition negotiations
an earlier, $17-per-share bid by the management group, headed by pip's chief executive thomas marotto, was permitted to expire two weeks ago when the company entered into talks with an unidentified third party that was offering $17.50 per share, or $68.25 million
however, pip said thursday that ``serious questions arose as to the firmness of that offer'' and marotto's group boosted its bid
pip has 3.9 million shares outstanding
marotto's group includes the chicago-based investment firm of golder thoma &amp; cressey, which specializes in leveraged buyouts in which the assets of the firm being acquired are pledged as collateral to line up takeover financing
pip has about 1,000 printing centers in the united states, canada and the united kingdom, all but a few of them franchised
last year, the company escaped a hostile bid by tarrytown, n.y.-based kane-miller corp
ford motor co. illegally charged $100 deductibles to perform some automobile repairs it should have done in new york state for free under the state's lemon law, a mid-level state appeals court ruled
the appellate division of the state's supreme court decided thursday that ford was ``unjustly enriched'' by charging new york consumers the deductibles and must make restitution
new york state attorney general robert abrams contended in court that the state's 1983 lemon law, designed to provide new yorkers with replacement vehicles or money back if their new cars exhibit irreparable flaws, did not allow ford to impose the deductibles
according to court papers, ford paid the cost of all repairs for its new cars during the first 12 months or 12,000 miles. but under an extended limited warranty, the automaker charged $100 each time it made repairs to the power train and other major components of cars with 12,000 to 18,000 miles or between one and two years old
abrams argued in court that the state's lemon law prohibits automakers from imposing a deductible for repairs on new cars during their first 18,000 miles or two years
a state supreme court justice in albany, harold hughes, ruled in december 1986 that the lemon law prohibits ford from imposing the deductibles, but he did not order the automaker to provide restitution
in the 5-0 ruling by the appellate division thursday, however, presiding justice a. franklin mahoney said he and his colleagues ``choose to exercise our discretion'' by ordering ford to give the money back
mahoney rejected arguments by ford attorneys that new york's lemon law is unconstitutional and that it violates interstate commerce laws
mahoney conceded that while ford may not have detailed records of all customers it improperly charged for repairs, ``it would not be impracticable to give purchasers during the relevant time period a general notice and a time period to come forward.''
mahoney sent the matter back to the state supreme court level to devise an ``appropriate restitution procedure'' for ford to follow
he was joined in his decision by state supreme court justices t. paul kane, john casey, leonard weiss and thomas mercure
nancy connell, a spokeswoman for abrams, said the attorney general's office has no accurate total of how many new yorkers were improperly charged the deductibles. but she said it's believed refunds could total ``in the millions of dollars.''
philip lacovara, a washington-based attorney who represented ford in the case, did not immediately return a telephone call seeking comment
the ruling could be appealed to the state's highest court, the court of appeals. represented rockefellers, sultan and cosby, but he did not actually represent them; also running on general news wires</note>
wall street ``whiz kid'' david bloom pleaded guilty to mail and securities fraud today for allegedly bilking investors out of $10 million which the 23-year-old sunk into art work, cars and two fully furnished homes for himself
i said i was a money manager, but i did not invest their money as i told them i would,'' the baby-faced 1986 duke university graduate told u.s. district judge david edelstein
bloom told duped investors that he also represented the rockefeller family, the sultan of brunei and bill cosby, even though he didn't
bloom, who was once profiled in a new york times magazine feature on new art collectors, faces five years in prison and a maximum fine of double the amount lost by investors at his may 12 sentencing. no sentencing agreement accompanied his guilty plea
wearing a dark gray suit, white shirt and blue tie, bloom stood with his hands behind his back and politely answered edelstein's questions about the scam during a 25-minute hearing
asked if he realized his ``money management'' operation was illegal, bloom responded, ``yes, your honor.''
according to court papers, bloom _ who was not licensed as an investment advisor _ used his clients' funds to buy $5.5 million in art work; a $1.9 million east hampton beach house; an $830,000 manhattan apartment; $800,000 in furnishings for the two homes; and two cars worth $200,000
the defendant also bought ``numerous items of expensive jewelry and deluxe trips to the caribbean'' for himself, family and friends, federal prosecutors charged
all the art work will be auctioned at sotheby's near the end of may, with the chance that some investors could still make a profit, said bloom's attorney, peter morrison
bloom was arrested jan. 14 on a federal complaint; he had 130 clients at his greater sutton investors at the time of his arrest
grain and soybean futures closed mixed thursday on the chicago board of trade in light trading ahead of two important government reports and the three-day holiday weekend, analysts said
the agriculture department's annual report on spring planting intentions and its quarterly report on grain stocks, both due out after the close on thursday, were expected to set the trend for corn and soybean futures prices for the next 30 days
together, the reports were expected to indicate whether futures prices should go higher to encourage more planting to meet the expected demand, or lower to discourage plantings, analysts said
the reports were to be released at 2 p.m. cst. the markets cannot react until monday, however, because they will be closed friday
soybean prices advanced in thursday's session while wheat and corn prices retreated
at the close, wheat was { cent to 3\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in may at $2.99 a bushel; corn was { cent lower to \ cent higher with may at $2.09{ a bushel; oats were 1{ cents to 2} cents higher with may at $1.61} a bushel; soybeans were 2 cents to 4{ cents higher with may at $6.53 a bushel
westinghouse electric corp. said thursday it plans a broad series of joint ventures with siemens a.g., the giant european electrical equipment manufacturer
these agreements will strengthen the competitive position of both companies in today's global markets by combining our respective world-leading technologies and capabilities,'' westinghouse chairman john c. marous said in announcing the signing of a letter of intent
the two companies together will make, sell and service factory automation equipment, industrial circuit breakers and industrial controls, westinghouse said. the joint ventures, covering more than 20 products, will operate in selected world markets, including the united states
westinghouse, the largest u.s. electrical equipment manufacturer, said it will own 51 percent of the joint ventures, which will need the approval of government regulators and directors of both companies.
westinghouse and siemens have cooperated in various ways as customers and in licensing agreements for more than 50 years, marous said
the approximately 358,000 employees of munich-based siemens generated 1987 sales of $30.4 billion. the 110,000 employees of pittsburgh-based westinghouse generated 1987 sales of $10.7 billion
the joint ventures in factory automation will combine existing westinghouse operations that employ 2,700 people, 1,700 of them in the united states, and siemens operations in peabody, mass., and roswell, ga., employing 370 people
businesses will be created to fulfill plans for the other two areas, industrial circuit breakers and industrial controls, said westinghouse spokesman james p. schmitt
the stock market declined slightly today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 1.66 to 1,976.46 by 3 p.m. today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 545 up, 893 down and 488 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report due out friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last monthly set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ends with today's trading
atlantic richfield rose 2 to 83{. the company said its first-quarter earnings are expected to come in above $2 a share, against $1.31 in the comparable period last year
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .31 to 145.91. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .34 at 294.01
volume on the big board came to 114.31 million shares with an hour to go
sears, roebuck &amp; co. has filed with the state to charter a second bank in delaware
sears, which already owns greenwood trust co., has filed an application to open a credit card bank called discover card bank of new castle, susan l. winters, acting deputy bank commissioner, said wednesday
the filing comes under that part of delaware law that pertains to any new bank being established in the state. a hearing is set for may 2 on the application
sears issues its discover credit card through greenwood trust, which it acquired in 1985
ms. winters said sears plans to transfer some of greenwood trust's credit card acounts to the new bank if it is approved
under federal banking laws, the growth of non-banks, which includes greenwood trust, are restricted. ms. winter said the new bank's ability to grow would not be restricted
when the federal law restricting the growth of non-banks was filed, ``sears made a commitment to look for ways to continue to make credit card loans,'' said paul marrone for dean witter reynolds, the sears subsidiary that oversees discover card operations
the application we have filed is a first step in the development of that commitment,'' marrone said
in what is being billed as one of the largest non-government issues in history, $1.45 billion in bonds have been sold to help kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. pay off bank loans from its buyout of jim walter corp
kohlberg kravis took jim walters private last year for about $2.4 billion, about $2 billion of which was financed by bank loans. since then the new york-based investment firm has been selling selected jim walter's assets to help finance the deal
jim walter, which has its headquarters in tampa, fla., is a diversified building materials and natural resources company that operates primarily in the south and southwest. it also is one of the country's largest home builders, specializing in inexpensive, partially finished ``shell'' houses
walter had 74,000 single-family mortgages in 22 states totaling $1.74 billion that were packaged together to back the bond issue
kkr realized they had a very unusual asset in these mortgages,'' said peter hoey, senior vice president of financial security assurance
hoey said the bond issue was ``totally sold out to a blue-chip list'' comprised of large pension funds, life insurance companies and banks from around the world
the mortgages were sold to a special trust and used to back the bond issue, which financial security guaranteed with a triple-a rating
homeowners pay their morgtages into the trust, which has a cushion to protect against any defaults by homeowners. that cash flow will pay the interest on the bonds, which were sold in five different maturities, each carrying a different interest rate
the purpose was not to take weak credit and make it triple-a and take on risk, but to take complex and unusual collateral that the marketplace has difficulty understanding'' and package it to sell, hoey said
the average buyer of a jim walter home requires a low-cost mortgage and therefore is not a typical homebuyer
jim walter does not provide the land on which its houses are built, which cuts down on the price of the homes. in addition, the company leaves its houses as much as 30 percent incomplete, making them affordable to blue-collar, first-time homebuyers, hoey said
kohlberg kravis has spearheaded a number of major leveraged buyouts, including the $6.2 billion buyout of beatrice cos. the company said this week that it is seeking permission to acquire up to 15 percent of texaco inc. report are for week ended tuesday. all other figures are for the week ended wednesday.</note>
assets of the nation's 420 money market mutual funds fell $548.4 million in the latest week, the investment company institute said thursday
the decline, to $278.23 billion in the seven-day period ended wednesday, followed a $730.3 million drop in the funds' assets the previous week, according to the washington-based mutual fund trade group
the funds' assets hit a record high $280.02 billion in the week ended feb. 24
the investment company institute said that in the latest week, assets of 210 general purpose funds rose $624.5 million to $82.86 billion, assets of 98 broker-dealer funds dropped $620.2 million to $117.04 billion, and assets of 112 institutional funds declined $552.7 million to $78.33 billion
the seven-day average yield on money market mutual funds was unchanged in the week ended tuesday at 6.04 percent, according to donoghue's money fund report, a trade journal based in holliston, mass
the 30-day average yield fell to 6.05 percent from 6.07 percent the previous week, donoghue's said
the average maturity of the portfolios held by money funds was 43 days, down from 44 days, donoghue's said
separately, the newsletter bank rate monitor said its survey of 100 leading commercial banks, savings and loan assocations and savings banks in the nation's 10 largest markets showed the effective annual yield available on money market accounts was unchanged from a week earlier at 5.70 percent as of wednesday
the north palm beach, fla.-based newsletter said the effective annual yield available on special savings accounts, called super now accounts, was also unchanged, at 5.15 percent
bank rate monitor said the effective annual yield was 6.78 percent on six-month certificates of deposit, down from 6.79 the previous week. yields were 7.12 percent on 1-year cds, unchanged; 7.53 percent on 2{-year cds, up from 7.52 percent; and 7.99 percent on 5-year cds, unchanged
fremont general corp. said thursday it has agreed to sell all of its property and casualty insurance operations to a management-led group for $82 million in cash, notes and stock warrants
the operations are being acquired by a new company formed by managers of a fremont general subsidiary, fremont insurance co
being sold are fremont indemnity co., fremont comspensation insurance co., fremont reinsurance co. and comstock insurance co. the latter two operations were discontinued last year, and fremont general sought unsuccessfully to spin off the first two to shareholders
upon completion of the deal, fremont general will remain a financial services concern with commercial and life insurance operations, a real estate finance unit and half ownership of a workers compensation insurance firm. it also is awaiting regulatory approval to acquire malibu savings &amp; loan association
under terms of the deal announced thursday, fremont general will receive $20 million in cash, a 90-day note for $5 million, preferred stock with warrants to purchase 9.9 percent of the buyer's outstanding shares valued at $35 million, and a 10-year zero-coupon note valued at $22 million
blue chips led stock prices higher near the close today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
five minutes before the close, the dow jones average of 30 industrials was up 11.27 at 1,989.39
stock prices edged upward near the close of a quiet session today in an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report due out friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last monthly set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter, which ended with today's trading
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.94 to 1,988.06, finishing the week with a gain of 9.11 points
for the first quarter of the year, the average chalked up a net gain of 49.23 points
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 6 to 5 on the new york stock exchange, with 807 up, 676 down and 485 unchanged
big board volume totaled 139.87 million shares, against 151.81 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index added .38 to 146.60
the price of resorts international inc. stock slumped thursday as investor donald trump, who holds 88 percent of the company's voting power, withdrew his bid to take the hotel-casino operator private and indicated he would block a higher, rival offer by entertainer merv griffin
resorts' class a stock fell by $1.62{ per share to $28.87{ in trading on the american stock exchange
griffin's bid, which was revised wednesday for the second time, was an attempt to make an end run around trump's repeated objections and force resorts' outside directors to vote on the plan free of trump's influence
the delaware courts have consistently ruled that a corporation's outside directors are charged with the duty to conduct a fair bidding contest,'' the griffin co. said thursday
outside directors have been authorized by the courts to take all reasonable steps, including diluting a major shareholder, in order to obtain the best deal for the public shareholders.''
however, some analysts were skeptical of whether griffin could succeed
because griffin's offer is conditional, they (resorts' outside directors) have an out. they can simply refuse to consider it on grounds that it is unlikely it would be able to succeed,'' said lee isgur, a leisure-time industry analyst with painewebber in new york
resorts' board, composed of trump and two of his nominees plus three outside directors, is scheduled to meet monday. trump is chairman of resorts
griffin's latest proposal dropped two previous conditions _ that trump agree to sell his stock and terminate a lucrative five-year contract to operate resorts properties in new jersey and the bahamas
instead, griffin imposed a new contingency _ that resorts agree to sell him 1.2 million new shares of class b stock, which carries 100 votes per share and would give griffin more votes that trump
trump owns nearly all of the company's current 572,000 class b shares
he was offering $22 per share for the company's 5.7 million class a shares, which carry only one vote per share and hence only 12 percent of the company's voting strentgh. but he said the offer was allowed to expire at 12:01 a.m. friday and all tendered shares will be returned to their owners
griffin is offering $36 per share for the class a stock, and the same price for the 1.2 million new class b shares he is seeking
attorney alan applebauam, who represents the independent directors, indicated that he feels all resorts directors including those nominated by trump have the right to vote on griffin's merger proposal
but he said that the question of whether only outside directors should vote on the proposal to issue new class b stock to griffin ``is a matter for further research.''
trump's attorney, jack nusbaum, reiterated that he feels the full board should take up griffin's offer
the dollar headed lower thursday in subdued, pre-holiday dealings
gold lost ground in domestic trading after rising overseas. republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $454 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, down from $456.25 late wednesday
traders said the dollar moved in a narrow range throughout the session, closing near its opening levels. most of the pressure on the currency came earlier in overseas trading, said stephen dakin, foreign exchange manager at union bank of switzerland
the japanese yen and the british pound remained very strong, which served to ``drag the dollar down and push other (major) currencies up,'' dakin said
traders spent the session squaring up their positions ahead of the easter and passover holiday weekend. many dealers did not plan to trade on friday, while others said they would work only half a day
you won't see a real market back until tuesday,'' said lou calvello, a trader at prudential-bache securities inc., in reference to the four-day weekend european dealers are taking
trading also was thin in europe, where the dollar fell to a six-year low against the pound
the british currency continued to draw strength from chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's comments late wednesday that fighting inflation takes priority over maintaining a stable exchange rate, dealers said
the bank of england reportedly intervened briefly in the early going in an effort to stem the pound's strong advance, but the currency continued to climb later in the afternoon
in london, the dollar hit its lowest level against the pound since january 1982. it cost $1.8878 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.8790 late wednesday. in new york, one pound cost $1.8874, more expensive than wednesday's $1.8780
earlier in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar dropped against the japanese yen to close at the day's low of 124.50 yen, down 0.93 yen from wednesday
later in london, the dollar fell further and was quoted at 124.15 yen. in new york, the dollar closed at 124.35 yen, down from 125.025 yen on wednesday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late wednesday, included: 1.65875 west german marks, down from 1.66285; 1.3650 swiss francs, down from 1.37215; 5.6170 french francs, down from 5.6330; 1,229.00 italian lire, down from 1,232.75, and 1.2354 canadian dollars, down from 1.23575
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late wednesday, included: 1.6555 west german marks, down from 1.6625; 1.3635 swiss francs, down from 1.3732; 5.6130 french francs, down from 5.6505; 1.8575 dutch guilders, down from 1.8725; 1,229.50 italian lire, down from 1,235.50, and 1.2339 canadian dollars, down from 1.2370
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery was bid at $454.40, down from wednesday's late bid of $457.80
but gold rose overseas. in london, gold finished at a late bid price of $454.50 a troy ounce, compared with late wednesday's $453.60. in zurich gold closed at a bid $457.50, compared with $454.50 late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose $3.02 to close at a bid $458.81
silver fell on new york's comex to $6.755 a troy ounce, down from wedneday's $6.757 an ounce. in london the metal traded at a late bid price of $6.72 a troy ounce, compared with wednesday's $6.65
the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply increased in late march, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the report, however, had no impact on interest rates in the credit markets
the fed said the measure known as m2 rose $9.4 billion to a seasonally adjusted average of $2,976.5 billion in the week ended march 21 from $2,967.1 billion the previous week
an even broader measure, m3, increased $5.3 billion to a seasonally adjusted $3,744.7 billion from $2,967.1 billion
the narrowest measure of the money supply, m1, rose $6.3 billion to a seasonally adjusted $766.7 billion from a revised $760.4 billion. for the latest 13 weeks, m1 averaged $759 billion, a 3.1 percent increase from the prior 13 weeks
m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks. m2 is m1 plus accounts like savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
in setting its monetary policy, the fed has indicated it is monitoring the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. it also has shifted its attention from m1 to the two broader money supply measures
the fed said in early 1988 that it would like annual growth for m2 and m3 to be between 4 percent and 8 percent, which is slightly lower than the 1987 target of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent. the fed has not set a specific target range for m1 since early 1987
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks fell $131 million in the week ended march 23, compared with a decline of $48 million a week earlier
_the federal reserve said bank borrowings from the federal reserve system averaged $220 million, down from $325 billion
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $273.7 billion in the two-week period ended wednesday, down from $274.5 billion two weeks earlier
the contract for june delivery of live hogs plunged the 150-point limit for daily trading thursday on the chicago mercantile exchange in a late sell-off ahead of an important government report, analysts said
on other markets, in mostly thin trading ahead of the three-day weekend, grains and soybeans were mixed; precious metals retreated; energy futures were mixed; and stock-index futures advanced
speculation that the agriculture department's quarterly 10-state hogs and pigs report would prove bearish for the pork complex sparked the late plunge in hog prices, analysts said
but when the report came out after the close, experts called it neutral to bullish
the report showed the hog and pig count in states that account for 80 percent of u.s. production at about 40.5 million head as of march 1, a 6 percent increase over the same date a year ago
the average of analysts' pre-report estimates was a 5.9 percent increase. the market had already adjusted to reflect the estimates, so many analysts termed the report neutral for pork futures prices
but a breakdown of the report showed relatively small increases of 3 percent for hogs weighing 60-119 pounds, and 4 percent for hogs weighing 120-179 pounds
those animals will be coming to market in april and may, resulting in a smaller increase in slaughters than the market experienced in march, said tom o'hare, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
the likely near-term outcome is slightly higher pork futures prices, especially on contracts for delivery in the summer and fall, o'hare said
initially, it may help the back months and the fronts may sit still,'' he said. ``but as people realize that kills are not picking up, i think it's going to help everything.''
live cattle settled .10 cent to .58 cent lower with the april contract at 74.90 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .45 cent lower to .05 cent higher with march at 82.77 cents a pound; hogs were 1.50 cents lower to .17 cent higher with april at 45.52 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .42 cent lower to .50 cent higher with may at 56.12 cents a pound
grain and soybean futures finished mixed on the chicago board of trade ahead of two eagerly awaited government reports
the agriculture department's annual report on spring planting intentions and its quarterly report on grain stocks, both issued after the close, were construed as very bullish for soybeans and slightly bearish for corn and wheat
the plantings report, based on farmer surveys conducted in march, predicted about a 1 percent increase in soybean acreage to 57.9 million acres. the number was well below the average pre-report estimate of 59.1 million acres
soybean stocks, estimated at nearly 1.15 billion bushels as of march 1, were slightly below the average pre-report estimate
because the markets will be closed friday, they cannot react to the reports until monday. analysts said they expected soybean futures prices to climb sharply to encourage more farmers to plant soybeans
during the next two weeks, ``i think we may go 30 to 60 cents higher from (current) levels,'' said cathy leow, assistant vice president of thomson-mckinnon securities inc
the reports showed corn planting intentions at 66.9 million acres, up 2 percent from last year but slightly below expectations. that number was offset by the corn stocks estimate of 7.6 billion bushels, slightly above pre-report estimates
wheat plantings were estimated at about 65 million acres, down very slightly from last year's total, while wheat stocks were pegged at 1.9 billion bushels, down significantly from last year but above expectations
in trading thursday, wheat settled 3 cents lower to { cent higher with may at $2.99\ a bushel; corn was \ cent lower to { cent higher with may at $2.09} a bushel; oats were 1{ cents to 3 cents higher with may at $1.61{ a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents to 4{ cents higher with may at $6.53{ a bushel
precious metal futures retreated slightly on new york's commodity exchange
gold settled $3.40 lower across the board with april at $454.40 a troy ounce; silver was 0.2 cent to 1 cent lower with april at $6.755 a troy ounce
crude oil futures ended nearly unchanged while refined products prices were mixed on the new york mercantile exchange
west texas intermediate crude oil settled unchanged to 1 cent higher with may at $17.08 a barrel; heating oil was .24 cent to .45 cent lower with april at 48.15 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .15 cent lower to .02 cent higher with april at 48.67 cents a gallon
stock-index futures advanced on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .80 point higher at 259.05
corn farmers intend to increase plantings this spring to 66.9 million acres, up 2 percent from 1987 but still one of the smallest planted areas in 18 years, the agriculture department said thursday
the department's agricultural statistics board said an annual u.s. survey of more than 70,000 farmers in early march also showed 1988 planting increases for some other crops, including soybeans, cotton, durum wheat, rice, peanuts, tobacco and sweet potatoes
decreases were indicated for sorghum, barley, oats, winter wheat, other spring wheat and dry edible beans
according to usda records, if farmers follow through with current plans, 1988 corn plantings would be the third-smallest since fewer than 66.9 million acres were planted in 1970
despite the increase from 1987, this year's plantings would fall 13 percent below the 76.7 million acres planted for the 1986 corn harvest
the planted acreage dropped to 60.2 million acres in 1983, a year of drought and massive government acreage cutbacks
officials cautioned that the actual acreage planted by farmers this spring ``may vary from intentions because of the effects of weather, availability of production inputs, changes in market conditions prior to planting'' and the impact of the usda report itself
soybean plantings were indicated at 58 million acres, up 1 percent from last year but still the second lowest acreage since 1976
total wheat plantings, which include winter wheat seeded last fall for harvest this year, were shown at 65.1 million acres, down 1 percent from 1987
winter wheat plants were reported at 48.6 million acres, down 0.4 percent from 1987, and ``other'' spring wheat was shown at 12.8 million acres, down 7 percent from last year. durum wheat, at 3.73 million acres, was up 12 percent
other crops surveyed included:
_cotton plantings, 11.6 million acres, up 11 percent from 1987
_sorghum, 10.7 million acres, down 9 percent, the smallest acreage in 57 years
_barley, 10.3 million acres, down 7 percent
_oats, 16.3 million acres, down 9 percent
_rice, 2.8 million acres, up 19 percent
_peanuts, 1.6 million acres, up 3 percent, the most since 1958
_tobacco, 633,000 acres, up 5 percent
_dry edible beans, 1.38 million acres, down 23 percent
_sweet potatoes, 97,600 acres, up 1 percent
bond prices finished narrowly mixed thursday in trading muted by anticipation of the three-day holiday weekend
the treasury's closely-watched 30-year issue edged up [ point, or about $1 for every $1,000 in face value, as its yield slipped to 8.75 percent from 8.76 percent late wednesday
the credit markets are scheduled to be closed on friday in observance of passover and good friday
many traders were hesitant about taking a big position in the fixed-income market in advance of friday's scheduled release of unemployment figures for march. with the u.s. markets closed, there would be little chance to unwind those positions until monday if the numbers turned up a surprise
the bond market has been closely tracking fluctuations in the dollar, and the dollar moved in a narrow range throughout the session, closing near its opening levels. bond prices initially moved lower but later recovered
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments were unchanged, intermediate maturities were mixed with some off 1-32 point and others up 2-32 point and 20-year issues fell 3-32 point, according to the financial information firm telerate inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.06 to 111.64
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, fell 0.28 to 281.04
yields on three-month treasury bills were unchanged at 5.72 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills were unchanged at 6.04 percent and one-year bills rose 1 basis point to 6.37 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6} percent, up from 6| percent late wednesday. dow ...</note>
stock prices pieced together some modest gains in a quiet session thursday amid what analysts described as an atmosphere of caution heading into the long easter-passover weekend
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.94 to 1,988.06, finishing the week with a gain of 9.11 points. for the first quarter of the year, the average chalked up a net gain of 49.23 points
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 6 to 5 on the new york stock exchange, with 824 up, 678 down and 479 unchanged
big board volume came to 139.87 million shares, down from 151.81 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index added .38 to 146.60
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions through the weekend, especially with a labor department report due out friday on the employment situation for march
both the stock and bond markets will be closed on friday, and thus will not have a chance to respond to any surprises in the employment data until monday
in the last monthly set of figures, a much stronger-than-expected increase in nonfarm payroll employment dealt the bond market a sharp setback
brokers said money managers at investing institutions had pretty much completed maneuvers to ready their portfolios for reports to clients on their performance in the first quarter as of thursday's close
the market got something of a boost from a rally in the shares of international business machines and digital equipment, two widely followed stocks that have been slumping lately. ibm shares climbed 2{ to 107| and digital 1} to 104{
other gainers among the blue chips included american telephone &amp; telegraph, up { at 27; exxon, up \ at 42; american express, up | at 24], and general motors, up [ at 71]
atlantic richfield rose 2{ to 84. the company said its first-quarter earnings are expected to come in above $2 a share, against $1.31 in the comparable period last year
federated department stores gained 2| to 72| as the bidding competition for the company between campeau corp. and r.h. macy continued
minstar jumped 2] to 26\ in the over-the-counter market. the company said it had received a proposal from its chairman, irwin jacobs, to acquire it for $29 a share in cash and securities
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $9.20 billion, or 0.36 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 164.27 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose 1.02 to 300.39, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up 0.82 at 258.89
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 2.86 to 374.64. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 296.43, up 2.76
japan and the united states have reached substantial agreement on a new five-year pact to expand their scientific and technical cooperation, the state department said thursday
the new agreement, to be concluded in about three months, seeks incentives to boost the flow of american students, researchers and scientific workers to japan, said officials of both countries who declined to be named. they said more than 10 times as many japanese are currently in u.s. classrooms, laboratories and factories as americans studying or working in japan
the 1980 u.s.-japanese scientific exchange agreement, extended several times since its expiration in 1985, was extended for another three months ``to allow for legal editing of the new document, and signing at a high level,'' the department said
it will be considerably more detailed than the existing pact on the two countries' scientific and technological relationship and also provide a new management structure to oversee that relationship, the state department said
it will provide for protection of patents and other intellectual property rights while calling for the widest dissemination of information resulting from joint research, the announcement said
both countries were concerned about the need to increase the flow of americans to japan, said the sources. they said the new agreement provides steps to be taken by both sides to make japan more attractive for u.s. scientists and easier for them to go there. it envisions more funding for japanese language study and fellowships by the united states, one said
the estimate that there are 10 times as many japanese students and scientists currently in america as americans in japan is a rough minimum estimate, because in the united states it is difficult to count students of science separately from those of other subjects or even from tourists, one official said
the federal agency that regulates savings institutions said thursday that an internal investigation has found no criminal activity by a subsidiary agency that manages property from bankrupt s&amp;ls
however, the report, by federal home loan bank board inspector general paul gibbons, did reveal ``ineffective business practices'' by the federal asset disposition association
the investigation was requested in september by rep. james florio, d-n.j., after a critic of fada complained that he was being investigated by a private detective
william t. juliano, a mount laurel, n.j., developer who was threatening a lawsuit against fada, charged that the agency, through its law firm, hired a detective agency to probe his financial affairs
juliano, according to florio, reported that his office was broken into on sept. 14 and that eavesdropping equipment was found in the ceiling
gibbons, however, said new jersey state police had found no evidence of wiretapping at juliano's office and local police had closed their break-in investigation for lack of evidence
jon shure, a spokesman for florio, said the congressman had just received the report and had not had a chance to review it
but, he added, ``we are still pursuing our own look into fada. it is still very much a live issue. nothing would be in that report that would make us say, `ok we're not interested in fada anymore.'''
shure said there has been no result reported from a parallel investigation of the charges by the justice department. he said florio has asked congress' investigative arm, the general accounting office, to review the bank board report
karl hoyle, a bank board spokesman, said the report made no judgment about the propriety of hiring a private detective agency, whose investigators in questioning juliano identified themselves as representing a firm selling credit card
hoyle said the detective agency was hired without the knowledge of bank board officials and that the board subsequently directed that no investigators be hired without its permission
the bank board report also found no evidence to support allegations leveled by two others: pasquale verona, a fort myers, fla., real estate investor, and joe r. dobson, a austin, texas, developer
verona charged that fada officials offered him a bribe, in the form of a consulting fee, if he would back off from complaints he made to members of congress about the agency
dobson, according to florio, said his office was broken into and ransacked after he told fada officials he had secretly taped his conversations with them
members of congress, real estate investors and others have criticized fada for being too sluggish in selling property from bankrupt s&amp;ls, thus depriving the cash-short federal fund that insures s&amp;l deposits of money. they have said the agency is riddled with conflicts of interest and wastes money
among the poor business practices acknowledged by the bank board report were failure to return telephone calls to investors interested in buying property managed by fada and poor dissemination of bidding information
the house banking committee, meanwhile, has been preparing its own, broader report on fada, which according to an industry newsletter is being held up by the committee chairman, rep. ferdnand g. st germain, d-r.i
the march 28 issue of bank letter cited unidentified sources who said st germain, in the wake of a federal court ruling that raised questions about congressional immunity, feared the highly critical report might draw a slander suit
congressional sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, confirmed the newsletter's account adding that republicans on the committee were blocking publication of the report in the congressional record, which would be immune to a libel suit
rick maurano, an aide to st germain, said the congressman was unavailable thursday evening to comment on the fada investigation. house banking committee aides did not return telephone calls on the subject
general electric co. reached an agreement thursday with rival bidder whirlpool corp., allowing it to proceed unopposed with a $507.6 million offer to acquire roper corp
ge spokesman george jamison said the connecticut-based company's offer of $54 per share would be extended until 5 p.m. monday
whirlpool simultaneously announced it was terminating its $50-per-share offer
the battle to acquire roper, an appliance and lawn equipment manufacturer based in augusta, ga., began last november. earlier thursday, ge and whirlpool said they were negotiating to resolve their dispute over the proposed acquisition
for ge, the roper factories and roper's strong sears relationship makes this an important niche acquisition that will significantly strengthen our appliance business in an increasingly competitive global market,'' said roger w. schipke, ge senior vice president in charge of the company's appliance business
roper had recommended tuesday that its shareholders accept ge's latest tender offer, rather than the $470 million bid from whirlpool
whirlpool and ge agreed tuesday in delaware court of chancery that there would be no open market purchases of roper stock until a judge ruled on a ge request for a temporary restraining order
the companies said thursday that agreement was being continued while they negotiated, and eventually the two came to an accord
ge sought an order to prevent whirlpool from making a ``street sweep'' of roper stock through market professionals rather than from public shareholders. the reqest came in a hearing on a ge application for a preliminary injunction to block a whirlpool acquisition of roper
the terms of the agreement between ge and whirlpool allow ge to acquire roper and its manufacturing capacity for kitchen ranges and lawn equipment. whirlpool, in return, will get rights to the roper name for major appliances. ge will supply whirlpool with roper-brand electric and gas ranges at competitive prices for at least two years, according to a press release from the companies
the parties also agreed to other commercial relationships whereby ge would sell to whirlpool certain industrial components and materials
lawsuits filed by both companies will be withdrawn upon completion of ge's tender offer, the companies said. background on windfall profits. picks up 18th graf pvs bgng: farm lawmakers ...</note>
house and senate negotiators reached tentative agreement thursday night on a sweeping trade bill designed to open foreign markets, but only after loading it with provisions that lawmakers said could invite a veto
repeal of the windfall profits tax on oil companies, tough trade sanctions against toshiba corp. of japan and millions of dollars in new subsidies designed to boost u.s. grain exports were tentatively included
we're going to need a trade policy in the next couple of years and i think this is as good as anything that's going to come across the president's desk,'' said rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of the house ways and means committee
rostenkowski and senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, worked out the details of the central agreement in private in the final hours of negotiations over different versions of the bill passed last year by both houses
the measure erased a provision for driving down unwarranted foreign trade surpluses that had been sponsored by erstwhile democratic presidential hopeful richard a. gephardt
the senate version prevailed and i think that's unfortunate and i'm against the bill,'' the missouri congressman told reporters
reagan administration veto threats hovered over the legislation, and some members of the house-senate conference committee were disatisified with the bargain worked out between bentsen and rostenkowski
my chairman has reached an agreement with sen. bentsen and has laid it at the feet of the conferees with only a sort of very general discussion and is now winging his way to istanbul,'' said rep. william frenzel, r-minn
he said that it was uncertain that rostenkowski would be able to sell the package to other house members of a house-senate trade conference committee
reagan administration officials had been threatening a veto over provisions requiring employers to provide workers with notice of plant closings and the toshiba sanctions
sen. john c. danforth, r-mo., said in a statement thursday night that the plant closing provision and another relating to foreign investment ``clearly would sink the legislation unless they were removed.''
thursday afternoon, however, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater appeared to back off a bit, saying that the administration was not trying to signal a veto and still hoped to receive a trade bill that it could sign
rostenkowski told reporters before leaving on a congressional fact-finding trip to turkey that he hoped to get sufficient members of the conference committee to sign the final product
when you get down to the serious negotiating, something has to lose sometimes and i understand that the administration is disappointed in some of this legislation,'' he said
final arrangement began to fall into place thursday morning when one of 17 separate groups of conferees adopted the trade sanctions against toshiba and a subsidiary for selling computerized machinery to the soviets for the silencing of submarine propellers
the measure would ban u.s. government purchases of toshiba equipment for three years. it would bar import of products of the toshiba machine corp. subsidiary for three years. in the future, such violations would be punishble by import bans of two to five years
the house had held out for leaving retaliation up to the president but sen. jake garn, r-utah, refused to accept that proposal and won out in the end. another group of conferees broke up without taking action on a proposal by rep. john bryant, d-texas, to require registration of foreign property ownership in the united states. they said they would wrap up the issue in one final meeting after the spring break
repeal of the windfall profits tax was a major goal of bentsen, who is running for reelection this year in a state hammered hard by low oil prices
congress approved the tax in 1979 to when oil prices were soaring. but the collapse of opec sent them plunging in 1985 and dried up revenues from the tax. critics say they want repeal because the tax means costly paperwork
farm lawmakers, meeting separately, said they were close to agreement on a provision that would put in place export subsidies of up to $500 million in 1990 unless negotiators reach agreement by then on phasing out agricultural subsidies under the general agreement on tariffs and trade
the so-called triggered marketing loan would benefit producers of wheat, feed grains, soybeans and other oilseed crops
farm lawmakers also agreed on boosting by $1 billion the export enhancement program, which furnishes grain companies and others with surplus government crops to induce them to ship american grain overseas
gephardt's plan would have required the u.s. trade representative to roll back ``excess and unwarranted'' foreign trade surpluses by 10 percent annualluy if negotiations failed to do the job
in its place, bentsen and rostenkowski adopted a senate proposal that would require the trade representative to list foreign unfair trade practices and if necessary take action to force trading partners to end them
the agreement between the two also transferred authority to impose retaliatory import curbs from the president to the u.s. trade representative _ a step that the white house had vigorously opposed and which rostenkowski had sought. but it provided authority to waive such retaliation if the cost ``would be substantially out of proportion to the benefits of action.''
the president would retain his authority to decide whether to grant import relief to industries that were hard hit by surges in imports
