ate with details of attack; no pickup. adds byline.</note>
sikh gunmen opened fire with automatic rifles and machine guns on a holiday gathering early friday in punjab state, killing at least 32 people and injuring 40 others, police said
the attack in hoshiarpur district was one of the bloodiest since sikh extremists launched their guerrilla war for an independent homeland in the northern state in 1982
punjab security forces and new delhi police were put on alert after the killing to prevent any backlash by hindus
there was no immediate claim of responsibility
police said both hindus and sikhs were among those killed and injured in the assault, which occurred as india began its celebration of holi, or the festival of color. the national holiday commemorates the triumph of the hindu god lord krishna over evil
sikhs, who make up about 2 percent of india's 780 million people, claim they are discriminated against by hindus who form the majority of the population. punjab state is predominantly sikh
the latest assault occurred as about 300 people gathered to celebrate the festival at kari sari village near the town of hoshiarpur, which is about 80 miles east of the sikh holy city of amritsar
suresh aurora, senior superintendent of police at hoshiarpur, said about 12 gunmen dashed onto the festival ground at about 12:30 a.m. friday and opened fire
he said the injured, many of them in ``extremely serious'' condition, were rushed to hospitals in hoshiarpur town and jalandhar, capital of the neighboring district
the gunmen fled and were being sought, he said
the attack was the worst in punjab since last july, when sikh gunmen waylaid three buses in two attacks and slaughtered 72 people, most of them hindus
the latest killings raised to more than 370 the number of people killed in attacks blamed on sikh extremists in punjab since the start of the year
last year, more than 1,000 people died in such attacks
on thursday, sikh extremists had gunned down a sikh family of eight and a paramilitary policeman in punjab
sikhism is an offshoot of hinduism that came into existence 500 years ago
punjab has been under direct federal rule since prime minister rajiv gandhi dismissed the moderate sikh state government last year for failing to curb terrorism
with the state health service in virtual bankruptcy, yugoslavia's communist authorities are weighing the possibility of using private medical practice on a large scale
some medical associations already have resorted to private practice in the republics of slovenia and serbia, partly because of large losses built up by the state medical service
the official tanjug news agency said authorities in belgrade are preparing a ``detailed analysis'' of private medicine and will announce a decision by the end of may
orthodox communist party dogma regards private medical practice as unacceptable
but under consideration are the use of privately operating doctors and small private clinics employing up to two physicians plus medical staff
yugoslavia's deepening economic crisis is the main reason for the financial troubles in the state-run health service
a sharp drop in the value of yugoslavia's currency, the dinar, which lost about 200 percent against western currencies in a year, has driven up the cost of imports of many medicines, raw materials for their production and medical equipment
in addition, a government price freeze has made the production of such goods from imported raw materials unprofitable and has resulted in a shortage of several medical and nutrition items, including baby formula
in january, due to virtual lack of baby formula in several yugoslav hospitals, new-born babies had to be fed intravenouly
private medical practice in yugoslavia was abolished after world war ii when the communist party took power
the statea health service is financed by deductions from yugoslavs' salaries
however, since the state is unable to entirely subsidize health care, most parts of yugoslavia have permitted patients to pay for medical services on a private basis
we cannot claim any more that our medical services are free of charge, and this shows that we don't have the system typical of a communist country,'' said dr. dragan djordjevic, a belgrade physician
this means that the ideological barrier, which would prevent introduction of private medical practice, no longer exists in yugoslavia.''
in addition to shortages of medical supplies, the state health service has been afflicted by a sharp drop in services and an increasing number of work stoppages by medical staff over wages
the state-run press reported recent strikes by doctors and nurses in belgrade, zagreb and ljubljana
the lack of drugs and medical supplies, including such basic items as soap, detergents and alcohol, has affected the work of many hospitals, the newspaper vecernje novosti said recently
hygiene has fallen to the lowest possible level, and even disposable items have to be sterilized for multiple use,'' it said, adding that patients are bringing their own soap to the hospital
faced with a 170-percent inflation rate, a $20 billion foreign debt and a sharp drop in living standards, communist-governed yugoslavia has been hit by its worst economic crisis in its history
the newspaper politika said some state hospitals may close down if a newly adopted bankruptcy law is strictly enforced
the bankruptcy law, designed to revive the ailing economy, forsees the closing down of all enterprises that lose money
serbian and slovenian doctors maintain that private medical practice would create additional jobs for at least 4,000 doctors currently registered as unemployed in yugoslavia
they said it would also bring a return of several thousand yugoslav medical specialists who have been working in western countries and have accumulated large foreign currency savings
thirty-one years ago, brigitte bardot wrapped her voluptuous body in a sheet, tantalizing moviegoers around the world who flocked to see france's new ``sex kitten'' in the film made by her director-husband, roger vadim
the film, ``and god created woman,'' became a movie classic, launched bb's career and defined the tone and content for the director's subsequent films
vadim has gone back to the same title for his latest film, which has little in common with the 1956 version except a continuing fascination with freedom, sensuality and bourgeois morality
if this sounds a bit pedantic, remember that vadim is the filmmaker who gave the world the avant-garde sci-fi romp ``barbarella'' starring his young, blond wife, jane fonda
his films are never short on beauty, especially the blond, blue-eyed kind. vadim has cast his 26 movies with women ranging from elegant catherine deneuve, his third wife, to earthy angie dickinson, and from intellectual jeanne moreau to sexpot susan sarandon
for the new ``and god created woman,'' which opens this month in the united states, vadim chose blond rebecca demornay, whose previous credits include playing the saucy strumpet opposite tom cruise in ``risky business'' and the angelic girl next door in ``the trip to bountiful.''
people tell rebecca that she has never looked more beautiful than in this film,'' said vadim, the gallic svengali, as he relaxed in a borrowed paris apartment after a morning of television interviews. ``but it wasn't intentional. i make people look beautiful, i can't help it
you wouldn't ask rodin to make an ugly sculpture, or me to make a film with an ugly woman. that's my style, that's my nature.''
bardot played a woman who marries a man in order to escape an orphanage, only to fall for the man's younger brother, played by jean-louis trintignent. although in the end she remains with her older husband, the film is an exploration of sexual freedom
i wanted to show a normal young girl whose only difference was that she behaved in the way a boy might, without any sense of guilt on a moral or sexual level,'' vadim said. ``there was really nothing shocking in what brigitte did, what was provocative was her natural sensuality.''
vadim said sexual liberty is taken for granted now and women in the 1980s are fighting for freedom of a different sort. he said he didn't want to remake his earlier film but wanted to illuminate the problems faced by a modern, young woman
women now seek the freedom to be themselves, to be successful in work without renouncing old-fashioned romanticism. women want to keep what they have gained without giving up those romantic ideas which are very nice in life,'' said the 60-year-old vadim, who looks more like a french lawyer in his gray slacks and navy pullover than an international film director
the film, shot in santa fe, n.m., tells the story of a young, female prisoner who meets a carpenter working at the jail and marries him as a way to show she is a stable candidate for parole
her husband is nice, but chauvinistic, and the film follows their relationship to an ``optimistic end, where they can stay together without her giving up herself.''
vadim moved to malibu, calif., after his divorce from fonda and rented a house across from her so the two could share in the raising of their daughter. he also has children by deneuve and his second wife, annette stroyberg
during the interview, he talked about the movie industry and said his counterparts in french film lack the professionalism that characterizes hollywood. he pointed out that 1987 was one of the worst years in a decade for box-office receipts in france, while the opposite was true in the united states
french filmmakers are beginning to realize they have to try harder, put more thought and effort into their films and make them more international,'' he said
vadim has been asked by several paris producers to shoot his next film in france and is considering making a science-fiction film or suspense thriller here in english
but you know i've never had great luck in france. when `and god created woman' was released the critics were horrible, especially to brigitte who they said couldn't act,'' he said. ``of course she couldn't, but she had another quality, she was and is inimitable, unique.''
after the film was an international success, the french critics changed their minds, he said
i am sure that these same critics will aggress my new movie, saying, `how can you touch such a classic, french masterpiece?''' results</head>
the good-news, bad-news assessment that ronald and nancy reagan gave of america's drug problem pretty much describes the administration's record in fighting it
while president reagan and his wife have alerted people to the threat, the administration's war against drugs has produced only mixed results, and consequently a lot of arguing and finger-pointing
nowhere was this more evident than at this week's white house conference on a drug-free america, where administration drug-fighting strategy came in for a lot of second-guessing
kicking off the conference monday, reagan claimed progress in attacking ``the supply side of the crusade against drugs.'' mrs. reagan gave a more pessimistic report on the demand side, saying ``we must face the fact that drugs are tearing our communities apart.''
reagan said ``we've strengthened the laws'' and ``drug seizures are at an all-time high.''
seizures of cocaine and the confiscation of drug-related assets are at record levels, he said, and arrests are up by 66 percent
yet, his drug-fighting performance came under attack because horror stories about abuse still abound _ in cities and in the suburbs. many drug-producing countries remain ambivalent about cooperative drug-fighting efforts, while traffickers skirt interdiction efforts
the conference turned into a critique of the administration's record. several speakers, including a member of reagan's cabinet, barked that not enough is being done
if we are winning the war on drugs, i wish the commanders would go out and tell it to the troops in the field,'' said rep. charles rangel, d-n.y., chairman of the house select committee on narcotics abuse and control
we need to get away from a policy of containment,'' said rep. clay shaw, r-fla. ``we want you to come up with a plan for victory. let's fight it like we fought world war ii, not like vietnam. let's fight to win.''
while an administration becomes accustomed to attacks from congress, sometimes from both the democratic and republican sides of the aisle, reagan's policy was also questioned by secretary of education william bennett
we are in real danger of losing the war against drugs,'' bennett told the conference. he called for direct u.s. military intervention in producing countries to destroy drug operations
reagan has taken comfort in a health and human services survey showing that for the first time in 13 years, a declining proportion of high school seniors admit having used cocaine
but a congressional report released tuesday, while the conference was in progress, seemed to cast some doubt on that. a study by the general accounting office said some experts fear the decline from 16.9 percent to 15.2 percent among the respondents saying they used cocaine may not have taken into account the newly popular ``crack'' form of cocaine which is smoked
the administration's war on drugs faces other problems. for instance, reagan's principal initiative aimed at attacking the demand side of the problem _ a program of wide-scale voluntary testing across america _ has never gotten off the ground because of legal problems
the supreme court just last monday agreed for the first time to decide a case involving the constitutionally thorny issue of mandatory work-place drug testing _ and its decision may not set widespread precedent because it deals specifically with law enforcement jobs rather than general employment
congressional critics also say the administration has shown little return on the more than $21.5 billion spent on combating drugs over the last seven years, and state and local officials have complained that reagan budget cuts have adversely affected their ability to deal with the problem
bennett came closer than anyone in the administration to admitting that the counter-attack wasn't working very well
we should consider broader use of military force against both the production and shipment of drugs,'' he said
the issue did not elude the attention of presidential hopefuls, either
pat robertson declared that ``if one of those drug planes is flying without giving identification ... coming into this country, i wouldn't hesitate to give orders to shoot him down.''
but jesse jackson said tough talk isn't enough
it's a cop-out to just say to children, `just say no to drugs.' ... children do not buy $150 billion worth of drugs. ... children do not grow the drugs, do not run the cartels,'' jackson said in a stump speech
we must stop the flow of drugs into our country. it's corrupting our society. if elected, i will ... cut the supply of drugs. but you the people must cut the demand for drugs.''
merrill hartson covers the white house for the associated press
attorney general edwin meese iii says a conservative republican's bill to ban undetectable plastic handguns would be effective against terrorists who might use such weapons
meese's endorsement of legislation sponsored by sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, is the latest development in a growing dispute over plastic guns
supporters of rival legislation say that mcclure's bill would still permit guns to slip by metal detectors and x-ray machines at their current settings
mcclure on wednesday released a letter by meese, saying: ``based on our review, we believe that your bill ... is an excellent legislative proposal to deal with the threat posed by criminals and terrorists armed with such weapons.''
the national rifle association also backs mcclure's bill
the mcclure proposal would make it illegal to manufacture or import a plastic firearm unless one of these conditions exists:
_the barrel is made in whole or in part of a metallic substance that can be detected by a magnetometer
_the serial number required by law is engraved on a metallic substance capable of detection
the measure also would require plastic portions of any such firearm to be infused with substances that would register on a x-ray machine
handgun control inc. and a coalition of law enforcement groups have joined to oppose mcclure's bill and support legislation sponsored by sen. howard m. metzenbaum, d-ohio. metzenbaum has support from republican sen. strom thurmond of south carolina
metzenbaum and his supporters say their legislation has the ingredient that mcclure's measure lacks: a requirement that the guns have enough metal to be detected at currently used settings of security machines
they contend that guns meeting the guidelines in mcclure's proposal would only set off alarms if detectors were operated at settings so low they would stop everyone with a key chain
plastic guns are not yet in production, but handgun control inc. said a florida manufacturer will be ready to produce them in a year
smoking-related deaths are costing the nation at least $65 billion each year ... one-third on direct health care costs, while the remaining two-thirds _ a whopping $43 billion _ is attributable to lost job productivity. ultimately, these staggering costs are borne by the average citizen _ and nearly 75 percent of americans don't even smoke
it makes no sense that while the surgeon general's office is waging a campaign against smoking, the federal government is involved in price supports for tobacco. and it's illogical for politicians to bemoan the grave health consequences of tobacco while, at the same time, supporting its production
i believe the federal government should get out of tobacco production, and continue its campaign to ducate the public on the dangers of smoking ... a user fee on tobacco products would serve as an added incentive to stop smoking. revenues from such a fee should be earmarked exclusively for meeting the long-term health care needs of our older citizens.''
here are the democrats' replies:
in massachusetts, i have supported policies to protect the rights of non-smokers. and as president, i would support a vigorous public health campaign to encourage smokers to quit and to incourage young people from taking up the habit
i do not favor direct taxpayer subsidies to farmers who grow tobacco. however, i do not oppose the tobacco industry's own effort to provide economic assistance through the existing commodity credit corporation loan program, which operates at no net cost to the taxpayer. and i strongly support efforts to encourage tobacco farmers to diversify so that they can deal with the economic impact of what i hope will be continuing progress towards a smoke-free society.''
i do support the current federal program. there are a lot of small- and medium-sized farmers who depend on that program to give them a fair price. when properly run, this program does not cost the government any money: it's paid for by the people who smoke cigarettes
i support measures to ban smoking on commercial airlines on short flights and to restrict smoking to certain areas on longer flights. also, although i do not favor a total ban on advertising and promotion of tobacco products, i do support an active public education campaign to inform people of the potential adverse effects that tobacco products can have on our health.''
i support the current federal program for tobacco which is funded entirely by the contributions of growers and processors and does not rely at all on taxpayers' dollars. the current program helps many small tobacco farmers stay in business
i believe the government should do everything in its power to educate the public about the hazards associated with smoking. i have been a strong supporter of stronger warning labels on cigarette packages and other mechanisms to inform the public of smoking-related health risks. i believe public education will result in a gradually decreasing demand for tobacco products
campaign aide jay angoff said hart does not support price supports because ``it makes no sense on the one hand to pay people to grow tobacco and then for us as a society to incur the tremendous costs that tobacco imposes.''
on anti-smoking efforts, angoff said hart ``certainly wouldn't spend a lot of money on it, but he would use the powers of the presidency to make people aware of the harm smoking causes.''
in general i support the federal tobacco program although .. . i would like to see the tobacco program reformed so that small family farms benefit more than they currently do. at the present time production quotas are distributed in a way that favors corporate farmers and neglects the family farmer who is the backbone of the rural south. ..
as long as there is a demand for tobacco and people who make their livelihood from meeting that demand, the federal government should offer its assistance
but we have to recognize that 350,000 deaths per year are related to smoking. the government must beef-up educational efforts to inform the public of this hazard. just as importantly, we must make every effort possible to assist farmers to diversify out of tobacco production if they so desire. we should consider using some portion of the 16 cent tobacco excise tax to fund such an effort.''
the tobacco industry is very clear about getting the message across that the current tobacco program does not cost the taxpayers. while that may be true of the program that assists tobacco farmers, the fact is that smoking costs all of us greatly
i believe we must expand government efforts to discourage people from smoking. ... i believe we must begin to take steps to protect non-smokers from the adverse effects of smoking. i generally support legislative efforts to discourage smoking. i am co-sponsor of legislation that would double the federal excise tax on tobacco products. ..
this would have the effect of pricing tobacco products out of the reach of those most susceptible to developing a long-term smoking habit: teen-agers.''
nancy reagan says doctors should be more circumspect about commenting in public on the health problems of presidents and their families
in a television interview to be broadcast friday night, mrs. reagan recalled an instance when she and president reagan were watching television while he was in the hospital recovering from an operation ``and some doctor came on and said, `well, i'll give him about four or five months.'''
i thought to myself: doesn't it ever occur to these people that we might be sitting watching?' what a terrible, terrible statement to make!''
she said reagan did not react adversely to the doctor's comment but she said he reasonably could have wondered at that moment whether information about his health was being withheld from him
it would be a normal reaction,'' she said
mrs. reagan made her comments in an interview with barbara walters for a segment of the abc-tv news ``20-20'' program. by coincidence, the program is being shown on the reagans' 36th wedding anniversary
mrs. reagan did not say in the interview what the president was recovering from at the time the gloomy prognosis was broadcast. nor did she provide any further details. reagan has undergone several operations during the seven years of his presidency
recalling her bout with breast cancer, the first lady also said she did not understand the criticism directed at her when she chose to have her breast removed rather than to undergo chemotherapy or radiation treatment
i really don't understand the people who criticize,'' she said. ``it was my choice to make. so don't criticize me for making what i thought was the right choice for me
you know the whole point about feminism is that you have a choice, that women have a choice. ..
and i think having doctors who know nothing about the case, who know nothing about you, and know nothing about the case at all coming on giving their opinion, i don't think that's right.''
the senate should not revise the pending arms pact with the soviet union to bind future administrations to the current understanding of its intent, says the state department legal adviser
i don't think it is necessary or desirable to do that kind of thing,'' legal adviser abraham d. sofaer said in an interview
the heart of the issue is not so much a treaty signed last december banning medium-range nuclear missiles from superpower arsenals as a treaty signed in 1972 which limits testing of president reagan's strategic defense initiative missile defense system, known as star wars
democratic whip alan cranston of california has been holding discussions with senators from both parties, and an aide said he expects ``there to be language in the ratification resolution addressing the treaty interpretation issues.''
cranston has predicted that the treaty will win the necessary 67 votes in the 100-member body to be ratified
few senators have expressed disagreement over the meaning of the intermediate-range nuclear forces pact signed at the washington summit last december calling on the superpowers to destroy their nuclear missiles with ranges of 300 to 3,000 miles
the central controversy is an interpretation of the abm pact written by sofaer in 1985 which would allow wider testing of star wars components
cranston's legislative aide, gerry warburg, said the language expected in the inf resolution ``would contain a more broad statement concerning the interpretation of treaties generally,'' including the abm pact
cranston, sen. sam nunn, d-ga., the chairman of the armed services committee, and sen. joseph biden, d-del., of the foreign relations committee, all oppose sofaer's ``broad interpretation'' of the abm pact. warburg said they had been discussing the inf resolution with secretary of state george p. shultz
the senators contend that allowing the broad interpretation amounts to changing the rules in the middle of the game and would set a dangerous precedent in which any administration could duck treaty requirements simply by reinterpreting them
sofaer said inclusion of restrictive language in a resolution ratifying the inf treaty would not be binding on the soviet union, and could complicate rather than resolve interpretation of the abm pact
i know that they are not going to get a settlement of the abm dispute this way,'' said sofaer. ``it is a potential problem for inf ratification and i think overwhelmingly people support inf ratification.''
sofaer noted that shultz had sent the senate the 31-volume negotiating record of the inf pact and had also agreed that any testimony by administration officials would be ``authoritative'' and reflect the president's understanding of the treaty
those practical things have been achieved,'' said sofaer, objecting to including in the ratification resolution any language that would commit future administrations to the current understanding of the treaty
if you want to go further, you might end up confusing or even harming international legal practice relating to treaty ratification,'' he said
while the senate can bind the administration to a particular interpretation of either the inf or the abm treaties, he said, it cannot bind the soviet union, unless the treaties are renegotiated
the treaty reflects two relationships,'' he said. ``it reflects a relationship between two sovereign nations, and then it also reflects the relations between the united states executive branch and the senate
when you talk about the meaning of a treaty, you are talking about the international relationship. you are talking about what binds the two nations.''
palestinian flags flutter from the power lines in this west bank community. plo grafitti adorns the walls. people here call kfar naami a ``liberated village.''
eight miles over the mountains, residents of bir zeit have blocked the roads with stones. they, too, claim their village is ``liberated.''
throughout the west bank, a few communities in the past few weeks have defied the israeli army and declared independence from the israeli occupation administration
these little pieces of ``palestine'' are the source of much pride among the arabs. but the reality is that the israelis do not want to take the trouble to ``unliberate'' many of the rebellious communities
this is a liberated village here,'' said aziz attaya of kfar naami, wearing a thick beard and a traditional arab headdress around his neck. ``we will all die for the creation of a palestinian state under the leadership of the plo.''
but, countered munir naser, a professor of biochemistry at bir zeit university, ``the occupation is everywhere. perhaps only our homes are liberated, and in reality, it's not true even there.''
hamad, another bir zeit resident who did not give his last name, admitted, ``we're not liberated in the true sense of lberation. there is a feeling of not being under the control of the israeli occupation. at the same time, we know that they are still here and still control the area.''
in most liberated villages, people have run up the palestinian flag, organized demonstrations, blocked roads, and in some cases, challenged the army to come and get them
the soldiers sometimes oblige. sometimes they do not
these rebellions are irritating, even embarrassing for israeli authorities, but they don't have any real practical effect beyond boosting the morale of local residents
the israeli authorities believe they should be put down but note that the priority is on keeping major roads open
the army is not everywhere, but deployed according to suitable priorities,'' maj. gen. amram mitzna, the west bank's military commander, told israel's army radio
they are on the main roads and secondary roads that must be guarded. they guard the movement of israeli residents, be it school buses or other traffic.''
but a high-ranking police officer sounded tougher during a crackdown on the imminently unliberated silwan, a village incorporated into jerusalem after being captured from jordan in 1967
the people in silwan for the last two months thought they belonged to palestine,'' said the officer. ``we are now teaching them they live in israel, and they will never forget it.''
in kfar naami, a village of 2,000, one palestinian died in a clash with soldiers, but the army hasn't been back. the road through kfar naami simply isn't important enough to be worth the trouble of reclaiming
bir zeit has a population of 2,000. the university, closed because israeli officials say they want to prevent disturbances, normally has about 2,800 students
there is a demonstration every friday and sunday in bir zeit. teachers believe the government stays away because it fears the university will become a breeding ground for increased dissent and organization
naser says another reason the israelis leave bir zeit alone is because it has a more sophisticated population. many of the teaching staff studied abroad, are articulate and can use their voices and outside contacts to tell the world what is going on
some villagers are itching for a fight
the army doesn't come into the village because there are no settlers who pass through here,'' said a teen-ager named ahmed
i'd like to see the army come here,'' he said. ``not coming is not good for the town because people elsewhere, like in gaza, think we are not doing anything here. i hope they come. i would like to fight them. i'd be happy to sacrifice my life.''
united press international's new managers need about $1 million in loans immediately to pay overdue bills for items such as health care, rents and telephones, according to a memo from the company's new president
at the end of our first week, our preliminary analysis shows that the financial condition of the company has been deteriorating steadily, and that monumental efforts are needed to save it from liquidation,'' paul steinle wrote in a letter to employees dated march 1
upi needs ``short-term financing to bridge its cash flow requirements until additional investors can be approached,'' steinle said
steinle works for wnw group inc., a media investment group that assumed control of the financially ailing wire service on feb. 19
wnw bought control of the company's stock from mexican publisher mario vazquez rana for an undisclosed sum. upi emerged from chapter 11 proceedings in u.s. bankruptcy court with vazquez rana's purchase of the company in june 1986
in his three-page letter, steinle said the wire service guild, the union representing company employees, has been offered ``the opportunity to participate'' in ``short-term loan financing.''
steinle's memo to employees included portions of a letter sent to the guild over the weekend. dan carmichael, a union spokesman, said he had no comment on the letter, which the guild received tuesday
but he said he was curious to find out what the company meant by a ``loan opportunity.''
in the letter to the union, upi management said the company is ``facing an immediate and critical situation in the form of the funding of its ongoing operations.''
it said wnw group ``must immediately obtain approximately one million dollars in loans to enable upi to begin paying past due bills for critical items such as health care, rents, telephones, etc.''
in the long run, upi's financial situation will require ``an infusion of capital, which can only be provided by a sale of stock or securities,'' the letter said
steinle said the company wants the guild to move quickly _ by march 14 _ to adopt an employee stock option plan. under conditions set by the bankruptcy court, upi's employees have the right of first refusal to buy the company if it is put on the block
announcing the change of management last week, steinle and dr. earl w. brian, wnw's chairman, said they hoped to have a business plan for upi's future within four to six weeks
steinle's letter said the company intended to raise money through the sale of stock as soon as the business plan is complete
the managers said that during vazquez rana's tenure, the company was losing about a $1 million a month
brian, 48, is also the chairman of infotechnology inc., an electronics communications company based in new york. among its subsidiaries are financial news network, a 24-hour cable television company. infotech, as the company is known, is a minority shareholder of wnw group
rep. james traficant, a declared candidate for president, has appealed a u.s. tax court decision saying he owes back taxes and penalties for failing to report bribes of $108,000 from reputed organized-crime figures in 1980
traficant, d-ohio, filed a notice of appeal with the tax court wednesday, throwing the case into the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals in cincinnati
traficant has described himself as a regional candidate for president and so far has not appeared on a primary election ballot. spokesmen have said he will focus mainly on ohio and neighboring states
in an opinion issued last september, judge john williams said traficant's actions when he was campaigning for mahoning county sheriff in 1980 reflected an intent to evade taxes and the internal revenue service had convincingly established that the underpayment was due to fraud
they're intimidating,'' traficant said of the federal government. ``they beat you down, they wear you out, and they're working on me.''
the irs has calculated that traficant owes nearly $90,000 in back taxes and penalties
the civil tax case is based on testimony and evidence from traficant's 1983 criminal trial in which he was charged with bribery and income tax evasion. in that case, traficant defended himself and was acquitted
the charges alleged that traficant accepted money in exchange for his promise to ignore the illegal activities of reputed mobsters in youngstown, ohio
the case was based on tape recordings allegedly between traficant and the mobsters and a written statement to the fbi the government contended traficant had signed saying he took the money in exchange for a promise of cooperation
traficant argued that the money was not income because he returned most of it and used legitimate contributions in his campaign for sheriff
a senator says the cia is conducting an inquiry into whether the agency provided personal and political information on u.s. senators to panamanian military ruler gen. manuel antonio noriega
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said wednesday two officials identifying themselves as being with the cia's office of the inspector general interviewed jose i. blandon, a former top panamanian intelligence official, last week
blandon alleged at a senate hearing last month that the agency had provided information on senators to noriega, who in turn passed it on to him. the cia is prohibited by law from domestic spying on u.s. citizens
d'amato said blandon told him the cia investigators were interested primarily in his charges that noriega had received information about both the political beliefs and the personal lives of several senators and staff members
he said blandon had gone into the lengthy interview under the impression he would be talking to investigators from the justice department. ``he was surprised that it turned out to be intelligence people,'' d'amato said
he didn't take it as any kind of harassment. he indicated to the agency that he could help them if they were interested.''
d'amato and sen. john kerry, d-mass., called the hearings last month at which blandon and other witnesses publicly wove complicated tales about how noriega sold out his country to drug traffickers
a cia official, speaking on condition of anonymity, would not confirm the internal inquiry, but said ``it would make sense'' for the agency's investigators to want to speak directly to someone who had made such charges. the cia has categorically denied providing any such information to the panamanian government
d'amato said blandon related to the cia investigators the same story he gave to the senate foreign relations subcommittee on terrorism, narcotics and international operations feb. 9-10
blandon, who was fired in january as panama's consul general in new york, told investigators then that noriega received and passed to him materials on senators and their staff members, typed in english on plain white paper
in the lower right-hand corner was the signature of a panamanian intelligence official who forwarded the material, along with an indication of the original source of the information _ usually the cia or the national security council, said officials familiar with the classified portion of blandon's testimony. the sources spoke on condition of anonymity
these were not benign official biographies,'' one official said. ``they were very pointed descriptions, directed at the local market'' and apparently designed to curry favor with noriega
blandon said intelligence services of other countries in the region received similar materials regularly, the officials said
blandon also has made the allegations in conversations with sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the senate intelligence committee, and members of his staff. boren has said he has ``no reason to believe'' the allegations, but is looking into them
others involved in intelligence have sought to cast doubts on blandon's credibility and his motives for turning against noriega, whom he served as a longtime top adviser. but d'amato reiterated his belief that blandon is telling the truth
d'amato raised the possibility that the information about senators and staff members could have been compiled by either a low-level ``functionary'' at the cia or by an outside ``contractor'' working for the agency
in his final appearance on the nato stage, president reagan got virtually everything he wanted, including a bouquet for his peacemaking efforts with mikhail s. gorbachev and a mandate to demand more from the soviet leader this spring
reagan leaves brussels today with a strong reaffirmation of alliance solidarity, criticism of the soviet record on human rights, and nato demands for sweeping cutbacks in warsaw pact tanks, artillery and other non-nuclear forces
in the spirit of harmony, major differences were muted or ignored as nato leaders celebrated the signing of a u.s.-soviet treaty to eliminate a whole class of nuclear missiles in europe and asia
as the leader of the western alliance, reagan can take satisfaction that nato weathered the disarmament storm of 1982 and deployed intermediate-range nuclear missiles, a step that brought the soviets back to the negotiating table and produced the inf treaty
now, with just 10 months remaining in office, he has a vote of confidence for negotiations with the kremlin toward a 50 percent cut in strategic nuclear arms, as well as a strategy for east-west talks in which nato will insist on lower levels of warsaw pact tanks, artillery, planes and ground forces
gorbachev has scored points in europe with his talk of peace and disarmament, and now reagan has been put in the same spotlight with new attention focused on the inf treaty
over the last several months, a number of people have said the inf agreement has caused fissures within the alliance; the alliance is troubled; europe is adrift; they're not sure of the united states' commitment,'' said lt. gen. colin powell, the president's national security adviser
well, the president reaffirmed our commitment to europe. he did it clearly, and that reaffirmation was welcomed by the other members of the alliance,'' powell added. ``so i think it's been a most useful meeting, one that was necessary, one that was important.''
the summit was a bright spot in what is likely to be a difficult year at home for reagan
as a lame-duck president with a democratic-controlled congress hoping to keep republicans out of the white house, reagan will have little chance to advance his legislative agenda
traditionally, then, foreign policy becomes the focus of outgoing presidents, and reagan is no exception
the nato summit with the leaders of 15 other countries was another in a series of farewell sessions, though he will see five of the officials in toronto at the annual economic summit in june
before the economic summit, however, comes the trip to moscow, his fourth meeting with gorbachev. it is expected sometime in late may or early june
both sides seem eager for reagan's visit, even though it appears unlikely the leaders will be able to sign another major arms pact. reagan said in a recent interview it appeared unlikely there would be enough time to wrap up a strategic arms treaty before the moscow summit, but he said he thought it could be completed before he leaves office
regardless, a reagan trip to moscow, to the heart of what he once called the evil empire, would dominate world attention and give both the president and the soviet leader another forum to seek a legacy as peacemaker
terence hunt has covered ronald reagan since 1980 and is the ap's white house correspondent
measuring the difference in nato and warsaw pact conventional forces is more than just a numbers game. it is a complicated and tricky task that goes beyond simply counting tanks and soldiers
western leaders meeting in brussels on wednesday issued a special statement demanding huge cutbacks in soviet bloc conventional forces, highlighting an issue that has divided negotiators for years
since 1973, negotiators for the alliances have been trying to agree on how many troops the blocs could throw into a fight in europe. western analysts say it would be more than 2 million on a side
now, as europe heads for elimination of medium-range nuclear missiles under a treaty signed by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, new attention has been focused on conventional forces
the pentagon says the soviet bloc has a substantial edge over nato in five major ground force categories
according to the pentagon's 1987 report ``soviet military power,'' moscow and its european allies have 230 divisions compared with nato's 121. the soviet edge in main battle tanks is 52,000 to 24,250. they lead in antitank guided weapons launchers 28,000 to 22,580
the report says the east bloc has 42,000 artillery and mortar launchers compared with the west's 18,350 and has 54,000 armored personnel carriers, while nato has 41,500
of the direct comparisons, nato leads only in attack helicopters, 1,250 to 970
the numbers include forces deployed in europe and those that can be rapidly deployed from the united states
when he was supreme allied commander in europe from 1979 to 1987, gen. bernard w. rogers used such figures in a set speech on the subject. he would say, in effect: ``we'd give them a good fight if deterrence failed and a war broke out, but it wouldn't be long before i'd have to pick up the phone and ask the nato politicians to let me use nuclear weapons.''
even rogers warned, however, against what has become known as ``bean counting'' _ judging strength by mere numbers
joshua epstein, a brookings institution scholar, for example, has said ``neither the pentagon nor the congress actually behave as though numerical equality mattered. if either did, it would be frantically shoveling money out of aircraft carriers, where we lead 14:1 _ and into tanks ...''
there are many variables that have to be weighed. they include:
_ the difference in requirements of defensive and offensive forces. military history has shown that offensive forces need massive superiority at any given point of an attack against well-fortified positions
since nato is a defensive alliance, it presumably does not need more or even equal numbers of troops to stop an attack, according to nato doctrine
_ the quality of weaponry. nato considers its forces have better and more modern equipment than the soviets have
_ troop reliability. would soviet allies fight as fiercely in an invasion of west europe as u.s. allies defending their homelands? many analysts doubt they would, and the authors of ``soviet military power'' concede it ``is not a certainty.''
_ terrain. the potential battlegrounds of nato's central front _ west germany in particular _ are full of streams, forests, bogs, cities and other choke points that could lower the effectiveness of tanks. ``wars are not fought on paper,'' wrote george perkovich, a world policy institute fellow who recently studied the conventional balance
_ asymmetries. even with the soviet edge in ground forces, the west has an advantage of 3,450 to 2,800 in fighter-bombers for ground attack, which would be used to hit forces massed for offensives
the london-based international institute for strategic studies _ whose annual report ``the military balance'' is the quintessence of bean counting _ says the ``conventional balance is still such as to make general military aggression a highly risky undertaking for either side.''
there would still appear to be insufficient overall strength on either side to guarantee a victory,'' the iiss said
here is a list of the heads of state and government who are participating in the nato summit, which began wednesday
belgium _ prime minister wilfried martens
britain _ prime minister margaret thatcher
canada _ prime minister brian mulroney
denmark _ prime minister poul schlueter
netherlands _ prime minister ruud lubbers
france _ president francois mitterrand and premier jacques chirac
greece _ prime minister andreas papandreou
iceland _ prime minister thorsteinn palsson
italy _ prime minister giovanni goria
luxembourg _ prime minister jacques santer
norway _ prime minister gro harlem brundtland
portugal _ prime minister anibal cavaco silva
spain _ prime minister felipe gonzalez
turkey _ prime minister turgut ozal
united states _ president reagan
west germany _ chalncellor helmut kohl
here are excerpts of the nato statement, ``conventional arms control: the way ahead,'' issued wednesday at a summit meeting of the western alliance
the soviet union's military presence in europe, at a level far in excess of its needs for self defense, directly challenges our security as well as our hopes for change in the political situation in europe. thus the conventional imbalance in europe remains at the core of europe's security concerns. the problem is to a large extent a function of the warsaw pact's superiority in key conventional weapon systems. but it is not only a matter of numerical imblances. other asymmetries are also important, for example:
_ the warsaw pact, based on the soviet union's forward-deployed forces, has a capability for surprise attack and large-scale offensive action; the allies neither have, not aspire to, such a capability;
_ the countries of the warsaw pact form a contiguous land mass; those of the alliance are geographically disconnected;
_ the warsaw pact can generate a massive reinforcement potential from distances of only a few hundred kilometers; many allied reinforcements need to cross the atlantic;
_ the warsaw pact's military posture and activities are still shrouded in secrecy, whereas those of allied countries are transparent and under permanent public scrutiny
these asymmetries are compounded by the dominant presence in europe of the conventional armed forces of the soviet union. the represent 50 percent of all the active divisions in europe between the atlantic and the urals. this soviet conventional superiority and its miltiary presence in other eastern european countries serve a political as well as a miltitary function. they cast a shadow over the whole of europe
we reiterate our conviction that military forces should only exist to prevent war and to ensure self defense, not for the purpose of initiating aggression and not for the purpose of political or military intimidation. our ability to prevent every kind of war, nuclear or conventional, rests on our capacity and determination to deter any form of aggression. all the allies' military resources are designed to contribute to that objective
the existence of a conventional imbalance in favor of the warsaw pact is not the only reason for the presence of nuclear weapons in europe. the countries of the alliance are, and will remain, under the threat of soviet nuclear forcs of varying ranges. although conventional parity would bring important benefits for stability, only the nuclear element can confront a potential aggressor with an unacceptable risk; therefore, for the foreseeable future deterrence will continue to require an adequate mix of nuclear as well as conventional forces
we will continue to ensure that our military forces are effective and up-to-date, in particular by: continued compliance with the principle of shared risks and responsiblities and acceptance of the priorities essential to the strengthening of our defense capabilities; provision of adequate defense expenditure, together with efforts to obtain the greatest return on our defense investment; closer cooperation designed to remedy key deficiencies and, in this context, support for recent legislative and other initiatives designed to foster cooperation in the area of conventional armaments, especially research, development, production and procurement; helping to meet the needs of the less advantaged allies in strengthening their conventionl defenses, thus redressing important existing deficiences
security in europe involves not just military, but also political, economic and, above all, humanitarian factors. we look forward to a europe undivided, in which people of all states can freely receive ideas and information; enjoy their fundamental human rights; and determine their own future. allied forces are stationed outside their national territory to protect these values and to uphold the solidarity of our free alliance. they cannot therefore be equated with soviet forces stationed in eastern europe. a just and lasting peaceful order in europe requires that all states enjoy relations of confidence with their own citizens; trust them to make political or economic choices of their own; and allow them to receive information from and exchange ideas with citizens of other states
in accordance with the principles of our approach to conventional arms control ... our objectives in the forthcoming conventional stability negotiations will be: the establishment of a secure and stable balance of conventional forces at lower levels; the elimination of disparities prejudicial to stability and security; and, as a matter of high priority, the elimination of the capability for launching surprise attack and for initiating large-scale offensive action
our aim will be to establish a situation in europe in which force postures as well as the numbers and deployments of weapon systems no longer make surprise attack and large-scale offensive action a feasible option. ... we need to enhance stability in the whole of europe from the atlantic to the urals; and to do so in a way which, while safeguarding the security of all allies, takes account of the concentrations of warsaw pact forces and the particular problems affecting the central, southern and northern regions
equal number or percentage reductions by both sides would not eliminate the disparities which threaten stability in europe. ... our goal is to redress the conventional imbalance. this can be achieved through a set of measures including ... limitations, redeployment provisions and related measures as well as the establishment of equal ceilings
this outcome will require highly assymmetrical reductions by the east and will entail, for example, the elimination from europe of tens of thousands of warsaw pact weapons relevant to surprise attack, among them tanks and artillery pieces ... we shall also propose measures to produce greater openness of military activities throughout europe, safeguard the maintenance of lower force levels, and support a rigorous, effective and reliable monitoring and verification regime
this monitoring and verification regime will need to include the exchange of detailed data about forces and deployments; and the right to conduct sufficient on-site inspections to provide confidence that agreed provisions are being complied with
early agreement on a conventional stability mandate ... would be an important step forward. we seek the elimination of the conventional imbalances which so threaten stability and security in europe. we also seek enhanced respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms on which lasting security and stability ultimately depend
the internal revenue service is looking for ways to make 338,000 employers hand over $3.73 billion in delinquent employment taxes, most of which was withheld from workers' paychecks
because employment taxes account for 69 percent of all federal revenues, says william wauben, irs assistant commissioner for collections, ``even a slight decline ... can have a devastating impact'' on government operations
the size of these delinquent taxes has grown 49 percent from $2.5 billion in 1982, wauben said at a news conference wednesday. this rise, which coincided with a steady growth in the value of business payrolls and increases in social security taxes on workers and their employers, is especially notable in the southwest, where the economy has suffered from declining oil prices
even if an employer fails to forward withheld taxes, employees' tax accounts and social security benefits will not be jeopardized so long as they file an individual tax return, wauben said
meanwhile, the irs reported that individual taxpayers are still slow to file this year's tax returns. through last week, the agency said:
_30.2 million returns had been received, down 4.9 percent from the same period last year. but the gap is closing; last week, 6.7 million returns were received, up 3 percent from last year. the irs attributes this year's slowness to all the 1986 tax changes that are affecting returns for the first time
_the irs is processing returns at a faster rate. the inventory of filed but unprocessed returns totaled 14.9 million last week, down from 16.5 million a year earlier
_more than 7.55 million of the processed returns had been certified for refunds, down 4.5 percent from a year ago. the average refund is up 7.9 percent, to $793
wauben said employers' failure to forward taxes withheld from workers' checks often is caused by ignorance of the law or greed. often as not, wauben said, the problem is traced to a failing company's efforts to stay afloat
when employers find they are no longer able to keep their business operating on the cash available and they ... are unable to borrow from a bank or other lending institution, some begin using the funds withheld from their employees' wages as their own,'' he said
employers are required to withhold social security and income taxes from workers' wages, to contribute matching amounts for social security and to pay unemployment taxes on their employees. businesses must forward these employment taxes to the irs at least once a quarter, although most employers pay once every week or two
to reduce delinquency, the irs is stepping up efforts to educate employers about their responsibilities and changing procedures to put collections officers in touch with businesses more quickly. the agency also is expanding a program designed to catch employers who unlawfully classify some workers as independent contractors, rather than employees, to avoid taxes
employers do not withhold taxes from independent contractors, who are required to make quarterly payments on their taxes. in many cases, the irs says, those workers understate earnings and some don't even file tax returns
during a two-year study in 26 areas of the nation, irs collections officers audited 1,196 employers suspected of misclassifying workers as independent contractors. as a result of the study, 9,004 delinquent employment-tax returns were filed (a return covers only one quarter) and the irs hit 92 percent of the audited employers with tax bills averaging $3,000
because of those findings, the irs has assigned nearly 400 collections officers to concentrate on investigating similar cases and hopes to add another 350 next year
political extremist lyndon larouche says he will solve the nation's economic problems by establishing a permanent u.s. colony on the planet mars, a plan detailed in a half-hour program to be shown on abc-tv tonight
in the program, ``the woman on mars,'' the democratic presidential candidate proposes reviving the apollo moon program and using the existing shuttle system to colonize mars. the technology associated with the colony would spur the economy, he says
the old aerospace program paid us back 10 cents for every penny invested,'' larouche says in the program, which was previewed for reporters wednesday. ``the mars program would pay us more.''
larouche, a frequent fringe candidate for the presidency, paid about $180,000 to air the 30-minute program at 8 p.m., said dana scanlon, a spokeswoman for larouche. the show will pre-empt ``the charmings,'' which abc planned to replace this month with ``probe.''
the program marks the second time larouche purchased prime network time to promote his views. in a half-hour program on cbs-tv on feb. 4, larouche said the government was lying about the deadly aids virus to avoid massive spending to control the disease. larouche paid $250,000 for the air time
he said the virus is transmitted much like any other virus and that most medical warnings about how it is spread are ``an outright lie.''
larouche defies traditional political labels and espouses views of global conspiracies. among them, he contends that the queen of england and the royal family are involved in drug trafficking
he is currently on trial in boston on charges of conspiring to obstruct a justice department investigation of alleged fund-raising fraud by his 1984 presidential campaign
a rock climber hoping to land in the blackwater creek ravine after rappelling off a bridge instead landed in police custody
david gloudemans, 24, of lynchburg, said he was looking for a new challenge and a shortcut when he tried to propel himself 150 feet off the rivermont bridge on wednesday
normally i do this on rocks, but it's hard to find good climbing places close to home,'' he said, ``and i was a little short on gas money today. i figured i'd just tie up, slip on down and no one would know the difference.''
his stunt didn't go unnoticed
police officer m.l. coleman was driving across the bridge and saw gloudemans vanish over the railing
i didn't know what to think,'' said coleman, who has gone to the bridge several times on suicide reports and accidental falls. ``i looked down over the side, and there he was. he was going to tie on his rope and go on down. i said, `let's talk about this.'''
when rescuers from the lynchburg fire department arrived, the unruffled gloudemans was sitting cross-legged on a concrete abutment 20 feet below the bridge, dressed in jeans, a blue denim jacket and a bandana. far below him, a cluster of police officers stood looking at the other end of his blue and orange ropes, which were trailing across the ground. above him on the bridge, an impromptu command post discussed ways of bringing him back
emergency medical technician linda eagle, a recent graduate of a ``rope course,'' was lowered over the bridge to bring him back. she attached a harness to gloudemans while eight police officers and firefighters fed line down from a fire truck
the height didn't bother me,'' eagle said, ``but i was a little worried that he (gloudemans) might not cooperate. the first thing he said was `why can't i go the rest of the way?'''
gloudemans eventually was retrieved, but not until after traffic on the bridge's eastbound lane had been halted nearly 45 minutes. he was arrested and charged with common law trespassing, and was released on his own recognizance, coleman said
maybe i should have just gone ahead and jumped off,'' gloudemans said, ``but i thought that would make it worse.'' primaries.</note>
here is a listing of major presidential debates, primaries and caucuses scheduled for 1988
national convention delegates to be allocated in each event are shown in parentheses
march 5 _ south carolina primary (0 dem; 37 gop)
             wyoming caucuses (13 dem; 12 gop)
march 8 _ super tuesday
alabama (56 dem; 38 gop)
american samoa caucus (3 dem; 0 gop)
arkansas (38 dem; 27 gop)
florida (136 dem; 82 gop)
georgia (77 dem; 48 gop)
hawaii democratic caucuses (20)
idaho democratic caucuses (18)
kentucky (55 dem; 38 gop)
louisiana (63 dem; 41 gop)
maryland (67 dem; 41 gop)
massachusetts (98 dem; 52 gop)
mississippi (40 dem; 31 gop)
missouri (77 dem; 47 gop)
nevada democratic caucuses (16)
north carolina (82 dem; 54 gop)
oklahoma (46 dem; 36 gop)
rhode island (22 dem; 21 gop)
tennessee (70 dem; 45 gop)
texas (183 dem; 111 gop)
virginia (75 dem; 0 gop)
washington caucuses (65 dem; 0 gop)

march 10 _ alaska democratc caucuses (12)
march 11 _ primary for democrats abroad (7)
march 12 _ south carolina democratic caucuses (44)
              south dakota democratic caucus (15)
march 13 _ north dakota democratic caucuses (15)
march 15 _ illinois primary (173 dem; 82 gop)
march 19 _ kansas democratic caucuses (39)
march 20 _ puerto rico primary (51 dem; 14 gop)
march 26 _ michigan democratic caucus (138)
              maryland gop convention
march 29 _ connecticut primary (52 dem; 35 gop)

april 2 _ virgin islands democratic caucus (3)
april 4 _ colorado caucuses (45 dem; 0 gop)
april 5 _ wisconsin primary (81 dem; 47 gop)
april 12 _ montana gop county caucuses conclude (0)
april 15 _ north dakota democratic convention
              minnesota republican convention (24)
april 16 _ arizona democratic caucus (36)
              south carolina democratic convention
              vermont gop caucuses (0)
           maine gop convention (22)
april 16-17 _ league of women voters debate in rochester, n.y
april 18 _ delaware democratic caucuses (15)
april 19 _ new york primary (255 dem; 102 gop)
              u.s. senate democratic caucus (43)
           vermont democratic caucuses (14)
april 20 _ u.s. house democratic caucus (210)
april 23 _ nevada gop convention (20)
april 24 _ guam democratic caucus (3)
              arizona gop caucuses conclude (0)
april 25 _ utah caucus (23 dem; 0 gop)
april 26 _ pennsylvania primary (178 dem; 78 gop)
april 28-30 _ alaska gop convention (19)

may 3 _ district of columbia (16 dem; 14 gop)
           indiana (79 dem; 30 gop)
        ohio (159 dem; 88 gop)
may 6 _ hawaii gop convention (20)
may 7 _ wyoming gop convention (6)
may 10 _ nebraska (25 dem; 9 gop)
            west virginia (37 dem; 28 gop)
may 14 _ iowa congressional district conventions
            arizona gop convention (33)
         delaware gop convention (17)
         virginia gop congressional district conventions (30)
may 17 _ oregon primary (45 dem; 32 gop)
may 21 _ virgin islands gop caucus (4)
            vermont gop convention (17)
may 24 _ idaho (0 dem; 18 gop)
june 4-5 league of women voters debate in torrance, calif
june 4 _ colorado gop convention (36)
june 7 _ california (314 dem; 175 gop)
            montana (19 dem; 0 gop)
         new jersey (109 dem; 64 gop)
         new mexico (24 dem; 26 gop)
june 9 _ indiana gop convention (21)
june 11 _ utah gop convention (26)
             montana gop convention (20)
june 12 _ virginia gop convention (20)
             minnesota democratic convention
june 14 _ north dakota (0 dem; 16 gop)
june 16 _ illinois gop convention (10)
             minnesota gop convention (7)
june 17 _ texas democratic convention
june 18 _ idaho gop convention (4)
june 24 _ iowa gop convention (37)
june 25 _ iowa democratic convention
july 9 _ nebraska gop convention (16)
july 15 _ washington gop convention (41)
july 18-21 _ democratic national convention, atlanta
aug. 15-18 _ republican national convention, new orleans
sept. 8 _ league of women voters debate, birmingham, ala
oct. 6 _ league of women voters debate, minneapolis
oct. 23 _ league of women voters debate, boston
nov. 1 _ league of women voters debate, los angeles
nov. 8 _ election day
nato is sounding a louder alarm about the threat posed by bigger east bloc armies in europe in hopes of turning public attention away from moscow's drive to free the region of nuclear weapons
the shift in tactics also is designed to sidestep a split within the western alliance over how to approach future negotiations on nuclear arms
president reagan and leaders of the 15 other north atlantic treaty organization members highlighted the new western emphasis on non-nuclear arms by declaring wednesday their eagerness to open new negotiations
the conventional imbalance in europe remains at the core of europe's security concerns,'' the nato leaders said in a joint statement
their aim is to portray the western alliance as united on an important aspect of east-west arms control at a time when moscow is seeking to exploit a split among the u.s. allies on nuclear arms strategy
a central message emerging from the nato summit, which ends thursday, is that the east bloc's numerical superiority in many key categories of conventional arms _ not the presence of nuclear weapons in europe _ is the greatest danger to western security
the most direct threat to our security and to stability in europe lies in the soviet union's massive military presence at a level exceeding its defense needs,'' reagan said after wednesday's meetings
the nato statement said the large soviet armies ``cast a shadow over the whole of europe.''
washington hopes nato can begin a new set of conventional arms negotiations with the soviet union and its six warsaw pact allies this fall
the nato initiative also shifts the public spotlight away from west germany's dispute with its allies over whether and when to replace very short-range nuclear weapons with new, more effective ones. most of these weapons, if fired, would strike german soil, east or west
the brussels summit was aiming to gloss over the german problem by saying in a broader declaration thursday that talks on short-range nuclear missiles could be undertaken in conjunction with _ but not necessarily at the same time as _ other arms negotiations
that leaves open the question of whether nato should insist that the soviets reduce their conventional forces before the two blocs engage in negotiations to further reduce their nuclear arsenals in europe
according to western estimates, the warsaw pact holds about a 3-to-1 advantage in numbers of tanks and artillery, although nato enjoys an edge in some crucial naval forces and in fighter aircraft in europe
the new stress on conventional arms, nato hopes, will steal some of the thunder from soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's campaign to woo the west european public with calls for freeing the continent of nuclear arms
all nato members agree they must keep some nuclear weapons in europe to deter a soviet attack, although they also have fully endorsed the u.s.-soviet treaty to eliminate all intermediate-range nuclear missiles. the more than 400 u.s. inf missiles are based in western europe
gorbachev has significantly improved his public image in western europe by agreeing to the inf deal, first proposed by reagan in 1981. it cast him as a dramatically different, more peaceful kremlin leader
now nato wants to test gorbachev's intentions further by proposing that he eliminate the warsaw pact's capability to launch a surprise attack by conventional forces
the two military blocs have been working for one year to agree on a framework for a new set of negotiations to establish a more stable balance of non-nuclear forces in europe. the talks may begin this fall
these talks would replace a narrower set of east-west negotiations on cutting troop levels, which have gone nowhere in 15 years
the new negotiations would be even more complicated, encompassing a wider geographic area, involving more nations and including not only troops but also a wide range of weapons and equipment
robert burns has covered the north atlantic treaty organization from his base in brussels since 1984
judith sherman and william foley have changed their wedding plans from small to mall
the couple had planned a ceremony attended just by relatives and close friends, followed by a modest reception at a restaurant. instead, they will exchange vows saturday in the middle of hanover mall, surrounded by family, friends and up to 5,000 shoppers
this is probably the most public wedding anyone has ever had,'' said miss sherman, 21, of halifax. ``we always like everything to be different and this is about as different as it gets.''
miss sherman and foley had planned a small ceremony because they could not afford a big wedding. but their mall nuptial won't cost them a penny, because they won a drawing to promote a bridal fair there
merchants are donating an estimated $15,000 worth of goods and services, including the bride's gown, tuxedos, invitations, wedding rings, flowers, music, and a honeymoon in florida
we really wanted a big wedding, but we didn't have the money so we didn't even bother to discuss it,'' miss sherman said. ``and then all this happened. all we have to do is sit back and enjoy ourselves.''
some residents of this new york city suburb want to bring the legend of sleepy hollow home
residents will vote march 15 on whether to rename the town for the famous washington irving story about the headless horseman. irving lived near here and modeled his fictional sleepy hollow after the picturesque hudson river region
it's a part of history that we're sleepy hollow,'' said chris skelly, a member of the village of sleepy hollow committee. ``it's not a made-up name. it gives us the potential to be famous because everyone's heard of sleepy hollow.''
skelly said irving, for whom nearby irvington was named, didn't make up the name, but reached back to 17th century dutch descriptions of the area. dutch pioneers dubbed the area ``sleepy'' because it was easy to dock along the riverside and spend the night
proponents of the change say a new name would distinguish their 8,000-resident community from neighboring tarrytown and would bring in tourist money to help local business and tax base, which has suffered in recent years
opponents say it would be confusing and costly and wouldn't accomplish anything
history will not pay the bills or solve the problems,'' said edna belanich, a founder of concerned citizens against changing the name of north tarrytown. ``we can keep history in our hearts.''
the campaigns of both jesse jackson and pat robertson face a critical question as they move into the super tuesday contests _ whether they have been able to expand their traditional bases of support
both need to attract more than protest votes from those who want to ``send a message'' to the more mainstream candidates
while jackson has shown he can attract substantial votes outside the black community, analysts still question whether robertson can move beyond his fundamentalist christian base
a crucial test for robertson takes place saturday when south carolina republicans vote in a presidential primary in which he once said he would beat george bush and bob dole convincingly
if i lose this one, then i'm in trouble,'' robertson said of south carolina after his fifth-place finish in new hampshire
the south carolina contest comes three days before super tuesday, the march 8 showdown when 20 states, concentrated in the south, hold primaries or caucuses
jackson and robertson both have strong bases in the region, but each needs to reach beyond his core constituency
robertson startled many republicans with a strong second-place finish in iowa and was second again in south dakota and minnesota
opinion polls in south carolina show the former television evangelist running third
jackson also was second in minnesota and followed that with similar showings in maine and vermont _ all states with very small minority populations. in each state, the winner was gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts
ann lewis, a political adviser to jackson, argues that he has ``gone from being a protest candidate to being a message candidate.'' ms. lewis said jackson's message this campaign is far different from what he was saying in 1984
the last time he talked a lot about the party process and being locked out,'' she said. ``his message this time is economic and inclusive.''
pollster peter hart said he believes jackson has moved to what he called ``the polarizing mainstream.''
to suggest he is just like (rep. richard) gephardt or dukakis is probably incorrect,'' said hart
the pollster said that his surveys show that about 85 out of 100 democrats would consider voting for gephardt or dukakis, but the number drops to 60 out of 100 when asked about jackson
hart said the mix he has found among white supporters of jackson is people who are younger, more liberal and in some cases economically dispossessed
republican pollster lance tarrance, who has been working for rep. jack kemp, said his surveys in south carolina and elsewhere in the south find ``pat robertson hasn't quite created the brush fire we thought.''
he said robertson needed to get support from the ``non-establishment vote _ we don't have anti-establishment people in the republican party.''
so far, he said, that hasn't happened. one reason he cited was that bush ``has held together a lot stronger than we had hoped.''
analyst william schneider of the american enterprise institute, a washington think tank, said jackson's white support ``tends to be the radical-chic votes'' _ affluent young liberals
he said those are voters who are turned on by what he called ``the democratic revival speech,'' a statement of traditional party values
jesse jackson is the only one in the race now who can give the democratic revival speech,'' said schneider. he cited sen. edward m. kennedy of massachusetts and gov. mario cuomo of new york as non-candidates who deliver the same sort of speech
schneider said that while gephardt appeals to blue-collar voters ``he's not selling himself as a liberal.'' he said gephardt also is hurt because people who still want to hear that appeal demand authenticity
fundamantalist believers (in that message) don't flip-flop,'' said schneider
as for robertson, schneider said, ``the base of his support is the limit of his support.''
political scientist norman ornstein of aei, said he is ``skeptical that this is some dramatic expansion of jackson's base.''
he said the vermont and maine results were examples of contests where there was ``a low turnout with a real emphasis on the issue activists.''
jackson's positions are going to be very attractive to issue activists whether they are white or black,'' said ornstein
president reagan's vow to veto a sweeping civil rights bill puts him on a collision course with congress, which has overwhelmingly endorsed the landmark measure expanding protections against discrimination
groups ranging from the u.s. catholic conference to the national women's law center hailed the 315-98 vote wednesday by which the house sent the civil rights restoration act on its way to the white house
it was a tremendous bipartisan victory for civil rights,'' said ralph neas, executive director of the 200-group leadership conference on civil rights. republicans opposed the measure by a slight margin, but just four of the majority democrats voted against it
the bill, which some veteran lawmakers likened to the great civil rights statutes passed in the 1960s and 1970s, requires entire colleges, school systems, government agencies and private entities to comply with anti-discrimination laws if any program or activity within them receives federal money
congress has been struggling with the bill since 1984, when a supreme court decision limited the reach of laws protecting women, minorities, the elderly and the disabled to the specific program or activity receiving federal aid
in letters to house republicans, reagan said the bill ``dramatically expands the scope of federal jurisdiction over state and local governments and the private sector'' and ``poses a particular threat to religious liberty.''
i will veto the bill if it is presented to me in its current form,'' reagan said
both chambers passed the civil rights measure by the two-thirds majority needed to override a presidential veto. neas said he is confident the margins will hold if reagan goes through with the veto
he's backed down on a lot of things he's said before,'' judith lichtman, director of the women's legal defense fund, said of reagan. ``it's hard to predict what he'll do this time.''
the 6-3 supreme court decision came in a case brought by grove city (pa.) college. the ruling said only the student aid office was subject to the title ix statute barring sex discrimination in education because student financial assistance was the only aid flowing into the college
the result has been what one lawmaker called ``an avalanche of discrimination nationwide'' _ hundreds of cases restricted or dropped, and investigators preoccupied with tracking federal dollars instead of determining if discrimination has occurred
opponents of the restoration act said it would have far-reaching and unintended consequences on churches, businesses and individuals. supporters said it merely restores rights and principles long ago approved by congress when it resolved that taxpayers should not subsidize discrimination
those who dip their hands in the public till should not object if a little democracy sticks to their fingers,'' summed up rep. augustus hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the house education and labor committee
before passing the bill, the house voted 266-146 against a gop substitute that would have scaled back the measure's impact on corporations and allowed more schools to avoid compliance with civil rights laws on religious grounds
the final bill also contains a senate amendment that invalidates title ix regulations barring discrimination against women who have had or sought abortions and requiring college health plans to cover abortions if they cover other temporary disabilities
several house members who supported the bill said they regretted that it included the anti-abortion provision. the national right-to-life committee called it a significant victory while the catholic conference called it ``an essential improvement.''
the restoration act says entire institutions and government agencies must comply with anti-discrimination statutes if any program or activity within them receives federal aid. the broad coverage also applies to the private sector if the aid goes to a corporation as a whole or if the recipient principally provides education, health care, housing, social services or parks and recreation
the bill also says farmers getting crop subsidies, people on food stamps and other individuals receiving federal assistance are not required to comply with the anti-discrimination statutes
the four civil rights laws affected by the supreme court ruling were title ix of the 1972 education amendments, barring sex discrimination in federally funded education programs; the 1964 civil rights act, barring racial discrimination in federally-assisted programs; the 1973 rehabilitation act, barring discrimination against the handicapped in any program or activity receiving federal aid; and the 1975 age discrimination act, barring employment discrimination against older people
the house passed the restoration act in similar form on a vote of 375-32 in 1984, shortly after the court decision. the bill was bottled up in a senate committee until last year
a bus plunged off a mountain highway and tumbled 140 feet down a river embankment, killing 18 people and injuring 34, police said
the private bus crashed tuesday near pucara, 510 miles north of lima, police said wednesday
police said many of the passengers were tossed from the rolling vehicle before it halted on the banks of the huancabamba river
the bus was en route from the jungle city of jaen to chiclayo, a coastal capital located 110 miles to the southwest, police said
people in other countries have invested $1.5 trillion in the united states and withdrawals could bring a recession, a former top treasury official says
c. fred bergsten, who now heads the institute for international economics, a study group financed largely by the west german marshall fund, issued the warning on wednesday
bergsten said the investment by other countries in the united states is in private hands
some of it's in the form of plant and equipment _ that's not going to come out rapidly,'' he told the house budget committee. ``but close to a trillion dollars of it is liquid, and about half a trillion has come in just the last five years to finance our massive trade deficits
on future occasions, if foreigners withdrew money, the effect on interest rates, our economy, the exchange rate, could be much more dramatic.''
it has happened before, he said
the last time the dollar fell sharply _ i happen to remember painfully because i was in the treasury at the time _ was in the late 1970s,'' he added
he was then assistant secretary of the treasury for international affairs. he recalled that the united states had to borrow about twice the amount of its trade deficit because foreigners were withdrawing money at the same time
if we got anything like that magnitude now, we'd have to find a way to borrow $300 billion from foreign officials or somewhere to keep our books in balance,'' he said. ``that could only be done at prices that would bring the whole economy to a shuddering halt.''
he said the most enduring legacy of the reagan administration would be the conversion of the united states from the world's biggest creditor country to the biggest debtor. current foreign borrowing by the u.s. government is about $150 billion a year
at the end of 1987, our net international debt stood at about $400 billion, more than the external red ink of the next three largest debtors _ canada, brazil and mexico _ combined,'' he said
under the most optimistic adjustment scenario, that number will rise to $750 billion before it could possibly level off, and a more likely outcome is much closer to $1 trillion.''
bergsten said the united states needs to shift its annual international trade balance by about $200 billion, more than the current deficit, because the additional cost of interest on the foreign debt will be close to $50 billion by the early 1990s. it would be reasonable to try to reach this target in four or five years, he said
he said it can be done only by cutting the federal budget deficit by $150 to $200 billion in the same period. he added that unless these cuts can be made, the value of the dollar against other currencies could easily fall by another 20 percent or 30 percent.   
the episcopalian archbishop of liberia, the most rev. george browne, said authorities prevented him from leaving the country
browne, an outspoken critic of the government of president samuel doe, said wednesday that he was stopped at the country's international airport on saturday by officials who prevented him from boarding his plane
he said he wrote to justice minister jenkins scott for an explanation but had yet to receive a reply. browne said he was going to neighboring guinea to ordain some priests when he was stopped
doe, a former master sergeant, took power in a military coup in 1980
here is a list of the winners announced wednesday at the 30th annual grammy awards of the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences:
record of the year: paul simon, ``graceland.''
best rock vocal performance, female, male: bruce springsteen, ``tunnel of love.''
best r&amp;b vocal performance, male: smokey robinson, ``just to see her.''
best new artist: jody watley
best pop vocal performance, male: sting, ``bring on the night.''
best jazz instrumental performance, group: wynton marsalis, ``marsalis standard time volume i.''
album of the year: u2, ``the joshua tree.''
producer of the year (non-classical): narada michael walden for ``whitney.''
best classical album: vladimir horowitz, ``horowitz in moscow.''
best country song: paul overstreet and don schlitz, ``forever and ever, amen.''
song of the year: james horner, barry mann and cynthia weil, ``somewhere out there.''
best rock performance by a duo or group with vocal: u2, ``the joshua tree.''
best pop vocal performance, female: whitney houston ``i wanna dance with somebody.''
best comedy recording: robin williams, ``a night at the met.''
best musical cast show album: ``les miserables,'' album producers alain boublil &amp; claude-michel schonberg, lyricist herbert kretzmer, composer claude-michel schonberg
best pop performance by a duo or group with vocal: bill medley and jennifer warnes, ``(i've had) the time of my life.''
best pop instrumental performance (orchestra, group or soloist): larry carlton, ``minute by minute.''
best new age performance: yusef lateef, ``yusef lateef's little symphony.''
best rock instrumental performance (orchestra, group or soloist): frank zappa, ``jazz from hell.''
best r&amp;b vocal performance, female: aretha franklin, ``aretha.''
best r&amp;b performance by a duo or group with vocal: aretha franklin &amp; george michael, ``i knew you were waiting (for me).''
best r&amp;b instrumental performance (orchestra, group or soloist): david sanborn, ``chicago song.''
best r&amp;b song: reggie calloway, bill withers, ``lean on me.''
best jazz fusion performance, vocal or instrumental: pat metheny group, ``still life.''
best jazz vocal performance, female: diane schuur, ``diane schuur and the count basie orchestra.''
best jazz vocal performance, male: bobby mcferrin, ``what is this thing called love?''
best jazz instrumental performance, soloist: dexter gordon, ``the other side of round midnight.''
best jazz instrumental performance, big band: the duke ellington orchestra, conducted by mercer ellington, ``digital duke.''
best country vocal performance, female: k.t. oslin, ``80's ladies.''
best country vocal performance, male: randy travis, ``always &amp; forever.''
best country performance by a duo or a group with vocal: dolly parton, linda ronstadt and emmylou harris, ``trio.''
best country vocal performance, duet: ronnie milsap and kenny rogers, ``make no mistake, she's mine.''
best country instrumental performance (orchestra, group or soloist): asleep at the wheel, ``string of pars.''
best gospel performance, female: deniece williams, ``i believe in you.''
best gospel performance, male: larnelle harris, ``the father hath provided.''
best gospel performance by a duo or group, choir or chorus: mylon lefevre and broken heart, ``crack the sky.''
best soul gospel performance, female: cece winans, ``for always.''
best soul gospel performance, male: al green, ``everything's gonna be alright'';
best soul gospel performance by a duo, group, choir or chorus: the winans and anita baker, ``ain't no need to worry.''
best latin pop performance: julio iglesias, ``un hombre solo.''
best tropical latin performance: eddie palmieri, ``la verdad the truth.''
best mexican-american performance: los tigres del norte, ``gracias! america sin fronteras.''
best traditional blues recording: professor longhair, ``houseparty new orleans style.''
best contemporary blues recording: robert cray, ``strong persuader.''
best traditional folk recording: ladysmith black mambazo, ``shaka zulu.''
best contemporary folk recording: steve goodman, ``unfinished business.''
best polka recording: jimmy sturr &amp; his orchestra, ``a polka just for me.''
best reggae recording: peter tosh, ``no nuclear war.''
best recording for children: jack nicholson-narration, bobby mcferrin-music, ``the elephant's child.''
best spoken word or non-musical recording: garrison keillor, ``lake wobegon days.''
best instrumental composition: wayne shorter, herbie hancock, ron carter &amp; billy higgins, ``call sheet blues.''
best album of original instrumental background score written for a motion picture or television: ennio morricone, ``the untouchables.''
best song written specifically for a motion picture or television: james horner, barry mann and cynthia weill, ``somewhere out there.''
best performance music video: elton john, tina turner, sting and others, ``the prince's trust all-star rock concert.''
best concept music video: genesis, ``land of confusion.''
best arrangement on an instrumental: bill holman, ``take the `a' train,'' performed by the ``tonight show'' band
best instrumental arrangement accompanying vocal: frank foster, ``deedles' blues'' (from ``diane schuur &amp; the count basie orchestra'')
best album package (art directors): bill johnson, ``king's record shop.''
best album notes: orrin keepnews, ``thelonious monk the complete riverside recordings.''
best historical album (producers): orrin keepnews, ``thelonious monk the complete riverside recordings.''
best engineered recording non-classical (engineers): bruce swedien and humberto gatica, ``bad.''
best orchestral recording: sir georg solti conducting the chicago symphony orchestra, ``beethoven: symphony no. 9 in d minor.''
best opera recording: james levine conducting the vienna philharmonic,``strauss: ariadne auf naxos.''
best choral performance (other than opera): robert shaw conducting the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra, ``hindemith: when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd (a requiem for those we love).''
best classical performance instrumental soloist or solists (with orchestra): itzhak perlman (james levine conducting the vienna philharmonic), ``mozart: violin concertos nos. 2 and 4 in d.''
best classical performance instrumental soloist or soloists (without orchestra): vladimir horowitz, piano, ``horowitz in moscow.''
best chamber music performance (instrumental or vocal): itzhak perlman, lynn harrell &amp; vladimir ashkenazy, ``beethoven: the complete piano trios
best classical vocal soloist performance: kathleen battle (james levine, accomp.), ``kathleen battle salzburg recital (faure, handel, mendelssohn, mozart, purcell, strauss, spirituals).''
best contemporary composition: krzysztof penderecki, ``penderecki: cello concerto no. 2.''
best engineered recording, classical: faure: requiem, op. 48@durufle: requiem, op. 9 (robert shaw conducting the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra), jack renner, engineer
classical producer of the year: robert woods (faure: requiem and durufle: requiem)
a teacher who was denied promotion stabbed and wounded four colleagues, police said
hwang in-su, 46, an english teacher at a high school near the southern city of chonju, on tuesday pulled a knife and attempted to attack the principal after hwang was passed over for promotion, police said wednesday
the principal escaped, but four teachers in the office were stabbed, police said. the four were reported in fair condition
police said hwang had been charged with attempted murder
news reports and television footage of israeli troops storming hospital wards, schoolrooms and mosques in the occupied lands to quash arab rioting have tarnished israel's image abroad
but israeli officials hotly retort, and they are supported by witnesses, that palestinian protesters have used these institutions as havens to escape arrest and as staging grounds for more demonstrations
israelis say this is a deliberate tactic aimed at eliciting foreign condemnation by provoking troops to attack institutions usually considered outside the realm of conflict
on wednesday, a dozen arab teen-agers erected several barricades 30 feet from the front of the ramallah hospital emergency room and threw stones at israeli soldiers
the army responded with tear gas and one canister landed in the hospital, forcing dozens of elderly patients to flee, gagging and covering their faces with clothing
provoking the army to enter a hospital is a propaganda coup for the palestinians,'' said brig. gen. arye shalev, who was the military governor of the west bank from 1974 to 1976
in the war of public opinion, hospitals, schools and mosques are symbols. they are sensitive spots. to enter a hospital by force with bullets and gas looks very bad,'' said shalev, now working at tel aviv university's jaffee center for strategic studies
in the 1982 lebanon war, palestinian guerrillas frequently positioned rocket launchers and anti-aircraft batteries near hospitals and residential apartment buildings, using them as screens in battles with israeli soldiers
troops firing tear gas, rubber bullets and occasionally even live ammunition have broken into hospitals in the west bank and gaza strip at least seven times since the unrest began dec. 8, according to witnesses
troops killed two arabs inside shifa hospital's walled compound in december after rioters used the courtyard of the gaza city hospital as a fortress for hurling firebombs and rocks at soldiers. community leaders had held a strategy session in the hospital director's office beforehand
young palestinian riot leaders also have used mosques as refuges from soldiers and seized control of some to attack israeli targets
in nablus' al nasr mosque last friday, an arab youth in a denim jacket led prayers while wearing a white cloth mask with eye slits to conceal his face
standing on the filigree prayer pulpit beside the outlawed palestinian flag, he shook his fists. ``this is the time we have to use the mosques to launch a holy war,'' he told 200 west bank worshipers
in jerusalem and the west bank, mosque loudspeakers several times have broadcast false reports that jewish settlers were on a rampage, prompting arab residents to pour into the streets. one palestinian was killed in tulkarem last month in an ensuing riot
there have been several protests following friday noon prayers at the al aqsa mosque in jerusalem, one of islam's holiest sites. in january, riot police fired tear gas inside the mosque after worshippers attacked a policeman, witnesses said. the incident inflamed palestinian anger here and in neighboring jordan
until the army shut down schools with 250,000 students in the occupied lands in february, they were staging grounds for protests involving children as young as age 6, who pelted israeli troops and cars with stones
in nablus, nurses at al ittihad hospital say protesters frequently hide in the hospital after demonstrations. last thursday, some nurses helped two protesters elude detection by dressing them in white nurses jackets
we gave them white gowns like ours,'' said a 22-year-old male nurse who refused to give his name. ``they're lucky they were not asked questions about medicine. the soldiers do that sometimes to make sure we really are nurses.''
while hospitals, schools and mosques have provided some protection for arab protesters, the tactic also has endangered bystanders
ahmed mahmoud abdul rahman, 20, who was recovering from an appendectomy at al ittihad, said he was forced from his bed and questioned for 30 minutes
they took me onto the street. they hit me on the legs and kept asking, `why are you in the hospital?''' said abdul rahman. ``because i didn't have a cast or bandages or any obvious injury, they suspected i had thrown rocks and was hiding out in the hospital.''
doctors said that, in the same incident, troops searching for arabs suspected of throwing rocks and firebombs broke into an operating room where a gunshot victim was being treated
as hospitals have become part of the battleground, palestinian doctors say some injured arabs stay away from them for fear of being detained
the director of ramallah hospital, yassir obeid, said soldiers struck him and another doctor in the chest and abdomen tuesday when obeid asked to see an order authorizing the troops to enter the hospital
obeid said he saw the soldiers detain and beat a 10-year-old boy who had been in the doctor's office waiting for a check-up
that boy had done nothing, he was in my office,'' obeid said in an interview. ``when i tried to explain to the soldiers, one hit me in the chest with his rifle.''
southwest airlines had the best record while eastern airlines and northwest airlines shared the burden of having the poorest on-time performance in january, according to the monthly government statistics on flight delays
the transportation department figures released wednesday showed about three out of every ten flights arrived at least 15 minutes late during the month, slightly fewer than in december
southwest, which consistently has been among the best on-time performers, had 85 percent of its flights arrive on time during january, followed by america west and pacific southwest airlines, both of which had a better than 80 percent on-time performance
eastern airlines had the worst record, with 61.5 percent of its flights arriving on time, followed close behind by northwest's 61.6 percent. piedmont airlines, which also had the highest baggage complaint rate during the month, was third from the bottom with a 62.4 percent on-time record
overall the 14 airlines that are monitored in the monthly report had 69.2 percent of their flights arriving within 15 minutes of schedule, compared with 66.4 percent in december
the government considers a flight to be on time if it arrives within 15 minutes of schedule. the 14 airlines that are required to submit monthly on-time statistics are not required to report delays attributed to mechanical problems. delays due to weather are counted
during january, there were 148 chronically late flights, meaning they were late at least 80 percent of the time. four of those flights _ two for continental and one each for northwest and delta airlines _ were late each time the planes flew
meanwhile, consumer complaints to the transportation department dropped sharply in february, compared with the previous month, but still were higher than the number recorded in february 1987, the department said
the complaint statistics are released with the on-time performance statistics, although they cover different months
there were 2,235 complaints received by the department's consumer affairs office about airline service during february, compared with 3,610 in january, a decline of 38 percent. the department received 1,574 such complaints in february 1987
the three airlines that had the most complaints lodged against them in the two previous months _ continental, eastern and northwest _ led the list again in february. there were 14.79 complaints per 100,000 passengers involving continental, 11.3 complaints involving eastern and 10.64 complaints involving northwest, the deparment said
after southwest, the airlines with the best on-time performance in january were america west, which also was no. 2 in december, and pacific southwest airlines, which soared from last among the 14 airlines in december to having the third best record in january
america west had 83.9 percent of its flights arrive on time in january while pacific southwest improved its record from 57.6 in december to 81.6 in january. american airlines (75.7 percent) had the best record among the larger carriers, but pan american world airways dropped from having the second best record in december to seventh in january
the best arrival rate among the 27 airports from which reporting is required came at las vegas' mccarran international airport and the phoenix sky harbor airport with just over 78 percent of the flights arriving on time. the worst arrival rate, 59.1 percent, was reported at orlando international airport in florida
during january, the number of baggage complaints received by the airlines remained virtually the same as the previous month with 11.58 complaints per 1,000 passengers flown. piedmont airlines had just over 18 such complaints, the most of any of the airlines, while southwest had the least at 4.65
paul simon has come home to illinois to fight for his life as a democratic presidential contender. he's doing it without television, without big bucks and without many words of encouragement from political pundits
while the rest of the presidential pack stalks votes in super tuesday land, the illinois senator is hoping a homegrown victory will revive his flagging campaign following a string of disappointing showings in early contests
we have to win, and we will win in illinois,'' simon said at a news conference on wednesday. after a fund-raising foray to california, he said he planned to remain here, for the most part, until the illinois primary on march 15
some have dubbed him ``simple simon'' for choosing to skip the south on the 20-state super tuesday. others have called him gutsy. but simon remains upbeat and says his strategy will pay off in the end
the super tuesday of the industrial states starts with illinois,'' he said. ``illinois is going to send a strong message to the industrial states and to the rest of the nation on behalf of paul simon.''
simon strongly denied reports that he was talking to michael dukakis about dropping out of the race and supporting the massachusetts governor
i've never talked to mike dukakis about any such possibility,'' simon said. ``it's strictly a figment of someone's imagination.''
simon also denied reports that his illinois supporters have pressured him to stay in the race so that they can be guaranteed a trip to the july convention in atlanta
i wouldn't be doing it just so somebody can get a vacation in atlanta,'' simon said. ``i'm in it because i want to be president of the united states.''
he needs a heavy voter turnout to win in illinois, and even there the cards seem stacked against him. there are no statewide contests to draw voters to the polls, and not many local races
there are few races throughout illinois and, therefore, that may tend to keep voters' interest down,'' said vince demuzio, the state party chairman who discussed strategy with simon earlier wednesday
the state party has not endorsed a presidential candidate, partly because two favorite sons are in the sweepstakes _ jesse jackson is the other _ and partly because it generally stays out of presidential primaries, demuzio said
simon ``is and will be campaigning all over illinois over the next several days'' to try to spark a heavy turnout, demuzio said in a telephone interview wednesday night
faced with a heavy campaign debt, simon will be unable to launch a media blitz to get his message across to voters. instead, he'll focus on stumping across the state
abe lincoln didn't do tv,'' said simon spokesman michael kreloff
if we had a million dollars in the bank right now, which we do not, i'm not sure (tv ads) would be a prudent expenditure,'' simon said
kreloff said that while other candidates will have to rely on television ads in illinois, ``paul simon is a known quantity here.''
he's been in illinois now for over three decades. he has 100 percent name recognition,'' demuzio said. ``why spend a great deal of money on media in your home state when they're aware of who you are?''
simon acknowledged that his financial situation is ``not great,'' but said recent fund-raisers have helped erase some of his campaign debt. he said he did not know how much money was left in his campaign coffers
the senator would not discuss what he will do if he doesn't win in illinois
you're talking about something that isn't going to happen. we're going to win in illinois,'' he said
the tennessee senate has invited david letterman to visit memphis, where the nbc talk show host could ``beat his feet on the mississippi mud.''
in a resolution passed wednesday, the senate gave 10 reasons for the host of ``late night with david letterman'' to visit. among them:
dave could beat his feet on the mississippi mud,''' the resolution suggested. ``dave could visit graceland, the world's only shrine equipped with a jungle room. ... dave could visit the living legend jerry lee lewis and his great balls of fire.''
letterman could ``witness the peabody ducks, the world's most famous and longest-running stupid pet tricks,'' the resolution said
among the hallmark's of letterman's show is stupid pet tricks, featuring pets and their owners. every day, the ducks, which live in a penthouse at the peabody hotel, are taken by elevator to a fountain in the lobby
stand-up comic jay leno is the winner of this year's ``elmer'' award for comedy from the harvard lampoon
leno joins such talents as bill cosby, john candy and robin williams as recipients of the award named in memory of elmer green, ``longtime caretaker and friend of the lampoon,'' the magazine said in a statement wednesday
the lampoon, founded in 1876, is the oldest humor magazine in the nation
singer john denver thought he'd have some fun at a recent performance near lake tahoe, nev., so he sang ``the ballad of gary hart.''
the reaction has been terrific,'' denver's agent, dan schrier of los angeles, said in a telephone interview. ``he did it for fun, with no maliciousness at all.''
but hart spokesman rolf wiegand indicated little amusement wednesday and called denver's performance ``one man's exercise in poor taste.''
the tune, written by singer-songwriter tom paxton, recounts hart's career in the senate and his campaign problems after he was linked with miami model donna rice
as the song describes it:
well, he met her at a party, and her name was donna rice
she was gary's kind of woman, she was pure miami vice
she thought he was gary collins, and could get her on tv
she suggested monkey business, and the rest is history!''
spanish opera star jose carreras has been discharged from a hospital here, where he was successfully treated for leukemia and has returned to his home in barcelona, hospital officials say
carreras, 41, received four months of treatment at the fred hutchinson cancer research center for acute lymphocytic leukemia, including a nov. 16 bone marrow transplant. he was free of the disease when discharged friday, spokeswoman susan edmonds said wednesday
ms. edmonds said carreras had discussed returning to seattle for a concert to benefit the center when he resumes his singing career
carreras will remain under a physician's care in spain, and is to return to seattle for a checkup in a year. people with acute lymphocytic leukemia, an especially severe form of the disease, have a survival rate of about 25 percent to 40 percent over three to five years
former presidential press secretary jody powell, whose confederate ancestors fought in the battle of second manassas, is joining the attack on plans to build a shopping mall near the battlefield
powell said the fight to preserve the site near the manassas battlefield national park is worthy because encroaching development is a problem at many battlefields and historic sites
goodness, if you can't stop something this bad, then what hopes do you have of fending off more creeping sorts of problems, where a park gets nibbled to death?'' powell said tuesday
powell is putting the resources of his firm, ogilvy &amp; mather public affairs of washington, at the disposal of the save the battlefield coalition
ten of his ancestors fought at the battle of second manassas in 1862, part of which was waged on land where the hazel-peterson cos. of fairfax plan to break ground for william center
rolling stone magazine's choice to cover the impeachment trial of gov. evan mecham has some experience with embattled chief executives _ former nixon aide john ehrlichman
ehrlichman, who spent 18 months in prison for his role in the watergate scandal, called the assignment ``a match made in heaven.''
i'm working on a novel and it has an impeachment scene in it, so i was going to come over and take a look at this anyway,'' ehrlichman said tuesday. ``it's a ready-made opportunity to observe. secondly, it's a subject that intrigues me. i certainly have some feel for the underlying issues.''
ehrlichman, 63, lives in santa fe, n.m., and is working on his seventh novel, a story about a fictional u.s. president
millionaire philanthropist armand hammer wants to wipe out cancer by the year 2000, and is leading a campaign to raise $1 billion a year for research on the killer disease
hammer said he hopes to raise $500 million in private contributions, then have that matched by federal funds. some members of congress already have agreed to support the effort, he said in a telephone interview wednesday
hammer, chairman and chief executive officer of occidental petroleum corp., already has donated $100,000 for cancer research and has received commitments from nine other industrialists to do the same
the money will go directly to research at the national cancer institute in bethesda, md., said hammer, a non-practicing physician who turns 90 in may. ``there will be no overhead charges,'' he said
the institute's annual research budget is $1.4 billion
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,596.31 points, down 86.51 points, on the tokyo stock exchange thursday
about one in 500 american women giving birth is infected with the aids virus, a study published today suggests
the authors used a survey of blood samples routinely taken from newborn babies to help estimate the scope of aids infection. most surveys of aids infection have concentrated on male homosexuals, drug addicts and others at high risk of catching the disease
this paper gives a more accurate way to judge the scope of the epidemic in women,'' said dr. rodney hoff. ``nothing else comes close to this in being able to measure the prevalence in the united states.''
the study found that one of every 476 women giving birth, or 2.1 for each 1,000, were infected with the virus. however, this varied greatly, depending on where they lived
at three inner-city boston hospitals, eight per 1,000 were infected. in suburban and rural hospitals, just under one per 1,000 carried the virus
hoff directed the study of massachusetts women at the state department of public health using tiny samples of blood routinely drawn from babies to check for phenylketonuria, or pku, and other diseases
dr. george f. grady, the state epidemiologist, said the state's infection rate probably mirrors the nation's, because the rate of actual aids cases in massachusetts is virtually the same as throughout united states
he said the low suburban and rural infection rate in massachusetts is likely similar across much of the united states
i think it is not higher than that, and probably lower, in less coastal and less urban states than massachusetts,'' grady said
dr. timothy dondero, chief of aids surveillance at the u.s. centers for disease control, cautioned against placing too much emphasis on the massachusetts data
it's not scientifically wise to try to make a national projection from one or two points,'' he said
dondero noted that a similar study conducted in new york, which has more aids cases than any other state, found a significantly higher level of infection. the new york state health department study indicated about one in every 116 women giving birth in the state carried the aids virus
the massachusetts research was based on anonymous aids antibody testing on 30,708 babies born in massachusetts during the first six months of last year. the results were published in the new england journal of medicine
the researchers assumed that the babies received the antibodies _ but not necessarily the infection _ from mothers who carried the aids virus. dondero said about 40 percent of babies of aids-infected women get the infection
projecting the massachusetts figures nationally, the doctors calculated that if as few as 20 percent of babies of aids carriers get the virus, then 1,620 aids-infected infants are born in the united states annually. if the figure is as high as 60 percent, then 4,860 infected children are born in a year
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. as of feb. 29, the centers for disease control in atlanta had received reports of 54,723 americans with aids, 30,715 of whom had died
a judge's ruling that the gov. mario cuomo's administration blacklisted construction companies and then allowed them to buy their way off the list is ``a personal assault on my integrity,'' says the state's transportation commissioner
justice harold hughes of the trial-level state supreme court cited federal extortion laws wednesday in refusing to dismiss a lawsuit filed by paving companies that challenged, among other things, state-imposed affirmative action requirements on contractors
hughes did not say that any crimes had been committed by officials but that he was referring the case to federal and state prosecutors and the state's commission on goverment integrity for review
state transportation commissioner franklin white, one of the administration's highest-ranking blacks, characterized hughes' decision as ``a personal assault on my integrity as a public official and i'm outraged by it.''
white denied any blacklist for contractors existed and said the ruling will be appealed immediately
the lawsuit was filed by the new york state asphalt pavement association, which represents 34 contractors, against white and state office of general services commissioner john egan
in denying a state motion to dismiss the lawsuit, hughes said one company had agreed to pay $150,000 to benefit the state's disadvantaged, minority, women's business enterprise program to get off the blacklist
compelling contractors to enter into the agreements ... constitutes unethical and possibly criminal conduct,'' hughes wrote in his eight-page opinion
hughes said that as part of the agreements, the companies had to promise not to sue the state over their blacklisting
the lawsuit stems from white's attempt to crack down on contractors who are not meeting state and federal minority hiring requirements, or who have established ``front'' companies that falsely claim to be minority owned, or who have engaged in criminal activity such as bid-rigging
white has moved against companies under criminal investigation or that have been convicted of crimes that relate to public works projects
state courts recently have ruled against some of dot's attempts to force minority hiring by contractors. those decisions are on appeal
white's spokesman, timothy hulbert, said there was nothing illegal about barring contractors from doing business with the state if they had violated state laws or regulations. he said that was done only on a ``case-by-case basis'' and denied a blacklist was maintained
he also said there was nothing illegal about having those companies pay money to improve minority hiring programs as part of any agreements for them to get back in the state's good graces
a grass-roots campaign focusing on contributors to his former television ministry helped give pat robertson a 2-to-1 victory over vice president george bush in the alaska republican precinct caucuses
robertson claimed 47 percent of the votes compared to bush's 24 percent in a preference poll of 2,020 delegates elected at the precinct level. sen. bob dole took third with 20 percent and jack kemp trailed at 7 percent, party officials announced wednesday
robertson's effort was a low-cost affair concentrating on telephone canvassers and volunteers handing out pamphlets and inspirational cassette tapes at shopping malls, said walter wood, robertson's statewide coordinator
the focus was on getting ``disenfranchised'' voters involved in the political process, wood said. it helped to have lists of contributors to the christian broadcast network, which robertson headed before starting his presidential campaign, he said
you go where your strength is,'' wood said. ``it yielded us some great benefits. our sparks would start with the church and then they would expand out. get beyond the label of television evangelist, and people perk up. he's got answers.''
other campaign coordinators vowed to turn things around as the delegate selection process continues
these delegates aren't bound'' to robertson, said frank bickford, state coordinator for the dole campaign. ``there will be a chance to pick up delegates.''
clifford groh, bush's state coordinator, said that campaign could have done better with an investment of ``time and effort, maybe a little money, too.'' the bush campaign put less than $1,000 into the caucus effort, he said
bickford said the dole campaign spent about $25,000. wood did not reveal the cost of robertson's campaign, but said it was considerably less than $25,000
the 2,020 precinct delegates will be winnowed later this month to 400 district delegates, who then will choose 19 delegates to attend the national convention in august
allegiances can shift among the precinct and district delegates, but gop delegates to the national conventions have never abandoned their chosen candidates, said jim crawford, chairman of the alaska republican party
nearly 4,000 of the state's 55,000 registered republicans turned out for the caucuses, held throughout the state from saturday to tuesday, crawford said
there were a lot of strange faces,'' said linda shafer, volunteer media coordinator for the party. ``there were people new to the political process. you could tell by their political platforms _ things like anti-marijuana and anti-abortion _ that they were church folks.''
alaska, with only 19 of the 2,270 delegates at the national republican convention, has not been a high priority for the candidates. none has made a campaign stop here
legislation granting banks broad new securities powers cleared its first big hurdle after two days of contentious debate behind closed doors by the senate banking committee
the committee voted 18-2 late wednesday night to repeal most of the glass-steagall act, which has separated commercial banking from the securities business since the depression
but the approval came only after sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., pushed through an unrelated amendment limiting the ability of banks to expand into the insurance business
the bill faces a vote in the full senate. similar legislation still must pass the house, where two powerful committee chairmen, reps. john dingell, d-mich., and fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., have expressed great skepticism about expanding bank powers too much
however, sen. william proxmire, d-wis., said the lopsided committee approval of the compromise package improves the chances for its enactment
the vote ``means a good strong bill will not only pass the senate but will survive in conference,'' he said
the legislation, as orginally proposed by proxmire and sen. jake garn of utah, the panel's senior republican, addressed only securities powers
but, dodd, who represents a state where insurance companies are important employers, added a new element to the debate that stalemated the committee for two days. he successfully pushed for closing several loopholes that have permitted some banks to enter insurance in states which authorize that
under the bill adopted by the committee, bank holding companies would be permitted to underwrite and sell mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds immediately after enactment of the bill. they would be allowed to underwrite and sell corporate bonds and mutual funds six months after enactment
however, a separate vote by congress by april 1, 1991, would be required before banks could deal in corporate stocks
dodd said he did not obtain everything he wanted, but paul a. equale, a lobbyist for the independent insurance agents of america, said, ``we think chris dodd did a terrific job.''
under the insurance compromise, bank holding companies could deal in insurance in states that authorize it, provided those activities are limited to that state. the bill imposes no restrictions on state banks not owned by holding companies
bank holding companies could not sell insurance through banks located in another state. a loophole that had permitted some national banks to deal in insurance would be closed
the committee left to the senate as a whole a decision on whether several states could agree to allow each others' banks to engage in insurance activities across state borders
the glass-steagall act was passed in the wake of the 1929 stock market crash to preserve the safety of the banking system during future market downturns. but banks have argued that the internationalization of financial markets and the development of new securities products have made the glass-steagall barriers outdated
voting for the compromise bill were proxmire; garn; dodd; and sens. alan cranston, d-calif.; donald w. riegle, d-mich.; paul sarbanes, d-md.; alan dixon, d-ill.; james sasser, d-tenn.; terry sanford, d-n.c.; richard shelby, d-ala.; bob graham, d-fla.; timothy wirth, d-colo.; john heinz, r-pa.; william armstrong, r-colo.; chic hecht, r-nev.; christopher bond, r-mo.; john chaffee, r-r.i., and david karnes, r-neb
voting against the bill were sens. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., and phil gramm, r-texas. 4th graf pvs bgng, before the ...</note>
the u.s. dollar continued to rise against the japanese yen after opening above the 129-yen barrier, and stock prices temporarily topped pre-crash levels before closing lower in tokyo trading thursday
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed after moderate trading at 25,596.31 points, down 86.51 points or 0.34 percent from wednesday's close
the dollar closed at 129.30 yen, up 0.83 yen from wednesday's close of 128.47. the dollar opened at 129.05
before the october stock crash, the nikkei index stood at 25,746.56 points
basically we saw a bit of a fall off in early morning trading,'' said paul warren of the investment house salomon brothers. ``but the market has neatly switched to new areas, like electronics and utilities, which is keeping the momentum going.''
warren said he expected the market to return to its all-time high over the next two or three months
a currency dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the dollar's strength was due partly to a japanese news report that a senior u.s. monetary official in washington had suggested the united states would tolerate a considerable rise in the value of the dollar if the nation's trade deficit kept improving
the dollar had traded below 129 yen in tokyo since feb. 23
panama's attorney general said washington accused panama of not helping fight drug trafficking only because the united states has been unable to win its own war against drugs at home
attorney general carlos villalaz' statement wednesday followed by a day the u.s. government's denial to panama of certification as a nation doing its best against the drug trade
villalaz said washington had misrepresented the facts for political ends
it seems illogical that u.s. politicians, upon being unable to win the domestic war waged because of the large-scale consumption of drugs in their country, would pretend to resolve the problem by telling their electorate that the responsibility is panama's,'' said villalaz's statement
lack of certification means an end to u.s. military and economic aid, but aid to panama was cut off last year. it also could mean withdrawal of u.s. support for panamanian requests for loans from the world bank and other international agencies, but no applications are pending
having ... the evidence and reports that demonstrate that 1987 was the most successful year for joint (anti-narcotics) operations between panama and the united states, i declare that the current attitude of the north american government is inconceivable, illogical and immoral,'' the statement said
it said drug arrests, confiscation of drugs and seizure of profits from narcotics sales had increased, and noted reports by u.s. officials in 1987 praising the zeal of panamanian officials
gen. manuel antonio noriega, chief of the panama's 15,000-member defense forces and de factor ruler, was indicted in florida last month on trafficking charges
noriega has denied the drug trafficking accusations and claims they are part of a u.s. plot to renege on its agreement to turn over the panama canal to panama by the year 2000
we have told the americans time and again that, if they want to wipe out drug trafficking, they must be serious and set politics aside so that it does not interfere with stopping drugs,'' said the statement
nevertheless, it would seem that the attitude of the american government is intended to dishearten its allies in the fight against drugs, giving incentive to the traffickers and destroying even more its own youth
his flash and frenzy undiminished by time, little richard took over the grammy awards ceremony and was still in outrageous high spirits when he met reporters on the seventh floor of radio city music hall
hitting one of those fabulous high notes from his rock repertoir, little richard laughed and said, ``i'm going to scream like a white woman.''
little richard wasn't there wednesday night to win a grammy, but to present one
and the best new artist is _ me!'' he announced. ``i have never received nuthin' _ y'all never gave me no grammys, and i've been singing for years.''
i am the architect of rock 'n' roll,'' he shouted as his flustered co-presenter, buster poindexter, looked on and the crowd rose in a standing ovation. ``i am the originator!''
little richard repeated that he was the winner, but finally gave the grammy to jody watley
backstage, he sang the praises of michael jackson's performance on the telecast
i cried. `the man in the mirror,' i just love that,'' little richard said. ``i felt that. my big toe just shot up in my boot.''
asked if he was surprised that jackson didn't win any of the four grammys for which he was nominated, little richard's face expressed horror. ``i'm shocked. stunned. i think a whole lot of people are. i've never seen anything like michael in my life
he is a hard worker. he gives his all. he don't hold nothing back. he puts it all out there and you can pull it wherever you want to carry it.''
asked how long he'd been bitter at never receiving a grammy, little richard said, ``i'm not bitter, but it would be nice to have one.''
born richard penniman on dec. 5, 1932, little richard broke into rock _ smashed might be a better word _ in 1955 with ``tutti-frutti,'' and followed up with ``long tall sally'' and ``slippin' and slidin''' in 1956 and ``good golly, miss molly'' in 1958
he was the most outrageous of the early rockers with a 6-inch pompadour, pancake makeup, a pencil-thin mustache and an all-out attack on the piano
at the height of his fame, during a tour of australia in 1957, little richard got religion. according to one version he has told, he had a horrifying dream of the apocalypse during an airplane flight. once safely on the ground, he threw his jewelry off the sydney harbor bridge
he came back to rock in 1964 with ``bama lama bama loo,'' and more recently had an acting part in the film ``down and out in beverly hills.'' working with bette midler was fun, he said wednesday. ``the only thing that got me was the dog. he bit me.''
in 1986, little richard announced he had converted to judaism
little richard's on-stage tirade started when he accused poindexter (a.k.a. david johansen) of stealing his upswept hairdo. later, little richard admitted he had borrowed one his trademarks _ that ``whooo.''
i got that from (gospel singer) clara ward. i don't have to pass it on; everybody done took it,'' he said. ``michael is using it. and they're welcome.''
asked whether he, jackson and prince could perform together, little richard said he thought jackson would be willing ``but i think prince would shoot me. i love prince. i can talk to michael. he is very humble. i can get to bruce springsteen, bob dylan, paul mccartney. i just can't get to prince.''
his favorites? ``i like michael, bruce, bob seger, prince. i think prince is a genius. i love paul mccartney. i love all of them. they come from me.''
the naacp is moving a convention and demanding an apology from a popular country club after a telephone recording during which the club's manager allegedly made racial slurs
the comments were recorded on the telephone answering machine of howard county naacp member sherman howell, who had phoned the turf valley country club last week to ask why it seemed no black waiters and waitresses worked there
the washington post obtained a copy of the tape, and included comments from the recording in an article in today's editions
according to the tape, a man identifying himself as club manager fred grimmell returned the call, and left a short message on howell's answering machine. but then after a click, the voice continued in a conversation with two other people and made several racial slurs, the post said
at one point, the voice on the tape said: ``this nigger, i am going to put him against the wall ... he should say, `this is sherman nigger.' yo nigger, yo bub.'' as the man who had identified himself as grimmell and an unidentified woman discussed whether howell had ever visited the club's restaurant, a third voice said, ``well, we don't like niggers. ... i'm discriminated because all the niggers get all the jobs.''
a black washington post reporter then went to interview grimmell, and heard another racial slur from behind closed doors about a person ``that wants to grill me.''
later, the post said, grimmell told the reporter: ``i have no time to talk to you at all. here's the door, sweetheart. our conversation is over.''
the howard county naacp chapter, which had planned to hold its spring ``freedom fund'' meeting at the club on march 24, is moving it elsewhere
maryland naacp president rev. john wright, at a news conference wednesday, said his organization is demanding grimmell's immediate resignation and an apology. the naacp is also considering picketing and demonstrations if the issue is not resolved quickly, wright said
this is 1988 and we have this type of statements... this is blatant, outright racism,'' said wright
louis mangoine, son of club owner nick mangione, said he would investigate the complaints about grimmell
here, ranked from best to worst, is a listing of 27 airports and the percentage of on-time arrivals during january, according to information provided by the airlines to the transportation department and released wednesday
the average on-time arrival percentage was 67.5
the percentage in parentheses reflects the on-time departure record at the airport
the ranking covers the 27 busiest airports in passenger volume as determined by the transportation department


las vegas          78.4    (85.9) phoenix            78.1    (84.1) pittsburgh         76.1    (79.0) dallas-fort worth  75.2    (77.1) san diego          73.5    (83.7) washington national71.5    (79.6) new york laguardia 70.4    (76.7) detroit            70.2    (77.2) los angeles int.   70.0    (79.2) boston             69.7    (75.3) new york jfk       68.2    (71.2) st. louis          67.7    (72.0) chicago o'hare     67.5    (71.2) memphis            66.4    (69.7) philadelphia       65.5    (70.0) salt lake city     65.5    (75.0) seattle-tacoma     64.6    (81.8) newark             64.0    (69.2) denver             63.7    (71.7) miami              63.6    (70.6) charlotte          63.2    (56.8) atlanta            63.0    (70.8) tampa              62.9    (76.7) mpls-st. paul      60.5    (66.7) houston            60.4    (71.7) san francisco      60.2    (74.7) orlando            59.1    (75.9)
gop presidential candidate pat robertson isn't retreating from his firm denial of charges he avoided combat in korea although he wants to end a legal battle with a former congressman who made them
robertson and his lawyer have formally announced plans to ask a federal judge to dismiss the $35 million lawsuit against rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif., to avoid beginning a three-week trial on super tuesday
going to trial next tuesday means robertson ``is being asked to sacrifice his presidential campaign in order to vindicate his personal honor,'' attorney douglas rigler told reporters wednesday
we think that's extraordinarily unfair,'' rigler said, referring to u.s. district judge joyce hens green's refusal to postpone the trial date until june 20, when the primary season has ended
the decision to seek dismissal of the suit ``does not in any way indicate he is unwilling to confront mr. mccloskey or that he shies away from any judicial determination of the merits of the charges,'' rigler said
robertson does not intend to back away at any time from his denial of the charges that mr. mccloskey made,'' rigler added
mccloskey, meanwhile, said robertson is ``chickening out of the trial just like he chickened out 37 years ago.''
the former congressman's lawyer, george lehner, said he would oppose robertson's motion to dismiss the lawsuit and request to proceed with the trial on tuesday
i think the truth ought to be told,'' mccloskey said. ``i don't know any better place to get the truth than in the courtroom. he invoked the process, he ought to go through with it.''
mccloskey was sued in 1986 following publication of his charges that robertson called his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., from japan to get out of combat in the korean war
mccloskey, who was on the troop ship from which robertson and five other marine officers were removed for special training, says the former television evangelist later was the ``liquor officer'' to a rear-echelon unit in korea
rigler distributed a statement from robertson saying ``the pretrial process has already demonstrated the total falsity of mr. mccloskey's statements about me.''
not one of his witnesss ever heard me make such a call or state that i had made it. the official records of the marine corps fully supported my denial of ever having sought or received special treatment,'' robertson's statement said
a number of former marines who were also aboard the uss breckinridge in 1951 have supported various parts of mccloskey's story
a report on the case prepared by rigler's office charged that the pre-trial testimony of mccloskey's `` handful of volunteer witnesses has been discredited. mr. mccloskey has been reduced to an admission that his charges constitute merely his `opinions' and `impressions.'''
by successfully opposing the motion to postpone the trial, ``mr. mccloskey is holding mr. robertson hostage,'' rigler said. ``mccloskey knows that the march 8 date is impossible.''
that is a terrible choice and i can't understand why a respected judge did it,'' rigler said
in her jan. 6 order denying robertson's motion, green noted that he filed the lawsuit and launched his candidacy ``at the same time.''
that these ventures might somehow come into conflct is a risk that plaintiff assumed when he began them,'' the judge wrote
under federal rules of civil procedure, the judge could order robertson to pay mccloskey's court costs and possibly legal fees
rigler acknowledged that ``it is quite possible that mr. robertson will be asked to pay a substantial amount of court costs'' to cover the expense of taking depositions from more than 50 witnesses
but rigler said he would be likely to appeal a large award
lehner said he would ask the judge to order payment of mccloskey's court costs and lawyers fees, which total more than $400,000
here is the 315-98 roll call wednesday by which the house passed the civil rights restoration act
a ``yes'' vote is a vote to pass the bill
voting yes were 242 democrats and 73 republicans
voting no were 4 democrats and 94 republicans
xxx denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there is one vacancy in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, yes; erdreich, yes; flippo, yes; harris, yes; nichols, yes
republicans _ callahan, no; dickinson, no
republican _ young, yes
democrat _ udall, yes
republicans _ kolbe, yes; kyl, no; rhodes, no; stump, no
democrats _ alexander, yes; anthony, xxx; robinson, yes
republican _ hammerschmidt, no
democrats _ anderson, yes; bates, yes; beilenson, yes; berman, yes; bosco, yes; boxer, yes; brown, yes; coelho, yes; dellums, yes; dixon, yes; dymally, yes; edwards, yes; fazio, yes; hawkins, yes; lantos, yes; lehman, yes; levine, yes; martinez, yes; matsui, yes; miller, yes; mineta, yes; panetta, yes; pelosi yes; roybal, yes; stark, yes; torres, yes; waxman, yes
republicans _ badham, no; dannemeyer, no; dornan, no; dreier, no; gallegly, no; herger, no; hunter, no; konnyu, no; lagomarsino, no; lewis, yes; lowery, no; lungren, yes; mccandless, no; moorhead, no; packard, no; pashayan, yes; shumway, no; thomas, no
democrats _ campbell, yes; schroeder, yes, skaggs, yes
republicans _ brown, yes; hefley, no; schaefer, no
democrats _ gejdenson, yes; kennelly, yes; morrison, yes
republicans _ johnson, yes; rowland, yes; shays, yes
democrat _ carper, yes
democrats _ bennett, yes; chappell, yes; fascell, yes; gibbons, yes; grant, yes; hutto, yes; lehman, yes; mackay, yes; mica, yes; nelson, yes; pepper, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ bilirakis, no; ireland, no; lewis, no; mack, xxx; mccollum, yes; shaw, no; young, yes
democrats _ barnard, no; darden, yes; hatcher, yes; jenkins, yes; lewis, yes; ray, yes; rowland, yes; thomas, yes
republicans _ gingrich, no; swindall, no
democrat _ akaka, yes
republican _ saiki, yes
democrat _ stallings, yes
republican _ craig, no
democrats _ annunzio, yes; bruce, yes; collins, yes; durbin, yes; evans, yes; gray, yes; hayes, yes; lipinski, yes; price, yes; rostenkowski, xxx; russo, yes; savage, yes; yates, yes
republicans _ crane, no; davis, no; fawell, yes; hastert, no; hyde, no; madigan, no; martin, yes; michel, no; porter, xxx
democrats _ hamilton, yes; jacobs, yes; jontz, yes; mccloskey, yes; sharp, yes; visclosky, yes
republicans _ burton, no; coats, no; hiler, no; myers, no
democrats _ nagle, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ grandy, yes; leach, yes; lightfoot, xxx; tauke, yes
democrats _ glickman, yes; slattery, yes
republicans _ meyers, yes; roberts, no; whittaker, no
democrats _ hubbard, yes; mazzoli, yes; natcher, yes; perkins, yes
republicans _ bunning, no; hopkins, yes; rogers, no
democrats _ boggs, yes; hayes, yes; huckaby, xxx; roemer, xxx; tauzin, yes
republicans _ baker, xxx; holloway, xxx; livingston, no
democrat _ brennan, yes
republican _ snowe, yes
democrats _ byron, yes; cardin, yes; dyson, yes; hoyer, yes; mcmillen, yes; mfume, yes
republicans _ bentley, yes; morella, yes
democrats _ atkins, yes; boland, yes; donnelly, yes; early, yes; frank, yes; kennedy, yes; markey, yes; mavroules, yes; moakley, yes; studds, yes
republican _ conte, yes
democrats _ bonior, yes; carr, yes; conyers, yes; crockett, yes; dingell, yes; ford, yes; hertel, yes; kildee, yes; levin, yes; traxler, yes; wolpe, yes
republicans _ broomfield, yes; davis, yes; henry, no; pursell, yes; schuette, yes; upton, yes; vander jagt, no
democrats _ oberstar, yes; penny, yes; sabo, yes; sikorski, yes; vento, yes
republicans _ frenzel, yes; stangeland, no; weber, yes
democrats _ dowdy, xxx; espy, yes; montgomery, yes; whitten, yes
republican _ lott, no
democrats _ clay, yes; gephardt, xxx; skelton, yes; volkmer, yes; wheat, yes
republicans _ buechner, yes; coleman, yes; emerson, no; taylor, no
democrat _ williams, yes
republican _ marlenee, no
republicans _ bereuter, yes; daub, yes; smith, yes
democrat _ bilbray, yes
republican _ vucanovich, no
republicans _ gregg, yes; smith, no
democrats _ dwyer, yes; florio, yes; guarini, yes; howard, yes; hughes, yes; rodino, yes; roe, yes; torricelli, yes
republicans _ courter, xxx; gallo, yes; rinaldo, yes; roukema, yes; saxton, yes; smith, yes
democrat _ richardson, yes
republicans _ lujan, yes; skeen, yes
democrats _ ackerman, yes; biaggi, xxx; downey, yes; flake, yes; garcia, yes; hochbrueckner, yes; lafalce, yes; manton, yes; mchugh, yes; mrazek, yes; nowak, yes; owens, yes; rangel, yes; scheuer, yes; schumer, yes; slaughter, yes; solarz, yes; stratton, yes; towns, yes; weiss, yes
republicans _ boehlert, yes; dioguardi, yes; fish, yes; gilman, yes; green, yes; horton, yes; houghton, yes; kemp, xxx; lent, yes; martin, yes; mcgrath, xxx; molinari, yes; solomon, no; wortley, yes
democrats _ clarke, yes; hefner, yes; jones, yes; lancaster, yes; neal, yes; price, yes; rose, yes; valentine, yes
republicans _ ballenger, no; coble, no; mcmillan, no
democrat _ dorgan, yes
democrats _ applegate, yes; eckart, yes; feighan, yes; hall, yes; kaptur, yes; luken, yes; oakar, yes; pease, yes; sawyer, yes; stokes, yes; traficant, yes
republicans _ dewine, no; gradison, yes; kasich, yes; latta, no; lukens, no; mcewen, no; miller, no; oxley, no; regula, yes; wylie, no
democrats _ english, yes; mccurdy, yes; synar, yes; watkins, yes
republican _ edwards, yes; inhofe, no
democrats _ aucoin, yes; defazio, yes; wyden, yes
republican _ d. smith, no; r. smith, no
democrats _ borski, yes; coyne, yes; foglietta, yes; gaydos, yes; gray, yes; kanjorski, yes; kolter, yes; kostmayer, yes; murphy, yes; murtha, yes; walgren, yes; yatron, yes
republicans _ clinger, yes; coughlin, yes; gekas, no; goodling, yes; mcdade, yes; ridge, yes; ritter, no; schulze, xxx; shuster, no; walker, no; weldon, yes
democrat _ st germain, yes
republican _ schneider, yes
democrats _ derrick, yes; patterson, yes; spratt, yes; tallon, yes
republicans _ ravenel, no; spence, no
democrat _ johnson, yes
democrats _ clement, yes; cooper, yes; ford, xxx; gordon, yes; jones, yes; lloyd, yes
republicans _ duncan, no; quillen, no; sundquist, no
democrats _ andrews, yes; brooks, yes; bryant, yes; bustamante, yes; chapman, yes; coleman, yes; de la garza, yes; frost, yes; gonzalez, yes; r. hall, no; leath, xxx; leland, xxx; ortiz, no; pickle, yes; stenholm, no; wilson, yes; wright, xxx (by tradition, the house speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, no; armey, no; bartlett, yes; barton, no; boulter, xxx; combest, no; delay, no; fields, no; smith, no; sweeney, no
democrat _ owens, yes
republicans _ hansen, no; nielson, no
republican _ jeffords, yes
democrats _ boucher, yes; olin, yes; pickett, yes; sisisky, yes
republicans _ bateman, no; bliley, no; parris, no; slaughter, no; wolf, no
democrats _ bonker, yes; dicks, yes; foley, yes; lowry, yes; swift, yes
republicans _ chandler, yes; miller, yes; morrison, yes
democrats _ mollohan, yes; rahall, yes; staggers, yes; wise, yes
democrats _ aspin, yes; kastenmeier, yes; kleczka, yes; moody, yes; obey, yes
republicans _ gunderson, yes; petri, yes; roth, no; sensenbrenner, no
republican _ cheney, yes
diana ross says she still isn't talking with mary wilson, her former partner in the supremes
talking with reporters at the 30th annual grammy awards on wednesday, miss ross also said she wished she could have been at the recent rock 'n' roll hall of fame banquet for the induction of the supremes
i wasn't able to get there. the baby, the whole thing, i really couldn't get there,'' she said
miss wilson and a daughter of the third original supreme, the late florence ballard, attended the induction
asked whether she and miss wilson are talking, miss ross said, ``no.''
i'm really a good person,'' she added. ``i could be real good. somebody slaps you and slaps you and you'll still be good?''
told that miss wilson had said in los angeles that she's like to renew the friendship, miss ross said, ``of course she would feel that way.''
she said she hadn't read miss wilson's autobiography, ``but i think she said kind of not really nice things. insinuations in the book were not nice to me. and i was really hurt by it.''
panama's hard-pressed economy has become the focus of those trying to end the military rule of gen. manuel antonio noriega
ousted president eric arturo delvalle has joined other noriega foes in calling for fiscal actions to keep up pressure on the government
delvalle, who is in hiding, said in a videotape that the political crisis in panama would make it impossible for the nation to get new loans from international agencies, and described the country as ``totally bankrupt.''
nine months of political unrest already have eroded panama's service-oriented economy, which is particularly vulnerable to a loss of trust and confidence caused by political upheaval
in addition, financial experts say billions of dollars in bank deposits are being withdrawan from panama, destablizing it as a financial center
manuel solis palma, installed last week to replace delvalle, charged that the united states ``wants to asphyxiate the panamanian people economically, snatching away the salt and water of our existence.''
in a speech tuesday, solis palma denounced attempts to promote ``sanctions, pressure out of proportion (and) unjust recrimination against a people who has honored its commitments .... we will struggle without pause or truce for our survival.''
delvalle pointed to the deteriorating economic situation in his unsuccessful attempt feb. 25 to dismiss noriega as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces of panama, which include both the military and police
the reasons that might take us to fiscal and economic imbalance and that might push thousands of panamanians to unemployment, misery and despair cannot persist,'' delvalle said in announcing the general's dismissal
noriega rallied his officer corps and loyalist politicians, and the next day delvalle had been replace and in hiding
the backbone of panama's economy is formed by banks, insurance companies, a large duty-free zone, the panama canal and well-stocked retail and wholesale stores that attract buyers from throughout latin america
in new york, lawyers for delvalle sued in federal court wednesday to block a bank from transferring an estimated $10 million to the noriega regime. the lawyers later dropped the lawsuit against republic national bank of new york after the bank agreed to transfer the money to the u.s. federal reserve bank
on tuesday, delvalle froze all panamanian assets outside the country. the united states, which still recognizes delvalle as president, supported the action. state department spokewoman phyllis oakley called it ``the legitimate action of the constitutional government.''
panama's commercial bank debt is $2 billion and the total debt for banks and government agencies is $5.5 billion, said a banking source in the united states who spoke on condition of anonymity. he said about $85 million in interest and principal is due to banks and bond holders by march 31
the world bank said panama's total foreign debt was $4.8 billion at the end of 1986, the latest year for which figures are available. the debt, in a nation of 2.2 million people, is one of the world's highest per capita
an ongoing general strike to protest noriega's rule that began monday has had particular impact on construction and industrial activity
among the actions reported under consideration in the united states is withholding payments from panama canal activities
the u.s. commerce department said panama's gross income from the canal in 1986 was $532 million. revenue figures were not available for last year, but the number of ships passing through the waterway was said to be up slightly. evenue from the canal represents 10 percent of panama's gross national product
vice president george bush says the united states' flagging petroleum industry needs drilling incentives rather than an oil import tax, while agriculture is starting to rebound because of the reagan administration's farm policy
talking with reporters after a rally at louisiana state university on wednesday, bush, a former oilman, said making changes that will benefit the oil industry would enhance national security
the answer has to be national security and not economics. the answer has got to be there is no security for this country with increasing dependence on foreign oil. you can't make the case simply on economics,'' he said
in addition to providing drilling incentives, congress should repeal the windfall profits tax, passed during the late 1970s when the oil industry was deregulated, while petroleum prices are down and do away with controls on natural gas, bush said
i think if you take the case to the people in the fall for this, i think it can get done,'' bush said
the vice president was asked about suggestions by rival bob dole that panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega was on the cia payroll during bush's tenure as chief of the spy agency
he says he made all the decisions at the cia,'' dole said at a news conference in new orleans. ``what were they? was noriega on the payroll when he was cia director?''
dole, asked if he were accusing bush of having knowledge of noriega's alleged drug trafficking, said: ``all i'm saying is that bob dole said no to drugs, no to thugs, no to noriega.''
to that, bush replied: ``i find it amazing that a united states senator will talk about cia matters. i took an oath of office to protect sources and methods of intelligence and i would never discuss anything i was doing at the cia that would affect the national security
there has just been one charge after another in this campaign and i have just decided not to respond to mr. dole's charges.''
on another matter, bush said reagan administration farm policy was leading to a recovery in agriculture
the cattle people are doing much better now. beef prices are up. hog prices are up. don't fool with the farm bill,'' he said
bush said he wanted to encourage foreign markets to buy more american agricultural products, rather than enact protectionist legislation
if we go the protection route, they'll go the protection route,'' he said
in his speech before about 1,000 people, bush said wins in louisiana and the other 19 states in next tuesday's super tuesday primary could translate into the republican presidential nomination
if i do well in louisiana and that's an indicator of doing well in my home state of texas and across to florida, where i came from this morning, i am absolutely convinced that i will be the next president of the united states,'' bush said
rep. richard baker, who is serving as bush's state campaign chairman, told reporters that he was confident that the vice president would win at least five of the state's eight congressional districts
we will take a majority of the congressional districts and the ones we take won't be close,'' he said
during bush's speech, a group of about six protesters, describing themselves as members of the progressive student network, raised a banner saying: ``hey bush, tell us about contra drug running.'' a man sporting a bush campaign button reached up and tore part of the banner down, drawing applause from other supporters
the protesters also briefly chanted: ``tell us about contra aid,'' also in reference to the nicaraguan rebels
at the end of his speech, bush pointed to one of the protesters and said, ``give that man a little jambalaya. he sounds starved to death.''
bush then shed his suit coat and donned a white apron and served jambalaya _ a spicy cajun rice dish with sausage and chicken _ to some of those in attendance. says</head>
jimmy swaggart will need more than counseling and a three-month suspension from the ministry to overcome his attraction to pornography, says a psychologist
no matter how much he prays to god, no matter how sincere, it won't change him unless he seeks more extensive therapy,'' victor cline said wednesday at a gathering of the religious alliance against pornography
cline, a professor at the university of utah, described an effective treatment as one that treats pornography addicts in much the same way as alcoholics anonymous treats alcoholics _ with a 24-hour-a-day support system
swaggart last week confessed to unspecified sins. he reportedly paid a prostitute to pose naked numerous times over a period of about a year
assemblies of god church officials in louisiana have recommended barring swaggart from preaching for three months, but officials asked for reconsideration after receiving hundreds of calls protesting the penalty as too lenient
allliance chairman jerry kirk estimated that between a dozen and two dozen of the 5,000 or so ministers he has talked to in his travels for the alliance are hooked on pornography
in my travels, i've had pastors confess to me their addiction, and it truly is an addiction,'' alliance chairman jerry kirk said at a news conference during a break in the seminar
about 400 members of the alliance gathered at a washington hotel for a seminar on how to battle pornography
the religious alliance against pornography was formed in july 1986 to battle child pornography and obscenity not protected by the first amendment to the constitution
irish rockers u2 led the new wave and a brill building songwriting team represented the old guard with two awards each at a surprising 30th annual grammy awards, where michael jackson was shut out and paul simon won again for ``graceland.''
we don't see this as a peak for u2,'' lead singer bono said wednesday night after the socially conscious band copped its awards for ``the joshua tree,'' its 12-million selling album. ``it's just a beginning.''
simon, who won album of the year in 1987 for his south african project ``graceland,'' surprisingly captured record of the year honors in 1988 for the title cut, which featured backing vocals by the everly brothers
but little richard stole the show at radio city music hall by announcing, not once but three times, that he had captured the grammy for best new artist. richard, in a gold suit and sunglasses, finally broke down and declared one-time ``soul train'' dancer jody watley the winner
i have never received nothing _ y'all never gave me no grammys, and i've been singing for years,'' the manic voice of ``tutti-frutti'' and ``lucille'' proclaimed. ``i am the architect of rock 'n' roll!''
veteran songwriting team barry mann and cynthia weil, joined by co-writer james horner, won song of the year and best song written for a motion picture or television with their syrupy ballad ``somewhere out there,'' a tune performed by two mice in the animated movie ``an american tail.''
the pair is the last remaining songwriting team from the brill building, the manhattan offices where dozens of classic '60s songs were written
i don't think there can be a best song,'' weil told reporters. ``every song is unique. i love the u2 song (`i still haven't found what i'm looking for'), but it's apples and oranges.''
after u2 won album of the year for ``joshua,'' guitarist the edge gave a rambling acceptance speech in which he thanked bishop desmond tutu, martin luther king jr., james t. kirk, peewee herman, jimi hendrix, dr. ruth westheimer ``and sumo wrestlers around the world.''
the band sat sipping beer in the audience during the three-hour show, which featured an electrifying live performance by jackson. jackson, who captured eight grammys for his ``thriller'' album in 1984, received no awards for its follow-up, ``bad,'' despite four nominations
the los angeles-based band los lobos, whose version of ``la bamba'' was a bigger hit than the original adaptation of the mexican folk tune by the late ritchie valens, came away with nothing despite four nominations
and folk singer suzanne vega, with three nominations for her poignant song ``luka'' about a battered child, also went home empty-handed
i was hoping it would win, but i was prepared for anything to happen,'' said vega, a greenwich village favorite. ``i'm a little disappointed, i guess.''
bruce springsteen won his second grammy, best rock vocal performance, for his ``tunnel of love'' album but was not around to accept the award. the same was true of simon and of sting, who topped jackson and springsteen for best pop vocal performance on his ``bring on the night'' lp
aretha franklin, the grammy-winningest woman of all time, added two more to her 12 with best female r&amp;b performance and best r&amp;b performance by a duo or group _ her ``i knew you were waiting (for me)'' duet with george michael
one of aretha's protegees, whitney houston, took best female pop vocalist for her effervescent single ``i wanna dance with somebody'' from her ``whitney'' album. narada michael walden won the producer's grammy for his work on houston's second album
the world wants new faces in a way,'' said walden, who beat the michael jackson-quincy jones team. ``quincy's won so many awards anyway, this is good. and he told me in private that he voted for me.''
jackson's ``bad'' won just a single award: best engineered non-classical album, with bruce swedien and humberto gatica receiving the grammys
the grammys' two all-time leaders added to their impressive totals. sir georg solti, conductor of the chicago symphony, won his 26th grammy, for his recording of beethoven's 9th symphony
and pianist vladimir horowitz, who had 20 grammys entering the ceremonies, won two for best classical instrumental performance and best classical album for ``horowitz in moscow.'' he also received the president's special merit award from the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences, which sponsors the grammys
i am so very happy the classical music still has an appreciation,'' the fiery pianist told the crowd as he accepted the special award. after he won the best album award, he simply smiled and carried it away, saying nothing
soprano kathleen battle, who starred on four of the five operas nominated for grammys, ended up winning two _ for the vienna philharmonic recording of richard strauss' ``ariadne auf naxos'' and for her solo album, ``salzburg recital.''
ladysmith black mambazo, the south african vocal group featured on the ``graceland'' album, won a grammy for best traditional folk recording for ``shaka zulu.'' simon produced it
first of all i thank god _ and then paul simon,'' said joseph shabalala, lead singer of the 10-man group
frank zappa's ``jazz from hell'' beat his son, dweezil, and springsteen for best rock instrumental _ zappa's first-ever grammy. ``trio'' by dolly parton, emmylou harris and linda ronstadt won as best country vocal duo or group performance
the show, televised by cbs, saluted recordings released between oct. 1, 1986, and sept. 30, 1987
the winners were elected by ballots cast by academy members in seven chapters around the nation. the academy's 6,000 members include recording artists, songwriters, musicians, producers and technicians
the u.s. dollar topped the 129-yen barrier and kept rising through the day, while stocks temporarily hit pre-crash levels before closing lower today in what traders saw as a healthy consolidation
the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 25,596.31 points, down 86.51 points, or 0.34 percent, from wednesday's close after finishing the morning session at 25,755.95 points, higher than pre-crash levels
the dollar closed at 129.30 yen, up 0.83 yen from wednesday's close of 128.47 yen. the dollar opened the day at 129.05 yen, breaking the 129-yen level for the first time since feb. 23
before the october crash, the nikkei index stood at 25,746.56 points
basically we saw a bit of a fall off in early morning trading,'' said paul warren of salomon brothers. ``but the final decline shows a healthy consolidation that will help the market in the future. we were seeing a change in rotational theme, into electronics and utilities.''
warren said he expects the market to return to its all-time highs and possibly go even higher in the next two to three months
personally, i think that the dollar will continue to rise,'' said a foreign exchange dealer, who demanded anonymity
a currency dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo, who spoke on condition his name not be used, said the dollar's strength was attributed to a japanese news report that a senior u.s. government official in charge of monetary and credit policy had suggested the united states was willing to accommodate a substantial rise in the dollar
according to the report, carried in the nihon keizai shimbun, the unidentified official said the united states was preparing a reference range and indicated that the allowable upper limit could be as high as 160 yen
a former mental patient opened fire with two six-shooters near the alamo, shooting four people at random and trading shots with police before he was wounded and taken into custody, authorities said
marvin duncan, 55, shot in the left thigh by police, was charged with six counts of attempted capital murder, police spokesman sgt. paul buske said. bond was set at $1.5 million
the most seriously wounded victim, deborah reyes, 29, was shot in the chest and stomach and was in critical condition at brooke army medical center late wednesday, said hospital spokesman sgt. william banks
the three others, shot at point-blank range, were not injured seriously, officials said
witnesses said the shooting, which took place in the week that marks the 152nd anniversary of the fall of the mission to mexican troops, resembled something from a movie
all hell broke loose,'' said todd tarble, 20, who was waiting for a bus about three blocks from the alamo when the shooting began
he had two guns in his hands. i've never seen anything like that. the guy was acting like john wayne. this guy was crazy,'' tarble said
duncan was listed in good condition at medical center hospital
court records show duncan was placed in rusk state hospital for the mentally or criminally insane in october 1980 after being found incompetent to stand trial on an attempted murder charge
he was released in march 1981 to stand trial, but bexar county prosecutors dismissed the charge in favor of a civil commitment to san antonio state hospital. the records did not indicate duncan's status at the state hospital
duncan took a taxicab downtown about 9 a.m. wednesday, and about three blocks from the alamo he pulled out two .357-caliber magnum revolvers and began shooting from inside the cab, got out and continued firing, authorities said
taxi driver frank esquivel, 42, jumped from the cab when the shooting started. he said the man said nothing during the four-mile ride. ``i have no idea what set him off,'' he said
homicide lt. albert ortiz said the gunman was methodical in his shooting
from the time he was picked up at his residence, throughout the shooting he remained calm and his actions were deliberate, not hurried,'' ortiz said
duncan has been arrested numerous times since 1973 on charges including assaults and an attempted murder charge, said police chief william o. gibson
as to why the suspect began shooting, we don't know why, with the exception that he wanted to gain some attention,'' gibson said
as passers-by dived for cover, officer donald kawazoe, on his way to work, saw the man and ordered him to stop
the two traded shots and the gunman fled and confronted park ranger bennie burley. they also exchanged gunfire before the gunman was arrested, gibson said, but could not say which officer shot duncan. campaign</head>
jesse jackson will begin $100,000 worth of tv ads in the crucial campaign days before super tuesday and has borrowed $410,000 to keep his campaign going until after that contest, his campaign manager says
the tv buy, the largest to date for jackson's cash-poor campaign, will target alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi, north carolina, south carolina, texas and virginia, said campaign manager gerald austin
the ads start friday
austin said the loan, for expenses other than the ads in those eight super tuesday states, was borrowed from adams bank in washington two weeks ago and will be paid back march 18
austin made the comments aboard jackson's plane as it hopscotched across five southern states wednesday
in his bid to woo southern whites and build on the white support he has won this year in iowa, maine, minnesota, new hampshire and vermont, jackson picked up the endorsement wednesday of jim hightower, the popular agriculture commissioner of texas
jackson was welcomed to selma, ala., by the white mayor who had martin luther king jr. and other civil rights activists arrested more than three decades ago
austin said jackson's success on super tuesday depends on getting out the black vote, attaining close to 10 percent of the white vote and the unknown potential of gop candidate pat robertson, the former tv evangelist, to pull demoratic voters into the republican primaries
the campign will spend about $350,000 on the super tuesday contests, austin said, which is far less than the $3 million-plus some democratic competitors are expected to shell out
austin would not say how many of the 1,307 super tuesday delegates he thinks jackson can get, but said the goal is to win more than the 222 jackson won in his 1984 race in those states
in selma, jackson received the key to the city from mayor joe smitherman, who was mayor in 1965 when state troopers forcefully stopped civil rights marchers from crossing the alabama river bridge that jackson's motorcade drove across on wednesday
i had dr. king arrested,'' smitherman said. ``the voting rights act was right. we were wrong. we've admitted that.''
jackson called smitherman's reception a sign of the ``new south.''
people grow,'' he said. ``we have a new challenge now. he fought it in '65 and he lost. now we have a common battle.''
in the texas state capitol, hightower said jackson speaks to ``an ignored majority of americans whose lives have been frustrated or flattened by the economic policies of recent years.''
jackson is appealing to whites with a message of ``economic common ground'' that binds the underprivileged of all races
jackson's message includes calls for a higher minimum wage, comparable worth pay for women, child care and housing programs
he often mentions the plight of hard-hit textile workers, saying he ``reluctantly'' supports congressional legislation to limit textile imports because of the ``dire emergency'' of the south's once-thriving industry
he encounters mixed reactions from whites
he began wednesday in his home state of south carolina, arriving just after dawn with a troop of reporters in tow, for a breakfast of grits, biscuits and eggs at tom trantham's dairy farm
trantham and three white neighbors talked farm policy with the presidential contender and told reporters how jackson supported them during the 1986 drought and helped unload hay brought in from other states
but when asked if they supported him for president, they were noncommital
i'm not supporting anybody at this point,'' said michael sly, a farmer organizer. east</head>
rep. richard gephardt says he would consider former presidents jimmy carter and gerald ford to serve as special envoys to the middle east if he is elected president
in a meeting with st. louis post-dispatch editorial writers, while on a swing through his home state wednesday, gephardt said he had discussed the idea with carter on tuesday when he stopped in plains, ga
we talked about it,'' gephardt said. ``he said he was ready, willing and able to do anything asked by a future president.''
elsewhere, gephardt's home-turf message was concentrated on the country's foreign trade policy. he told the st. louis board of aldermen that he would seek policies that reduce the trade deficit by enabling u.s. businesses to compete fairly in world markets
how do you tell people who are out of work that the trade deficit is a fact of life?'' gephardt asked. ``i don't accept the deficit and i don't think you do either. we have the power to make the nation better than it was before. this is your fight too.''
gephardt, called for new policies that ``ask trading partners to treat us as fairly as we treat them.''
without getting specific, gephardt said it was time for the government to enact trade policies that ``take the heat of unfair foreign competition off those who farm our land, forge our steel and build our cars.''
gephardt said he did not agree with a statement by president reagan that the trade deficit is a ``sign of strength.'' nor, he said, did he agree with the attitude that the trade deficit ``is a fact of life.''
gephardt also touched on agricultural issues in his speech
the agriculture program doesn't make sense,'' he said. ``isn't it time we had an agriculture program in this country that let the farmers vote and let the farmers decide what we're going to do?''
gephardt began a two-day swing through his home state wednesday for a series of speeches and four fundraisers six days before missouri's ``super tuesday'' primary
saying ``my, how good it is to be home,'' gephardt brought his campaign for the democratic presidential nomination to the place where he got his start in politics
after the address in the st. louis city hall chambers where he began his political career, gephardt traveled to springfield for a campaign fundraising reception. he returned to st. louis for a fundraiser wednesday night before flying to kansas city
gephardt arrived in springfield the day after the springfield news-leader endorsed sen. paul simon in the race for the democratic nomination
gephardt, who was a st. louis alderman from 1971 to 1976, used the economic rebirth of the city during those years as an example for his promise to return economic prosperity to those who work in the nation's factories, farms and steel mills
i began my career right here in this room when this was a city with many difficulties and troubles,'' gephardt said. ``a lot of people were giving up on st. louis. they said the future was elsewhere. but we didn't believe that. we did what needed to be done to make st. louis a success story.''
sam hamra, a springfield attorney and finance chairman for the gephardt campaign in missouri, said $25,000 was raised at the event. during the day $425,000 was raised, bringing the campaign-long total in missouri to nearly $2 million, said s. lee kling, gephardt's campaign treasurer. in 3rd graf is cq</note>
a 71-year-old retired coal miner who revived after being twice declared dead says he returned to life with a profound spiritual renewal
i think that it's from a spiritual standpoint that (my life) has changed,'' shirley barnett, who is also a retired baptist minister, said wednesday
when i came to ... i had nothing but a heart full of love and joy for everybody. i was refreshed in the holy ghost.''
barnett, who revived while his funeral arrangements were being made, was declared dead on jan. 21 after a cardiac arrest. doctors said he showed no vital signs for about 45 minutes during one episode and about 30 minutes during a second
the slender, smiling man spoke to reporters from his wheelchair during a news conference at hca park west medical centers. two of his doctors, who were at a loss to explain his revival, also were on hand to answer questions
i feel fine. a little weak, naturally,'' he said
the first thing i remember was my daughter telling me i was at park west,'' he said. ``she put it pretty bluntly that i had died.''
on jan. 16, barnett was admitted to methodist medical center in nearby oak ridge after suffering chest pains
a heart artery constricted five days later, and doctors and nurses spent 45 minutes trying to revive him with an external pacemaker and electric shock, but he showed no pulse, blood pressure or neurological responses, said dr. victor mclaughlin, a cardiologist at the oak ridge hospital
weak, sporadic heartbeats were detected thereafter but were considered ``a dying heart pattern,'' the physician said
it is very unlikely that if you can bring someone back (from that status) you'll have any functioning brain at all,'' mclaughlin said
mclaughlin said he told barnett's family members that the man had died, and he was disconnected from his intravenous feeding tubes and heart monitor
barnett's daughters signed papers to remove the body to the morgue and began calling family and friends to tell them of his death and to make funeral arrangements
a nurse who began cleaning out barnett's hospital room closet heard him start to breathe, mclaughlin said, and he was wheeled to the coronary care unit
there, personnel again found no pulse or blood pressure. barnett was hooked up to a pacemaker and respirator, but family members told doctors he had a ``living will'' requesting that he not be kept alive artificially
that period of apparent death lasted about 30 minutes, mclaughlin said
doctors disconnected barnett from the life-sustaining equipment, but once unhooked, he began breathing on his own again
the gentleman gradually began waking up ... and talked with us. he continued to do well on his own,'' said mclaughlin. ``there is no detectable short- or long-term memory loss in this man
i've never had an experience like this before,'' he said. ``there are obviously things that happen that we cannot explain.''
barnett later underwent heart bypass surgery
dr. gene aaby, another of barnett's doctors, has said a possible reason for the revival could stem from barnett's black-lung condition, an occupational respiratory disease of miners
we came up with the theory that perhaps his brain had gotten used to less oxygen. we know various cells can adapt and function'' in adverse situations, he said
the source at the syrian command in beirut, speaking on condition of anonymity, said schray was driven to damascus, 56 miles east of beirut, under heavy syrian escort
schray, an engineer, was kidnapped jan. 27 and a group called the holy warriors of freedom on wednesday claimed responsibility
more
scientists reported today they had created a polio virus that may lead to a safer polio vaccine and an immunization for hepatitis a
when the virus was given to animals as a vaccine, it made their immune systems raise defenses against two different types of natural polio virus, the scientists reported in the british journal nature
the standard oral polio vaccine uses three types of live but weakened polio viruses. it stimulates the immune system to create proteins, called antibodies, to attack each type
the vaccine is considered safe. but in rare cases it can produce polio, which is blamed on its ``type 2'' and ``type 3'' virus strains, the british researchers wrote
an average of eight such cases occur annually in the united states, according to the federal centers for disease control
the study suggests a potential way to construct a vaccine without using standard type 2 or type 3 virus
the researchers genetically modified type 1 virus so that it carried a protein characteristic of the type 3 virus
mice and rabbits immunized with it produced antibodies against both types, the scientists said. in addition, a monkey fed the man-made virus also produced antibodies against each type, they reported
in an accompanying editorial, james hogle of the research institute of scripps clinic in la jolla, calif., wrote that similar work has been done in a collaboration between scientists at the state university of new york at stony brook and in japan, and by a second team at the pasteur institute in paris
samuel katz, chairman of the pediatrics department at duke university medical center, said in an interview that more work is needed to see if the british work will lead to a new human vaccine. but ``it sounds extremely promising (for making) an extraodinarily good vaccine even better,'' he said
hogle wrote that as a practical matter, the current vaccine is so safe and effective that a new version may be hard to test in the population
hogle and katz also said the research approach may help in creating a vaccine for hepatitis a, which is caused by a virus similar to the polio virus
the idea would be to make a type 1 polio virus carry parts of the hepatitis a virus, to spur the immune system into making antibodies against the hepatitis virus, katz said
in addition, katz said, the strategy might be applicable for vaccines against echoviruses and coxsackievirus, which cause serious diseases such as meningitis and heart inflammation
a democratic proposal by sen. edward m. kennedy would pump an extra $266 million into food stamps and other government emergency food programs
we could obviously do more, but we cannot afford to do less,'' kennedy said wednesday in introducing the measure
the massachusetts democrat, chairman of the senate labor and human resources committee, said the bill would increase funding for federal programs for food stamps, school breakfasts, child care food and summer food service
kennedy said domestic hunger had been largely eradicated by the late 1970s, but that the recession of the early 1980s, coupled with sharp cuts in social programs under the reagan administration, has brought it back at record levels
sen. patrick j. leahy, d-vt., said the question of hunger is ``a moral issue'' and ``a test of america's conscience.''
rep. leon panetta, d-calif., introduced companion legislation in the house
banks recorded their least profitable year since the great depression in 1987, but a top federal regulator says he's hopeful about the future
the nation's federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion last year on assets of $3 trillion, down from $17.5 billion earnings in 1986, said l. william seidman, chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp
that amounted to a return on assets of only 0.13 percent last year and was the lowest level since the fdic, which insures deposits of up to $100,000, was established in 1934
the year-to-year drop in earnings was due entirely to large banks adding to reserves to cover anticipated losses on loans to third world countries, seidman said. nine of the 10 largest banks and 17 of the 25 largest reported a loss for 1987
absent the extraordinary reserving for (developing country) loans ... net income would have been roughly equal to 1986's level,'' seidman said wednesday in the fdic's bank profile for the fourth quarter of 1987
seidman said he believed there was a good chance that banks could avoid further large additions to reserves for bad third world loans and said, ``the outlook for 1988 is cautiously optimistic.''
the army says it has stopped random drug testing for civilian workers to comply with a court ruling, but was asking the justice department to appeal the judgment
the service, in a brief statement, said wednesday it would limit its civilian drug testing for the time being to those instances in which ``there is a reasonable suspicion that a specific employee is under the influence of drugs while on duty.''
the army has asked the department of justice to appeal the ruling,'' the service said in its statement. ``the army has also requested that justice ask for a stay of the judge's order during the appeal process.''
testing on a random basis, however, has been halted for now, the service added
the move follows a decision in u.s. district court in washington on tuesday in which a judge ruled that random drug testing amounted to an unreasonable search prohibited by the constitution
the state department has denounced a south african government proposal to block foreign financing of political groups and individuals, perhaps including those receiving $25 million from the u.s. government
we regard this legislation as unwarranted,'' said spokeswoman phyllis oakley on wednesday
coming on the heels of last week's effective outlawing of most anti-apartheid organizations, this is further evidence that the south african government, not content with being isolated by others from the rest of the world, is determined to isolate itself from western democracies and the world abroad.''
tuesday's proposal, apparently aimed at more groups than 17 anti-apartheid organizations hit by the government last week, would restrict groups found to receive foreign money
in the current fiscal year, the united states has allocated $25 million to fund scholarships for south african blacks in their country and in the united states, to help develop businesses owned by black, for community help projects and labor union training, mrs. oakley said
the military called it an administrative error, but an elderly woman who flew here from the east to claim her son's remains says news that they haven't been returned from vietnam means her 22-year nightmare continues
malfada ditommaso, accompanied by her daughter virginia contanelli and a television news crew, arrived wednesday from buffalo, n.y., after being told her son's remains had been repatriated from vietnam
but upon arrival at honolulu international airport, the military officials who greeted her said there had been a mistake: her son's military identification card had been returned, but not his remains
this really boggles my mind,'' mrs. ditommaso, 75, said. ``the air force blames hanoi, but i don't see how a mistake like this could happen
i wasn't coming here expecting a happy ending, but i was expecting my son to finally be home. this is almost too much to handle.''
maj. robert j. ditommaso was 24 when he and seven fellow crewmembers were shot down on july 29, 1966, over north vietnam near the laos border. he was declared missing in action for 12 years before being classified as ``killed in action, body not found'' in 1978. the defense department said there are still 2,404 americans listed missing in indochina, 13 years after the united states pulled out
for the past 22 years, mrs. ditommaso said, she has been searching for information about her son. she has traveled to laos, obtained information through the freedom of information act and joined veterans groups
i'm in limbo. it's a nightmare only a mother could understand,'' she said
it's been a day to day trauma for my mother,'' her daughter added. ``she's changed from a quiet little housewife to one who's fighting for her son.''
a thaw in u.s.-vietnamese relations brought new hope, and mrs. ditommaso said she was relieved when she got a call from the casualty division of randolph air force base in texas that her son's remains were to be returned by hanoi
the pentagon announced last week that the remains of 20 american serviceman killed during the vietnam war were to be repatriated, but that before they were released to the next of kin they would be brought to the army's central identification laboratory here for positive identification
what happened is that hanoi sent only 17 remains plus information on three others,'' said maj. virginia pribyla, media officer for the u.s. pacific command. ``they also had a list of 10 name associations, which just means the vietnamese think they know who they (the remains) are, but they're not positive.''
ditommaso was mentioned on that list, pribyla said, and that information was forwarded to his family, but mrs. ditommaso was clearly told that no positive identification had been completed
we forward all the information we get, but we certainly don't encourage families to come out here unless identification is absolute,'' pribyla said. ``but mrs. ditommaso came out when she first got word, unfortunately it was just premature.''
it was an administrative error. unfortunately, the information hanoi forwarded to us turned out not to be right,'' she said. ``that's why we wait until getting positive identification from the lab here before officially releasing the names.''
mrs. ditommaso said she was especially shocked by the news because a news crew had traveled with her to film her receiving her son's remains
her trip was paid for by united airlines and buffalo's abc affliate, kbw-tv
this isn't the story we were hoping to get, but we'll just wait a while and see what mrs. ditommaso wants to do now. i can't believe it ended up this way,'' said reporter dan hausley, who accompanied her
mrs. ditommaso said she would attend a memorial ceremony today at hickam air force base when the remains are flown in
they're still our boys, and i know how their families must feel,'' she said
she said she still holds hope her son is alive, and that someday they will be reunited
this is terrible because it leaves me in limbo, but it also leaves me with hope,'' she said. ``i know there must be americans in there that are still alive, maybe bobby is one of them.''
vice president george bush brought out a campaign weapon as he made a swing through this crucial super tuesday state _ former arizona sen. barry goldwater
supporters at miami international airport clapped and cheered as goldwater picked his way slowly down the ramp of air force two. goldwater campaigned with bush throughout south florida and in tampa as bush began a five-state southern swing
the former arizona senator, a hero to conservatives, campaigned for bush last month in the final days before the new hampshire primary, which the vice president won handily
tanned and appearing healthy, although walking with a cane, goldwater praised bush's experience and dedication during brief remarks at campaign stops. bush said he had discussed issues and gotten advice from goldwater during the flight from washington to florida
with bush considered strong in most of the south, delegate-rich florida has been targeted by his rivals, and bush is fighting to keep them from making inroads
barry goldwater is the grand old man of the republican party, the true statesman for american conservatives,'' said ken wright, bush's florida campaign director
wright said he believed goldwater's help could be important in luring some of the florida conservatives who have been leaning toward pat robertson, who has shown strong organization in some parts of the state
wright also pointed to florida's large share of senior citizens
many of these people probably voted for barry goldwater,'' wright said, referring to goldwater's 1964 gop presidential bid
wright said goldwater's visit shows the former senator's commitment to bush
i think he (goldwater) did it out of long friendship and belief that the vice president can carry on the conservative ideals,'' wright said. ``it's not like you have somebody who's working for you because he wants something in return. it's not like he wants to be secretary of defense.''
bush campaign officials weren't sure whether goldwater would do any more campaigning in the south
a couple say they feel foolish that they bought two new cars and planned to quit their jobs after concluding they had won a $2 million in a mail-order company sweepstakes
kathy and dale work said they still hope that they have won the money from united states purchasing exchange of los angeles
i know they claim we haven't won anything, but i still have faith in that company, that they're going to come across for us,'' mrs. work, of suburban stoney ridge, said wednesday
i guess it seems like we're a couple of country hicks,'' she said. ``we went out and bought a new pickup truck and a new car. we'd made all kinds of plans. i don't know what we're going to do now.''
david carlin of loeb &amp; loeb, a new york law firm representing uspe, said the company thinks someone is sending out fake contest information to uspe contestants, and that it was unlikely the works would get any money
the u.s. postal service said it has received complaints about the company and forwarded them to the federal trade commission for investigation
a man who answered uspe's telephone said the sweepstakes is still running and mrs. work is one of thousands who won a chance at the $2 million-plus top prize. he would not give his name and would not answer other questions
mrs. work is not the first to be confused by the sweepstakes. debra long of pearl city, mich., told reporters she recently quit her job and vacationed in las vegas, nev., before learning she had not won $1.7 million, as she thought
michael flitcraft, a truck driver from chardon, said he thought he had won the contest after receiving a certified letter from the company on monday
carlin said miss long apparently was the victims of a hoax. he said she reported receiving a certified notification letter from uspe and confirmed her winnings with a telephone call to uspe on feb. 15, presidents' day
the company does not notify winners by certified mail, the company's offices were closed on presidents' day, the company does not request bank account numbers from winners nor does it require the other information miss long claims was requested of her,'' he said
carlin said the company referred the matter involving miss long to the fbi
dee ellison of the washington, d.c., office of the federal trade commission declined comment on whether the agency is investigating the company, but she said the ftc has received complaints about the company
mrs. work said she received a letter from the company in october that read: ``we are pleased to inform you that you have been designated to receive certified bank checks from the united states purchasing exchange for $1,894,876 ... your winnings in our multimillion dollar sweepstakes when you are the grand prize winner.''
a few weeks later, mrs. work got another letter saying that her winnings stood at $2,024,464. then she received what she thought were two checks, one for $2 million and one for $24,000
she was asked to endorse them and send them back to the company along with her social security and bank account numbers. at that point, the works thought they were millionaires
however, the mailing said, ``certified bank check for this amount ... will be drawn and issued to kathy work upon verification that the kathy work entry has been selected by the independent judging organization as the prize-winner in accordance to the rules and regulations set forth and established.''
carlin said the sweepstakes does not close until dec. 31
mrs. work said she'd planned to close the beauty salon she runs out of her home and her husband considered quitting his job when they thought they had won. work works at manville corp. in waterville, about 15 miles southwest of toledo
share prices rose in early london trading today as investors continued buying leading stocks
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was up 16.60 points at 1,825.3 at 10 a.m
when the market officially opened at 9 a.m., the index was up 12.8 points at 1,821.5
dealers said they saw a repeat of wednesday's buying interest in early trading
the buying helped reinforce hopes that the ft-se 100 index will consolidate above the 1,800 point level in the run up to chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's march 15 budget statement
on wednesday the ft-se 100 broke through the barrier for the first time since jan. 18 to close up 26.8 points at 1808.7
the early rise in london today followed small gains in new york wednesday, where the dow jones industrial average rose 0.83 to 2,071.29, and a fall in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index fell 86.51 to 25,596.31. says</head>
the long night of a 7-year-old turkish girl born with no external eyes may be ending, says the surgeon who reconstructed her right eyelid and is optimistic that she soon may be able to see shapes
dilek erdogan was born with a nose and a mouth, ``and that's it for her face,'' said dr. allen putterman, who performed the surgery wednesday at the university of illinois hospital
the first thing she said when she awoke from surgery was `thank you,''' said ismet deletioglu, a north side restaurateur who brought the girl and her mother to chicago a year ago after reading about dilek's condition in a newspaper from her homeland
dilek, of istanbul, suffers from a rare condition callyed cryptophthalmos, or hidden eye, said putterman, who specializes in oculoplastic surgery
in august, putterman slit open the skin over her right eye and placed an insert between the skin and the eye to create space around the eyeball. he then sewed the slit closed
on wednesday, putterman said, he opened the slit and formed an eyelid for that eye, and placed the insert in dilek's left eye
deletioglu said dilek understands what is happening to her. ``she woke up at 3 a.m. ... before her surgery and was too excited to fall back to sleep,'' he said
in two weeks, she should be ready to receive a cornea transplant for her scarred right eye, putterman said. the muscles and retina for that eye are normal, he said
our hope is not for her to read but to see forms and get around,'' he said
i feel that we have an excellent chance of making her look close to normal,'' said putterman
after wednesday's surgery, dilek responded to a flashlight shining toward her eye by averting her head, putterman said. ``her response to that light was more vivid than it had been before,'' he said
dilek's eye is still covered by a thin tissue that will be removed when she has the cornea graft, but the shape of her eyeball is visible for the first time in her life, putterman said
i saw her eye for the first time. i have never been happier in my life,'' deletioglu said wednesday night
her mother just said, `thank god, and thank this country.' she is in shock,'' deletioglu said. neither dilek nor her mother, guidane, speak english
in six months, putterman will finish the plastic surgery on her left eye, and an artificial eye will be inserted to make her look like a normal child, he said
socially and psychologically it should be a big step,'' putterman said
putterman and dr. joel sugar, who will perform the corneal graft, have donated their services. deletioglu has raised the rest of the money to pay for her hospital expenses
deletioglu said he has raised about $14,000 in contributions to pay for her medical expenses
the expenses from both surgeries already performed will be about $9,500, said michael maggio, a hospital spokesman
a new test can reveal who will get the lethal, inherited huntington's disease, but doctors have found no rush of people wanting to learn their fate
doctors from the new england huntington's disease research center described their experience with the first 16 months of a testing program in a report in today's new england journal of medicine
the newly available test can reveal which people with the illness in their families are likely to carry the huntington's disease gene themselves. such people face a 50-50 risk of getting the disease, often when they reach their 30s or 40s
the doctors, who began offering the test in 1986, said 250 people at risk of the disease inquired about the test. however, fewer than 20 percent came in for an initial appointment. the doctors eventually studied 47 people, but 19 of them withdrew before their test results were known
the relatively low number of participants may indicate that once something is actually available, people become more cautious,'' said dr. joseph b. martin of massachusetts general hospital. ``it takes a fairly introspective person to decide to know the results.''
of those who went through with the testing, four people were found to probable carriers of the huntington's genes, while seven others were shown to be free of it
in five people, the test could not provide a definitive answer. seven people are awaiting for test results. the doctors were able to diagnose five other people as having early signs of the disease without needing the genetic test
our main concern has been the impact that the test results have on each person's life now and in the future,'' said dr. richard h. myers of boston university medical school, the program's research coordinator
the people who were found to carry the huntington's gene were shocked and surprised by the news
all indicated that although they were aware that their test could be positive, they did not actually expect such a result,'' the researchers wrote
these people suffered moderate to severe bouts of depression, which eased over the following year
the new england screening center is operated by boston university medical school, massachusetts general hospital and mclean hospital. the screening test also is offered at johns hopkins hospital in baltimore and the university of british columbia in vancouver
huntington's disease destroys brain cells. victims are afflicted by uncontrollable movements. eventually they lose their memory as well as their ability to walk, talk and swallow
six navy parachutists slid down a 12-foot pole and floated 7,500 feet to the ground in what nasa said was another successful test of an alternate escape system for space shuttle crew members
in the opinion of both the jumpers and the astronuats who observed the test, the test was highly successful,'' nasa spokesman ralph jackson said wednesday after returning from a remote viewing site in this mojave desert base 70 miles north of los angeles
the escape system uses a telescoping pole that would extend down and to the rear of the shuttle. astronauts would attach themselves to rings on the pole, slide clear of the shuttle and then parachute
during the test, the parachutists slid down a pole protruding from a c-141 plane 7,500 feet above the desert and then deployed their chutes, jackson said. ``the dynamics of coming off the pole and getting away from the aircraft look pretty good,'' although it will be a week before nasa knows if the test showed that escaping astronauts would stay clear of the shuttle wing, said astronaut steve nagle, who was aboard the plane
jackson said the test also was watched by astronauts carl meade and george ``pinky'' nelson, who is scheduled to fly on the discovery when the national aeronautics and space administration resumes shuttle flights this summer
it was the 10th test of the pole escape system, but was conducted at a faster air speed, 200 knots, than previous tests, jackson said
another escape system, tested successfully with dummies in november at california's china lake naval weapons center, would require astronauts, one at a time, to hook onto small tractor rockets stored in the shuttle cabin. the astronauts would be pulled clear of the shuttle, then parachute to the ocean
nasa officials say they will decide in april between the two systems for use on the discovery, which is scheduled to fly aug. 4, more than 2{ years after the post-liftoff explosion of challenger on jan. 28, 1986, killed seven crew members and halted u.s. manned space flights
an escape system would be effective only if a shuttle was flying level under controlled conditions at an altitude of less than 20,000 feet _ for example, if it had to ditch in the ocean _ not when shuttle booster rockets are firing, as was the case during the challenger accident
nelson said an escape system that worked under all conditions was not possible with the shuttle
there's a balance you have to make between flying and staying on the ground and fixing everything,'' said nelson, who rode the columbia in the last pre-challenger shuttle flight
the u.s. dollar was little changed against most major currencies in moderate european trading early today. gold prices fell
dealers said they expected the dollar would trade within a narrow range before the march 17 release of the latest u.s. merchandise trade figures
in tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 129.30 yen from 128.47 yen. later, in london, it eased to 129.27 yen. a tokyo dealer said the dollar rallied after a news report said a senior u.s. government official had suggested the reagan administration was willing to allow a substantial rise in the u.s. currency
in london, the british pound edged down to 1.7677 from 1.7680 late wednesday
other rates at mid-morning, compared with rates late wednesday:
--1.6955 west german marks, up from 1.6945
--1.4025 swiss francs, up from 1.4005
--5.7365 french francs, up from 5.7345
--1.9026 dutch guilders, up from 1.9013
--1,248.90 italian lire, up from 1,247.00
--1.2555 canadian dollars, down from 1.2558
gold opened in london at a bid price of $429.70 a troy ounce, up from $429.50 late wednesday, but fell back slightly at mid-morning today, when the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $429.15
in zurich, the bid price was $428.50, down from $429.50 bid late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell to a closing bid of $433.96, down from $434.95 bid late wednesday
silver bullion fell in london to a bid price of $6.21 a troy ounce, down from $6.24 bid late wednesday
gov. michael s. dukakis' first-in-the-nation proposal to provide health insurance to all massachusetts residents won house approval and was sent back to the state senate, which passed a similar bill last session
the house approved the $1 billion measure late wednesday night by a 100-53 vote after three days of debate, with opposition focusing on the plan's potential cost
house minority leader steven pierce, a republican, said the bill ``reminds me of the old, hopefully gone, consumer ripoff when people door-to-door sold home improvements.''
they said sign on the dotted line and if you have any problems i'll take care of them,'' he said. ``everything wasn't all right, but once the consumer realized the problems, it was too late.''
i think in the end we are going to have a good bill,'' said senate ways and means chairman patricia mcgovern, a democrat and the key proponent in the senate. ``the thing that pleases me is that we begin the process probably very much in agreement.''
a bill adopted by the senate late in the 1987 session served as the outline for the house proposal
dukakis was informed of the house vote late wednesday while campaigning for the democratic presidential nomination in texas
the massachusetts house has committed itself to health security for every man, woman and child in the commonwealth and i congratulate (the leadership) and all the members on this historic action,'' dukakis said in statement
the governor said he hoped the senate would move expeditiously on the bill. ``i continue to hope the work can be completed in mid-march,'' he said
while the bill outlines a four-year plan for phasing in universal health care coverage in massachusetts, it wasn't until wednesday that lawmakers committed themselves to a specific state financing level beyond the bill's $125 million first-year cost
the price tag they set as the maximum the state would pay for three years, when added to the lowest estimate for the remaining year, would put the tab for health care for all in massachusetts at $1.1 billion
the measure would make health insurance available to all residents, notably the estimated 600,000 now uninsured, by 1992
employers who did not provide health insurance would be required to pay an unemployment tax surcharge to the state. businesses providing insurance for the first time would be entitled to tax credits
the house, unlike the senate, voted to exempt businesses with nine or fewer full-time employees from mandatory coverage. mcgovern said wednesday night her chamber would consider the exemption
here is a transcript of president reagan's remarks thursday at the conclusion of the two-day nato summit
good afternoon. my alliance colleagues and i have just concluded our latest round of consultations on the full range of issues facing us
first let me say the state of the alliance is excellent. we're strong, we're united, we're prosperous and we're free
this is the second full-fledged alliance summit that i've attended. some of my colleagues and i also met here following my first meeting with mr. gorbachev. so, while this is a special occasion, it is also only one element of a much larger pattern of close and continuous consultations that is a fundamental reason for the success of this alliance
nato will soon begin its fifth decade. the north atlantic alliance is the most successful in history. while other alliances have been formed to win wars, our fundamental purpose is to prevent war while preserving and extending the frontiers of freedom
the inf treaty is the most recent nato success. my colleagues and i are all justifiably proud of that achievement. it was a direct result of our steadfastness and persistence in carrying out the two-track decision that we made as an alliance over eight years ago. it goes without saying that our allies support this treaty and every leader solidly reaffirmed its value to the security concerns of the alliance
so now our focus turns on meeting the challenges of the future. during the past two days we went over the full range of issues that affect our collective security. i reiterated the strong bipartisan support that exists for the alliance in the united states and the commitment that american troops will remain in europe under any administration so long as the need for a forward defense of our common values remains
we cannot and will not put our peace and freedom and that of our children and their children at risk. all of us understand the absolute necessity of maintaining the credibility of our deterrent. we will never trade that credibility away at the negotiating table and we won't give it away through neglect
the most direct threat to our security and to stability in europe lies in the soviet union's massive military presence. the alliance has given its needs a lot of thought, knows what it wants to do and has programs that it is committed to carry out. and there's no doubt the alliance stands on strength and unity
the alliance is the most dynamic force for improvement of east-west relations. from our meetings here, our commitment is to move forward to meet our defense requirements while continuing discussions on our four-part agenda with the new soviet leadership
the alliance has agreed on its arms control priorities and is ready to get down to business. nato fully supports my effort to negotiate deep reductions in strategic weapons. so while arms reduction is a part, but only a part, of our discussions, progress in this area must always be based on enhancing our security, not substituting for it
our alliance has guaranteed peace in europe and the north atlantic for almost 40 years. i am more confident than ever after these two days of meetings that the alliance remains on the right path and that as always we have the courage and the will to follow it
let me conclude by noting that this will be one of the last alliance meetings for secretary general peter carrington. lord carrington has been at the helm of the alliance of nato for four crucial years. he has steered this ship of 16 states with the steadiness that has earned our unbounded admiration. i am sure that i speak for all my colleagues in expressing our heartfelt thanks to lord carrington and our best wishes to dr. manfred woerner, whose strong hand will soon be at the helm
the west has no better champions than these two distinguished statesmen
a storm system produced showers and thunderstorms across the lower mississippi valley as snow fell on other parts of the nation's midsection and tornadoes were reported in louisiana and texas
behind the storm system, which was centered over southeastern oklahoma, snow advisories were posted wednesday across parts of texas, new mexico, oklahoma and kansas. up to 7 inches of snow fell in the texas panhandle
several tornadoes were reported near duson and lafayette, la. one person was injured at duson and 28 aircraft were damaged at the lafayette regional airport. a tornado ripped the roofs off mobile homes and temporarily interrupted power in galveston, texas
heavy rain and gusty winds accompanied the thunderstorms across louisiana. almost 2 inches of rain fell wednesday evening at baton rouge. gusts were clocked at 83 mph in lafayette as thunderstorms rumbled across the area
strong wind blew over a house trailer and also caused tree and power line damage near baton rouge. wind also damaged the roof of a house at opelousas and blew a trailer over at scott
winds were gusty at times behind the storm system; enid, okla., reported gusts to 46 mph wednesday night
rain fell from western oklahoma across parts of kansas and missouri. almost 2 inches was recorded at mcconnell afb in wichita, kan., on wednesday evening. rain also extended east across southern illinois and southern indiana, and showers were reported from western tennessee into central mississippi
a flood warning was posted for the deep fork river in oklahoma
snow advisories were posted across parts of kansas, oklahoma and new mexico. up to 3 inches of snow was reported at liberal and meade, kan., and ground blizzard conditions were reported across the region. rain was changing to freezing rain and sleet across south-central kansas early today
showers also dampened south-central arizona, scattered sections of the pacific northwest, southern new york state and the new england seaboard. snow was falling over northern lower michigan and from northeast new york state into northern vermont and new hampshire
showers and thunderstorms were forecast for today from much of texas across the lower mississippi and tennessee valleys to georgia and western south carolina; rain from southern missouri across the ohio valley and mid-atlantic states to new jersey; and snow from southern new england across new york and northern pennsylvania, northern ohio and central missouri to parts of new mexico
highs were expected to be in the 20s or 30s from new england across the upper ohio valley, the great lakes region and the upper half of the mississippi valley to the dakotas; the 60s or 70s from southern virginia and the carolinas across the gulf coast states to the southern half of texas, and from the desert southwest across california to southwest oregon; a few 80s will appear in extreme southern texas and southern florida. elsewhere, highs will be in the 40s or 50s
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 5 below zero at marquette, mich., to 71 at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 57 cloudy; boston 44 cloudy; buffalo 30 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 50 foggy; cincinnati 41 rain; cleveland 31 cloudy; detroit 24 fair; miami 69 fair; new york 44 cloudy; philadelphia 45 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 37 foggy; portland 40 cloudy; washington 48 cloudy
_central: bismarck 18 fair; chicago 30 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 43 windy; denver 24 fair; des moines 26 cloudy; indianapolis 32 rain; kansas city 32 windy; minneapolis-st. paul 20 fair; nashville 54 cloudy; new orleans 66 rain; st. louis 36 rain
_west: albuquerque 38 snow; anchorage 28 fair; las vegas 58 fair; los angeles 54 fair; phoenix 54 cloudy; salt lake city 37 partly cloudy; san diego 56 partly cloudy; san francisco 49 partly cloudy; seattle 43 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 14 snow; toronto 25 fair
indians who fled into exile to escape war and government persecution are returning to their homes on the caribbean coast now that hostilities in the region have largely ceased, a u.n. official said
the number of returning indians is increasing dramatically,'' serge ducasse, head of the office of the u.n. high commissioner for refugees in managua, said in an interview wednesday
tens of thousands of miskito, rama and sumo indians left their tribal homelands beginning in 1981 after the leftist sandinista government tried to impose marxism in the area and said it would move them to relocation camps
the government said then that relocation was necessary because it had discovered a rebel plot that called for the killing of sandinista authorities and indians who collaborate with the government
many of the indians crossed the rio coco and sought refuge in honduras rather than move to relocation camps. thousands took up arms, creating rebel movements that, like the larger nicaraguan resistance, received u.s. aid
now, the sandinistas have acknowledged mistakes in their treatment of the indians and have agreed to work with them to set up a regional government along the 75-mile seaboard known as the mosquito coast
ducasse said that in 1986, the u.n. agency helped about 2,000 indians return from honduran refugee camps to the coast, which is isolated from most of nicaragua's 3.1 million people by tradition and a spine of rugged mountains
last year, 3,206 indians returned and in the first two months this year 1,502 returned, said ducasse
thousands of others returned on their own, without official help
i think it's the impact of the peace plan,'' ducasse said
a regional peace plan signed in august by nicaragua, guatemala, el salvador, honduras, and costa rica calls for the countries to aid the return of refugees. tens of thousands of people have fled civil strife in guatemala, el salvador and nicaragua. the peace plan also calls for democratic reforms, cease-fires and political amnesties
fighting continues in nicaragua despite government talks with the contra rebels, who began their insurgency in november 1981. but the sandinistas have succeeded in breaking up the indian rebel movements
interior minister tomas borge traveled to the coastal city of puerto cabezas in october to accept the amnesty request of indian rebel leader uriel vanegas and 400 of his troops
borge now is negotiating with another indian leader, brooklyn rivera
the caribbean coast is both economically and strategically important for the sandinistas. its ports are used to receive soviet arms shipments and east bloc supplies, and it is considered most vulnerable to a foreign invasion
the area was given little attention by nicaraguan governments until the sandinistas came to power in july 1979. it was controlled by the british until the last century and some of the inhabitants still speak english, along with their own dialects, rather than spanish
a majority of the 180,000 or so indians are protestants, while the rest of the nation is overwhelmingly roman catholic
there is relative calm in the zone now,'' ducasse said
but thousands of non-indian refugees from nicaragua still live in makeshift camps in honduras
ducasse said that just 136 non-indian nicaraguans returned last year from refugee camps in honduras
it will be slow for them to come back,'' ducasse said. ``most of them left conflict zones or to avoid (compulsory) military service.''
following reagan's four-minute statement before reporters, secretary of state george p. shultz hailed the two-day summit. ``here was freedom on display,'' he said. ``it was a very moving experience.''
the secretary seemed fatigued from his recent middle east peacemaking tour, and was leaving immediately for another round of talks with arab and israeli leaders on reagan's orders
nato secretary general lord carrington said the summit ``gives me some satisfaction'' because of the 16 alliance leaders' good will and harmony as they charted future policy
the final communique said alliance strategy must be ``based upon an appropriate mix of adequate and effective nuclear and conventional forces,'' and that nato's remaining short-range nuclear weapons must be improved ``where necessary.''
the communique avoided the term ``modernization'' of short-range missiles because of the opposition of west germany, where most of the weapons are based
carrington said the allies were concerned that some people might think ``modernization'' might signal introduction of new, more destructive weapons. ``modernization actually means weapons that are more accurate and possibly less destructive,'' he said
the allied leaders expressed solid support for reagan's efforts to negotiate sharp reductions in u.s. and soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles, and renewed their endorsement of the december agreement between reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev to ban ground-launched, medium-range missiles in europe
carrington said he was heartened that gorbachev has recognized the east-west imbalance in european conventional forces that favors the eastern bloc and ``is willing to do something about them.''
at least two people were killed today in riots outside polling places as the nation voted to choose a new parliament in an election marred by a general strike and charges of fraud
homemade bombs exploded as fighting between supporters of rival candidates broke out near pollings places in and around dhaka, injuring dozens of people, police, witnesses and hospital officials said
near dhaka university, a fire station and fire truck were set ablaze by supporters of opposition parties who charged that workers from the governing jatiya party were trying to steal ballot boxes at a nearby polling station
in old dhaka, two people were shot to death in fighting, hospital officials said. one election official was beaten in front of reporters at a voting station, and another was reportedly stripped of his clothes and chased from his post
major opposition parties, which have been trying for four months to oust president hussain muhammad ershad, called for a boycott of the election for parliament and some municipal offices. the opposition also called a general strike for wednesday and today in a bid to disrupt the election
on wednesday, bands of youths hurled bombs, burned cars and trucks, and shouted anti-government slogans, and at least eight people were injured
in dhaka, the strike appeared successful wednesday, shutting down shops and businesses and leaving streets empty of the bicycle rickshaws that make dhaka traffic a nightmare. but the strike appeared to have little effect outside dhaka other than preventing trucks and buses from operating
it was the 24th strike called by the opposition since nov. 10, when it began its campaign to oust ershad
no election, no election,'' young men and teen-agers from opposition parties shouted today near one polling station in old dhaka. ``go in there. you won't even find a dog,'' one of them shouted
the gates to the polling station were locked, and armed police could be seen peaking out of a doorway inside. witnesses said homemade bombs had been tossed outside the polling station earlier
outside a nearby voting station in a school, the pavement was littered with pieces of broken bricks tossed by supporters of rival candidates for municipal posts
the polling station was closed, and election official muhammad akbar ali, 45, said a gang of youths had burst in and made made off with five ballot boxes. he said he did not know who the attackers represented
a policeman at the scene, abul hasan, said police at opened fire with blanks to chase away agitators who set off small homemade bombs
after the policeman spoke, a young man wearing on his clothing the plow symbol of the jatiya party began shoving and punching an election official. he demanded that the polling station be reopened. police dragged him away
in narayanganj, an industrial area southeast of dhaka, an election official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had been unable to prevent jatiya party supporters from stuffing ballot boxes
in a move to compromise with his opponents, ershad dissolved the 330-seat parliament last december, 3{ years before its term was to expire, and scheduled new elections
but opposition leaders have said no election conducted under ershad can be fair, and they are urging a voter boycott
at least 33 people have been died since nov. 10, either in clashes, by police gunfire, or in campaign-related violence
sheik hasina of the opposition awami league said she expected only 5 percent or 10 percent of the 47.8 million voters to cast ballots
more than 900 candidates from 102 political parties are running for parliament. eighteen candidates, all from ershad's jatiya party, already have been declared elected for lack of opposition, and voting in one district was canceled because a candidate was killed
in addition to the parliamentary election, municipal elections will be held in the cities of dhaka, chittagong, khulna, and rajshahi
in similar polling for town and village councils three weeks ago, more than 100 people were killed in battles between supporters of candidates
ershad seized power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and won election in 1986. he ordered 9,000 army troops and about 290,000 local police and paramilitary troops deployed to ensure security for the elections
eight people died and at least 25 others were injured early today when one passenger train rammed into a second one standing in a railway yard in this northern city, a government spokesman said
maximo regidor said rescue workers recovered the bodies of eight people, seven men and a young woman, trapped in the wreckage of a sleeping car just after noon
the accident happened just after 3 a.m., when the north-bound madrid-bilbao express of the state-owned railway company renfe rammed the stationary madrid-santander express train, he said
valladolid is 112 miles northwest of the spanish capital
regidor said two of the victims were government officials of the northern cantabria region, and he identified them as felix ducasse and vicente alcon
regidor said the young woman was estimated to be between 15 and 18 years of age
initially it appears the cause of the accident was a brake failure,'' he said
spanish national radio reported 25 people were treated for minor injuries at local hospitals and released
a 9-year-old girl whose lower legs were amputated after she suffered frostbite has recovered well enough to ride a bicycle and could be ``on roller skates'' next week, hospital officials say
darlwin carlisle may leave the hospital within two weeks, dr. paula jaudes, who is supervising darlwin's care at la rabida children's hospital and research center, said wednesday
i expect that we'll have darlwin on roller skates a week from friday,'' said physical therapist roberta kuchler-o'shea, who is helping the gary, ind., youngster learn to use artificial limbs
a construction worker found the girl locked in the freezing bedroom attic of her family's apartment jan. 17. authorities believe the girl was left there several days earlier by her mother, who has pleaded innocent to felony neglect
doctors at the university of chicago's wyler children's hospital determined they could not save darlwin's lower legs, and they amputated jan. 23. the girl later was transferred to la rabida to be fitted with artifical limbs
according to hospital spokeswoman kris bangert, custody of darlwin is to be decided by the state of indiana
the child's father, james carlisle, of fort wayne, has said he wants custody. foster parents are also an option, ms. bangert said
while at la rabida, darlwin has learned how to put on her artificial legs and progressed from walking with the help of parallel bars to using a walker, ms. jaudes said
the girl should be able to walk unassisted by next week, she said
ms. kuchler-o'shea said darlwin is learning to resume activities she could do before, such as bicycling and roller skating
the girl has learned to pedal a stationary bicycle and has received a real bicycle _ a pink one with training wheels _ that she has ridden in hospital halls and soon should be able to take outside
an explosion rocked a dynamite factory early today, killing at least four people and leaving one missing, local officials said
the explosion at the factory in ablon, near this port city in the calvados region of normandy, was the third there since 1985
today's blast occurred shortly after the factory opened at 9 a.m., police said. the regional prefecture said the explosion apparently occurred during the handling of nitroglycerine
an explosion at the factory in march 1985 killed three people. an explosion in march 1987 destroyed a storage area where nitroglycerine was kept but caused no injuries. the factory was closed for several months following that blast
excavators led by a former american green beret are digging in an old spanish fort for buried treasure, raising an outcry from filipino nationalists and bemused skepticism in the manila press
the loot is believed to be part of a fortune in gold which legend says was buried by the japanese in world war ii. estimates on its value range as high as $200 billion, more than enough to pay off this country's $29 billion foreign debt
but the search has also raised charges in a nationalist-minded congress that foreigners are desecrating hallowed ground where filipino and american soldiers died and where the country's national hero, jose rizal, was imprisoned before his execution in 1898
i have nothing against people having high hopes,'' wrote columnist larry sipin in the newspaper malaya. ``but when those who rule us act as if our only hope lies in a pot of gold at the end of a rainbow, or at the bottom of fort santiago, we're in trouble.''
rumors have circulated for decades that japanese gen. tomoyuki yamashita buried a fortune in gold and jewels which he looted from southeast asia before his transfer to the philippines near the end of the war. yamashita was hanged as a war criminal in 1946
last month, a team led by charles mcdougald, a former green beret captain and official of the las vegas-based international precious metals inc., began digging at fort santiago, a spanish fortress used by the japanese as a prison during the war
mcdougald says his group was hired in 1975 by former president ferdinand marcos to search for the treasure. according to mcdougald, robert curtis, president of international precious metals, pinpointed more than 170 sites but then fled to the united states, fearing marcos would double-cross him
mcdougald told reporters later today he had evidence that marcos, who was ousted in a civilian-military revolt in 1986, uncovered $6 billion in treasure from the site in 1983. he did not specify the evidence
marcos today urged the government to ignore a treasure-hunting craze that has swept the country and work instead to end the communist insurgency
after all the sacrifices, all they (officials) are talking about now is money, money, money,'' marcos told radio staion dzmm in manila from his exile home in honolulu. ``what will happen to the communists who are attempting to takeover the country? that is what our priority should be.''
marcos spoke in tagalog, the main philippine language. his remarks were translated by the associated press. he also denied published reports in manila that he had recovered billions of dollars in gold from the fort
under an agreement with president corazon aquino's government, mcdougald's team can keep 25 percent of whatever it finds. the rest goes to the philippine treasury. mcdougald told reporters this week he expects to find the booty within two weeks
the dig began in secret but word leaked out when the fort was closed to the public and filipino reporters began noticing troops of the elite presidential security group guarding the site. mcdougald and presidential aides then confirmed the excavation after two filipino workers were killed when the tunnel in which they were digging collapsed
catalino macaraig, presidential executive secretary, told reporters that the permit was issued ``in accordance with the rules and regulations of treasure hunting'' and that the government's interest would be protected
but sen. juan ponce enrile, a former defense minister, complained that the excavation was an insult to national honor. the senate unanimously approved a non-binding resolution to halt the dig
the upper chamber then subpoenaed mcdougald to appear before a senate committee investigating the project. producers</head>
negotiators for the writers guild of america and movie and television producers agreed to meet again, after the writers' union rejected the producers' latest offer and authorized a strike
we are ready to strike,'' george kirbo, president of the west coast unit of the guild, said wednesday after members, who voted in los angeles and new york over two days, overwhelmingly approved a strike
of 2,411 ballots cast, 97 percent of the writers on both coasts voted to reject the producers' offer and 96 percent voted to authorize a strike, said union spokeswoman cheryl rhoden
negotiators for the writers and producers planned to meet today to see if a strike can be averted, union officials said
first to feel the impact of a walkout would be daily daytime tv programs and talk shows that use the most scripts with the least lead time, such as johnny carson's ``tonight show'' and ``late night with david letterman.''
the effects on prime-time programs and feature films would be slight unless a strike was extended
the alliance of motion picture and television producers announced that it had agreed to the latest negotiations even before east coast writers finished voting on whether to reject the latest contract offer and authorize a strike
the strike sentiment was already clear, based on the mood of west coast members of the writers guild of america who voted tuesday night after union leaders unanimously recommended that the pact be rejected. the west coast unit represents about 6,500 of the union's 9,000 members
the last strike by writers was three years ago and lasted two weeks before writers voted to accept a contract that was essentially the same as the one they had rejected before that walkout
many minor issues were resolved in a 21-hour bargaining session that lasted until 7 a.m. tuesday. but the union and producers remained deadlocked on three items that each side considers vital:
a ``creative rights'' issue that would give original writers more more control over how their work is rewritten and ultimately presented; residual payments for foreign distribution; and a revision of residuals for domestic syndication of one-hour programs, a market that is drying up
producers have resisted union demands on the first two issues, insisting that a writer's control over the script after it is sold should be bargained individually, and that they can't afford to increase foreign residuals
the producers are seeking the syndication revision, which the union opposes the change as a roll-back in current benefits
under the producers' proposal, one-hour programs could be syndicated locally with writers receiving only 50 percent of their normal residuals. if the program is later syndicated nationally, they would receive an additional 100 percent of residuals
the median annual income for writers is $40,000, but about half of the wga's members are unemployed at any given time. the old pact expired tuesday. szerygn, throughout.</note>
virtuoso violinist henryk szeryng died today in west germany, where he was on a concert tour. he was 69
szeryng died in kassel, west germany, of a cerebral hemorrhage, according to herve corre, of his paris office
the polish-born mexican violinist was educated in west germany and then in france, at the paris conservatory, becoming one of the great international violinists after world war ii. he became a mexican citizen in 1946 but was based in europe
i wasn't coming here expecting a happy ending, but i was expecting my son to finally be home. this is almost too much to handle.'' _ malfada ditommaso of buffalo, n.y., who flew to hawaii to claim her son's remains from the vietnam war, only to learn the military was mistaken and they hadn't been returned
i hope they can find peace now, even if i am not there any more as mediator.'' _ cardinal miguel obando y bravo of nicaragua, on the decision by nicaraguan officials to exclude him as a go-between in the next round of talks with the contras
i am the architect of rock 'n' roll. i am the originator!'' _ rock legend little richard, as he facetiously proclaimed himself the winner of the best new artist award at the grammy awards ceremony. film</head>
they are political prisoners, branded ``enemies of the people'' under stalin. they have been banished to a ramshackle fishing village in the soviet north, where they live alongside, but apart from, villagers
their names are luzga and kopalych, and they are the heroes of a new soviet film that illustrates the country's confusion after the death of josef v. stalin in march 1953 and its continuing attempt to come to grips with the dictator's legacy
in ``the cold summer of '53,'' by producer alexander proshkin, the two exiles are the only village dwellers who do not submit when their settlement near the finnish border is seized by six common criminals who were freed in a prison amnesty that followed stalin's death
the others, including a mustachioed old captain whose cabin is decorated with a portrait of stalin, allow themselves to be put under lock and key, or even cross the line between obeying their armed captors and seeking to help them
luzga and kopalych resist, and kill off the criminals, one by one
the film, shown to moscow-based journalists wednesday night at the foreign ministry press center, seems an apt summary of the terrible paradoxes of the stalin era, when innocent people could be convicted of crimes, and those who committed injustices could be honored members of the community
cold summer'' is the latest soviet artistic work dealing with the stalinist legacy to emerge under communist party chief mikhail s. gorbachev's loosened restrictions on depicting the often troubled soviet past and stalin's 29-year reign
confession,'' a film by georgian director tengiz abuladze released in late 1986, portrays a pudgy, mustachioed communist party official that soviet audiences immediately recognized as lavrenti beria, the feared head of stalin's secret police
beria's image also makes a small appearance in ``cold summer,'' in a scene that shows the contradictory feelings soviets still have for stalin and his henchman
a policeman, who will become the first villager killed by the amnestied criminals, spies a portrait of beria in a publication lying in the captain's house
he starts to rip out the picture, but the captain stops him
by what instructions do you destroy portraits?'' asks the captain, ever the fearful bureaucrat
the policeman tosses beria's picture away, but it is picked up, carefully smoothed out and saved by one of the leading members of the small fishing community, a man who will later do more than anyone else to assist the criminals
luzga is a gaunt red army veteran with the drawn features and permanent 5-day-old whiskers of a soviet indiana jones. played by veteran actor valery priemykhov, lyzga is often lost in reverie, and scoffs at the suggestion that he might one day be able to return to his former life
were you ever in moscow?'' a blonde-haired village girl asks him at one point
i don't remember,'' he says with a blank look
the gray-haired, baggy-eyed kopalych is played by anatoly papanov, who died after filming his last scene in ``cold summer''in august. the film was completed in november
papanov's gruff voice is familiar to soviet children as the voice of a wolf in a popular cartoon series broadcast by state-run television
the plot of ``cold summer'' is reminiscent of countless cowboy movies where mild-mannered characters find the strength in themselves to resist injustice, and go on to slay the villains
many in the audience of journalists, foreign ministry officials and guests applauded when luzga killed one of the more odious criminals with a pistol shot to the head
he finished off the gang's fleeing ringleader by wading into the water and drowning him
proshkin, 47, who appeared at the screening to present his film and answer questions, acknowledged the movie's script was a ``pure western,'' when he got it, but said he had tried to made something more eclectic with a political edge
the average spectator today in the country is young,'' proshkin said. ``you need strong action to get across the moral and political point of view.''
proshkin was 13 when stalin died, and said he hopes his film will deliver a political message about the stalin era to the country's youth
i think the current generation is less politicized than mine was,'' he said. brush fire</head>
residents ignored evacuation orders and joined firefighters battling a wind-fueled brush fire that threatened dozens of homes in rural central florida near the ocala national forest
about 475 acres had burned by early today, but no homes were destroyed and no injuries were reported. police, state forestry firefighters and u.s. forest service workers battled flames sparked wednesday and fueled by gusty winds
the fire's under control,'' florida forestry division spokesman david bucher said this morning. fire crews would check today for flareups, he said
katherine henrie, 64, was among the residents of the remote lake kathryn heights neighborhood who stayed with their homes. as towering flames threatened to consume a nearby house, she sprayed her yard with a garden hose
they told me to leave but i got no place to go if i did,'' said mrs. henrie. ``i'll just lose everything i have. i got no insurance. they just told me to keep watering the best i could. i got the sprinkler going over there and three dogs waiting in the car.''
late winter and early spring are generally are the worst times for brush fires in central florida. pastures and woodlands become tinder-dry and frost often has killed grass to create hay in underbrush, which becomes fire fodder.   behind bars</head>
a man convicted of killing two police officers in 1963 must remain behind bars at least three more years, a parole board has ruled in revoking an earlier decision to release him
after two hours of closed-door discussions, the board voted 4-3 wednesday to cancel thomas trantino's march 15 release, set by two members in january. it was the second time trantino, who has spent nearly 25 years in prison, came within a hair of parole
trantino was convicted of shooting of two lodi police officers in 1963. he originally was sentenced to the electric chair, but the penalty was changed to life in prison when the death penalty law was struck down in 1972
the possibility of parole sparked a candlelight vigil, a petition drive and a letter-writing campaign in recent weeks. the day after a television show on the case, 1,000 people called the board to argue against parole
those opposed to trantino's release, including police and relatives of his victims, expressed relief at the board's decision
crime is on a runaway train in this country, and a crime of this type needs an appropriate punishment,'' said lodi police chief andrew voto, brother of one victim
in wednesday's decision, the board ruled that trantino must remain behind bars for more than three years, but it left open exactly when he will again be eligible for parole. parole board chairman louis nickolopoulos said the panel will decide that later
in 1980 the board said he could be released if he made restitution to relatives of his victims. after a court fight the panel decided in 1982 that he should remain in prison
nickolopoulos, asked about trantino's reaction, said: ``there was no comment. he was very calm. he was very courteous and polite throughout the hearing.''
trantino's wife, charlee, whom he married while on a prison furlough, said she her husband ``doesn't feel any bitterness toward anyone.''
trantino's lawyer, stuart f. pierson, who has criticized what he called undue pressure on the parole board by police and others, said he wasn't certain whether the denial will be appealed
nickolopoulos said he could not discuss the reasons for the panel's decision until trantino is notified in writing. the board has 21 days to inform the inmate, who then has 14 days to ask for a reconsideration. if he is denied again, he can appeal to the courts
trantino, 50, now in a medium-security prison in camden, was convicted for the murders of sgt. peter voto and patrolman gary tedesco
the two were investigating a report of a disturbance at tavern when they were surprised, partially stripped and shot dead by trantino and an accomplice. the accomplice was fatally shot the next day by police
a lawmaker in a black homeland where rival political groups are engaged in a bloody power struggle was shot to death at home as he and his children watched television, police said today
the 36-year-old legislator, petrus mbatha, was a member of inkatha, a zulu political organization that has been locked in the fierce feud in kwazulu homeland with backers of militant anti-apartheid groups
mbatha lived near camperdown on the fringe of the area around the natal province capital of pietermaritzburg, where more than 400 people have been killed in the feud since early last year
police said it was not known who killed mbatha late wednesday, but reported finding cartridges from soviet-made ak-47 automatic rifles. police regularly link these weapons to members and supporters of the outlawed african national congress, the main guerrilla group fighting to end white-minority domination
inkatha's prinicpal rival in the natal power struggle has been the united democratic front, south africa's largest anti-apartheid coalition
last week, the government banned the udf from political activity and barred several of its senior leaders from further involvement with the organization. several of these leaders had been involved in negotiations aimed at halting the inkatha-udf feud, and the government's action was widely viewed as undermining the peace process
mangosuthu buthelezi, leader of inkatha and chief minister of kwazulu, contends udf cooperates with the african national congress in a campaign to seize control of black townships and oust black moderates who oppose violence
udf leaders have criticized buthelezi for refusing to support militant anti-apartheid strategies such as boycotts and sanctions
this week, the government reinforced its security forces around peitermaritzburg with 300 so-called ``instant constables'' _ black policemen assigned to duty after relatively short training programs
the law and order ministry has declined to comment on allegations most of the new constables are inkatha members
buthelezi describes inkatha as a zulu cultural organization, although it functions as kwazulu's dominant political party
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the leader of the extreme right-wing conservative party said today that victories in two special parliamentary elections show growing white support for his staunchly pro-apartheid policies
the conservatives won decisively wednesday in the rural transvaal province districts of standerton and schweizer-reneke despite an intensive campaign by president p.w. botha's national party
they had won the seats in may's national white elections, but the winners were forced to resign, one on a technicality, the other because of bankruptcy
in both contests, the conservatives substantially increased their margin of victory
conservative party leader andries treurnicht said the victories would ``have a snowball effect.''
botha called them ``temporary disappointments'' for the national party
foreign interference as well as actions by radical elements that break internal laws undoubtedly cause aversion to patriotic voters,'' he said without elaborating
the conservatives are favored to win another special election later this month and appear likely to cut into national party support in nationwide municipal elections in october
chris van den heever, the conservatives' chief spokesman in transvaal, predicted the 8-year-old party would take control of local councils throughout rural areas of transvaal. he said the party also expected to do well in coastal areas where many whites have protested the recent opening of beaches to blacks
van den heever said the national party, in an effort to preserve its support, would place increasing emphasis on security issues. he predicted the government would launch some type of law-and-order campaign
the independent pretoria news said in an editorial today: ``after being fed a diet of national party racism for decades, it is not surprising that the farmers ... voted for the old precepts of that party as espoused now by treurnicht.''
the conservative party seeks to reinstate all rescinded apartheid laws. it charges that botha is capitulating to the country's 26 million black majority through his limited reforms of recent years
botha maintains his reforms will not threaten ``white interests,'' which he promises will be protected through continued segregation of housing, schools and health services
the national party, which has been in power since 1948, advocates limited power-sharing, with blacks gaining a say in national politics, but whites maintaining power. it firmly controls the 178-member white chamber of parliament, with 133 seats to the conservatives' 22, though the conservatives won 26 percent of the votes nationwide last may
the anti-apartheid progressive federal party, which has 17 seats in the white chamber, did not field any candidates in wednesday's two by-elections
both the national and conservative parties rely largely on support from afrikaners, descendants of the 17th-century dutch settlers who comprise about 3 million of the 5 million whites
south africa's parliament has separate chambers for whites, asians and people of mixed-race. blacks are excluded
a u.s. official said the general assembly acted prematurely when it voted in emergency session to order the united states to submit to binding arbitration its plan to close the plo u.n. mission
the vote wednesday was 143-1. america's western allies joined the majority. israel cast the only dissenting vote. the united states did not vote
arab diplomats hinted the united nations might have to leave new york if the u.s. government insists on enforcing an anti-terrorism law that would close the palestine liberation organization mission by march 21
the u.s. deputy permanent representative, herbert s. okun, called the special session ``inappropriate and premature.''
although u.s. ambassador vernon a. walters was not present wednesday, he has said various branches of the government are discussing the issue and its legal implications
clovis maksoud, arab envoy, said america was opening ``a pandora's box of diplomatic, legal and political problems'' by trying to close the mission and putting u.s. domestic legislation above international treaty obligations
most diplomats, however, said a move from new york was undesirable and unlikely. the plo has non-voting, observer status at the united nations
maksoud, representative of the league of arab states, told a news conference congress should repeal the anti-terrorism law and said president reagan could exclude the plo u.n. mission from application of the law
maksoud said the issue is a problem between the united states and the united nations, not the plo
this demonstrates the level of embarrassment for the united states. it is opening a pandora's box of political, legal and diplomatic problems,'' he said
alexander m. belonogov, soviet ambassador, called the dispute a ``self-inflicted wound'' to u.s. prestige
the united nations and the state department say the u.s. law would violate international law and the headquarters agreement of 1947 that allows all u.n. missions to operate
the united states said it has not decided if it will implement the measure calling for closing of the plo mission
the assembly also voted 142-0 to ask the international court of justice in the hague to rule whether the united states has the right to refuse arbitration. the united states and israel did not vote
general assembly votes are considered expressions of international will and mainly carry moral authority. they are not legally binding and there is no enforcement mechanism. assembly resolutions are often ignored or defied
the assembly decided to reconvene and consider its next move if the united states goes ahead and orders the plo mission closed
the united states so far has rejected arbitration provided in the headquarters agreement for dispute settlement. it is the first time the clause has been invoked. the next step will be a justice department announcement on whether it will enforce the new law
the world court is also expected to submit an opinion on whether the united states has to submit disputes to binding arbitration
america and other nations have disregarded court rulings in the past
benjamin netanyahu, israeli ambassador, called the plo a terrorist organization whose commitment to armed struggle conflicts with the u.n. charter. he walked out when plo representative zehdi labib terzi said israel has disregarded ``norms of civilized behavior.'' tightens throughout.</note>
minority students who took over a hampshire college dormitory office for nine days to protest alleged campus racism headed back to class today, saying they were relieved the sit-in was over
i think everybody's pretty much exhausted,'' said anita fearman, a spokeswoman for the 40 black, hispanic and other minority students who ended the takeover wednesday with the signing of a 16-point agreement designed to encourage racial harmony at the private school, where about 100 of the 1,100 students are minorities
fearnab and 20 other protesters were among the 150 students who watched as college president adele simmons and two other administrators signed the document outside the office that had been occupied since feb. 23
the settlement provided for a dean of multicultural affairs, an adviser for the group that occupied the dakin house office and at least $4,500 in yearly funding for the group. the administration also agreed not to discipline the students, and to allow them to make up work missed during the takeover
i think the occupation strengthened the institution,'' said simmons. ``for the last several years we've been working to improve student life and this represents a finishing of the old agenda.''
fearman said the protesters were relieved to trade in their sleeping bags for dormitory beds, although ``a few are feeling that it will be hard not to have each other for support 24 hours a day.'' she said the protesters had begun returning to classes wednesday afternoon
the occupation began a week after the end of a takeover at nearby university of massachusetts that was sparked by campus racial violence. that takeover ended when chancellor joseph duffey agreed to increase funding of minority student programs and to other demands
hampshire protesters said racial violence is rare at their school, but the college had long ignored their concerns
college officials said the allegation was a surprise, given the school's aim to be a progressive alternative to the traditional liberal arts education offered at nearby amherst, mount holyoke and smith colleges. hampshire students design their own courses of study and must complete individual research projects and pass three divisional examinations to graduate
the protesters, however, said that the settlement and the sympathy shown them by the college community, which organized rallies and sent food to the protesters throughout the occupation, had changed their minds about warning minorities away from the school
i really would tell them to come here,'' said protester penny predmas
it was something unheard of among the mild and compliant commuter ranks in london, but it happened this week _ an underground revolt
the underground in this case was a subway train on the aging northern line of the london regional transport system
the riders were told tuesday night to get off their delay-plagued train five stops before their destination and wait for the next train. a signal failure was blamed
not a rare occurrence
what was rare was that they balked
transport spokesman david morris said the passengers, bound for high barnet at the end of the northern line, started filing off. that's what london subway riders always do. grumbling, maybe, but obeying orders
but then, according to the london evening standard newspaper, a ``mild-looking and well-dressed'' passenger declared: ``i've had enough. i'm staying put. if we all do it, they'll have to take the train on.''
he was among about a dozen passengers who got back into the train, the paper said. more passengers followed. after hurried consultations the staff gave in and waved the train on
london regional transport called the subway mutineers selfish
morris complained to the associated press. ``those passengers had only a narrow and selfish view and put their needs above others.''
but the standard newspaper hailed it as ``the great tube revolt'' _ the subway is known as the tube in britain _ and called the unidentified leader ``a superhero in the clark kent mold _ quiet, mild-mannered and unassuming.''
the paper quoted passenger sheila golding of high barnet as saying the rebels cheered and laughed, because ``we knew that if everyone did it _ and stayed put _ there wasn't anything they could do about it.''
it quoted passenger maria gama as saying: ``everybody was just totally fed up. the waiting room was freezing and nobody could tell us why the train was stopping where it did. but when everybody climbed back on, it was a marvelous moment.''
the northern line, which carries 700,000 passengers between south and north london, is sometimes called ``the misery line'' by newspapers and criticized for defective trains and equipment, last-minute schedule changes, signal failures and dirty stations
morris denied the line was worse than others
but none of that mattered
the meek, mild, patient, uncomplaining london subway riders had had their day
milovan djilas, yugoslavia's best known dissident and a former vice president, got a short story published in a regular literary magazine for the first time in 34 years
the story, titled ``the war,'' was published wednesday in the knjizevne novine periodical of belgrade. it deals with a summary execution of a young deserter in the presence of his parents during world war ii
in a note, the editors of the march 1-15 issue that reached news stands wednesday, stressed, ``we have no intention today ... to engage in assessing the political ideas, stands and programs of milovan djilas.''
it said that ``publishing the literary work of milovan djilas, a test of his artistic achievement by the literary public, will confirm ... the democratic strength of the principled attitude'' of the yugoslav leadership ``toward cultural creativity.''
we believe that freedom of art creations and autonomy of an artistic work are a major achievement of our policy and our culture,'' the editors said
djilas, a top partisan leader, emerged from the war as heir apparent to marshal josip broz tito, who became yugoslavia's first president
however, after he began writing articles displaying his disenchantment with communism in the early 1950s and then published his first book, ``the new class,'' djilas fell into disgrace and spent about nine years in jail
last september, a belgrade company said it was considering publishing djilas' book ``the revolutionary war,'' known in the west under the title ``war-time.''
no book or article by djilas, now 76, has been officially published in yugoslavia after his fall from favor
but djilas received a passport in january 1987 and has traveled widely since
knjizevne novine, in its 40th anniversary issue, put djilas' name on the front page listing its contributors
removing the silently perpetuated taboo (on publishing his work), now that administrative obstacles no longer exist, means permitting a potentially worthy work to establish itself in a place that belongs to it _ or to lose it, should it prove worthless,'' the editors' note said. charges</head>
county officials are searching for a hospice to care for a male prostitute acquitted of attempted poisoning charges after selling his aids-tainted blood
right now, it is hard to place a person like that,'' said eric rofes, executive director of the gay and lesbian community services center
joseph markowski, 29, was acquitted wednesday by a superior court jury on two counts of attempted poisoning. jurors decided he lacked the intent required under state law to kill or injure someone by selling his blood
what he did was inexcusable, but we had to follow the law,'' juror william e. ferguson said after the verdict was read. ``i hope they will come up with a law to prevent people from doing this in the future.''
we need legislation on this,'' said deputy district attorney antonio barreto jr., who prosecuted the case. ``he can go out and do this again today, as long as he said, `i just did it for the money.'''
markowski, who suffers from mental illness and carries the aids virus but has not developed the disease, could have faced up to seven years in prison if convicted
he had been accused of selling his tainted blood for $10 to plasma production associates on june 22 and of trying to do so again june 25
acquired immune deficiency syndrome can be spread is by transfusion of infected blood or blood products. aids cripples the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancers. there is no known cure
markowski originally was charged with attempted murder, but judge ronald s. coen dismissed those counts, saying the law required a specific intent to kill that was not present in the case
the homeless prostitute was arrested june 23 after screaming, ``kill me! kill me! i have aids!'' in a hollywood bank while attempting to grab a security guard's gun. police found his receipt from the plasma center
court-appointed defense attorney guy o'brien said markowski was happy to be acquitted but concerned about where he would make his home
i don't know what's going to happen to him,'' said dr. eugene kunzman of the mental health unit at county jail. ``all the agencies involved are attempting to do what is best for everyone involved.''
last year, los angeles county district attorney ira reiner lobbied for legislation making it a felony to knowingly sell or donate aids-contaminated blood. the state assembly failed to approve it
markowski allegedly admitted to police that he sold his blood because he needed money and didn't care about the public, but coen ruled the statement inadmissible because markowski had not been informed of his right to remain silent and wait for an attorney. sted grammies, in keyword line; this column normally moves in advance.</note>
until little richard took the grammy awards hostage for several minutes, the high point might have been michael jackson's pepsi commercial
but seriously, folks, perhaps because no one artist dominated the awards, wednesday night's was one of the best grammy shows in years
billy crystal was host of the three-hour cbs special, but new york _ more specifically radio city music hall _ was the star
the show seemed to have gotten a new soul infusion by returning from los angeles. it was broadcast live from the venerable old music hall, all decked out in a brilliantly glitzy art deco set design that was just made for cab calloway to strut across singing ``minnie the moocher'' and coaxing the tres cool audience into joining in on ``hidy, hidy, hidy ho.''
but it was little richard who stopped the show when he was supposed to announce the winner for best new artist. instead, he ran off with the envelope, insisting, ``the best new artist is _ me!'' a pain to the waiting nominees, but undeniably great television
richard had come out complaining that co-presenter buster poindexter had stolen his pompadour. ``everything i get, they take it from me,'' he said
his giggling outburst prompted a standing ovation from the audience, a fuming ``shut up!'' from poindexter _ but no grammy. maybe an emmy if they create a best supporting player on a self-congratulatory industry awards show
dion represented oldsters without causing trouble; he just came out and sang ``why must i be a teen-ager in love?'' and wrapped up the show with ``runaround sue.''
michael jackson didn't get any awards during the broadcast, but he turned in a stunning performance that concluded with an inspired james brown-esque gospel number complete with robed choir, even upstaging his pepsi trilogy
until jackson came out, some of the best musical moments were in the ads. it was a little hard to pay attention to jackie mason's mushy borscht-belt humor _ he was doing ed sullivan, for pete's sake _ after eric clapton's wailing guitar solo on behalf of michelob
when it came to acceptance speeches, the irish consciousness band u2 was in a class by itself. when it won for best performance by a duo or group, guitarist the edge thanked, ``martin luther king ... bob dylan for `tangled up in blue,' flannery o'connor, jimi hendrix, walt disney, john the baptist, george best, gregory peck ... dr. ruth, fawn hall, batman and robin ... the ymca, sumo wrestlers throughout the world, and of course ronald reagan.''
later, for best album, lead singer bono made a self-deprecating poke at the band's messiah image
it really is hard having the weight of the world on your shoulders,'' he said. ``but we enjoy our work.''
he also added, ``it's hard when there are 60 million people watching not to talk about south africa and what's happening there, ... but tonight is maybe is not the night to do that.'' he made his point
as usual, the show was a hodgepodge of american musical tastes, though the flamboyance level of the rock stars being what it is, everybody else looked like badly dressed tourists who wandered away from the bus. how about a segue from vladimir horowitz to george strait singing ``all my exes live in texas?''
crystal's humor depended largely on insider entertainment jokes _ who cares at this point that ``the wilton north report'' got canceled? he set up the tribute to the apple with his touching bit on an old, black jazz musician _ ``can you dig it? i knew that you could.'' unfortunately, the routine plays better in a dark club than on a glitter-drenched, island-sized stage
steve allen was funnier. (crystal later kept crediting allen with writing the hottest of the rock numbers.) allen presented the best comedy album award with steven wright. he led off by announcing the good news that ``they did find liza minelli's dress.''
steven asked me to read the list of nominees,'' he said, ``because he suffers from dyslexia. actually he doesn't suffer from it, he digs it.''
elsewhere in television:
bergen series _ movie star candice bergen has been signed to star in ``murphy brown,'' a pilot for a cbs half-hour comedy series. it's bergen's first venture into series television, though she starred earlier this season in the cbs movie ``mayflower madam.'' warner bros. television says she plays the title character, ``a tough, get-the-story interviewers who is ready to tackle anyone from david letterman to the president of the united states.'' and we all know how painful that can be
twelve months have passed since 193 people died aboard the herald of free enterprise. but time has not eased the pain of evelyn pinnells, who lost two daughters when the ferry capsized off belgium
for mrs. pinnells, it has been a year of depression, sleeping pills and anger that the owners of the ferry have gone unpunished. every day she goes to the little cemetery near her home in aylesbury. there her daughters, heidi, 14, and fiona, 20, and fiona's fiance, jonathan reynolds, are buried
they were among the victims when the herald of free enterprise capsized off the beglian port of zeebrugge on march 6, 1987. it was the worst peacetime disaster involving a british ship since the titanic sank in 1912
they say that time heals, but i don't think i'll ever get over it,'' said the divorcee, who survived with her two other children
as the salvaged ferry heads for a taiwan shipyard to be scrapped, its legacy lingers in shattered lives, police investigations, compensation disputes and possible charges against three crewmen and the owners
many survivors haven't been able to return to work
some who lost loved ones have had serious emotional problems. others started drinking heavily. many suffer nightmares and are afraid of the water. more than 200 policemen involved in the aftermath have received psychiatric counseling
it has ruined my life forever,'' said forklift operator chris leach, who rescued mrs. pinnells' 12-year-old son
the things i'd done before, i can't do now. i'm a fisherman but i can't go fishing. i have a boat but it's locked away on a farm and i can't even look at it,'' he said
leach says he is even frightened to drive his car through a carwash
martin hartley, a 9-year-old boy orphaned in the disaster, is living with an aunt and back at school. his story touched the hearts of britons and helped swell a relief fund that has raised $10.6 million for survivors and bereaved
for ferry owners townsend thoresen, it has been a year of change
taken over by p and o just before the disaster, the company has a new name _ p and o european ferries ltd. _ new senior management and new safety measures on its ships
but the threat of corporate prosecution exists, and debate rumbles on over the safety of the modern roll-on, roll-off ferries, which have doors on both ends instead of just one to allow faster loading and unloading of vehicles
the company faces a massive compensation bill
on jan. 22, the high court approved a test case compensation settlement of more than 165,000 pounds, or $292,000, for a family, including young children, who lost their father in the disaster
lawyers representing most claimants say that settlement was expected to become the model for settling more than 300 other claims
michael napier, chairman of a committee of lawyers for 300 survivors and relatives of victims, said wednesday that about 200 had accepted a compensation package from the vessel's owner. he would not disclose the amounts involved
the herald of free enterprise capsized after the sea rushed in through bow doors that were left open
the estimated 543 britons on board, mainly families returning from a day's outing in belgium, had no time to scramble into lifeboats. the lights went out, furniture flew, the water kept rising and in the screaming chaos only 350 made it to safety
it was over in less than five minutes
dave wilkinson, head of the herald assistance unit in dover, where the ferry was bound, said only three officers of the 42 crew members who survived have returned to sea
an official british inquiry blamed townsend thoresen and three crewmen for allowing the ferry to sail with its bow doors open. it said no laws were broken but found the company ``from top to bottom ... was infected with the disease of sloppiness.''
but in october, an inquest jury ruled that the victims were ``unlawfully killed,'' paving the way for possible criminal proceedings against the company's owners and those blamed for leaving the bow doors open: capt. david lewry, first officer leslie sabel and assistant boatswain mark stanley
lewry's certificate of competency was suspended for a year after the inquiry found him ``seriously negligent.'' sabel lost his certificate for two years. stanley, shattered by the tragedy, left the company on medical grounds
on nov. 13, kent police were ordered to start a new investigation, and belgian judge arthur d'hoest's separate investigation may also bring criminal charges
the herald families association, comprising about 150 survivors and relatives, says it will fund a private prosecution of the company for corporate manslaughter if britain's state prosecutor doesn't
there are strong feelings of injustice among the families _ very strong. their children are killed and nobody's doing anything about it,'' said association president maurice de rohan
de rohan, whose daughter and son-in-law were among the dead, said: ``it was just utter carelessness and indifference. i believe the company didn't understand what it was doing and didn't sufficiently care.''
but p and o chairman sir geoffrey sterling said responsibility rested on the shipboard staff. he said it was ``a bit far-fetched'' to prosecute those onshore
united in grief, hundreds of survivors and relatives will join together march 6 to mark the first anniversary
some will return to zeebrugge to drop a wreath in the water where the herald capsized. others will attend a service at st. mary the virgin church in dover and unveil a commemorative stained-glass window
new british regulations require indicator lights on the bridge to show that doors are closed, and ferry passengers must have boarding cards to avoid the kind of confusion over incomplete passenger lists that hampered the search for survivors in the zeebrugge disaster
a bill before parliament includes a two-year jail sentence for an owner or a master who sails with an unsafe ship
a soggy patch of grass alongside saint donaas parish church will be turned into a rose garden in remembrance of the people who died when the herald of free enterprise ferry capsized last year
but apart for the cars and trucks that lie crushed and rusting, there are few visible reminders of the maritime tragedy that pushed this drab port city into the headlines on march 6, 1987
can we keep running around with our hands in the air? do we have to be in sackcloth and ashes because of the disaster?'' asked wim catry, the priest of zeebrugge's saint donaas parish
the ferry, loaded with 543 people and tons of cars and trucks, capsized after leaving zeebrugge with its bow doors left open. it was bound for the british port of dover, across the english channel
it was tragic, but you forget,'' said andre pape, 57, captain of the tug boat sea horse, which was the first to reach the capsized vessel minutes after it sank just ouside the harbor walls. ``we are faced with the force of the sea every day. when one thing happens, you forget another.''
after the ship went down, authorities quickly set up a rescue operation involving ships, divers and helicopters
many lives were saved because of the swiftness and efficiency that won belgium international acclaim, but 193 people died
olivier vanneste, the provincial governor who led the rescue operations, was one of 31 people, including 13 belgians, decorated by queen elizabeth ii for their conduct in the disaster
it has been a tribute to the country and all people who participated in the operation,'' vanneste said. officials from sweden, norway, denmark and britain have since come here to study the rescue plan, he said
he remembers best the selflessness of people bringing in blankets and clothing for the rescued britons and never asking for reimbursement
the steady flow of ferries in and out of the port continues unabated. ``the boats just keep coming,'' said catry. ``they might be a little more careful now. but who can tell?''
lionel linder, editor and vice president of the detroit news since march 1983, has been named editor of the commercial appeal in memphis, tenn., newspaper officials said
linder, 56, assumes his new post today. the tennessee newspaper is owned by scripps howard publishing and has a circulation of 240,000 daily and 350,000 on sunday
linder had been a news employee since 1977
the new position is an opportunity for me to move on,'' linder said. ``i love the challenge to build and rebuild newspapers.''
before becoming editor at the news, linder was executive editor and managing editor with the paper. the news, owned by gannett co. inc., has a circulation of 678,720 daily and 839,319 on sundays, according to the audit bureau of circulations
a computer company has agreed to make refunds to about 100 consumers who bought memory expansion boards in response to exaggerated advertising claims, according to the federal trade commission
nec home electronics, a subsidiary of nec corp. of japan, agreed to pay $15,000 in consumer redress to settle charges that it had made deceptive claims for some of its computers, the ftc said tuesday
according to the commission, nec advertised its pc-8000 series of computers and accessories from 1981 to 1984, including the claim that the average person with no training could quadruple the device's memory by buying accessory equipment
the ftc said expanding the memory to that extent required a skilled programmer or access to a sophisticated operating system which was never made available in the united states
under the consent agreement, nec will refund the $150 purchase price to consumers who bought memory expansion boards for the computers, which it estimated at about 100 people
purchasers of the boards can contact the company about refunds by writing to nec at 1255 michael drive, wood dale, ill., 60191
attorney general edwin meese iii said today the justice department backs a new customs service decision to seize the passports of americans suspected of entering the country with illegal drugs
we're in favor of it and we're looking now at the legal aspects of it. i hope we will find legal ways to do that,'' meese siad in an interview on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
there's no reason that drug traffickers should have freedom to travel around the world peddling their wares,'' he added
william von raab, the customs service commissioner, told the white house conference on a drug-free america on wednesday that his agency, on march 15, will begin taking the passports of americans who try to re-enter the country with illegal drugs. customs service spoksman edward kittredge said the passports would be seized as evidence of a crime and forwarded to the state department
meese also refuted reagan administration critics who say the military is not being used to stop the flow of drugs into the united states
we've been using the military in this country for six years against drugs,'' he said, adding, ``they help with the interdiction. they provide the surveillance, which is what they can do.''
addressing the conference wednesday, meese said recalcitrant bureaucrats and meddling members of congress are hampering the federal war on drugs
i am extremely concerned about the fragmentation that goes on in congress,'' he said
we have 32 different committees in the congress with cognizance over the drug problem so that too many of the leaders who are seated on the stage here are spending their time testifying in front of congressional committees instead of leading the forces that ought to be out in the field working on the drug problem.''
meese was among four cabinet members and five other top-ranking administration officials appearing together on a panel at the conference
von raab complained to the estimated 2,000 delegates that federal bureaucrats are too lax in pushing anti-drug efforts, a position subsequently embraced by meese
i have been flat out told by many bureaucrats that just because the president is supporting an effort it doesn't mean that money goes with it,'' von raab said. ``we don't need a bunch of bureaucrats that will deal with this war on drugs the way they dealt with the war in vietnam. we need heart in this effort. ..
there are still too many people who work for us _ in my organization as well _ who still have their noses too deeply buried in their old books.''
meese said later, ``i am worried about what mr. von raab talked about: some people in the trenches who do not have the message.''
the attorney general called on state and local officials to pour more money into anti-drug efforts
if state and local governments will increase their efforts threefold _ 300 percent _ as the federal government has in the last seven years _ i think we will have adequate funds to provide the necessary resources for all aspects, enforcement as well as treatment,'' he said
a 12-year-old boy whose body was found in a dishwasher may have tried to take a shower in it, his uncle said
i really believe he crawled in there thinking he could wash up and crawl back out,'' darold degrand said of his nephew, michael conard, of humboldt
the boy's nude body was discovered by his mother, jean, 33, when she returned home from work tuesday afternoon
it's a strange situation,'' brown county sheriff's commander david zasada said wednesday. ``right now we're not looking at this as foul play.''
the boy was 4 foot, 10 inches tall and weighed about 90 pounds
degrand said he was convinced the death was accidental
the portable dishwasher was found hooked up to the kitchen sink and running, zasada said, and the mother turned it off and found her son's body inside
the uncle said the dishwasher had no safety features to prevent such an accident. ``it was an older model where, once you shut the door, if the dial was set right, it kicked in. they bought it secondhand may years ago.''
zasada said investigators were trying to determine whether there was forced entry or sign of a struggle. there were no external injuries that might have indicated the boy was shoved into the dishwasher
i would certainly not at this time say there was a suicide,'' he said
an autopsy to determine the casue of death was inconclusive, zasada said, and further tests were planned
more than two hours after the nato summit ended today, president reagan said he hadn't read the final communique
i haven't seen it yet,'' reagan replied, when a reporter asked if he was pleased with the allied leaders' statement he had praised earlier
white house chief of staff howard baker quickly interjected, ``no, we saw it last night. no problems, and it's very good.''
taking his cue from baker, reagan said, ``yes, very good, no problems.''
the exchange took place during a photo session at the president's guest house, where he had a post-summit meeting with british prime minister margaret thatcher. he lived.</note>
virtuoso violinist henryk szeryng, a polish emigre and mexican citizen who gained fame after performing extensively for allied troops during world war ii, died today in west germany. he was 69
szeryng died at 4 a.m. in kassel, west germany, of a cerebral hemorrhage he suffered early wednesday, his paris and new york offices said
a recipient of numerous international awards, the violinist was to have played in brussels wednesday night with the orchestra of sarrebruck and begin a u.s. tour in a few weeks
real music lovers want emotion _ great moments _ which szeryng's playing gives them,'' arthur rubinstein, who died in 1982, once said
szeryng had a preference for resurrecting neglected works and bringing relatively unknown contemporary works to the public. in 1971, he reconstructed and gave the first performance in modern times of paganini's concerto no. 3
he made numerous recordings and authored several publications on technique and interpretation
szeryng was born in warsaw sept. 22, 1918 and educated in west germany, then in france, where he studied under gabriel bouillon and nadia boulanger at the paris conservatory. in 1937, he graduated with the coveted first prize
szeryng was firmly associated with the french school of violin playing, although the major musical force behind him was carl flesch
at the outbreak of world war ii, szeryng, who spoke eight languages, was appointed liaison officer and interpreter for gen. wladislaw sikorski, premier of the polish government-in-exile and commander of the free polish army
in 1941, he went with sikorski to latin america in search of a home for about 4,000 polish refugees. the refugees were accepted by mexico. moved by this humanitarian gesture, szeryng took on mexican citizenship in 1946
during the war, he performed more than 300 concerts for allied troops
he eventually became an adviser to the mexican government on cultural matters, but he maintained his base in europe. he lived in paris for about 20 years, but for the past five years he lived in monaco and went to mexico about twice a year
he was decorated by governments from italy to finland, including france, which gave him its illustrious legion of honor in 1984
szeryng made his american debut in carnegie hall in 1943 and went on to make numerous recordings, reaping a grammy award for one of them
in 1970, he was appointed special music advisor to mexico's unesco delegation in paris
encouraged by rubinstein to extend his musical activities worldwide, szeryng did so, increasing his reputation and making numerous recordings with rubinstein
funeral services are to be held in monte carlo, monaco, at a still unspecified date, his paris office said
a federal judge set a precedent when he struck down a florida law that would keep reporters at least 150 feet from polling places on election days, an attorney for three television networks said
u.s. district judge stanley marcus ruled that reporters have a constitutional right to speak to voters, but said they could be kept 50 feet away from polling places
i think judge marcus' decision is going to be cited in a lot of other states besides florida and will be a significant part of a body of law which is being formed striking down similar statutes elsewhere,'' said floyd abrams, attorney for the abc, cbs and nbc networks
the networks, along with the miami news, argued that reporters needed to be closer to polling places to conduct exit polls during next week's super tuesday voting
the decision will make it possible for more people to have more information more quickly about the super tuesday results in florida than would have otherwise been conceivable,'' abrams said
marcus' decision left intact a provision of the law allowing poll workers to keep the media, campaigners and petitioners 50 feet away from the polls. david kraslow, publisher of the news, said that restriction would not interfere with exit polling
the decision is the second florida ruling in a week against the 150-foot rule. u.s. district judge howell melton in jacksonville ruled friday that petitioners seeking to put a medical malpractice measure on future ballots could also approach up to a 50-foot limit
reporters ``have a constitutional right to engage in speech or other expressive activities'' near the polls, marcus said in his opinion wednesday. his decision followed similar rulings by federal judges in georgia and washington state
david leahy, dade county's elections supervisor and a defendant in the suit, said the decision left polling officials with difficult choices
since the jacksonville ruling applied only to medical malpractice petitioners and the miami decision only to the media, officials would be left in the uncomfortable decision of allowing some people up to 50 feet away while others had to stay 150 feet away
we are looking at abandoning any effort to enforce the 150-foot rule,'' leahy said
a high school senior who has taken to singing the national anthem aloud when it is played over the school intercom in the morning has been banished from homeroom for improper behavior
paul rennick, principal of north kingstown high school, said sara sprague is ``playing games'' by violating policy that requires silence when ``the star-spangled banner'' is played on the public address system each morning
but miss sprague, 17, says her patriotic expression is a ``spontaneous reaction to the music.''
nevertheless, she has spent the last three weeks in the school office each morning. katherine janis, her homeroom teacher, said the singing and humming was part of ``noisy and disruptive'' behavior on the student's part
it's not a matter of discipline, it's a matter of the right of a student to participate in singing the national anthem,'' said miss sprague, a member of the school's concert choir
her mother, jane sprague, said she backs her daughter
it's hard for me to believe that a school supported by local, state and federal taxes won't let students sing the national anthem if they want to,'' mrs. sprague said. ``i've never been anyplace where the anthem was played that singing it wasn't welcome.''
the controversy began last month when miss sprague began humming along with the anthem. she was reprimanded by ms. janis
the next day miss sprague sang, quietly she says, and quickly found herself in the assistant principle's office for a lecture on homeroom behavior
the issue went public when miss sprague wrote a letter to a local newspaper protesting her case
rebecca tougas, a member of the student council's executive board, said the council will take up the issue in a survey of the school's 1,600 students
this is a pretty patriotic school,'' rennick said. ``the flag is everywhere. george washington is on the walls. it's not a question of patriotism, it's a question of who's in charge.'' casualties, higher injury toll in hospital attack, other details. no pickup.</note>
iran and iraq said they fired more missiles into each other's capitals for the fourth straight day today. iraq said women and children were killed in baghdad and iran said 13 people were killed in tehran
iran also said 20 people were wounded when a missile hit a hospital in tehran
the missile exchange is the first time both belligerents have bombarded each other's capitals with missiles since the persian gulf war began in september 1980. it is also the worst escalation of the so-called ``war of the cities'' since it began in early 1985
iran has listed 30 killed and more than 130 wounded in tehran since the iraqi missiles began crashing into the capital monday afternoon. it said another five people were killed in an air raid on the northern town of rasht wednesday
iraq has given no official breakdown of its casualties since monday, when iran fired two missiles into baghdad, a city of 5 million people. the official iraqi news agency has reported only that ``many civilians'' have been killed or wounded, but given no figures
the news agency said iraq lobbed two surface-to-surface missiles into tehran soon after dawn. iraqi warplanes also bombed dezful in western iran and the southern city of shiraz
it said the iraqi pilots ``destroyed their targets, leaving them gutted by fire.'' it did not elaborate
tehran radio said the air strikes hit residential areas, killing 13 civilians and wounding 40
that raised to 24 the number of missiles the iraqis claim to have fired since tuesday into the iranian capital, which has a population of 6 million
the iraqi agency also said another missile was fired into the holy city of qom, the cradle of iran's islamic revolution and south of tehran, around daybreak, when moslems pray
the iraqis said they have fired three missiles into qom since wednesday morning. the iraqi agency was monitored in nicosia
tehran's official islamic republic news agency, also monitored in nicosia, said that revolutionary guards fired two missiles into baghdad early today
that brought the number of missiles iran says it has launched since monday to 10. iraq has so far acknowledged that eight hit baghdad
tehran radio quoted military communiques as saying the iranian missiles were aimed at iraq's intelligence headquarters and a center of the ruling baath socialist party
iraq said both missiles hit residential areas, killing or wounding ``a number of civilians, including women and children.''
the agency quoted a military spokesman in baghdad as saying iraq ``will make the rulers of iran taste real agony.''
baghdad's army daily, al-qadissiya, declared: ``whole iranian cities will be wiped off the map and our missile strikes will include other cities besides tehran
the number of missiles we have used so far is only a sample of what we have in store to deter the enemy once and for all.''
irna quoted kamal kharrazi, a member of iran's supreme defense council, as declaring in tehran that iran is ``quite capable of continuing the war of the cities'' until baghdad stops its ``inhuman attacks.''
until monday, iran had fired 37 missiles into baghdad, but the iraqis had not launched any in retaliation
western military analysts believe both sides are using soviet-made ss-1 missiles, known as scud-bs. western military analysts were unsure how many the two belligerents had before they began their long-distance dueling
the iraqis are believed to be firing scuds fitted with strap-on boosters to extend their normal 190-mile range to hit tehran, 290 miles from the iraqi border
iran does not have problems with range as baghdad is only 80 miles west of the battleground frontier
irna quoted a revolutionary guards communique as warning that iran's ``retaliatory operations, including missile and artillery attacks, on iraqi cities will continue powerfully and severely until the baghdad regime stops its vicious acts.''
the missile strikes were the first on qom, although iraqi warplanes bombed the city several times in january last year. qom, a city of 250,000 residents, is about as far from the border as tehran
here are some comments thursday by participants in the two-day nato summit
all of us understand the absolute necessity of maintaining the credibility of our deterrent. we will never trade that credibility away at the negotiating table and we won't give it away through neglect.''
we must not be naive, but we must show flexibility, which will enable dialogue, which will have an effect on (soviet leader mikhail s.) gorbachev's actions,'' mitterand was quoted as telling his fellow summiteers

margaret thatcher, britain, on modernizing nato's nuclear arsenal:
everyone in that room recognized that you don't deter with obsolete or obsolescent weapons ... it is ridiculous to say that you do.''

chancellor helmut kohl, west germany, on modernization:
he said this was ``absolutely not the time to talk about modernization. it will not be necessary to do it before'' the early 1990s

prime minister rudd lubbers, netherlands:
(the communique) gives the flexibility to choose the moment and where and how to modernize.''

foreign minister giovanni andreotti, italy, on the nato communique:
the basis for the statement is political cohesion coupled with military readiness.''
michigan would return to a presidential primary election in 1992 under a bill unanimously approved by a legislative committee
the senate government operations committee voted 7-0 wednesday to replace the current caucus system of selecting presidential convention delegates with a primary election on the third tuesday in march four years from now
i'd rather have a system more open than we have'' under the bill, said sen. dick posthumus, r-alto, sponsor of the measure. but he noted that democratic objections to allowing ``crossover'' voting _ democrats voting in republican races and vice versa _ forced the party preference provision
however, unlike michigan's earlier presidential primary, voters would have to designate a party preference at least 30 days before the election in order to vote. the party preference would be in effect only for the presidential primary election, and not for other primaries or general elections
delegates
republican presidential candidate george bush picked up 24 delegates in new york this week by virtue of his opponents' failure to file delegate slates in eight of the state's congressional districts
and successful challenges to non-bush delegate slates in other districts, if upheld by the courts, could leave the vice president with at least two dozen other delegates running unopposed
the board of elections on tuesday wiped two slates of delegates supporting bob dole off the the april 19 primary ballot, one day after stripping the kansas senator's slate and one backing new york rep. jack kemp from the ballot
the petitions were rejected mainly because they did not contain the required 1,250 signatures of registered republicans, or were signed by republicans living outside the congressional district the petitions were filed for
at stake in new york are 102 delegates, three from each congressional district. the republican state committee will designate 34 other delegates after the primary
vice president george bush and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis emerged as the favorites in a quinnipiac college poll of connecticut voters taken before the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary, the college said
the poll was based on telephone interviews between jan. 25 and feb. 2 with 818 registered voters and showed that a large portion was undecided on a favorite candidate for connecticut's march 29 primary
the poll, the first of the quinnipiac college polling institute sampled, 256 republicans, 316 democrats and 212 unaffiliated voters. it asked voters of each party which candidate they would pick among those running in their party. unaffiliated voters were given a choice among candidates of both parties
among the registered republicans surveyed, 43.4 percent favored bush. sen. bob dole of kansas was in second place with 20.5 percent, while rep. jack kemp of new york was third with 4.1 percent. the other republican candidates polled less than 2 percent, while undecided republicans totalled 25.4 percent
of the democrats polled, dukakis had 32.6 percent of the vote, followed by gary hart of colorado with 13.4 percent and jesse jackson of illinois with 10.3 percent. sen. paul simon of illinois had 4.8 percent, while none of the other candidates polled more than 1.4 percent. registered democrats who said they were undecided totalled 30.9 percent
the poll's margin of error was plus or minus five percentage points, the college said wednesday
gov. john waihee has thrown the support of hawaii's democratic party leadership behind the presidental campaign of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, abandoning the uncommitted stance he and other party leaders had taken
i think the game is on the line tuesday. we can stand on the sidelines and watch, or we can get into the game,'' waihee told a news conference wednesday, while dukakis listened in from miami, fla., on a telephone conference call
i'm sitting here glowing,'' dukakis said, describing waihee as ``a man who has shown great wisdom in his choice of presidential candidates.''
waihee said the dukakis endorsement has the backing of hawaii's u.s. sens. daniel inouye and spark matsunaga and u.s. rep. daniel akaka, lt. gov. ben cayetano and other democratic leaders
waihee said he is encouraging democrats to vote for dukakis in hawaii's super tuesday precinct elections which will include a presidential preference vote that will be binding on at least 20 of hawaii's 28 delegates to the democratic party national convention
u.s. rep. buddy darden, d-ga., has endorsed sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee for the democratic nomination for president
darden, a democrat from marietta, said in a statement released wednesday s office that he has been impressed by gore's ``strong stand for maintaining a national defense second to none
he realizes that all the rights and privileges guaranteed by the constitution depend on the preservation of our freedom and independence,'' darden said
he is the youngest candidate in the field and the only one who served his country during the vietnam conflict,'' he said. ``he knows firsthand the challenges of low-intensity conflict which america faces in the world today.''
he said he decided that gore offers ``the best overall plan for leading america toward the challenges and opportunities of the 1990s and beyond.''
texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower has endorsed jesse jackson for the democratic nomination for president, saying jackson is carrying a populist message to voters and speaking for the little guys
i am here today not merely to endorse a presidential contender but to make a statement of conscience, to stand as a matter of principle with one who has stood consistently for the needs of the many against the greed of the few,'' hightower said
jesse jackson is speaking in a clear and an articulate voice to an ignored majority of the american people whose lives have been frustrated, if not actually flattened, by the economic policies of recent years,'' the popular commissioner told a crowd of about 400 wednesday in the texas senate chamber
jackson called hightower's endorsement ``an historic moment'' for his campaign and said it marks ``a revival of the soul of the populist movement'' in the united states
california backers of mario cuomo say they have about half the 22,500 signatures they are seeking to try to place the new york governor's name on california's june 7 democratic presidential primary ballot
but state officials say that even if the draft-cuomo committee succeeds in collecting 22,500 verified signatures of california voters by the march 24 deadline, they still won't add his name to the ballot unless cuomo authorizes the petition drive
the law and party rules make no provisions for unauthorized slates (of delegates). even if they get their signatures, we can't place his name on the ballot,'' said secretary of state spokeswoman caren daniels-meade
you've got to have an official steering committee named by the candidate. he has to be at least partially a willing participant,'' daniels-meade added
our strategy all along has been to get the signatures and then take her (california secretary of state march fong eu) to court to obtain an order placing the governor's name on the ballot,'' said los angeles attorney steven polard, head of the california draft cuomo for president committee
four canadians and nine soviets set off today on an icy, 1,073-mile ski journey over the north pole, from the northernmost point of the soviet union to canada
the soviet news agency tass said the cross-country skiers waved goodbye to observers at cape arctic on the northern tip of severnaya zemlya and headed north in single file. the expedition is expected to take more than three months
led by dmitri shparo, the group planned to make its way from this northern extreme of the soviet archipelago, known simply as ``northern land,'' across the pole and to cape columbia in the canadian artic
the joint expedition was originally planned for 1980, but the canadians backed out when soviet troops intervened in afghanistan's civil war
shparo, 46, led a soviet polar ski trek in 1979, and the head of the canadian team, 28-year-old richard weber of old chesea, ontario, skied the cape columbia-north pole segment in 1986. this will be the first transcontinental ski trek
the most interesting part for me will be the social factor of being in a very small tent with a large number of people for a very long time,'' weber told reporters who visited the ski team's headquarters in dickson, the soviet arctic circle settlement that is the northernmost city in the world
canadian teammate laurie dexter, an anglican minister from fort smith, northwest territories, said the tent is about 15 feet square
there are inevitably frayed nerves and tensions, but all of us are experienced enough and mature enough to let those things pass and get on with the expedition,'' he said
shparo said his biggest fears about the journey are thin ice at the start and finish and encounters with open water caused by drifting ice floes
last time, vasily had to swim twice, and the second time the temperature was minus 30 degrees,'' shparo said, referring to vasily shishkarev, a member of the 1979 soviet expedition and a radio operator on this trek
the skiers will be equipped with rubber rafts, and the soviets will be carrying hunting rifles in case they run into dangerous wildife
they plan to maintain radio contact with three polar weather stations that can relay distress calls to dickson. should a medical emergency develop, or an accident occur, an aeroflot plane can be summoned, weather permitting, shparo said
the ski team includes two doctors, max buxton of calabogie, ontario, and mikhail malakhov of moscow
malakhov is responsible for carrying out medical experiments on his teammates to help doctors understand the effects of extreme weather conditions on the human body
yuri khmelevsky, the chief researcher on the expedition, is looking for a second magnetic pole
he explained in an interview at expedition headquarters that strong magnetic pulls have been recorded by ships and planes in a soviet region below the pole
if it exists, we will find it on this trip,'' khmelevsky said
the skiers will have supplies delivered to them by plane, but their packs and equipment weigh up to 95 pounds when fully loaded
the expedition itinerary envisions five drops of food and supplies
other team members include canadian scientist chris holloway, soviet cameraman vladimir ledenev, radio operator anatoli melnikov, equipment manager anatoly fedyakov, photographer alexander belyayev and artist anatoly fyodyakov
most of the skiers are using soviet-made wooden skis. statistic. pick up 8th pvs, `heroin smuggled...'</note>
well out of sight of tourists strolling along the spectacular royal mile between edinburgh's medieval castle and holyrood palace, the scottish capital is grappling with a double epidemic of drug abuse and aids
the graceful old city, whose arts festival draws 600,000 visitors each summer, is becoming stigmatized as a european center for drug-related aids
unlike the rest of britain, where drug addicts account for only 7 percent of aids carriers, needle-users make up 60 percent of the infected population in scotland and the majority live in edinburgh. the sharing of contaminated needles is one way that the aids virus is transmitted
the number of full-blown aids cases in scotland remains low _ 39 at the end of 1987 _ but 1,500 people in edinburgh alone are thought to be carrying the aids virus, an undetermined proportion of whom will eventually die. the city of 440,000 inhabitants has reported 824 confirmed aids carriers since mid-1983
thirty-nine babies born in edinburgh hospitals since 1985 had aids antibodies, indicating their mothers were infected. it is not known how many of the babies will develop aids
acquired immune deficiency syndrome destroys the body's natural immune system. throughout most of western europe and the united states, it has been confined largely to male homosexuals, although it also affects hemophiliacs and intravenous drug users. about 25 percent of u.s. aids victims are intravenous drug users
in edinburgh, aids is spread mainly through the sharing of needles
heroin smuggled through england's southern ports doubles in price by the time it reaches this northern city and is so adulterated that a dose becomes ineffective when inhaled or smoked
edinburgh addicts, therefore, tend to inject drugs
there's a peculiar sort of scottish characteristic here,'' explained chief inspector douglas kerr, edinburgh's drug squad chief. ``people didn't want to see themselves as being soft or lacking guts. so anyone who failed to use heroin by injecting was seen as copping out.''
also, needle-sharing ``is part of the scene in the same way that a reefer is passed around at a party,'' he said. ``it's the social thing.''
several specialists said a crackdown on drugs helped create a needle shortage and may have quickened the spread of aids by forcing more addicts to share
they're driving people, almost, into injecting,'' said ray de souza, head of simpson house, a drug rehabilitation center
but kerr said experts were jumping to conclusions for want of any other explanation for edinburgh's predicament
with an estimated 2,000 to 3,000 drug abusers in edinburgh, many of them prostitutes, health officials are worried that aids will spread into the general heterosexual population
it's the scale people are concerned about,'' said carol skidmore, a psychologist with the edinburgh drug addiction study, a research unit based at the west granton medical group. she said the infection rate among women due to sexual contact with male addicts was 13 percent to 14 percent
an 11-doctor group in muirhouse, a grim blue-collar district known as ``smack alley,'' has 300 drug abusers among its 18,000 patients. ms. skidmore said 56 percent of the addicts are infected with the aids virus _ and the clinic is having trouble coping with them
dr. george bath, aids coordinator for the lothian health board, which is responsible for an area of 745,000 people in edinburgh and lothian county, said the aids epidemic has created heavy demand for screening and counseling
but so far, there's been minimal pressure on hospitals because most of those carrying the virus are still well. ``the situation,'' he said in an interview, ``is the calm before the storm.''
drug abuse exploded in scotland's inner cities in the early 1980s amid rising unemployment, social deprivation and plentiful heroin. edinburgh was hardest hit, although the industrial cities of glasgow and dundee also experienced sharp rises in drug trafficking
while scottish officials cracked down on heroin, many addicts simply switched to prescribed drugs, mainly painkillers and tranquilizers, creating a new set of problems
we're finding that a lot of drug abusers are coming in to get prescriptions for drugs because they're not able to get heroin,'' ms. skidmore said in an interview
they always want more than we're prepared to give. ... really, it's like a bottomless pit. you could just keep throwing prescriptions at them and they would just keep using them.''
worse yet, she said, most addicts who switched from heroin were taking prescription drugs in liquid form and still injecting them despite the danger of aids
last year, the government set up 15 pilot centers in british cities, including edinburgh, glasgow and dundee, where addicts can swap old needles for new
scottish health minister michael forsyth said in an interview that he has extended government funding for the scottish projects through the end of march, but said preliminary results have been disappointing. the dundee clinic, for example, closed after only six weeks
a recovered alcoholic who was fired for missing 389 days of work in three years has successfully sued his federal employer for job discrimination because he didn't receive legally mandated counseling
a federal judge ruled that clarence ferguson, 48, should be allowed to re-apply for his job as a purchasing agent and ordered the government to give him more than $150,000 in back pay
ferguson said he didn't know he had a drinking problem until he began attending alcoholics anonymous meetings regularly in 1984 after his dismissal from the national wildlife fisheries service
a government worker for 20 years, ferguson said he used to drink a pint of gin daily. he doesn't drink now, he said
u.s. district judge elizabeth kovachevich, in a ruling tuesday, cited a federal law requiring all federal agencies to ``make reasonable accommodations'' for handicapped workers, including those who are alcoholics and drug addicts
this is a very specific federal mandate that says the federal government has to take certain steps that the private sector doesn't have to,'' said ferguson's lawyer, roger benson
attorneys for the government argued they couldn't offer ferguson counseling before firing him because he never told them he was an alcoholic. he never smelled of alcohol, never staggered and didn't sneak drinks, they said during a non-jury trial last month
but kovachevich ruled he was legally crippled by alcoholism and that his employers should have helped him get counseling before dismissing him. his absenteeism should have been a tipoff, she said
attorneys for the department of commerce, which controls the fisheries service, declined comment on whether they will appeal
the u.s. supreme court is scheduled to hear arguments that could legally define alcoholism as a disease and carry consequences for the private sector
the nation's highest court agreed last october to hear a challenge filed against the veterans administration for excluding alcoholism from a list of illnesses and disabilities that veterans can claim when seeking more time to apply for education benefits
the va policy defines alcoholism as ``willful misconduct.''
an 18-year-old man who shot and killed his best friend during an argument over a pet ferret was sentenced to four to five years in prison
michael l. james, sentenced wednesday in douglas county district court, said he would always regret the shooting of david klotz, 20
i'd like to say something to his parents that i haven't said,'' james said. ``really, i'm sorry.''
james shot klotz in the head sept. 6 at the apartment they shared. witnesses told police james threatened to kill a pet ferret because it had fleas. klotz protested and james shot him after a struggle, authorities said
judge jerry gitnick sentenced james to three to five years in prison for manslaughter and to one additional year for using a weapon in the commission of a felony
he originally was charged with second-degree murder but pleaded guilty to the manslaughter and weapon charges. mediator</head> contra comment. pick up 4th graf pvs: `nicaragua previously...' edits thereafter to conform and tighten.</note>
the government for the first time offered to hold peace talks with contra rebels inside nicaragua and recommended they be conducted without a go-between because past mediation produced no results
president daniel ortega said wednesday the talks should be held march 10-12 in the nicaraguan town of sapoa near the costa rican border. he also said his brother, defense minister humberto ortega, would lead the sandinista delegation
it was the first time the leftist sandinista government proposed negotiations in nicaraguan territory with the u.s.-backed rebels, and it would be the highest-level sandinista delegation to meet directly with the contras
in miami, the contras had no immediate response to the proposal, but a spokesman said today they viewed it with suspicion
we are following the situation closely and with concern,'' said jorge rosales, spokesman for the nicaraguan resistance, umbrella organization for rebel groups. ``we have to have first-hand information.''
the sandinistas have violated the peace accords and don't honor their own signature,'' he said
nicaragua previously demanded that the rebels accept a government amnesty as a condition for meeting inside nicaragua. until now, the highest-ranking sandinista negotiator has been a deputy foreign minister
ortega made the announcement after meeting for 20 minutes with cardinal miguel obando y bravo, who mediated two rounds of cease-fire talks with the contras
the last round of negotiations broke off feb. 19 in guatemala after the cardinal declared an impasse. the first meeting, in costa rica, was noted both for its cordial atmosphere and lack of progress
ortega said he decided ``to take the bull by the horns'' because obando y bravo's efforts to halt the 7-year-old war had produced no results
erick ramirez, leader of the opposition social christian party in managua, said the cardinal's dismissal ``will mean an increase in war and violence ... because the cardinal had the confidence of the people.''
i expressed to cardinal obando my concern over time passing by and that, as he himself had said, we must take the bull by the horns and that a direct contact at the highest level and here in nicaragua would be very important because it would make the job of the mediator unnecessary,'' ortega said
the peace talks are being conducted under a central american peace plan signed last august by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, costa rica, guatemala and honduras
ortega publicly thanked obando y bravo for his efforts, adding: ``we would not have reached this decisive moment where we will put to the test the will to work for a cease-fire if we had not had his contribution in this first phase when there was no direct contact with the counterrevolution and when the role of the mediator was necessary and indispensable.''
i hope they can find peace now, even if i am not there anymore as mediator,'' obando y bravo told the associated press a few hours later. ``i have often said that a mediator is necessary when both parties want him. i hope they find peace and put an end to the war, the suffering.''
we worked a lot. there were many problems at first. they (the government) refused to meet in central america first, then they did; then they had refused to meet in nicaragua, now they are proposing it,'' the cardinal said
ortega said: ``they (the contras) cannot have any excuse now. they themselves have requested the highest level talks possible and in nicaragua. this is a delegation of the highest level.''
before wednesday, ortega had insisted the contras seek a government amnesty forcing them to pledge to stop fightingbefore they would be allowed into the country to hold cease-fire talks
obando y bravo sent a letter to ortega earlier wednesday calling for a resumption in truce talks. ortega left him a letter in reply, outlining his decision proposing new negotiations without a mediator
the cardinal said he had read the letter to leaders of the nicaraguan resistance
the regional peace plan calls for cease-fires in civil wars in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala; as well as amnesties, greater democracy, the end of using a country's territory to launch attacks on a neighbor and a halt to outside aid to insurgents in the region
a university dean has confirmed that a man accused of a slaying in his home is his former lover, but says he was not pressured into resigning because of the scandal over the killing
timothy j. lyons, dean of youngstown state university's college of fine and performing arts, on wednesday confirmed a police affidavit that identified the defendant as his former lover
brian scott blevins, 22, of boardman, is charged with murder in the feb. 12 death of kenmore b. drake. blevins is in jail in lieu of $250,000 bond
drake, 21, was staying at lyons' home while lyons was in california visiting his daughters. lyons said he and drake were friends, not lovers
it is essential to the police case to establish my homosexuality, that scott blevins and i lived as lovers,'' lyons, 43, told reporters wednesday. ``i don't resent that people know something is true. i have a problem with the way people react. ... my homosexuality is so damned irrelevant to my profession.''
youngstown state officials announced tuesday that lyons would leave his post monday because of ``difficulties'' resulting from drake's death. university officials have not commented on the situation, other than to issue lyons' resignation statement
drake, a youngstown state senior, was stabbed about 50 times with a pair of scissors, the mahoning county coroner's office says. blevins was not a university student
lyons said he persuaded the university's board of trustees to consider his resignation and that he wasn't pressured to quit
lyons said he's upset that people are allowing his homosexuality to overshadow the fact that ``a good man is dead.''
lyons said he planned to leave the area after his testimony if the case goes to trial. he said he didn't know if he would stay in academics
lyons is to be paid his salary, $59,000 a year, through dec. 31. he joined youngstown state as dean in 1985. 4th graf pvs, `the secretary...; minor editing to conform.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz, resuming mideast peacemaking efforts, said today the reagan administration remains opposed to bringing the palestine liberation organization into negotiations
shultz arrived in london for two hours of talks with king hussein of jordan. before leaving nato headquarters in brussels, he told reporters, ``the current u.s. policy toward the plo is the same as it has been for years
we don't talk to the plo or deal with them as long as they do not ... basically state their readiness to deal with the state of israel as a fact of life that's going to be there,'' shultz said, ``and as long as they don't renounce terrorism and violence. those are the conditions.''
hussein has reportedly been in london for dental surgery
the secretary, who was to travel to jersualem after seeing hussein, said that any arab-israeli settlement must ``deal with the legitimate rights'' of the palestinians. shultz said he did not expect, during his return trip to the middle east, to meet with palestinian leaders in the israeli occupied lands
i don't see any way to do that, but of course i would like to do that as soon as possible,'' he said
president reagan announced wednesday that he was sending shultz on a new round of talks with mideast leaders in search of a formula for negotiations to end the 40-year arab-israeli dispute
on friday, in a fast-paced sequence, he will meet separately with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, go to egypt and syria for talks with leaders there _ and immediately fly home
his hope is that he can narrow the differences over who should be at the negotiating table and over the outline of an eventual settlement
hussein and syrian president hafez assad are pushing hard for participation by the soviet union and the palestine liberation organization. shamir, meanwhile, is resisting the u.s. call on israel to exchange territory for peace with the arabs
reagan made the decision to recommit shultz and u.s. prestige to the so-far unsuccessful search for peace after shultz reported on his first, four-day meeting the arabs and israelis
it is clear all countries in the region believe it is useful for the united states to remain engaged in this process,'' reagan said. ``we will spare no effort in our search for a comprehensive peace settlement.''
shultz, interviewed on ``cbs morning news'' today, said that since he consulted here with reagan, ``i feel as though i have something to say that comes from the president, and my discussions with him, and i'll go around and say it.''
the idea _ which so far hussein and shamir have not accepted _ is to quickly defuse the disturbances on the west bank and in gaza with a two-step plan
first, arrangements would be made to transfer immediately to the 1.5 million palestinians in the israeli-held territories control over their daily affairs
then, by december, israelis, jordanians and palestinians would meet on an overall settlement of the middle east conflict
hussein is insisting on an active role by the soviet union in shaping a settlement and the direct participation of the plo, which is accused by israel and the united states of fomenting terrorism
he is also demanding the withdrawal of israel from all the land the arabs lost in the 1967 six-day war
shamir has offered autonomy for the palestinians and is trying to fence out the soviets, who do not have diplomatic ties with jerusalem. he has resisted yielding territory
shamir said in jerusalem on wednesday that shultz ``is making a laudable attempt to move the peace process forward and get negotiations started between us and jordan.''
but he told members of the conference of presidents of major american jewish organizations that israeli withdrawal from occupied lands would have ``disastrous consequences,'' arguing the ultimate goal of arab leaders was to destroy israel
a u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said hussein did not ``throw cold water'' on the u.s. initiative but also did not endorse it
if i had to describe the situation, i would say that nobody has signed up to our proposals, but everybody wants us to keep working,'' shultz said tuesday in tel aviv
asked during the cbs interview about palestinian participation in any peace talks, shultz said that hussein has said that palestinians must be present ``so they can speak'' and said the israelis ``fully agree with this.''
shultz said ``the king's idea is that they be part of a jordanian-palestinian delegations.''    admits lying</head>
a mistrial was declared in a reverse discrimination case of four white police officers after chicago's former head of police admitted he lied under oath
u.s. district judge paul e. plunkett declared the mistrial wednesday in the $12 million lawsuit, in which four officers say they were demoted because of their race and for political reasons. the judge said former police superintendent fred rice's admission and reasons he cited for lying tainted the jury and undercut the case
matthew piers, an assistant corporation counsel for the city who represented rice, said it was ``ridiculous'' when asked if rice could face perjury charges. ``it is not a possibility at all,'' piers said
u.s. attorney anton valukas would not comment
piers had argued against a mistrial, telling the judge that rice's admission harmed no one but himself. ``a mistrial is a gross injustice to the defendant's case,'' he said
but plunkett did not agree. he said he would rule april 13 on a request for a default judgment in favor of the four officers
a few months after the 1983 election of harold washington, the city's first black mayor, rice was named as the first black police superintendent, and 25 white officers were demoted
four officers are seeking $12 million from the city, maintaining they were demoted because they are white and because they supported washington's democratic primary opponent, former mayor jane byrne
rice said politics had no part in any reassignments during his years as police superintendent
in court tuesday, rice said he concealed his real reasons for demoting a number of ranking white officers to protect their reputations and preserve police morale. he said ``negative information'' was a factor in the demotions
rice, 61, said he lied in depositions taken in october 1984 and august 1985 when he was still superintendent. he retired last year
rice's unexpected admission brought an angry response from edward theobald, attorney for the plaintiffs, one current and three former officers
you know it's a felony crime, and you deliberately lied when you were sworn to tell the truth,'' theobald contended
that's right,'' said rice, who said ``there were extenuating circumstances that caused me to say the things i did.''
i tried to be as considerate to those people as possible,'' the former police chief said. ``i felt i was protecting the reputation of all the people i reduced.''
theobald requested the mistrial and asked plunkett for a default judgment
in a telephone interview late wednesday, theobald said that if the judge rules in the officers' favor, a jury would be chosen to set damages. if plunkett denies the default judgment, a new trial would begin
lt. col. william higgins, the american marine kidnapped in lebanon two weeks ago, has been selected for promotion to the rank of colonel
higgins, a military aide to former defense secretary caspar w. weinberger before assuming a temporary assignment as the head of a united nations observer detachment last summer, was listed today along with 78 other lieutenant colonels selected by a promotion board for advancement
higgins is no. 28 on the list of 79 and would not actually receive the new rank for another year at the earliest. the marine promotion board was formed early this year to screen a field of 165 men and women. higgins was kidnapped on feb. 17
higgins, 43, was in lebanon because he had been assigned to temporary duty with the united nations heading a group of observers attached to the u.n. truce supervision organization
a decorated vietnam combat veteran, higgins served as the junior military assistant to weinberger for two years, from june 1985 to june 1987
a drunken argument between two men over the edibility of the food they were eating ended with one man shot dead, and his nephew has been charged with murder, authorities said
robert e. new jr., 19, was being held in the mobile county jail today on a murder charge in the wednesday slaying of his uncle, james gilbert new, 59, a jailer said
it appears the men were drinking all day and they began to argue over the quality of the biscuits they were eating,'' said sheriff tom purvis. ``sometimes it doesn't take a lot to set some people off.''
purvis said the shooting occurred at the uncle's home
philip henry alston jr., a confidant of former president jimmy carter and former ambassador to australia, has died. he was 76
alston died wednesday after a short illness
an influential atlanta lawyer, alston raised millions of dollars for the university of georgia and began supporting carter politically after meeting him in 1966
carter lost the governor's race that year to lester maddox, but alston was chairman of carter's successful gubernatorial bid in 1970. he was chairman of the committee for jimmy carter when carter was elected president in 1976
as president, carter appointed alston ambassador to australia
survivors include his wife, a son, a daughter and five grandchildren
the mother of u.s. sen. richard g. lugar was reported missing early today by relatives, but she was found unharmed in illinois by mid-morning, according to a spokesman for the senator
we assume that she was driving around and got disoriented,'' andy fisher, an aide to the indiana republican, said from washington
bertha lugar caldwell, 81, may have gotten disoriented while driving late wednesday in indianapolis, which is about 70 miles from the illinois state line, fisher said
fisher would not specify where mrs. caldwell was but said she was ok and at a hotel. relatives were en route
there was no foul play involved,'' said wendy snitko of the indianapolis police department
fisher said a doctor probably would examine mrs. caldwell in indianapolis but that her health ``has been fine all along.''
it is one of these things that happens from time to time with older people. she may have gotten disoriented.''
mrs. caldwell was reported missing about 1:30 a.m. today by her stepdaughter, lynn caldwell
she had last been seen wednesday night driving in the city's northside
sally lugar, wife of the senator's brother thomas, said she received a call late wednesday from a friend who said she had seen mrs. caldwell driving her car at the christian theological seminary
with the weather, we were a little concerned,'' mrs. lugar said. ``i called at her home. when i didn't get an answer, i went over. it's been a long night.''
there was rain, freezing rain and sleet in the area during the night
wrapped in a clear plastic sheet to ward off drizzle, jacqueline smith today sat on a sidewalk and protested plans to make a civil rights museum out of the small motel where martin luther king jr. was killed
ms. smith, who was forcibly evicted wednesday from the lorraine motel, said she would stay in front of the motel as long as she could
i don't mind being a little uncomfortable,'' she said. ``i'll try to sit here as long as my body allows.''
ms. smith said several friends dropped by during the night to offer food and encouragement and two supporters took turns sitting with her until daybreak
she was carried from the motel by shelby county sheriff's deputies who deposited her just outside an 8-foot chain-link surrounding the lorraine, which was closed last month to make way for an $8.8 million museum
you people are making a mistake. you people are making a mistake,'' ms. smith sobbed as the deputies evicted her
the lorraine was closed jan. 11, but ms. smith ignored repeated requests to move from her room, about 25 feet from where king was felled by an assassin's rifle slug
ms. smith, who has lived and worked at the lorraine for 11 years, argued that the motel should be turned into shelter for the homeless, not a museum. she argued a museum will speed efforts to gentrify her low-income neighborhood
the lorraine, which has fallen into disrepair over the years, was bought at a foreclosure auction in 1982 by a group pushing plans for a museum
the state has appropriated $4.4 million for the project and city and county governments have agreed to match that. the state has title to the property and will build and operate the museum, scheduled to open in 1991
king was in memphis to help organize a strike by city sanitation workers. james earl ray, a prison escapee from missouri, pleaded guilty to the killing and is serving a 99-year sentence at the southeast tennessee regional prison near pikeville. add quotes from mother, correct captor's name to `for freedom' sted `of;' changes byline. no pickup.</note>
west german hostage ralph rudolf schray was freed by his pro-iranian shiite moslem kidnappers in beirut today and turned over to the west german embassy in damascus, officials said
an embassy employee in damascus, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he saw schray being escorted into the embassy at around noon. the 30-year-old industrial engineer was kidnapped jan. 27 and released before dawn
he is still inside, resting and waiting for his wife,'' the employee said. ``a car has been sent to beirut to bring her.''
a military source at the syrian command in beirut, also speaking on condition of anonymity, told the associated press that schray was driven to the syrian capital, 56 miles east of beirut, under heavy syrian escort
in a statement issued in bonn, foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher thanked the syrian government for its help. a ministry statement said schray was in good physical condition
schray, a lebanese-born west german, was seized in moslem west beirut. a shiite faction, holy warriors for freedom, on wednesday claimed responsibility for his abduction
the group also claimed responsibility for kidnapping two other west germans in beirut in january 1987. it is believed headed by the brother of two lebanese shiite moslems who are being held in west germany on terrorism and kidnapping charges
schray's mother, fahima schray, called her son's captivity ``the most terrible days of my life. it was so difficult.'' mrs. schray was interviewed in fort myers, fla
i couldn't sleep last night one minute. this morning, everything has changed completely, as if i'm a new woman,'' she said
schray's lebanese wife of six months, rana mounla, and his uncle, george abu nassar, left by car for damascus carrying a suitcase of clothes for the freed german
i'm going to see him,'' a beaming mrs. schray told reporters. ``i'm taking clothes for him.''
she indicated that she planned to return to beirut with her husband from damascus. ``when we're back together in beirut tomorrow we'll both talk to you,'' she said. she declined to elaborate
abu nassar, a wealthy lebanese businessman of palestinian descent, refused to talk to reporters
there are still 22 foreigners missing after being kidnapped in lebanon. they include nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
the holy warriors for freedom made its claim in a typewritten arabic statement released to the reuters news agency in beirut. it was accompanied by a recent snapshot of schray
the statement said schray could be released within hours as a result of mediation by syrian president hafez assad
abdul-hadi hamadi is reputed to lead the holy warriors for freedom, and he also heads the security apparatus of the pro-iranian hezbollah, or party of god
hamadi's brother, abbas hamadi, is on trial in west germany on charges of kidnapping west germans rudolf cordes and alfred schmidt in january 1987 in beirut
those kidnappings allegedly were to pressure the bonn government into releasing a third hamadi brother, mohammed, who is being held in frankfurt on terrorism charges
in their statement wednesday, the kidnappers said that while they were negotiating with the west germans over schray, ``a mediation team from the brothers in syria, led by president assad, gave a chance for a new round of commitments that made the case of the german schray head for a solution within the coming hours.''
the hamadi brothers are still in germany. the release (of schray) is goodwill gesture no. 2,'' it added
schmidt, 47, was released sept. 7 as a goodwill gesture. cordes, 53, is still in captivity
mohammed hamadi has been indicted in the united states on murder and air piracy charges in connection with the june 1985 hijacking of a twa jetliner in which 39 americans were held hostage and a u.s. navy diver was killed
he was arrested jan. 13, 1987 when he arrived at frankfurt airport carrying explosives. the bonn government last year turned down a u.s. request for his extradition, saying he will be tried in west germany on similar charges
cordes was kidnapped in beirut on jan. 17, 1987, and schmidt seven days later, on jan. 21, 1987
abbas hamadi was arrested also upon arriving at frankfurt airport jan. 26, five days after schmidt was abducted.  
the mother of a west german industrial engineer freed early today after being kidnapped in lebanon five weeks ago said the news ended the ``most terrible days of my life.''
farina schray said she was waiting for word from her only child, 30-year-old ralph rudolf schray, who was abducted jan. 27 in moslem west beirut
schray was freed unharmed before dawn today by shiite moslem kidnappers and taken to damascus. he was reported in good physical condition
it was so difficult,'' said ms. schray, who is visiting her son's uncle. ``we were praying all the time. ... it was the most terrible days of my life.''
ms. schray said that during the ordeal she has maintained contact with her son's wife of six months, rana mounla
ms. schray said she wasn't sure how long she will stay in florida or if her son will come here. if he doesn't, she will probably return to her beirut home in a week or so, she said
the syrian government was credited with mediating the release of schray, a lebanese-born west german. since march 1985, 22 foreigners have been kidnapped in lebanon, including nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman and indian and two unidentified men
longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985
a meteorologist says it would have made ``all the difference in the world'' if national weather service forecasters had passed along information about a thunderstorm that downed delta airlines flight 191
william haggard also criticized a weather service meteorologist assigned to monitor weather near dallas-fort worth international airport for going to dinner 40 minutes before the crash
flight 191 crashed aug. 2, 1985, while attempting to land at dallas-fort worth during a severe thunderstorm, killing 137 people and injuring 25 others
delta is suing the government, claiming the failure of weather service employees and air traffic controllers to warn the flight crew of the storm was a primary cause of the crash
the national transportation safety board concluded that the crash was caused in part by the pilot's decision to fly into an area of potential wind shear, a violent downdraft of air beneath thunderstorms
the l-1011 widebody jet was hit by such a downdraft while approaching the runway, and slammed into airport water tanks and exploded into flames
haggard, who owns a private meteorological consulting firm in north carolina, said wednesday that government meteorologist richard douglass should not have left his post for more than 10 minutes on the evening of the crash because conditions suggested dangerous weather might be ahead
i think all the difference in the world would have been made if he (douglass) had been there and been alert,'' haggard said. ``he would have had the opportunity to call the (control) tower and warn them.''
justice department attorney kathlynn fadely has argued that the delta flight crew knew of the thunderstorm in its landing path when co-pilot rudolph price spotted lightning about 1{ minutes before the crash
haggard testified that while douglass was at dinner, a second forecaster stationed at stephenville, southwest of fort worth, spotted signs of a storm but telephoned his warning to the weather service in fort worth instead of the airport control tower. he said weather service officials failed to relay that warning in the minutes before the crash
the non-jury trial will determine whether the government must pay part of $91.2 million in claims that delta's insurers have paid so far in connection with the crash
the senate voted overwhelmingly today to prohibit most employers from using lie detectors to screen job applicants and randomly test the honesty of employees
on a 69-27 vote, the senate passed a bill by senators edward m. kennedy, d-mass., and orrin hatch, r-utah _ normally adversaries on labor-management issues _ over the objections of a small group of conservative republicans
a similar but more stringent ban was approved last november by the house. differences between the two versions must be resolved and a compromise passed by both houses
sen. dan quayle, r-ind., a leader of the opposition, predicted that president reagan would sign a polygraph bill despite a vow by administration officials last year that they would encourage him to veto it
the administration does not have the backbone at this time to veto this bill,'' quayle complained. ``they have folded up shop, caving like a house of cards.''
sen. thad cochran, r-miss., another opponent, predicted that denying employers the opportunity to screen job applicants using polygraph examinations will raise consumer costs through increased thefts on the job
kennedy and hatch, however, said no one has presented any statistics in states where use of the test already is prohibited to demonstrate a higher incidence of theft or embezzlement
hatch called the softening of the administration's opposition ``encouraging.''
some 320,000 honest americans are branded as liars every single year because of these devices,'' he said. ``that's a stigma they are going to have to wear every day the rest of their lives and careers.''
kenneday said the polygraph has become ``to the 20th century what witchcraft was two centuries ago.''
we're going to see the day where the average worker is going to be able to walk into the workplace with dignity and self-respect,'' he said. ``these devices are no longer going to scar people in ways that they and their families can never forget.''
the senate voted after quayle, cochran and sen. phil gramm, r-texas, dropped plans to introduce three more amendments aimed at weakening the ban
the house version would ban all use of polygraph examinations in private industry except for security personnel and pharmaceutical companies
while imposing the same prohibitions on lie detectors to screen job applicants, the senate measure would allow their use to investigate incidents of ``economic loss or injury'' such as alleged thefts or other criminal acts, but only under strict regulations to be enforced by the labor department
hatch said the compromise acceptable to many retailers and other companies plagued by thefts was formulated primarily by leaders of the 1-million-member united food and commercial workers union
honest people each year are branded as liars,'' hatch said, because of false results from polygraph tests often administered in 15 minutes and in ways that minimize their accuracy
conversely,'' he said, ``it is a regrettable fact that employees steal. this bill addresses both concerns by barring use of polygraphs where they are most likely to make a false identification but permitting the use of these tests where they are likely to be most accurate ... in conjunction with the investigation of a specific incident.''
before any test, employers would first have to file a police report, insurance claim or report to a regulatory agency _ or sign a statement detailing their reasons for testing a specific worker
and the tests would have to be administered under strict guidelines to be developed by the labor department requiring at least 90 minutes for each exam
violations could result in fines of up to $10,000 each, and employees or job applicants would have the right to file civil suits against offenders
disciplining or firing employees for refusing to take the test or for failing it without additional supporting evidence of wrongdoing would be prohibited
administration officials have said they would urge president reagan to veto the house version as an unwarranted federal intrusion into labor-management relations and pre-emption of state regulations
the administration also has gone on record opposing the senate measure but not in as strong terms
kennedy, citing reports from the congressional office of technology assessment and the american medical association that the tests give false results 15 percent to 50 percent of the time, called lie detectors ``inaccurate instruments of intimidation.''
we know that in most applications, the devices cannot be trusted,'' he said. ``it is time to put an end to their unacceptable misuse that unfairly places so many workers' jobs in jeopardy.''
the legislation was prompted by an explosive growth _ ``like wildfire,'' according to kennedy _ in the use of lie detector tests by employers over the past eight years
an estimated 2 million people are now subjected to the tests each year, double the number just three years ago, according to kennedy. he and hatch estimated their bill would outlaw about 85 percent of those tests
like the house, the senate voted wednesday to also exempt security guards, armored car companies and firms that install and service security alarms from the prohibition
and it extended the house exemption to include workers at nuclear power plants and contract employees hired by the government with access to classified information
however, it rejected several other amendments aimed at weakening the ban, such as allowing the tests if employees request them and exemptions for airline, railroad and other employees in the transportation industry
a woman located through income tax errors has pleaded guilty to escaping from a federal women's prison 10 years ago, but even a prosecutor cites her good behavior since then
mary hughey cantrell, who failed to return from a 1977 christmas furlough, pleaded guilty wednesday in federal court in beckley to a charge of escape from the alderson federal correctional institution. she was returned to the prison to await her april 22 sentencing
the charge carries a maximum five-year sentence and a $5,000 fine
federal public defender ira kirkendoll said cantrell, 40, originally from north carolina, moved to arizona shortly after her escape and apparently remained law-abiding while working for several years as a maid in private homes and resorts
it's pretty unusual, the length of time,'' kirkendoll said. ``apparently she has reformed to some degree.''
even assistant u.s. attorney kirk brandfass said the woman's decade of crime-free living, aside from maintaining a false identity, should be considered at sentencing
my heavens, that ought to count for something,'' brandfass said outside court
u.s. marshals wouldn't allow an interview with cantrell, who had been sentenced to three years after a 1975 conviction for passing counterfeit money
she was paroled in may 1976 but was returned to the alderson prison in early 1977 after a parole violation, and has about 470 days left to serve on her original sentence
she was arrested jan. 5 in phoenix, ariz
during her 10 years of freedom, cantrell acquired an acquaintance's identification cards. she was discovered after the internal revenue service spotted a discrepancy in income tax returns for a woman who had never worked in arizona
then it was a matter of running the paychecks back to where they were earned,'' brandfass said. ``and it zeroed in at phoenix, ariz. i'm told she was pretty stunned when the marshals showed up to get her.''
education secretary william j. bennett today renewed his call for sexual abstinence among teen-agers as their best defense against aids, and said he and surgeon general c. everett koop are not as far apart on the issue as perceived
bennett was responding to a statement by retired adm. james d. watkins, chairman of president reagan's aids commission, that one of the panel's main tasks is to resolve seemingly differing opinions in making its recommendations this summer
commenting on publicized differences between bennett and koop over what emphasis to place on urging sexually active people to use condoms, watkins said, ``whether it is real or non-substantive, it is a real perception out there.''
watkins said many witnesses have told the commission they fear top federal officials are sending ``equivocal messages'' to the nation on aids prevention and that it is important for the federal government to speak with one voice on the issue
dr. koop and i are very close, extremely close,'' said bennett. `'i think koop and i agree 95 percent of the way. it's all right for the surgeon general and the secretary of education to speak a little differently about these things.''
he compared it to a young woman or man who might discuss ``what he or she is doing'' with a doctor with a counselor
the doctor's advice would probably emphasize the medical aspects, as it should,'' said bennett. ``the teacher or counselor's advice might emphasize other things. some shading of difference is ok. some measure of disagreement is ok.''
when the american people ask for leadership, they are not saying, `we're a bunch of dummies, tell us what to think','' said bennett, ``they want to know our best thinking. and if our best thinking diverges on some points, they can handle it.''
although saying he agrees that people, including teen-agers, need to know that condom and spermicide use offers the only protection against contracting aids sexually, bennett said it was a matter of emphasis
what he fears, he said, is teachers going through ``a kind of incantation'' on abstinence and sexual monogamy in aids prevention classes, ``then proceeding for the rest of the class to talk (to teen-agers) about how to protect themselves.''
it's like saying, don't smoke, but if you do, smoke low tar. don't drink, but if you do, keep it to 70 proof. i think these are equivocal messages.''
koop told the white house aids commission earlier in the week that while it is important to recommend abstinence, ``i think it is also realistic to understand that sexually active teen-agers are unlikely to reverse their pattern and go backward, and therefore prevention for them has to be our third line of defense. ... we have to teach them about the protection of themselves and others through the use of condoms and spermicides.''
a former football star who now is a college athletic director has been charged with first-degree murder in the 31-year-old slaying of a reputed whiskey runner, police said
bobby hoppe, 53, of ringgold, ga., and athletic director at chattanooga state technical community college, was arrested wednesday after a hamilton county grand jury indicted him for the 1957 shotgun death of teddy donald hudson in north chattanooga
hoppe's arrest followed a 14-month investigation by two chattanooga detectives who interviewed at least 45 witnesses after reopening the case, police said
hoppe was a suspect in the original 1957 investigation, said police spokesman freeman cooper
allegations were made during that investigation that hoppe had shot hudson over his (hoppe's) sister, whom hudson was dating at the time,'' cooper read from a statement. ``however, police could not develop enough evidence to arrest him.''
after hudson, 24, was shot to death in a car near his home, police investigated the possibility that the slaying was related to the moonshine liquor business, for which hudson had served time previously
the investigation was reopened after hudson's mother, georgia, talked with detectives following a meeting of families and friends of murder victims, a support and counseling group
at the time of the slaying, hoppe was a starter on the alabama polytechnic institute, now auburn university, football team that went on to win a national championship. before that, he was an all-state player at chattanooga's central high school
hoppe, who was released after posting $7,000 bond, said wednesday: ``my attorney has told me not to make a statement. ... i am not going to answer more questions.'' builds</head> from reagan, other details. no pickup</note>
many shuttered stores reopened today and opponents of the regime of gen. manuel antonio noriega pondered their next move as a general strike wound down
president reagan indicated today he believes noriega must go. secretary of state george p. shultz said economic sanctions against noriega's government were being ``considered carefully.''
local banks, closed since the strike began monday, were to reopen at midday. at least two factories in the city's main industrial park _ a ghost town for the past three days _ resumed work this morning, with others preparing to do so
anti-riot police made a show of force early today along calle 50, the scene of disturbances tuesday and wednesday. at least three truckloads of the troopers _ whose corps is called the ``dobermans'' _ took up positions at strategic intersections
leaders of the national civic crusade said they would decide tonight whether to call off the strike, which has lasted longer than any of the five shutdowns staged last year by the opposition coalition
a member of the joint chiefs of staff, meanwhile, was quoted by a panama city newspaper as denying reports that noriega was purging his armed forces
national assemblyman guillermo cochez, of the opposition christian democratic party, said wednesday at a news conference that noriega had ordered the early retirements of two colonels and two majors he suspected of wavering loyalty
but joint chiefs member col. leonidas macias told the pro-government newspaper ``la estrella'' that ``here everything is normal and no one has been retired or dismissed.''
on wednesday, organizers called the strike their most successful yet. the united states also stepped up economic pressure on panama's military strongman
doctors on wednesday joined businesses in the strike. organizers said they would increase street demonstrations that have brought scattered violence to the capital
reagan was asked in brussels, where he attended a nato summit, if he thought noriega should relinquish power
yes,'' the president responded. he did not elaborate
shultz called noriega ``bad news'' but said that no decision had been made on sanctions
noriega, chief of the 15,000-strong defense forces, has run the country since 1983. he was indicted in the united states last month on charges of trafficking in cocaine
in june, his former second-in-command went public with charges that noriega was involved in election fraud, corruption and political assassinations. noriega has denied those accusations
in washington, u.s. officials confirmed wednesday that they will ask u.s. banks to freeze panamanian government assets and delay payment of panama canal tolls to the military-dominated government
panama is thought to have up to $50 million on deposit in seven u.s. banks and its share of canal fees comes to about $7 million a month
the sanctions were recommended by william d. rogers, whose washington law firm represents panama's deposed president, eric arturo delvalle
the u.s. officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the state department was acting on the rogers recommendations because it recognizes delvalle as panama's lawful head of state
elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for latin american affairs, told cable news network in washington that the state department would advise american bankers to withhold funds from the panamanian government
delvalle is president of panama. and noriega has been fired and he does not have legitimate authority here,'' he said
manuel solis palma, installed as panama's new chief of state, said wednesday that he had no official knowledge of the u.s. plan
delvalle attempted to fire noriega last week, prompting the noriega-controlled national assembly to remove him. delvalle went into hiding, apparently in panama
strike organizers claimed ship traffic through the panama canal was halted for an hour wednesday by panamanian workers
the panama canal commission said traffic was normal. the commission also said it received two phony bomb threats wednesday and tuesday, adding that they had not disrupted operation of the waterway. agreement. pick up 4th graf pvs: `soviet leader...' edits thereafter to conform and trim.</note>
negotiators in the u.n.-sponsored afghanistan peace talks agreed today that the soviet union should withdraw its 115,000 soldiers from the country within nine months
afghan foreign minister abdul wakil announced the agreement and told reporters that half the troops would leave within the first three months
wakil said the accord was reached during 2{ hours of meetings that u.n. mediator diego cordovez conducted separately today with afghan and pakistani representatives
nothing important stands in the way of concluding a settlement,'' wakil said. the accord on the timetable had been expected after the gap between the two sides' positions had narrowed from an original 43 months to two months in almost six years of negotiations
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev last month had said moscow would bring home its troops within 10 months starting may 15 provided a settlement is signed in geneva by march 15
cordovez planned to brief u.s. and soviet officials later, including deputy u.s. secretary of state robert peck, sources said
soviet troops entered afghanistan in 1979 and replaced the communist government with another communist regime. they have been helping the government fight anti-communist moslem guerrillas
a new u.n. report said success at the geneva talks may leave a primary problem unresolved: the return of more than 5 million afghan refugees who fled the war to neighboring pakistan and iran
the head of the pakistani delegation, acting foreign minister zain noorani, told reporters that islamabad wants a broad-based transitional government to be set up, but would not specify when that should be done
we are firmly convinced that a settlement without creating circumstances of peace and stability in afghanistan will not pursuade 5 million afghan refugees ...to return,'' he said
asked when such a government should take office, he said the timing depends ``on when efforts to bring about a settlement among the afghans can be visibly seen and when we are able to pursuade all parties concerned '' to establish it
before the new round got under way wednesday, cordovez reaffirmed that the future makeup of the kabul government is outside the scope of negotiations
the soviets also have said they are not interested in influencing its composition
the u.n. report, prepared for the 43-nation u.n. human rights commission, warned that most refugees were unlikely to return unless the afghan government is replaced by one that includes opposition and refugee representation
the report also says the human rights situation in afghanistan has improved, though there is evidence political prisoners are still being tortured and killed
the regime of president najib is backed by little more than the 115,000 red army troops
the ``national reconciliation'' policy najib proclaimed more than a year ago has failed, austrian jurist felix ermacora, special investigator for the 43-nation u.n. human rights commission, says in the 29-page report
ermacora visited refugees in pakistan and government-controlled areas of afghanistan in january
he says in the report that most refugees he spoke with said they would return only when ``the foreign troops had withdrawn and a government in which they had confidence had been established.''
government sources were quoted in the report as saying there were 3,147 political prisoners in january, though more than 7,000 had been released under amnesty decrees
but the report cites ``reliable reports'' that political prisoners had recently been killed in the kabul area and that there had been torture in ghazni province
it says the new afghan constitution makes no provision ``for free, secret and universal elections to the national assembly'' in balloting to be held by june. ermacora says he doubts the najib regime will allow multi-party participation
the united states last year gave an estimated $700 million worth of military assistance to the 200,000 guerrillas. up 4th graf, `if they;'' deletes last 6 grafs to shorten.</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis accused rival democratic presidential candidate richard gephardt today of trying to impose ``a $50 billion burden on the nation's economy'' with an oil import fee and ``duck-and-hide'' trade barriers
dukakis, barnstorming across texas in quest of the biggest super tuesday primary prize of 183 delegates, defended his own opposition to an oil import fee, which many in the ailing texas oil industry have hoped for
on a visit to mp industries, a successful small business that makes rubber parts for oil field drills, dukakis said the missouri congressman wants to return the united states to ``policies that almost destroyed us 50 years ago.''
if we adopt congressman gephardt's policies, we'll have a trade war, and nobody benefits from a trade war,'' said dukakis
there's always somebody around who suggests that: throw up the walls, hunker down,'' he said. dukakis claimed his administration would foster ``a competitive america, one that doesn't duck and hide but stands up and competes with the best of them.''
an oil import fee ``will put a $50 billion burden on this nation's economy. we don't need that,'' said the governor, who favors creating incentives for small oil producers to start drilling again, repealing of the oil windfall tax, filling the strategic petroleum reserve, and increasing natural gas production
dukakis was traveling across texas today, from east texas to corpus christi to border towns to houston and on to west texas in his campaign for votes in next tuesday's primaries in 20 states
on wednesday, dukakis promised to fight to make all american workers eligible for basic health insurance on the job. he told uninsured workers at a free clinic in tampa, fla., ``it is very disturbing to meet american families who literally don't have a dime of basic health insurance
if they or their youngsters have to go to the hospital, they don't know how they're going to pay those bills. ... '' he said. ``it's just unconscionable.''
back home, the massachusetts house passed a dukakis plan to force employers with six or more workers to provide health insurance. the state senate is expected to follow suit within two weeks
dukakis predicted massachusetts' example will pave the way for a similar federal breakthrough, four decades after harry truman proposed national health insurance
thirty-seven million americans are uninsured, he said. ``it's time we decided in this country that one of the things you get along with your wages is basic health insurance.''
he claimed it could be done without ``creating a big new bureaucratic program. ... this will not cost the federal treasury a dime.''
asked how small businesses could afford it, dukakis said most businesses already provide insurance, and indirectly pay ``a hidden surcharge'' to cover hospitals' costs of treating the uninsured
richard posada, 32, a tampa carpet installer who makes $18,000 a year, told dukakis he went without insurance when he found it would cost him $240 a month
it's a gamble,'' said posada. then he found the judeo christian health clinic here, where care for his wife and two toddlers is free. ``they've treated us real nice here,'' the carpet layer said
dale smith, a lawn worker with high blood pressure and no insurance, told the candidate, ``this place has been a real blessing to me.''
dukakis said if all workers had insurance, ``we'd have clinics like this springing up all over the place.''
the massachusetts bill will cost the state $100 million, including aid for hospitals hit by big debts for indigent care
meanwhile, the massachusetts governor began airing a new television commercial attacking rival rep. richard gephardt and mocking gephardt's populist slogan, ``it's your fight too.''
the advertisement says gephardt is taking campaign contributions from ``big establishment power brokers'' and adds: ``kinda makes you wonder, is dick gephardt fighting your fight or theirs?''
in miami, where he was endorsed by the president of the embattled machinists' union at ailing eastern airlines, dukakis said, ``i hope i'll be the candidate who emerges from super tuesday with the largest number of cumulative delegate votes
if we can do that, then i think we're going to be steaming into illinois and we're going to be on our way to the nomination,'' said dukakis
dukakis did wednesday what a lot of visitors to florida do this time of year: visit a baseball spring training camp
but unlike ordinary tourists, dukakis actually got to stand in the boston red sox batting cage in winter haven for a turn at bat. in 10 swings against a batting practice pitcher, the onetime catcher on the brookline, mass., high school freshman team hit three foul balls, a pop into the cage and five grounders; and fanned once
tamil rebels disguised as soldiers attacked a village with submachine guns and automatic rifles and killed 16 people, a military official said today. most of the victims were woman and children
in a separate incident today, three rebels were killed in a gun battle with police manning a roadblock in the southeast
police chief s. wijesinghe of the ampara district said there were no police casualties. police seized a chinese-made t-56 rifle and a submachine gun from the slain rebels, he said
the military official said the 16 were killed wednesday at morawewa village, 27 miles west of trincomalee port on the eastern coast of sri lanka. he spoke on condition of anonymity according to regulations
the victims included nine children, four women and three men, he said. all were sinhalese except for one tamil. three people were injured
the official blamed the attack on members of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest rebel group. the tigers have been at the forefront of a four-year war for a separate tamil homeland and have targeted attacks on the majority sinhalese community
the tigers were blamed for the killings of more than 200 sinhalese in october last year soon after they renounced a peace accord aimed at ending the separatist war
more than 8,000 people have been killed in the tamil conflict since 1983. tamils, who form 18 percent of the country's 16 million people, claim that they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese, who form 75 percent of the population. 03-03 0482</first> disease</head> doctors...' to update with ross news conference today. adds byline.</note>
a victim of degenerative huntington's disease underwent experimental surgery in which doctors removed an adrenal gland and grafted the tissue onto the man's brain
it was the first time a patient with huntington's, a fatal disease marked by mental deterioration and uncontrollable movements, underwent a procedure that has shown promise in relieving symptoms of parkinson's disease, surgeons at vanderbilt university medical center said wednesday
it will be several months before we know if it works,'' said dr. george s. allen, chairman of the department of neurosurgery and director of vanderbilt's neurotransplant program
the 41-year-old patient was in critical but stable condition this morning, said john houser, a medical center spokesman
our hope is that this (surgery) is something that would dramatically affect this disease,'' dr. j.c. ross, associate vice chancellor for health affairs at vanderbilt, said at a news conference today. ``it is not a cure. our hope is that it might slow down the illness.''
surgeons said the procedure tuesday is similar to surgery performed at vanderbilt last year on 18 patients with parkinson's disease, a brain disorder characterized by rigidity and tremors
we aren't as likely to see improvement in symptoms as with the parkinson's surgery, but we hope this procedure will slow down or stop the progress of huntington's disease,'' said dr. noel tulipan, principal investigator on the project
vanderbilt doctors decided to apply the procedure to huntington's patients based on experiments on rats
the team hopes to perform more of the operations, depending on how many volunteers there are, ross said today
vanderbilt is searching for identical twins suffering from huntington's who might participate in the pilot study, he said. because twins' genetic makeup would be exactly alike, researchers could study the effects of the surgery by performing the operation on one twin and allowing the disease to progress naturally in the other, he said
houser said there is evidence that a naturally occurring chemical in the brain, quinolinic acid, may cause the degeneration seen in huntington's
experiments demonstrated that the adrenal tissue transplant could protect against the damage caused by the acid, he said
in huntington's disease, as nerve cells in the brain die, patients experience involuntary spasms of the face and body, slurred speech and trouble walking
the patient, whose name was withheld at his family's request, was diagnosed as having huntington's five years ago. the disease has caused him trouble talking and performing ordinary tasks, forcing him to quit working three years ago. he has a wife but no children
between 10,000 and 20,000 americans have huntington's disease, and 500 to 1,000 new cases occur each year
a judge who feared a key witness would not show up for the trial of two people charged in the drug overdose of their baby has ordered the witness jailed, while the parents are free on bail
this is obscene,'' attorney patrick mcneal said of his client, bruce chavez, who was ordered jailed wednesday as a material witness by orange county superior court judge francisco briseno
this is the worst miscarriage of justice that i've seen in recent years. it's ludicrous.''
gilbert delgado, 24, and his wife, debbie, 22, are charged with murder, child endangerment and drug possession in the september 1986 death of their 2-month-old daughter, stephanie. delgado was free on $100,000 bail and his wife was free on $50,000 bail
the trial of the costa mesa couple is scheduled june 20. chavez, mrs. delgado's brother, could be held until he testifies or posts $100,000 bail
chavez had told police that his sister and brother-in-law used cocaine regularly and that he had seen the drug and paraphernalia near baby bottles and bottle nipples
but when he was subpoenaed to appear at a preliminary hearing, he took extreme measures to avoid an appearance, said deputy district attorney rick king. the measures included sleeping in his truck or in parks, refusing to go home and changing his appearance
it wasn't until more than a year after the baby's death that the delgados were arrested because initial coroner's reports attributed the death to infant death syndrome, police said. three months later, tests revealed she died from cocaine overdose and the delgados were arrested last october
a woman has been reunited with her kidnapped child 10 months after the state took custody of the baby without realizing his identity
alisha wetselline-rodriguez held her son for the first time in more than 14 months wednesday and was so excited she could barely speak
i understand he has to get used to me,'' ms. wetselline-rodriguez said as she cradled her son at the home of the boy's foster parents, john and diane noster, in mesquite
family court judge harold gaither jr. returned the boy, eric, to ms. wetselline-rodriguez's custody wednesday after reviewing evidence from blood tests and testimony by a department of human services caseworker
eric was only 18 days old when he was taken from his home in dallas on dec. 9, 1986
last may, edica flores of east dallas took him to st. matthews cathedral. she told a priest that a woman she met in a park nine days earlier had asked her to take care of the child for a week while the woman went to houston to seek work
the woman never returned and dallas county assistant district attorney beverly storey said efforts to find her have failed
the state took custody of the boy may 4, and it wasn't until christmas eve that a caseworker's casual glance at a mass-mailed missing children's flyer led to the discovery of the child's identity
the parents of a groom in a drought-stricken indian state demanded that the bride's family give them an unusual dowry: water
two barrels of water have been delivered every day to the house of the groom, prashant pandeya, since his recent marriage, the united news of india reported thursday
under the dowry pact, the bride's parents, who have a steady source of underground water, must keep up the supply until the next monsoon, the news agency reported
gujarat and 15 other states have been hit by drought, the worst in india in a century
the parents of a bride normally give clothes, jewelry, cash, furniture or electronic goods as dowry to the groom and his family. although outlawed in 1961, dowry still persists
a japan railways labor union leader was clubbed to death early thursday by a group of men who broke into his home in an attack believed linked to fighting among radical groups, a police official said
masaru matsushita, chairman of the regional headquarters of the jr east japan workers union, was attacked by seven or eight masked men while alseep in his home in takasaki, about 70 miles north of tokyo, the police official said
he was the sixth labor union official killed since september 1986 in attacks believed linked to feuding among rival radical groups over union cooperation in the conversion of the government-owned japanese national railways into a private corporation in april
matsushita, 45, died later at a hospital. his wife and three children were uninjured, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity
police were searching for the attackers, who fled in a car after scattering needles on the road in front of matsushita's house
iraq said thursday it will issue a postage stamp depicting the long-range ``al hussein'' missile, which it has been firing into iran in a four-day blitz
the official iraqi news agency, which previously reported the missile is manufactured in iraq, said the stamp was ``intended to be an acknowledgement of the distinguished efforts of iraqi war industries personnel.''
the agency did not say when the stamp would be issued and gave no other details in its two-sentence dispatch, monitored in cyprus
a japanese man and his filipino wife were arrested on charges of smuggling 15 pistols and 71 bullets into japan, a customs official said thursday
akira taniguchi, 50, and his wife, leticia, 37, were arrested for smuggling in u.s.-made raven arms pistols and bullets hidden in a hollow table, the official said
the table was sent by air freight to tokyo's new international airport at narita on feb. 25, but it was so rough in quality that customs officials inspected it by x-ray, said the official, who would not allow his name to be used
police arrested the couple for violating japan's firearms and swords control law, which carries a maximum penalty of 10 years in prison
angry farmers smeared manure in a government office and smashed its computers to protest a planned levy on fertilizer, police said
a group of about 250 farmers stormed the netherlands manure agency building during a demonstration against the levy in this northern dutch town, said police spokesman eduard vissia
the levy, which is to be monitored by the manure agency, is aimed at curbing the mammoth manure surplus that threatens holland's water supplies
the farmers smeared dung all over the place'' after breaking into the building's computer room, vissia said
the protesters also destroyed computer equipment with farm implements before they were thrown out of the building by riot police, vissia said
no arrests were made. no damage estimate was made, although vissia said it probably ran into the tens of thousands of dollars
the surplus amounts to about 90 million tons produced annually by the netherlands' 14 million pigs, 5 million cows, and 92 million chickens
the oversupply stems directly from the common market farm subsidy system, which until recently stimulated large-scale animal husbandry operations
under the contested plan, farmers are required to pay the equivalent of 13 cents for every kilogram _ 2.2 pounds _ of manure they produce in excess of the permitted 275 pounds per 2{ acres of arable land, according to a spokeswoman for the dutch agriculture ministry
the levy soars to about 25 cents for every kilogram in excess of 440 pounds per 2{ acres
the farmers claim that the measures are punitive and demand that the government adopt and fund a project to distribute the manure more evenly over the netherlands through a system of pipelines
state prosecutors have filed charges against the former head of the agrokomerc company that issued almost $1 billion in uncovered promissory notes, it was reported thursday
state prosecutors filed the charge of making counterrevolutionary threats to socialist property against fikret abdic, 48, the former director of the firm, the official news agency tanjug said
seven of abdic's aides were similarly charged, and four were charged with abusing authority in the economy under especially grave circumstances, tanjug said
abdic was arrested last summer after yugoslav media uncovered the scandal surrounding agrokomerc and its practice of issuing uncovered promissory notes
he has already been charged with threatening the social system and embezzlement of social property. he faces a maximum sentence of 20 years in jail if convicted on all counts
the indictment against him may be altered during the trial, according to yugoslav law. no trial date has yet been set
agrokomerc once employed 13,500 people at its headquarters in velika kladusa and was touted as a model company. it has since laid off many employees and is kept running on loans from the republic of bosnia, where it is located
more than 30 people have been arrested in the agrokomerc scandal and charges may be brought against as many as 200 others
jail sentences of up to seven years have been passed so far on some local officials
a tentative settlement has been reached in the week-old cleveland teachers' strike, a federal mediator said today
i'm happy to say that the school board and the cleveland federation of teachers reached a tentative agreement and will be reporting back to their respective constituencies,'' jack buettner said late this morning. ``the parties will then review the details of the proposal at that time.''
details of the agreement were not disclosed, pending a ratification vote
superintendent al tutela declined to comment on when schools might re-open for the district's nearly 73,000 students
eugene kolach, president of the 5,100-member teachers union, said union negotiators will recommend to the union's executive committee that the tentative agreement be approved
early this morning, members of the cleveland school board said they believed progress was being made toward ending the strike
on tuesday, craig brown, chief negotator for the school board, had said talks seemed to be snagged on the issue of ``career ladder,'' a plan to hinge some pay raises largely on performance evaluations
the union's contract expired in september. teaching salaries range from $17,600 to $37,450, depending on education and experience. the average teacher makes $29,000 annually
tutela said the district's 2,951 non-teaching school employees, such as maintenance workers and janitors, were being laid off this week. the layoffs were to continue during the strike, he said. grafs for 2nd graf pvs; deletes grafs 18-19 pvs, gephardt also ... failing campaign.''</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis accused rival richard gephardt today of trying to impose ``a $50 billion burden'' on the nation's economy with an oil import fee, and republican rep. jack kemp added to the criticism the candidates are heaping on panamanian strong man manuel antonio noriega
sen. bob dole picked up an endorsement from former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick, which could give him a boost with some conservative republicans, and democratic sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee got endorsements from former virginia gov. charles robb and louisiana gov.-elect buddy roemer
one day earlier, george bush rebuked bob dole for implying that bush, as cia chief, may have had dealings with noriega. and gephardt was the target of stinging attacks by two democratic opponents
with southern exposure at a premium in the final five days of super tuesday campaigning, the candidates were saturating the airwaves with attacks and appeals, and barnstorming their way from lubbock to little rock
tuesday's 20-state round of primaries and caucuses is concentrated in the south. for both parties, more than half the delegates needed to clinch the nomination are at stake
today, in tyler, texas, dukakis defended his opposition to an oil import fee, which many in the ailing texas oil industry have hoped for. ``we don't need that,'' said the governor, who instead favors incentives for small oil producers, repeal of the oil windfall tax and other measures to increase u.s. production
kemp, in south carolina today, praised the reagan administration's move to keep panamanian assets in u.s. banks from going to the government run by noriega. and he pledged that if he becomes president and noriega remains in power, he will push for the senate to repeal the u.s. treaty with panama and regain control of the panama canal
on wednesday, dole and bush traded jabs as the two campaigned in louisiana. the kansas senator, in new orleans, hinted at a bush-noriega connection
there's some evidence (noriega) was on the cia payroll as far back as 1966. that's all i know,'' he said. bush headed the central intelligence agency during 1976 and 1977
dole offered no evidence that bush was aware of noriega's alleged drug dealing, but suggested that a lack of knowledge would be almost as damning
he says he made all these decisions at the cia,'' dole said. ``what were they? was noriega on the payroll when he was cia director?''
the vice president fired back from baton rouge: ``i find it amazing that a united states senator will talk about cia matters.''
i took an oath of office to protect sources and methods of intelligence and i would never discuss anything i was doing at the cia that would affect the national security,'' bush said, adding: ``i would point out that it's the reagan-bush administration under which mr. noriega is being indicted in florida for drugs.''
noriega is under federal indictment in miami on drug-trafficking charges
dole, acknowledging he's ``got a lot of catching up to do'' in the south, is running a commercial that ridicules bush for using the french phrase ``c'est la vie'' _ that's life _ in connection with textile imports that have hurt the economy in the carolinas
the ad touts an endorsement from south carolina sen. strom thurmond, pointedly noting that thurmond's southern-accented praise of dole is delivered in english
dukakis weighed in with an ad attacking gephardt, mocking the missouri congressman's populist slogan, ``it's your fight too.''
after charging that gephardt is taking campaign contributions from ``big establishment power brokers,'' the commercial concludes: ``kinda makes you wonder, is dick gephardt fighting your fight or theirs?''
gephardt also came under fire from tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who accused him of flip-flopping on issues. ``where he stands can change very quickly from day to day,'' said gore as he campaigned in wyoming, which holds presidential caucuses on saturday
gephardt took a campaign-trail detour down memory lane, returning to his hometown of st. louis. speaking at city hall, gephardt, who got his political start on the board of alderman, pointed to his former desk and said: ``it's great to be back on home turf.''
more to the point, he raised $25,000 at a springfield campaign reception and told supporters he'd pour the money into his super tuesday effort
while other campaigns may be borrowing and scurrying to raise money for super tuesday, we put the money on the table,'' he said
democrat paul simon was staying above the campaign-commercial fray. simon, citing a lack of funds, has bypassed active campaigning in the south to concentrate on his home state of illinois, which holds its primary march 15. even there, he's eschewing advertising
abe lincoln didn't do tv,'' said simon spokesman michael kreloff
jesse jackson was kicking off his first big media buy of the campaign season. his manager, gerald austin, said jackson had purchased $100,000 in air time in several super tuesday states
republican pat robertson, meanwhile, sought to score some political points by repeatedly invoking jackson's name
i see some signs here of my friend jesse jackson,'' the former television evangelist told a predominantly black crowd at the orangeburg campus of south carolina state college. ``what jesse has been saying is what i'm saying to you.'' chips</head>
president reagan's sanctions against japanese electronics imports have halted computer chip ``dumping'' but have failed to boost sales of u.s. chips in japan, an industry group said thursday
the semiconductor industry association said that by the end of 1987, the u.s. share of the japanese chip market was only 10 percent, the historical level and up only slightly from the 9 percent share that existed when the sanctions were announced last april
the association urged the reagan administration to leave in place $165 million in remaining sanctions on japanese electronics imports and said ``other measures,'' including additional sanctions, might be sought
it also requested new high-level consultations with government officials on the subject of computer component trade
in a joint statement, the semiconductor association, representing chip makers, and the american electronics association, representing users, called on the government to help open japanese markets further and to insure a ``fair allocation'' of chips to the u.s. market
the issue of access to the japanese market remains problematic,'' the semiconductor group said in a review of compliance with a 1986 agreement between the united states and japan on semiconductors
under that agreement, ``the foreign market share expected in japan by the end of 1987 was 12.3 percent,'' the report said
the 1986 agreement called for japanese companies to stop marketing computer chips in the united states and other markets at artifically low prices, a practice known as dumping. u.s. chip makers claimed the japanse pricing pratices were driving them out of business
another part of the agreement called for japanese companies to buy more u.s.-made chips, with foreign-based industries' share in japan to rise to a level slightly above 20 percent by 1991
japan's alleged failure to comply with terms of the agreement caused reagan to impose $300 million in sanctions on imports of japanese televisions, computers and power tools last april
the administration, in two installments, lifted $135 million of those penalties, citing progress by japan in halting the dumping. but it left $165 million in place, claiming lack of progress in the ``market access'' area
thursday's assessment by the semiconductor association backed up government claims that all dumping had ceased in the aftermath of the sanctions, both in the united states and in foreign markets
computer chips, or semiconductors, are the tiny electrical circuits that are the building blocks of computers and many other electronic devices
they are called semiconductors because the material from which they are made _ usually silicon _ is a poor conductor of electricity in its normal state but allows electricity to pass freely with the application of small amounts of light, heat or voltage
as a result of the battering american companies took from low-cost japanese imports, many u.s. companies stopped manufacturing basic categories of computer chips altogther, leading to a shortage currently. today's testimony, and deletes now redundant last graf.</note>
pizzerias and pep rallies, the normal elements of teen life, are part of a bizarre murder case in which the defendant allegedly killed a classmate for a thrill, then showed the corpse to friends who stayed mum for weeks about the macabre secret in the snowy woods
the case, which began unfolding wednesday in norfolk superior court, features accusations that a 14-year-old plotted the crime for nearly a month, sorting through a list of possible victims
it includes young friends, now his chief accusers, who told a shocked courtroom of viewing a dead classmate only hours after a pre-thanksgiving pep rally, then going with the alleged killer for a snack at a shopping mall pizza parlor
he said he wanted to know what it was like to kill somebody,'' robbie peterson, 16, testified about defendant rod matthews
matthews, now 15, is being tried as an adult for the nov. 20, 1986, bludgeoning of 14-year-old shaun ouillette. according to the prosecutor, the thin, bespectacled defendant coldly killed his victim with a baseball bat, then calmly lied to police about his victim's whereabouts
he was deliberate in the plan and put it into effect efficiently and effectively,'' said assistant district attorney peter casey
matthews' defense attorney painted another picture of the youth, that of a mentally ill child from a troubled home whose use of the prescribed stimulant ritalin contributed to his murderous actions
in this case is the insidious element of mental illness with the overlying thread of ritalin,'' attorney john philip white told the jury
under cross-examination today by white, 16-year-old jonathan cash said matthews was known for volatile behavior and was fascinated by fire
cash, in his second day on the stand, also testified that he sent an anonymous letter to police about ouillette's body in december 1986 after going to see the body by himself late at night and suffering several nights of troubled sleep
according to the prosecutor and testimony by peterson and cash, matthews began talking about killing someone about halloween of 1986. they said he eventually decided to lure a victim to a wooded area known as ``the pits,'' then beat him with a baseball bat. peterson said matthews also planned to cut off his victim's legs ``and toss them.''
i said why? ... he said, `just for the heck of it,''' peterson testified
the teen-ager, testifying in a barely audible voice, told how matthews named several potential victims before settling on ouillette, an overweight high school freshman who had moved to the community south of boston a year earlier
he said he (ouillette) would be the least missed, that he didn't have that many friends,'' peterson testified
peterson said he had warned other potential victims not to go to matthews' home, but although he knew matthews planned to lure ouillette into the woods with the promise of fireworks, peterson said he only told ouillette, on the day he died, to have matthews bring the fireworks to school
after school that day, peterson said he was playing with a radio-controlled car when he saw matthews walking down the street with a baseball bat. when he asked if matthews had killed ouillette, peterson said the defendant hesitated before admitting to the killing. the talk of murder was interrupted for a snowball fight with neighborhood children, peterson testified
peterson said matthews then agreed to take him to the murder scene
the teen-ager testified that matthews explained how he walked in ouillette's footsteps in the snow, then clubbed him in the head with a bat as the victim set off bottle rockets
he said shaun fell down and said `help me' and rod hit him again.'' peterson said matthews told him how he cleaned the bloody bat in the snow
ouillette's mother, jeanne quinn, sobbed as she heard the description of her son's murder. matthews stared at the wooden table without expression while his mother, janice, bowed her head
under cross examination, peterson said he would have gone for help if he thought ouillette was still alive. he also acknowledged telling authorities early in the investigation that matthews told him ``everything just went blank and he went after shaun.''
peterson testified that a week later, he and cash viewed the body again with matthews after the school rally. as the three rode their bicycles from the murder site to the mall, matthews warned his friends not to talk
rod said not to say anything,'' peterson said. ``he said it could happen to us. he said, `you never know.'''  picks up 6th graf pvs, `presiding judge...' ^by laurie asseo</note>
gov. evan mecham drew criticism at his senate impeachment trial for sending all 30 senators a statement pleading his case, but gained promises of $100,000 in defense funds at a raucous rally
several senators said wednesday it was inappropriate for the first-term republican governor to contact them because they are serving as his judges and jury. mecham attorney thomas crowe contended there was nothing wrong with the governor's action
the trial resumed today with testimony by department of public safety lt. col. james chilcoat on an allegation that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
chilcoat told about meetings that occurred before mecham was told about the alleged threat on nov. 13, 1987. ``it appeared to me that somebody was attempting to threaten a potential witness before a statewide grand jury,'' chilcoat testified
the senate today also threw out a subpoena of state grand jury records in connection with the alleged threat
in television interviews this morning, mecham said he hasn't broken any laws and will be found innocent if the senators listen to their constituents
the senate also was expected to consider whether to allow testimony intended to discredit dps director ralph milstead, the key witness on the death threat allegation
presiding judge frank x. gordon jr. said wednesday he would not allow testimony on allegations about milstead's sex life, but the senate could decide to overrule his decision. milstead has dismissed as ridiculous the allegation that he had an affair with an employee in 1982
mecham is accused of ordering milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat
mecham's former chief bodyguard, dps lt. beau johnson, testified he considered the alleged threat to be a possible felony and that he fully informed mecham of the seriousness of the matter
in cross-examination, defense lawyer fred craft suggested the alleged threat by then-state official lee watkins against former top mecham aide donna carlson was a ``political matter,'' not a crime. but johnson testified, ``i did not really think of it in the political sense.''
at the time of the alleged threat, ms. carlson was scheduled to testify before a grand jury on a $350,000 campaign loan mecham is accused of concealing. watkins has denied he told state official peggy griffith that if her friend ms. carlson did not keep her mouth shut she might ``go on a long boat ride.''
craft might become a grand jury witness himself, some senators said, because he attended the meeting at which johnson has testified that he told mecham of the alleged threat. minority leader alan stephens, a democrat, said he believes senate rules allow a senator to ask that craft be called as a witness
stephens also said many senators were questioning whether it was appropriate that mecham sent senators a copy of a public statement he made saturday arguing that the senate trial be delayed until after his march 22 criminal trial on charges of concealing the $350,000 loan
democratic sen. jesus higuera displayed the statement on the senate floor and urged fellow lawmakers not to read it
i hope governor mecham understands the oath we have taken,'' higuera said. ``it's inappropriate to attempt to communicate with us.''
but crowe said, ``it's a political proceeding. ... the senators have received communications from many people pro and con. i don't see why the governor should be any different.''
mecham, who also faces a may 17 recall election, received a $50,000 check from supporters at a $20-a-person rally wednesday night in tempe. the rally by 4,000 people would raise more than $100,000 after expenses, said organizer john thomas
this morning, on nbc's ``today'' program, mecham said there is a ``groundswell'' of support for him because ``people are now seeing what's happened, that this is an attempt at a railroad job.''
mecham told abc's ``good morning america'' that now that the trial is being televised ``there's great reaction from the people.''
the governor also told ``cbs this morning'' that he wasn't attending the impeachment trial because he expected to return to office and ``was keeping track of some things. .... i don't want everything to get clear out of hand.''
among those in the wildly cheering crowd wednesday was a man in a train engineer's cap, signifying the ``railroading'' of the governor, and a woman in a kangaroo costume, symbolizing a ``kangaroo court.''
mecham, 63, was forced to step down pending the trial after the house impeached him feb. 5. in addition to the death threat and loan allegations, he is accused of misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership
a two-thirds senate vote is required to convict mecham, the first u.s. governor in nearly 60 years to face an impeachment trial
meanwhile, acting gov. rose mofford, a democrat, fired one of mecham's top aides, max hawkins, saying he had ``engaged in a number of personal attacks on state elected officials.'' hawkins said he was fired because he is a whistle-blower
hawkins has accused rep. jim skelly, chairman of the house impeachment committee, of interfering on a friend's behalf in a state racing commission investigation. skelly responded wednesday on the house floor that hawkins is ``a pathological liar, and it's not surprising because he works for governor mecham, and governor mecham wouldn't know the truth if it bit him in the nose.''
crowds thronged to holiday festivals across the country and 25 people were trampled to death during celebrations in two cities, it was reported thursday
at least 220 people were injured during the celebrations wednesday of the lantern festival, which falls 15 days after the lunar new year
eighteen people were crushed to death and 113 were injured in xining, capital of qinghai province, when 100,000 people who turned out to watch a lantern procession panicked, the official xinhua news agency said
seven people were trampled to death and another seven injured in lankao county, henan province, as a crowd of 20,000 dispersed after watching a fireworks show, xinhua said
the ministry of public security issued an emergency circular thursday calling attention to the problem of crowd control and safety
the lantern festival traditionally closes two weeks of celebrations that draw big crowds to admire the colorful and elaborate lanterns on display
american requests to europe to spend more for nato's defense will fail if the appeals are based on u.s. budget deficits, defense secretary frank carlucci said thursday
instead, the united states must convince the other 15 members of the north atlantic treaty organization to increase nato's budget because it is in the best interests of the alliance, carlucci said
as carlucci was speaking, president reagan and other nato leaders were winding up a two-day meeting of alliance leaders, their first such session since 1982
carlucci, speaking to the senate budget committee, echoed reagan's call for nato to go ahead with its previous plans to build a new generation of non-nuclear weapons to defend against a soviet attack
criticism of nato has long been popular on capitol hill among legislators of both parties, who complain that western european nations don't pay enough of the common defense bill
that criticism has increased in recent months, particularly because rising u.s. budget deficits have led congress to target the pentagon as a chief method of cutting federal spending
i think we need to approach a burden-sharing undertaking as an effort to strengthen the alliance, not as effort to solve our budget problems,'' said carlucci
if we go to the allies and say we've been obliged to cut our budget, therefore you have to make up the difference, i predict a lack of success,'' he said
on the other hand, if we're able to exercise leadership,'' nato may go along with previous plans to improve weapons, despite political opposition in europe, carlucci said
sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., chairman of the committee, noted that ``the lion's share of the load (borne by nato) has been carried by the united states.''
while u.s. wealth is less compared to the years after world war ii, he said ``the contribution we make to our alliances remains very high.''
and so it seems reasonable to ask how those with new wealth _ acquired in a world made more stable by american sacrifice _ might carry more of freedom's burden,'' he said
sen. james exon, d-neb., suggested that public criticism is the not the best way to win increased defense budgets in europe and suggested that ``quiet diplomacy'' be used
nato-bashing at this time is not the way to solve the problem,'' exon told the committee
the united states is becoming more and more reliant on its partners in nato, said adm. william crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff
with respect to risks, the 1989 budget recognizes that a coalition strategy has become more _ not less _ important to the united states,'' he said
similarly, it (the budget) was structured to preserve and optimize u.s. contributions to the collective security of nato europe and our allies in asia,'' crowe said
we are not well positioned, however, to fill the gaps if, for one reason or another, some of the allies decide to reduce defense spending levels, shed defense commitments, or trim back on conventional force improvements,'' he said
the transportation department today proposed widespread drug testing covering tens of thousands of airline employees and said such tests are needed to ``maintain public confidence'' in the aviation system
the proposal, due to take effect in several months, would cover pilots, flight attendants and other workers involved with safety or security
aviation unions have strongly opposed widespread testing, agruing that no evidence has been produced showing drug use to be a significant problem among the nation's airlines
but transportation secretary jim burnley said that the tests are needed because ``all it takes is one person on drugs in one of these sensitive airline jobs to endanger the lives of hundreds of innocent people.''
the regulation, when it takes affect after a period of public comment, would require a broad range of testing including pre-employment tests, random tests and post-accident tests
employees covered by the proposal would include all flight crew members as well as aircraft dispatchers, mechanics and security workers at airport screening checkpoints
i firmly believe that drug testing, especially random testing, is absolutely critical in our efforts to create a drug-free aviation system for the american people,'' burnley told a news coinference
allan mcartor, administrator of the federal aviation administration, which will enforce the new regulations, said that the testing program, although controversial, is ``essential to maintaining public confidence in flying (by) ... insuring a drug-free aviation workforce.''
the airline pilots association and unions representing flight attendants have strongly opposed plans for widespread testing, arguing it is an invasion of privacy when no safety threat has been shown
congress has been debating legislation that would require drug testing in various forms of transportation, including aviation and railroads, but no legislation has been approved, partly because of strong labor opposition
for thousands of people fleeing communist vietnam, the fishing towns and beaches of thailand's east coast were once steppingstones to the west, easy to reach by boat
but with nearly 12,000 new arrivals last year, thailand has cracked down on the refugees. marine police and navy boats intercept and turn away the ``boat people,'' over protests by the united states, the united nations and western aid agencies
western officials are concerned at what they see as an erosion of the principle of ``first asylum,'' or temporary haven for refugees from indochina
authorities have quietly turned away some boat people for years. but in january, bangkok declared for the first time that its policy includes expulsions, and mounted a blockade of waters bordering cambodia. most of the vietnamese pay for passage on smugglers' boats from cambodia
the thais say the vietnamese are not fleeing political persecution, but are seeking better economic conditions. they said the migrants add to the country's already sizable burden of illegal aliens and threaten national security
most are not refugees. the war ended 13 years ago,'' said somporn klinpongsa, the deputy permanent secretary of the interior ministry. he referred to the 1975 communist victory over the u.s.-backed south vietnam government
before they came in on small boats. now we try to stop them,'' somporn said as he pointed to waters off this district in trat province where many vietnamese attempt to land. he was guiding foreign diplomats on a recent marine police boat tour of the coast
somporn claimed 30,000 ``economic migrants'' were waiting at cambodia's major seaport, kompongsom, to take boats into thailand
u.s. ambassador to thailand william a. brown told a congressional hearing in washington last week that a thai fishing vessel reportedly rammed a boat carrying vietnamese, resulting in drownings
western aid officials said a number of vietnamese drowned when smugglers trying to evade the blockade forced them to swim to islands off trat. at least two people died of illness as more than 500 vietnamese on the islands for a while had no regular source of food, water and medical care. there is concern that others may be stranded, unknown to authorities
nearly a million indochinese have fled to thailand since the communist takeovers in 1975, and in recent years the thais have bitterly complained that the west has reneged on pledges to resettle them
according to the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees, about 117,000 vietnamese, laotians and cambodians remained in thai refugee camps at the end of may 1987
as of january, there were 16,040 vietnamese in camps in thailand
western nations, meanwhile, resettled 5,275 vietnamese in 1987. the numbers dropped from a high of 26,574 in 1981 to a low of 3,391 in 1982, the office said
the overall number of indochinese resettled in 1986 was 26,804, about 4,400 fewer than in 1985
the thai government toughened policies on laotian and cambodian migrants last year
it clamped down on the vietnamese after almost 12,000 arrived in 1987, triple the number the previous year, and reports surfaced that local officials in trat were involved in the smuggling. the governor and provincial police superintendant were among those who have since been transferred
most vietnamese refugees travel overland to cambodia. there, with the help of a network of smugglers, they board chartered fishing boats that try to slip into trat at night. the route is much shorter and safer than the traditional passage across the gulf of thailand to the southern coast
electronics, vehicle spare parts and strategic contraband regularly are smuggled to cambodia and vietnam aboard the boats
somporn said boats that are intercepted are given fuel, food and medicine and told to turn back out to sea
at first, authorities also towed back out to sea hundreds of vietnamese who had already made it to shore. somporn said such people now can stay, but will no longer be sent to phanat nikhom, a camp near bangkok where western countries interview indochinese for resettlement
instead, they go to camps near the cambodian border where chances of resettlement are slight and they risk danger from the war between cambodian guerrillas and vietnamese troops occupying the country
although somporn claims most of the refugees fled for economic reasons, 66 percent of the vietnamese who arrived in thailand last year told international aid workers they were persecuted because they were ethnic chinese or had spent time in political ``re-education'' camps
less than 2 percent cited economic reasons for leaving their homeland. many vietnamese detained at the khlong yai police station said they fled to rejoin relatives in the united states
reporters were able to interview them briefly only during the diplomats' visit. authorities have limited access to the vietnamese by journalists and aid workers
authorities charged a 21-year-old man today in the shooting of four teen-agers fired on after a high school basketball game
nathan ward of north chicago was charged with aggravated battery and armed violence, deputy police chief terry house said
the shooting occurred late wednesday outside waukegan east high school after a regional semifinal basketball game between waukegan east and north chicago high school. waukegan east won, 77-56
investigators had not established a motive for the shooting, but had ruled out involvement with drugs, gangs and the game, house said
investigators recovered a .38-caliber handgun, he said, and a second person was being sought for questioning
two teen-agers injured in the shooting were in satisfactory condition at victory memorial hospital with arm wounds. two others were treated at the scene and sent home, police said
frank young, principal of waukegan east, said the shooting occurred 30 minutes after the game, and most of the estimated 2,000 fans had left
larry tenpas, a waukegan alderman and teacher at waukegan east, said he saw a man fire shots at the students who were milling around the school. vote. may stand; a vote is unlikely before 5 p.m. est, and that timetable could slip.</note>
house speaker jim wright said today a democratic plan for giving purely ``humanitarian'' aid to nicaragua's contra rebels represents a chance for the united states to take a positive role in its relations with central america
it's a battle for peace in nicaragua and for a constructive role for the united states in central america, as opposed to a destructive role,'' wright, d-texas, said of a showdown vote over rival democratic and republican aid plans set for later in the day
but president reagan, in a letter to house republicans sent while he was attending a meeting of western allies in brussels, belgium, said wright's plan ``does not meet the essential criteria'' of keeping the contras alive as a fighting force capable of putting military pressure on the leftist sandinista regime
today could represent a watershed in our policies toward central america,'' reagan wrote. ``one avenue will lead to rapid debilitation of the resistance and further encouragement of sandinista intransigence. the other could keep alive prospects for democracy and meaningful talks toward peace
as with virtually all past votes on u.s. aid for the contras, the showdown late today promised to be close. but democratic vote-counters said they believed they would win with at least as wide a margin as a month ago, when the house defeated a reagan aid package 219 to 211
on an early procedural vote to adopt rules for floor debate, democrats prevailed, 225 to 187. but leaders cautioned that the ballot was not a true test of whether the democratic aid package would pass
they also said they believed a move by nicaraguan president daniel ortega to dismiss cardinal miguel obando y bravo as mediator in cease-fire talks with the contras and propose direct talks in nicaragua would have little effect on the outcome
in brussels, reagan said during a picture-taking session that ``we have always believed there should be direct talks between the people of nicaragua who want freedom and have been called contras because of that, and the present government.''
but of the move to dismiss the cardinal as an intermediary, reagan said: ``i don't understand that at all.''
house republicans, angry over what they considered an unfair procedure under which the bill was being brought up, vowed not to go away quietly
we're going to fight them on everything,'' said rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who has led the fight for contra aid in the house. ``it's gotten a lot of republicans mad.''
the $30.5 million democratic proposal called for about $16 million in food, clothing, medicine and shelter for the anti-sandinista rebels, and another $14 million to set up a fund to help children injured in the seven-year nicaraguan civil war
democrats were working to keep the support of moderate party members who helped design the package, and keep to a minimum defections by members of the party's left wing, most of whom never have voted for aid to the rebels in any form
party leaders argued that passage of this purely ``humanitarian'' aid bill would lessen chances that the administration could come back to congress soon with a request for weapons and ammunition to sustain the guerrilla war
a republican alternative contained more money _ about $36 million _ and placed fewer restrictions on the way the contras could use the aid. but it appeared unlikely the gop version would come to a vote because of democratic-designed rules that called for their package to come up first
edwards said the key difference between the two bills was that the democrats' version offered no guarantees of quick consideration of a future reagan administration request for military aid for the rebels. the gop package would permit reagan to ask for such aid any time after april 15, and would require expedited congressional action
unless we put expedited procedures in the bill, the contras get nothing and the sandinistas get no threat. that really is the bottom-line issue,'' he said
and edwards noted that the democratic bill would turn over responsibility for delivery of the ``humanitarian'' supplies to the pentagon, rather than the existing cia-run supply network. even if the pentagon retained the private contractors now used by the cia to make supply flights, u.s. military personnel would have to be present in the region to oversee them, he said
the republican alternative would leave the delivery of supplies in the hands of the cia
wright on wednesday defended the procedure under which the two bills were being brought to the floor, saying the republicans had had their chance for a vote a month ago, when the house defeated reagan's last aid request
if ours were not offered (under the democrats' procedure), many of our members argued we might never get to vote on our plan,'' wright said. ``i don't think it's unfair to them.''
at least 11 people were reported killed and hundreds injured thursday in violence related to parliamentary elections, which the opposition denounced as fraudulent and a failure
early results showed president hussain muhammad ershad's jatiya party with the lead in 53 of the 282 constituencies where ballots were cast. eighteen of his candidates had already been declared elected to parliament for lack of opposition candidates
initial returns from nine other constituencies showed minor opposition parties leading. major opposition parties boycotted the vote
newspapers, quoting reliable sources, said 11 people were killed in confrontations during the day between supporters of rival candidates
home minister abdul matin said only five people died _ four in dhaka and one in nearby manikganj. he said 80 were injured and 55 were hospitalized
the opposition's call for a general strike shut down most of the capital
there was no turnout, there was no election,'' said sheik hasina, leader of the main opposition awami league. ``perhaps the so-called candidates voted.''
but matin told reporters that on the basis of 12 voting centers he visited in dhaka, he estimated voter to be 50 percent of the 47.8 million eligible to cast ballots
reporters who went to a dozen polling stations in and around the capital said a reasonable turnout was apparent at only three. two had been shut down by violence by midmorning
at several stations, election officials and even workers for ershad's jatiya party admitted that ballot boxes were stuffed and voter turnout exaggerated
ms. hasina vowed the opposition camp of 21 parties would keep up the campaign it began in november to oust ershad as president
ershad scheduled thursday's elections after he dissolved parliament last december, 3{ years ahead of schedule. the move was aimed at working out a compromise with his foes, but they demanded instead that ershad step down and said elections held under him wouldn't be fair
the governing jatiya party won 152 seats in the last parliamentary elections in 1986, and the awami league won 102 of the 330 seats. small parties held the rest
ershad, speaking to reporters after casting his ballot in dhaka, said he thought this election would end the violence
after this, things certainly will improve,'' he said
ershad said he had no plans for another election soon. ``the parliament is elected for five years by the people ... i expect it to serve for five years.''
ms. hasina maintained that bangladeshis had rejected the election
the whole nation has sided with us,'' hasina said. ``that is our achievement.''
at savar, 12 miles north of dhaka, a jatiya worker named khalil mahmood said ballots were fraudulently stamped for jatiya and also for other parties to make the rigging less obvious
we finished by 11 a.m. and we even gave some votes to other candidates,'' he said
matin said he had no reports of vote rigging. he said voting was suspended at 170 of the 22,393 polling booths because of violence or election officials' failure to arrive to man the stations
matin noted that there had been 21 deaths in the 1986 parliamentary election and said of thursday's vote: ``it's a successful and peaceful election.''
in chittagong, bangladesh's second largest city, reporters quoted police and hospital sources as saying more than 100 people were injured in violence
bob dole is looking beyond next week's big round of southern primaries and hoping his candidacy can get beyond it too
when all is said and done,'' the republican presidential hopeful said at a florida rally, ``this is probably going to go all the way to california now.''
if the race for the republican presidential nomination doesn't prove as long as he suggests, going on until the last round of primaries in early june, dole probably won't be the nominee
the southern primaries _ south carolina on saturday and the rest of the region on super tuesday _ aren't going to get him there. george bush leads dole by as much as 3-to-1 in polls of the south
while dole figures to run better than that in the popular vote, the republicans' delegate allotment system means the real score in delegates may be that bad or worse. and pat robertson is a gop wild card that could siphone off more delegates
it's a struggle,'' said dole press secretary dale tate. ``but i don't think anybody here thinks we won't survive. it's going to be a long time to new orleans'' and the republican convention
but with 712 gop delegates at stake that day, bush has the potential to go a long way toward the 1,139 delegates needed to nominate
dole's problem is how to keep bush from running up such a collection of victories on tuesday that he is unstoppable when the race turns to the next round of big industrial states
the grim potential of super tuesday for dole heightens the importance of the next primary, illinois on march 15
dole forces figure they must be able to bounce back there
i think if dole doesn't win illinois, it's just about over,'' said one dole campaign official, speaking only on condition of anonymity
facing that reality, dole is attacking bush with a broad brush as a man with no more of a record than the embarrassment of involvement in the sale of arms to iran for hostages
but he also is carefully choosing his spots in the states and congressional districts where he has a chance of success
we're going to win some states here,'' dole pollster richard wirthlin said in atlanta last weekend. ``we're doing well in areas that can be typified as the new south
we're going to be very competitive in four or five states,'' wirthlin said
dole forces see their best chances among the 14 southern and border states voting tuesday to be in missouri, with 47 delegates at stake, oklahoma, with 36, and north carolina, with 54
they would like to score some surprises in alabama, arkansas, and in certain portions of florida and georgia
among the states outside the south voting on tuesday, they are focusing on rhode island, with 21 delegates, and washington state, where the 41 delegates aren't allocated by the primary but where a victory would give dole something to talk about
north carolina is the state where dole's wife elizabeth is from and where together they have appeared often over the years. it is also a state where textiles is a major industry, and dole has been attacking the vice president's opposition to limits on foreign textile imports
dole is also on the air in south carolina, missouri, oklahoma and arkansas, and has small amounts of tv commercials on in rhode island and florida
doe has injected anew the iran-contra affair into the campaign with another ad that says: ``dole opposed selling arms to iran. bush supported the arms for hostages deal.''
part of dole's frustration is that bush has been able to appear the rightful heir to president reagan's conservative legacy in the south, where reagan has always been strong. dole seeks to tarnish bush, while straining to avoid seeming to attack reagan, which he knows would backfire
and he has been frustrated that bush's support in the region, often described as broad but thin, has not proven brittle
we know bush has a big lead in the south,'' dole said. ``for some reason, his people believe he's from the south or something.''
political scorekeepers face a complex challenge next tuesday as they try to track who wins roughly one-third of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions
super tuesday's chain of events, stretching from the u.s. atlantic coast almost to the international date line in the pacific ocean, relies on dozens of complicated and often confusing rules
in some cases, the process is so tangled that it's hard to agree even on how many delegates are involved
for example, the republicans are holding 16 or 17 events on super tuesday, and 712, 753 or 803 delegates are involved. all of those figures are correct, depending on how the question is phrased
the reason for the discrepancies is some of the gop events count, some don't and others can't be sorted out until later
sixteen of the republican events will have some effect on how national convention delegates will be divided, but only fifteen of those yield results that can be calculated immediately into national delegate totals. that leaves the grand totals at 16 states yielding 712 national convention delegates
the democrats aren't a lot easier to figure out. the 21 states and territories holding super tuesday events have 1,455 delegates. but 148 of them are a special type of delegate not affected by what happens in the primaries or caucuses. that leaves 1,307 democratic delegates at stake on march 8
to complicate matters further, minnesota's democrats, who held their caucuses on feb. 23, are releasing the results on march 8. this is an outgrowth of a convoluted compromise between the state and national parties to allow minnesota to hold caucuses two weeks earlier than allowed by the rules without breaking the rules. these results will govern who wins 78 of the state's national convention delegates
in both parties, a state's national convention delegates are chosen both on the basis of how much support a presidential candidate has in each congressional district and how much support the candidate commands statewide
democrats require that a presidential candidate reaches a certain level of support to be eligible for winning delegates. each candidate must receive at least 15 percent of the vote in any given congressional district or statewide
the corresponding republican requirements vary from state to state
here is a state-by-state breakdown of how the delegates will be calculated from super tuesday's events:
_ alabama: people running for 37 seats as delegates to the democratic national convention will be listed on the ballot in the primary along with the presidential candidate they support. another 19 democratic delegates will be picked later, but the results of the primary govern how they will be awarded to presidential candidates. the republicans, too, list their delegates on the ballot _ three in each of seven congressional district and 17 statewide. these are awarded on a winner-take-all basis in each district and statewide. total: 56 democrats, 38 republicans
_ american samoa: the democrats gather in one spot and pick six people who will each cast one-half vote at the national convention. the republican party does not provide for a delegation from american samoa. super tuesday total: 3 democrats, 0 republicans
_ arkansas: the democrats vote in the primary for presidential candidates, and delegates will be awarded in proportion to these results. the republicans, too, award their national convention delegates in proportion to the primary results. super tuesday total: 38 democrats, 27 republicans
_ florida: in each of the state's 19 congressional districts, the presidential candidate receiving the most votes in the primary gets one delegate as a bonus, while the remaining delegates are divided in proportion to the vote. statewide, another 47 delegates will be awarded in prortion to the overall vote. the republicans use a somewhat simpler method: the winner in each congressional district gets all of the delegates from that district, and the winner statewide receives all 18 of the at-large delegates. super tuesday total: 136 democrats, 82 republicans
_ georgia: the democrats use rules similar to those in florida: a ``bonus delegate'' awarded to the winner in each congressional district, the rest allocated proportionally. the republicans also use the same kind of rules as the florida gop: winner-take-all by congressional district and statewide. super tuesday total: 77 democrats, 48 republicans
_ hawaii: the democrats hold precinct caucuses to elect delegates to the state convention. the people attending the caucuses will register their presidential preference, and the national convention delegates will be awarded to presidential candidates in proportion to those results. hawaii's republicans held their precinct caucuses last month. however, in this as well as other gop caucus systems, the presidential preferences of the people at the first step of the process do not in any formal way bind those who attend the following steps. in addition, the conventions and caucuses later in the process need not follow any uniform set of rules. thus, the number of national convention delegates won by each presidential candidate cannot be figured with precision based only on the results of the first step. super tuesday total: 20 democrats, 0 republicans
_ idaho: the democrats hold caucuses similar to those in hawaii, picking delegates to the state convention in june, when the national convention delegates will finally be selected. the allocation of those delegates among the presidential candidates will be governed by the support registered by those attending the march 8 caucuses. idaho republicans hold a primary on may 24. super tuesday total: 18 democrats, 0 republicans
_ kentucky: both the democrats and republicans divide their national convention delegates among the presidential candidates in proportion to the results of the primary. super tuesday total: 55 democrats, 38 republicans
_ louisiana: the democrats divide their delegates in proportion to the results of the primary. the republicans award 24 of their delegates on a winner-take-all basis in each of the state's eight congressional districts. the remaining 17 gop delegates from louisiana are awarded in proportion to the results of the primary statewide. super tuesday total: 63 democrats, 41 republicans
_ maryland: the democrats elect 44 delegates listed on the ballot by congressional districts and award another 23 delegates in proportion to the statewide results of the primary. the republicans award their delegates on a winner-take-all basis by congressional district and statewide. super tuesday total: 67 democrats, 41 republicans
_ massachusetts: the democrats use a system similar to that of georgia and florida, awarding a ``bonus delegate'' to the presidential candidate who wins in each congressional district and dividing the rest proportionally. the republicans award their delegates in proportion to the results of the primary. super tuesday total: 98 democrats, 52 republicans
_ mississippi: the democrats award their delegates in proportion to the results of the primary, both by congressional district and statewide. the republicans divide their statewide delegates proportionally, while those from congressional districts are awarded on a winner-take-all basis. super tuesday total: 40 democrats, 31 republicans
_ missouri: the democrats award their national convention delegates in proportion to the results of the primary, with a ``bonus delegate'' given in each of the state's nine congressional districts to the presidential candidate carrying that district. gop presidential candidates win delegates in proportion to the results of the primary. super tuesday total: 77 democrats, 47 republicans
_ nevada: democrats meet in precinct caucuses to choose delegates to the county conventions to pick delegates to the state convention where the delegates to the national convention will be selected
participants at each level of the process are required to declare whom they support for president, and this governs how the national convention delegates are to be divided among the presidential candidates. the republicans had their precinct caucuses last month, but the final outcome will not be known until the national convention delegates are chosen in april. super tuesday total: 16 democrats, 0 republicans
_ north carolina: democrats use a ``bonus delegate'' system in the congressional districts and award the 29 at-large delegates in proportion to the statewide primary vote. the republican delegates are awarded to presidential candidates in proportion to the primary vote. super tuesday total: 82 democrats, 54 republicans
_ oklahoma: the democrats allocate their delegates in proportion to the results of the primary. the republicans award their delegates, winner-take-all, by congressional district and statewide. super tuesday total: 46 democrats, 36 republicans
_ rhode island: democratic and republican presidential candidates win delegates in proportion to how well they do in the primary. super tuesday total: 22 democrats, 21 republicans
_ tennessee: the democrats divide their delegates proportionally based on the results of the primary. the republicans elect 33 of their delegates directly from the ballot by congressional district and award another dozen based on the statewide vote. super tuesday total: 70 democrats, 45 republicans
_ texas: the results of the primary by congressional district govern the proportional allocation of 119 of the democratic delegates from texas, but there's a twist in how the remaining 64 delegates statewide are picked. in texas, democrats who vote in the primary can also take part in precinct party caucuses held after the polls close. in many cases, this would require people to make two trips to the polls in one day. the at-large delegates will be awarded to presidential candidates based on the preferences of the people attending the caucuses. the republicans award their delegates on a winner-take-all basis by congressional district and statewide. super tuesday total: 183 democrats, 111 republicans
_ virginia: democrats award their delegates in proportion to the results of the primary. republicans also are holding a primary, but its results have no effect at all on who eventually wins the delegates. that will be handled through a system of caucuses and conventions concluding in may and june. super tuesday total: 75 democrats, 0 republicans
_ washington: the democrats hold precinct caucuses similar to those in nevada, and allocation of national convention delegates will reflect the presidential preferences of the participants. republicans also are holding precinct caucuses and will cast votes for presidential candidates in a non-binding straw poll. however, just as in other gop caucus states the delegate allocation cannot be calculated until the delegates themselves are chosen later in the season. super tuesday total: 65 democrats, 0 republicans. to third organization.</note>
leaders of the assemblies of god, who are at odds with their louisiana district over the discipline of evangelist jimmy swaggart, said today the denomination's policy-making body will have the final say
a statement from the headquarters of the pentecostal denomination said the executive presbytery of the church's general council has called a special meeting of the general presbytery for march 28 ``to make decisions regarding matters relating to evangelist jimmy swaggart.''
the 250-member general presbytery is the policy-making body for the church when the general council is not in session, and serves as a court of appeals in matters relating to ministerial credentials,'' the statement said. ``its decisions are final.''
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the 13-member executive presbytery is march 29
swaggart, in a tearful admission at his headquarters in baton rouge, la., a week ago sunday, acknowledged he was guilty of unspecified sin, begging forgiveness. he was reportedly caught with a prostitute at a new orleans area motel by rival evangelist marvin gorman last october
swaggart heads a ministry based in baton rouge that takes in nearly $150 million a year to support broadcasts in almost 150 countries and a bible college
the louisiana district presbyters of the assemblies of god, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, recommended that swaggart be suspended from the pulpit for three months. but after complaints that that was too lenient, the executive presbyters of the springfield-based church referred the matter back to the district level for reconsideration
on monday, the district leaders decided to stand by their recommendation
the rev. gerald lewis, a member of the church's louisiana district council, was quoted by the news-leader in springfield today as saying the council decided monday to stand by its original recommendation to suspend swaggart from the pulpit for three months after ``there was an interpretation'' of a message received in tongues
pentecostals believe in tangible manifestations of the holy spirit such as speaking in ``unknown tongues.''
i don't think there was a person on the board that was not weeping,'' said lewis, a cousin of swaggart, referring to the nine-hour council meeting
juleen turnage, spokeswoman for the assemblies of god, said today that the church would have no further statements on swaggart until after the general presbytery meets
in new orleans later today, a $90 million lawsuit filed against swaggart and others by gorman, who claims swaggart defamed him with charges of adultery, is scheduled for a hearing on gorman's appeal of the dismissal of the suit
swaggart has been unavailable for comment this week, and there was no indication he would appear in public for the court hearing
a state judge threw out gorman's suit last summer, saying it was a religious dispute. gorman turned to a state appeals court, which agreed to hear arguments
gorman admitted ``an immoral act'' with a woman in 1979, but denied other affairs as claimed by swaggart. gorman resigned as minister of the first assembly of god church of new orleans. he continues to lead marvin gorman ministries at his television studio
he pronounces y'all as two distinct words, but george bush speaks the language of the south in a way that overcomes his new england accent. it can be summed up in two other words: ronald reagan
with the super tuesday primaries and caucuses offering 712 delegates, a majority of them in the south, polls indicate bush could end the day with a big lead in the race for the republican presidential nomination
and during a hectic campaign schedule this week, including 10 stops in five southern states tuesday and wednesday, bush exuded confidence as he predicted tuesday's winner will be the next president
he's in a very upbeat mood,'' said bush spokesman peter teeley. ``when you consider what we went through the last four or five days of new hampshire. ...''
teeley meant a period when it seemed sen. bob dole might follow his iowa victory by beating bush in the new hampshire primary. bush's feb. 16 victory changed all that, giving him momentum to go with his strong organization as he headed south
and he hoped to benefit from the president's popularity
throughout his southern swing this week, bush referred to ``the reagan-bush administration'' and said he was the man who could build upon ``the superb foundation of the reagan revolution.'' he criticized other candidates for differing with the president on some issues and for criticizing bush as a yes man
if the price of winning this nomination is to turn my back in some way on ronald reagan, then i'm not willing to pay that price,'' bush said in tampa
you mississippians also know that loyalty is a strength,'' bush told shipyard workers in pascagoula, miss
lanny griffith, bush's southern campaign coordinator from corinth, miss., said rivals' attacks on bush were unlikely to succeed in the south
people here think of george bush as reagan's partner, a war hero, the former cia director, and as a texan,'' griffith said. ``they don't pay attention to that d.c.-new york type of stuff. `doonesbury' does not shape the conventional wisdom here.''
bush has important advantages in the two largest super tuesday states, texas and florida. he made his mark in the texas oil business and entered politics there
in florida, he has the support of gov. bob martinez, who appointed bush's son, jeb, as florida's secretary of commerce. the younger bush formerly headed the dade county republican party. bush's mother lives in palm beach, and the vice president has visited florida often, both for personal reasons and on such official business as his role heading the south florida task force on drugs
as he campaigned energetically this week, bush said dole-leaning new hampshire polls preceding bush's victory there had taught him a lesson
you have to continue to fight like you're behind,'' bush said. ``so you don't let up, you don't go home, and you stay out of the mud.''
bush said he was waging a positive campaign on a ``higher plain,'' while making indirect jabs at his opponents by calling himself the most stable and most mature candidate
the bush campaign's officials said they had been outspent in much of the south but were ready for a final television blitz
i believe that you should hold back everything you can to spend as late as possible,'' said southern coordinator griffith
bush's late campaigning was concentrated on pockets in the south where it seemed former television evangelist pat robertson had strong grass-roots support or where dole was most active
in the deep south states, bush expected to capitalize on the administration's stand for strong defense and tough foreign policy
he often sprinkled in references to his navy world war ii combat experience. in case anyone missed them, he was greeted upon arrival in tampa with a grumman avenger plane, like the one he flew. bush put on a flight jacket and climbed into the cockpit for the cameras
his strong organization and the advantage of secret service-aided logistics helped allow bush to pack many appearances into his swing _ driving a paving machine at a north miami beach construction site, playing shuffleboard with retirees in boca raton, fla., serving catfish in biloxi and jambalaya in baton rouge, la
the dean of american conservatives, 1964 presidential nominee barry goldwater, campaigned with him in florida and filmed an endorsement commercial. former navy secretary john lehman also campaigned with bush in the south. activities today. picks up 5th graf, `sarah wore...</note>
the duke and duchess of york spent a jovial day among the arts and artists, joking with conductor andre previn following a concert by the los angeles philharmonic orchestra and laughing with artist david hockney
prince andrew and his wife, sarah, spent wednesday evening at the music center listening to the two-hour concert that included a work by their countryman, ralph vaughan williams
the duke and duchess, both 28, were scheduled to visit the aircraft carrier uss nimitz today, the seventh day of their 10-day visit as patrons of the uk@la '88 arts festival
the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier sailed from san diego at 7 a.m. for the noon rendezvous
the navy planned a fly-by of a-7 jets breaking the sound barrier, demonstrations of catapault launches and recovery of aircraft and a lunch that included asparagus soup, marinated mushrooms, chicken salad and cherries jubilee
the prince, who is a royal navy officer and helicopter pilot who saw action in britain's falkland islands war, was to be catapaulted from the carrier's deck aboard an s-3a viking anti-submarine warfare jet
on wednesday, the duchess, who is expecting her first child in august, was given a bouquet of lavendar roses sporting a white stork and balloon that read ``special delivery'' when she arrived for the concert
sarah wore a calf-length jade-green gown, contrasting with her red hair pulled to the side with a flower hair ornament
afterward, the royal couple chatted with previn and his wife, heather. the conversation ended in laughter, as they joked about the fierce facial expressions conductors sometimes wear
so far, the couple known popularly as andy and fergie have hobnobbed with hollywood celebrities and local business and political leaders and taken a backstage look at a movie special-effects studio
earlier in the day, andrew greeted american investors for a five-hour cruise aboard her majesty's yacht britannia by quipping, ``please don't sink her when you go to sea. bon voyage.''
andrew also expressed his appreciation for wednesday's sunny skies, which followed days of rain during their visit
we thank you for the weather, for as you know, when the queen and the royal family comes to pay a visit the weather gets dreadful,'' andrew said
to the delight of americans, the duchess dropped her regal composure a few hours later outside the los angeles county museum of art
check these out!'' she called out, flouncing about to show the crowds her hair tied in a loose ponytail and held by clips shaped like the union jack and the stars and stripes
sarah wore a purple knee-length skirt and matching blazer with tan shoes to wednesday's museum visit. the prince wore a gray suit, pale green shirt and dark green tie
at the museum, hockney met them beneath two of his works, the giant paintings ``les mamille,'' a depiction of a harbor done for an opera set, and ``a walk around the courtyard, acatlan.''
hockney and museum officials led the couple through the retrospective show, which includes 150 paintings, 60 drawings and 30 photographs
gunmen burst into the home of a security guard and his wife, then used them as hostages in a ``meticulously planned raid'' to steal up to $1.7 million from an armored van, according to scotland yard and a published report
the robbery began tuesday night when two men with pistols took a security express guard and his wife hostage at their southeastern london home, said a scotland yard spokeswoman
a third man arrived at the house wednesday morning and drove the woman away, she said, speaking anonymously in keeping with british custom
the two remaining robbers drove the guard to work in his own car and ordered him to drive his money-laden van to a south london location, the spokeswoman said
the guard explained his predicament to two other guards in the van and they drove to the prearranged meeting point, she said
two men on motorcycles met the van and ordered the guards to drive to a nearby soccer field, she said. the guards were ordered to lie beneath stands in the stadium along with three gardeners who had seen one of the robbers, she said
minutes later they were joined by the guard's wife and held at gunpoint until the van's cash was loaded onto another vehicle and the robbers escaped, the spokeswoman said
this was a very meticulously planned raid. the raiders had obviously been following the movements of the guard for many days and knew where to find him,'' one of her male colleagues at scotland yard added later
police refused to say how much cash was taken, but the times of london on thursday quoted unidentified police sources as saying the gang got away with between $1.32 million and $1.76 million
the reagan administration's decision not to adjust the 1990 national census to allow for people who are overlooked was ``shameful'' and blatantly political, a new york congressman charged thursday
the action was not based ``on fairminded concern about accurate statistics; it's a raw exercise of partisan politics,'' rep. charles e. schumer charged at a hearing of the house post office and civil service census subcommittee
schumer and reps. mervyn m. dymally of california and robert garcia of new york all raised concern about the decision not to adjust, which was announced last october by the commerce department, parent agency of the census. all three are democrats
commerce undersecretary robert ortner denied that it was a political decision, however, contending that statisticians disagree on whether there is an accurate method of making adjustments
i don't think it would make the problem any better if we were to devise an elaborate mathematical system to make up new numbers,'' ortner commented
the focus of the problem is the fact that all 435 seats in the house of representatives and billions of dollars in state and federal money are distributed on the basis of the figures collected every 10 years by the census bureau
no head count can be perfect in a nation the size of the united states, with the current population estimated at more than 244 million people. but concern centers on studies that show that the number of people missed is much higher among minorities
that results in such groups as blacks and hispanics getting less economic and political clout, and has led to calls for an adjustment of census figures to compensate for this problem
census statisticians have been working on finding a way to adjust the figures, but disagreement exists as to whether this can be done in an accurate fashion
thus, ortner announced last fall that no adjustment would be made in 1990, stating that the time for experimenting was over and the agency had go get on with the task of taking the census
that drew a barrage of criticism, however, from groups contending that those most often missed are urban minorities, usually democrats, and that the decision not to adjust was a political action to boost the power of conservatives and republicans
the administration's position is shameful. it's shameful because the administration's problem with adjusting census figures is not statisatical, it's political,'' schumer said
that's absolutely untrue,'' responded ortner. he said the department simply wanted to go out and conduct the best actual count possible, adding that cuts in post-census surveys which might have been used to make later adjustments were designed to save money
dymally commented that he found it interesting that the decision not to make an adjustment was made by commerce department officials just 10 days after he proposed a bill to require an adjustment
the decision should have been left up to xensus statisticians rather than being made by commerce officials, he added
schumer pointed out that barbara bailar, a census official who had been in charge of developing adjustment methods, resigned from the agency charging that the decision was political rather than technical
bailar said in her prepared testimony that while opinion was divided in the bureau, she believed that the census figures could be accurately adjusted using a survey of residents on specific areas to estimate the undercount
but ortner reiterated that statisticians continue to disagree on the matter and presented a letter from about a dozen academic popualation experts opposed to making adjustments in the census counts
the democratic-controlled house labor standards subcommittee voted along party lines thursday to increase the minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.65 an hour over the next three years
the 6-3 vote came after democrats defeated republican amendments designed to either water down or kill the measure, which would raise the minimum wage 50 cents an hour on jan. 1, 1989 and 40 cents an hour each of the following years
however, the subcommittee refused, 7-2, to tie future increases to inflation, a proposal once wanted by organized labor but which it abandoned in an effort to preserve the $4.65-an-hour figure
rep. timothy j. penny, d-minn., who proposed the elimination of the indexing of future increases, said he was ``concerned about something like this being on automatic pilot. congress should review an future increases.'' he also said automatic increases in the minimum wage would could drive up salaries of workers who make higher than the minimum, leading to inflation
rep. augustus f. hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the full house labor and education committee, voted against the penny amendment, saying it ``is ill-timed, unwarranted and not justified by the facts. there is no indication that it leads to inflation. wages lag behind inflation and will always do as long as they are based on past experience.''
hawkins said the full committee would take up the measure next thursday
a similar bill has been introduced in the senate by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the labor and human resources committee. that panel has held hearings on the proposal but has not scheduled further action on it
the house subcommittee rejected, 6-3, a substitute measure proposed by rep. thomas e. petri, r-wis., that would have raised the minimum wage to $4 an hour over the next three years
rep. james m. jeffords, r-vt., offered an amendment to increase the ``tip credit'' for restaurant workers, it also lost, 6-3, after rep. tommy f. robinson, d-ark., said he planned to introduce a similar bill when the full committee meets next week and had worked out a deal with hawkins to do so
the restaurant industry wants to be able to count a waiter's tips as a credit toward half the minimum wage requirement. labor and hawkins are opposed to the proposal, but robinson said he believed he had enough votes in the full committee to pass it
the panel also defeated, 6-3, an amendment by steve bartlett, r-texas, to create what he called training wage of $3.35 an hour for a 180-day period during which an employer can teach a new worker
hawkins said the proposal was nothing more than a ``subminimum wage'' that had been rejected by congress many times in the past. ``how long does it take a youngster to learn how to flip a hamburger?'' he asked
voting for the minimum wage increase were reps. hawkins, penny, robinson, subcommittee chairman austin j. murphy, d-pa.; pat williams, d-mont., and robert e. wise jr., d-w.va. voting against it were petri, jeffords and bartlett
the minimum wage was raised to $3.35 an hour in 1981 from $3.10
the estate of the late rep. larry mcdonald, who died in 1983 when a korean air lines plane was shot down by a soviet fighter jet, is challenging an irs claim for $6.1 million in taxes
the key dispute is the contention by the internal revenue service that the value of the estate should include $10 million in punitive damages and $2 million for pain and suffering that are being sought in litigation against the airline. no damages have been awarded
the georgia democrat's widow, kathryn j. mcdonald, the administrator of the estate, filed suit in u.s. tax court to protest the irs claim
her petition says that because the damage suit against the airline is controlled by international law, no punitive damages are possible
no recovery has been made for any damages relating to the decedent's pain and suffering, and ultimate recovery is doubtful,'' said the peition, which was filed jan. 21
mcdonald was among 269 people who died when the kal jumbo jet was shot down after passing through soviet airspace on sept. 1, 1983, while flying from anchorage, alaska, to seoul
eddie ``the eagle'' edwards, the scrappy ski-jumper who became the superstar loser at the winter olympics, came home thursday in a white rolls-royce to the cheers of crowds
about 3,000 townsfolk waving ``welcome home eddie'' flags lined downtown streets for more than an hour to catch a glimpse of the 24-year-old who left home an unknown plasterer and returned a celebrity
it's great to be back home and i'm just staggered by everyone turning out to welcome me in the town,'' said edwards. he finished last in his two events but won over olympic crowds with his ever-ready smile and often-bumbling antics
he flew back from calgary on tuesday but spent two days in london saying he had to sort out offers from manufacturers, movie moguls, publishers and a vodka distiller
his parents, sister and brother greeted him wearing ``i love eddie'' sweaters knitted by his 80-year-old grandmother
after all the fuss he has had around the world, he is still a home-loving boy,'' said his mother, janette. ``he's coping well with it all.''
the mother of u.s. sen. richard g. lugar, reported missing early thursday by relatives, was found unharmed at a hotel in neighboring illinois, a spokesman for lugar said
bertha lugar caldwell, 81, was last seen driving her car late wednesday in indianapolis, about 70 miles from the illinois state line, andy fisher, an aide to the indiana republican, said from washington
we assume that she was driving around and got disoriented,'' said fisher
fisher said a doctor probably would examine mrs. caldwell in indianapolis but that her health ``has been fine all along.''
rain, freezing rain and sleet pelted the area during the night
more than 21,000 rock fans have signed their names to a pink cadillac in an unusual petition drive to get bruce springsteen to schedule a stop here on his ``tunnel of love'' tour
but berry bell of premier talent, springsteen's new york booking agency, said rockford's 10,000-seat metro centre couldn't hold such a concert
your building is too small. ... besides, he's booked through the end of may,'' bell said
radio station wzok bought the 1968 car and had it painted pink in honor of ``pink cadillac,'' an early springsteen hit
mark mcclure, operations manager at the station, said springsteen's tour, which began last week in worcester, mass., will stop in suburban chicago on march 16-17 and won't resume until march 22 in atlanta
he's got a five-day window between chicago and atlanta,'' he said. ``but we say, `come anytime you want.'''
mcclure plans to drive to philadelphia on monday when springsteen performs at the spectrum there and park the signature-decorated car near the back stage door. a similar promotion, he said, persuaded the rolling stones to play rockford in 1981
first graders at del obispo elementary school ate green eggs and ham this week in honor of the 84th birthday of theodor seuss geissel, known to readers of his children's books as dr. seuss
from his home in la jolla wednesday, dr. seuss said the tribute was flattering but joked he was ``terrified'' to think the youngsters actually ate green food
are you calling from a hospital?'' he quipped
the 120 youngsters used food coloring to create the culinary tribute to one of dr. seuss' most famous nonsensical works _ ``green eggs and ham.''
bill bradley admits that his speeches as a rookie u.s. senator were boring, according to an interview published thursday
there was a strong sense that i was competing with sominex,'' the new jersey democrat told parade magazine, which said his skills have greatly improved since he first announced a senate bid in 1977
despite continuing speculation of a presidential draft, bradley maintained he has a lot more to learn and do in the senate. running for president, he sasid, would mean he no longer could enjoy the freedom to make mistakes
you can no longer quietly and anonymously visit with and listen to ordinary americans in their homes,'' he said. ``you start to exist tarmac to tarmac.''   
the newly crowned miss usa said thursday that the ``astronomical'' odds she faced in her bid to become the fourth straight miss texas to win the title provided the extra push she needed
at a manhattan news conference, courtney gibbs said of her beauty pageant win, ``i've been extremely overwhelmed, very numb. it's just starting to settle in as i open up newspapers or turn on the television.''
the 21-year-old college student and model was crowned tuesday in the nationally televised event staged in el paso, texas
miss gibbs' win marked the fourth year in a row that a texas woman has won the event, prompting a stunned pageant spokeswoman, stacy sacco, to assure reporters that the contest was not rigged
on thursday, miss gibbs, a junior at texas christian university, said that going into the pageant the computer-generated odds were ``something astronomical'' against another texas woman winning
i think just that little bit of challenge, that little bit of extra `you can't' really gave me the push to think that i could.''
miss gibbs, an aspiring actress, will represent the united states in the miss universe pageant may 23 in taipei, taiwan
moslem guerrilla commanders have banned smoking by their forces in northern afghanistan
the jamiat-i-islami, one of the major moslem parties fighting to overthrow kabul's marxist government and the soviet forces who back it up, announced the decision by commanders of the panshir valley in a newsletter distributed thursday
it said the use and sale of tobacco and snuff was banned ``in accordance with the tenets of islam which forbid using things that make people unhealthy.''
economic considerations also had an important role in the decision,'' the newsletter said
afghanistan's panjshir valley is a key soviet supply route between kabul and the soviet border to the north
it used to be easy to handicap the grammys. but as the music industry awards moved into their third decade, they proved they can pack some surprises
take michael jackson, for example
four years ago, he nabbed a record eight grammys with his ``thriller'' lp. at the 30th annual grammy awards on wednesday night, he was a big loser. he was nominated for four grammys and he didn't win any, though his engineers won for their work on his album, ``bad.''
the irish quartet u2, with their introspective songs of humanity, were expected to sweep the national academy of recording arts &amp; sciences awards for their 12 million-seller lp, ``the joshua tree.''
the group was nominated for four grammys and won two, including album of the year. ``i still haven't found what i'm looking for'' lost song of the year honors to ``somewhere out there,'' a sweet song from an animated mouse movie, and lost record of the year to paul simon's title track from last year's grammy-winning ``graceland'' lp
the ``graceland'' single was released within the oct. 1, 1986 to sept. 30, 1987 eligibility year to qualify for this year's awards
simon wasn't at radio city music hall to collect his trophy, nor to see ladysmith black mambazo, his collaborators on the south african-inspired ``graceland'' album, win a grammy for their own ``shaka zulu'' collection, which simon produced
robert shaw and the atlanta symphony chorus and orchestra won more grammys than the rock and pop stars who usually make the headlines. their recording of requiems by gabriel faure and maurice durufle won awards for best engineered classical recording and for producer robert woods. the atlanta group's recording of paul hindemith's ``when lilacs last in the dooryard bloom'd'' won as best choral performance
there were more surprises: sting beat jackson and bruce springsteen as best male pop vocalist for his album ``bring on the night''; veteran rocker frank zappa zapped springsteen and stevie ray vaughan as best rock instrumentalist for his lp ``jazz from hell''; smokey robinson topped jackson and stevie wonder as best rhythm 'n' blues male vocalist for his single, ``just to see her.''
and suzanne vega, whose soliloquy of an abused child touched listeners throughout the world, won nothing for the song ``luka.'' she had three nominations, including song and record of the year
i was hoping it would win, but i was prepared for anything to happen,'' she said backstage. ``i'm a little disappointed i guess.''
it wasn't surprising that whitney houston was chosen best female pop vocalist for her single ``i wanna dance with somebody (who loves me)'' or that springsteen was chosen best rock vocalist for his album, ``tunnel of love.''
but one of the evening's biggest surprises and best moments came from a presenter _ the strutting, screaming and outrageous little richard. he stole the show and held it captive for a few hilarious minutes when he declared he had won the prize for best new artist. the award really went to jody watley
i have never received nuthin'. y'all ain't never gave me no grammys, and i've been singing for 30 years,'' declared the man who sang ``tutti frutti'' and ``good golly, miss molly.''
i am the architect of rock 'n' roll,'' he shouted, and the crowd jumped to its feet and roared approval
bill medley, who never won a grammy with bobby hatfield as the righteous brothers and said he'd ``been waiting 26 years for one of these suckers,'' won with jennifer warnes. their duet, ``(i've had) the time of my life,'' from the ``dirty dancing'' soundtrack, was named best pop vocal performance by a duo or group
aretha franklin became the woman who owns the most grammys, moving ahead of leontyne price and ella fitzgerald, by winning two this year for a total of 14. she won as best female rhythm 'n' blues vocalist for her album ``aretha,'' and with george michael as best rhythm 'n' blues duo or group for ``i knew you were waiting (for me),'' a track from ``aretha.''
diane schuur won over jazz veterans carmen mcrae, sarah vaughan and ella fitzgerald, and manhattan transfer's janis siegel, named best female jazz vocalist with her critically acclaimed lp, ``diane schuur and the count basie orchestra.''
the late duke ellington was represented by ``digital duke,'' the ellington band conducted by mercer ellington
i felt pop over my shoulder the whole time in the studio,'' mercer ellington said backstage
posthumous albums won in two categories. ``unfinished business'' by steve goodman, who died of leukemia, won as best contemporary folk record. peter tosh, slain in his jamaica home last year during a robbery, had recorded ``no nuclear war,'' which won in the reggae category
in classical categories, the chicago symphony's music director, sir georg solti, winner of more grammys than anybody, added another to his collection of 25, when ``beethoven: symphony no. 9'' was named best orchestral recording
pianist vladimir horowitz, who had been tied for second place with henry mancini with 20 grammys, pulled ahead. he picked up the best classical album grammy for ``horowitz in moscow.'' the record was also named best classical instrumental solo performance without orchestra
violinist itzhak perlman received two grammys, for best solo instrumental with orchestra, for ``mozart: violin concertos 2 and 4'' and, with cellist lynn harrell and pianist vladimir ashkenazy, for best chamber performance, for ``beethoven: the complete piano trios.''
soprano kathleen battle also received two. her ``kathleen battle _ salzburg recital'' won as best vocal solo performance and she was a principal soloist on strauss' ``ariadne auf naxos,'' which won as best opera recording. miss battle was a featured soloist on four of the five opera recordings that were nominated
a film about an american adventurer who took over nicaragua more than 100 years ago was a box-office flop in the united states, but it has been drawing long lines in managua
a downtown movie house has been packed since the film ``walker'' opened feb. 25. that's an unusual occurrence because the $5 tickets cost more than many workers earn in a day
moviegoers said they were curious and eager to see the scenes of granada, the central colonial city on the shores of lake nicaragua where most of the film was shot last year
the movie, directed by briton alex cox for universal pictures, is about william walker, a 19th century american adventurer who is little-known in the united states but featured in every child's history book in nicaragua. the satirical film stars ed harris as walker nd academy award-winner marlee matlin as his hearing-impaired wife
walker is seen here as the first invader from the united states, the man who started more than 100 years of u.s. intervention and a symbol of yankee imperialism
walker came to nicaragua in 1855 and after capturing granada, named himself president the following year. he offered an uneasy warning of today's friction between nicaragua and the united states by saying, ``we'll be back, time and time again.''
walker surrendered to the u.s. navy in 1857, tried to conquer central american in 1860 and was finally turned over to honduras. he was executed by firing squad in 1860
reviews so far have been mixed
roberto fonseca wrote in the culture magazine ventana that the film was ``a joke in bad taste.''
it's a shame that we lost the opportunity to make a film, a work with instructive and political ends,'' fonseca wrote
he noted that the film contained unnecessary violence and was ``extemely weak not only because of its ommissions but _ voluntary or not _ for its misrepresentations.''
the movie starts out by saying that ``this is a true story.''
but reviewers find scores of factual errors, including the wrong presidents at the time in nicaragua and the united states
the 20th century props used in the film amused the crowd in the teatro gonzalez movie house and they broke into laughter when scenes showed contemporary news magazines, a recent model car and a soviet-made troop helicopter that was supposed to be carrying u.s. government officials
but fonseca, in his review, said: ``personally, the misrepresentations don't make me laugh.''
the pro-government newspaper nuevo diario quoted roberto cruz, described as a movie enthusiast, as saying the ``satire covered up what walker means in nicaragua.''
most of the people at the theater hurried out, chatting among themselves about the film
i liked it,'' one woman said, pulling the hand of a youngster. ``why? well, i like the scenes.''
a young man, who said he didn't want to give his name, said: ``i thought it was funny.''
but another spectator, also declining to give his name, said simply, ``it was silly.'' book</head>
presidental candidate michael dukakis has joined the literary campaign trail by co-authoring a book that chronicles development in massachusetts under his governorship
dukakis wrote only two chapters of ``creating the future,'' but his name is listed ahead of co-author rosabeth moss kanter of the harvard business school on the new $17.95 hardcover book that explains the secrets of massachusett's economic success
the book may instruct students of economic development policy. but the average reader could come away thinking that political campaign books are to books what political campaign food is to food
several other presidential candidates have published books, ranging from democrat gary hart's novel, ``the double man,'' co-authored with sen. william cohen, r-maine, to kansas sen. bob dole's ``unlimited partners,'' written with his wife, former transportation secretary elizabeth dole, and richard norton smith
dukakis' book is neither a novel nor a biography. it has no plot, poetry or photos. but it is full of recipes _ economic recipes
resolutely serious, the book focuses on the reversal of massachusetts' economic fortunes since dukakis began his first term as governor in 1975, when the state's unemployment rate was 12 percent and the state treasury was more than $500 million in the red. he lost in 1978 but won two more terms, in 1982 and 1986
dukakis walks a fine line between praising himself and praising others for what he calls ``the massachusetts comeback'' or the ``massachusetts miracle.''
there is a lesson for america in the massachusetts success story. it is not that every specific program we tried here will work everywhere else,'' dukakis writes
rather, the lesson is in the idea of hands-on economic development and the approach we've used to get it done,'' he says. the key ingredients were fiscal reform, investments in public infrastructure, worker training and capital formation, and the creation of public-private partnerships to encourage innovation
in the early stages of his presidential campaign last year, dukakis stressed his role in the turnaround that brought lower taxes, rising personal income and the lowest unemployment rate of any industrial state
dukakis uses the book to lecture his critics who claim that massachusetts has benefited from the reagan defense build-up
the world may identify massachusetts with high technology, and high technology with defense, but the facts are otherwise,'' dukakis writes. he maintains that only about 4 percent of massachusetts employment depends on defense spending
dukakis is credited as the author of chapters on the state's comeback and on his now-familiar prescriptions for a national economic development strategy
the bulk of the book was written by kanter, an expert on entrepreneurship and an ally of the dukakis administration. kanter said the book grew out of discussions she had with dukakis in 1986, well before he decided to run for president
it might have been me first saying, there's a great story here. then his staff picked up on it,'' kanter said in an interview
in february (1987) we met and decided a book was a good idea. that was at his inititative,'' she said
according to kanter, the chapters attributed to dukakis were based on speeches and policy statements he had made before, but she insisted that dukakis was actively involved in updating, editing and rewriting them
he had somewhat less time than we were expecting,'' kanter said
john devillars, the governor's deputy chief of staff, said dukakis worked on the book while flying from one campaign stop to another. ``he probably, in writing the book, traveled 15,000 miles,'' devillars said
the publisher, simon and schuster, refused to divulge any figures about sales or orders. but if the book makes any money, dukakis and kanter have decided to donate any proceeds to the state's adult literacy corps. counseling</head>
a federal judge today blocked implementation of new reagan administration regulations designed to cut off federal funds to family planning clinics which perform abortions or offer abortion counseling
the new regulation, which were scheduled to take effect today, would have had no immediate impact on the estimated 4,000 family planning clinics around the nation operated with federal funds because the rules apply only to new grants
u.s. district judge walter jay skinner issued a permanent injunction against the department of health and human services regulations
skinner said in a 28-page order that the regulations issued last month by the department ``as a whole violate both congressional intent and rights protected by the constitution.''
it was not immediately clear if the ruling had effect outside massachusetts. federal judges in denver and new york city earlier had issued temporary injunctions against implementation of the rules
in my opinion, a governmentally imposed block on the flow of neutral information bearing on abortion is an impermissible burden on the presently recognized rights of a pregnant client'' of a family planning clinic
skinner also said the regulations violate first amendment protections of free speech for those who advocate abortion
the injunction was requested last month by the state of massachusetts, the national family planning and reproductive health association and 13 other local and national family planning groups
the new rules would prohibit federally funded family planning programs from providing abortion counseling, referring women to abortion providers and engaging in lobbying or legal action to increase availability of abortion
if the facility also performs abortions, to keep federal funding for its other programs the clinic must maintain separate personnel, separate accounting procedures, and provide different and clearly defined waiting and treatment rooms for each type of patient
about 4,000 family planning clinics nationwide would be affected by the regulations
in requesting the injunction, the state and the family planning association told skinner at a feb. 17 hearing that the new regulations were contrary to the intent of congress when it established the family planning program under title x of the public health service act in 1970
the title x budget for fiscal 1988 is $137 million, down from $142 million in fiscal 1987. an estimated 5 million poor women receive services from the program
in massachusetts, there are 84 clinics serving 87,000 recipients with the help of a $2.9 million title x appropriation
a government spokesman said thursday some people were killed in the southern city of sumgait during weekend riots, which he said were provoked by ``hooligans'' reacting to rumors of ethnic confrontation
foreign ministry spokesman gennady gerasimov gave the first official confirmation of deaths during the riots in the caucasian republic of azerbaijan, but would not say how many people were killed
even one single life lost is already much too much,'' gerasimov said when asked at a news briefing about a claim by armenian dissidents that 17 people were killed at sumgait, an industrial city of more than 160,000
trouble between ethnic azerbaijanis and ethnic armenians began early last month with a dispute over nagorno-karabakh, a region just north of iran and east of turkey. more than three-quarters of the population is armenian but it was made part of neighboring azerbaijan in 1923
protesters in nagorno-karabakh demanded that it be joined to armenia and peaceful protests spread to yerevan, capital of soviet armenia
riots were reported sunday in sumgait, 150 miles from nagorno-karabakh
a group of mutineers, of hooligans, provoked disorders,'' gerasimov said. ``these riots involved people who fell for provocative rumors and instigations with respect to what happened in nagorno-karabakh
using the situation of spontaneity, the instigators of violence participated in actions which led to casualties.''
he referred at other times in the briefing to loss of life, indicating the casualties were deaths
on wednesday, an employee of the television station in baku, capital of azerbaijan, said one or two people had been killed in sumgait. he spoke in a telephone interview on condition of anonymity
gerasimov acknowledged that problems also developed in kirovabad, another city in azerbaijan. ``the situation in kirovabad is normal, although over there some things might have happened too,'' he said, but refused to elaborate
the television worker said 50-60 young ethnic azerbaijanis who live in armenia traveled to sumgait last weekend and told relatives and friends about ethnic confrontations. he said ``young hooligans'' then went on a rampage and killed people
on thursday, gerasimov said people were arrested and prosecutors were investigating. he said order had been restored in sumgait, businesses and stores were running normally and the curfew had been lifted
he said two ranking soviet officials were in sumgait ``investigating these anti-social manifestations.'' he identified them as pyotr n. demichev, a non-voting member of the national communist party politburo, and kyamran bagirov, first secretary of the azerbaijan central committee
some ethnic azerbaijanis had fled their homes, he said
influenced by such provocative rumors and rumor-mongering, a small number of azerbaijani families left azerbaijan,'' gerasimobv told the journalists. ``they went to their relatives regularly,'' he said, but did not say where they settled
the only other confirmed report of deaths in the armenian-azerbaijan unrest was a soviet prosecutor's comment saturday that two people in agdamsky, a district of azerbaijan bordering nagorno-karabakh, had been murdered in disorders linked to the territorial dispute
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev appealed feb. 26 for calm in armenia and azerbaijan, and said the communist party central committee would review the dispute
new regulations to deny federal funds to family-planning organizations that counsel abortion technically go into effect today, but three court challenges have left the picture murky
even if the new rules weren't in legal limbo, there would be no immediate practical impact on the estimated 4,000 family planning clinics around the nation operated with federal funds
that is because the new regulations apply only to new grants
all the clinics that might eventually be affected are now operating with money approved under the old regulations. no new grant applications are in the final approval stage
federal judges in denver and new york city have issued temporary injunctions against implementation of the new rules, but it is not clear whether they have full nationwide force
in boston today, a third federal judge, walter jay skinner, issued a permament injunction against the department of health and human services blocking implementation of the rules
skinner said the regulations violate congress' intent and rights protected by the constitution
in my opinion, a governmentally imposed block on the flow of neutral information bearing on abortion is an impermissible burden on the presently recognized rights of a pregnant client'' of a family planning clinic, the judge said. replacements</head>
the united states is forging ahead with plans for better nuclear shells and short-range air-to-surface missiles, but is moving less rapidly to replace 88 aged ground-launched rockets, partly out of deference to west germany, u.s. officials said thursday
the shells are in development and the air-to-surface missile is close to that stage, the officials said
the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity in washington as nato leaders in brussels ended their two-day summit, said major decisions remain, however, on how to replace the 75-mile-range, ground-launched lance missile
deployment of a replacement for the lance could come as late as 1995, if ever, they said
nato is still committed to the modernization, but there isn't any decision facing the alliance now on lance replacement,'' one official said
what to do about short-range systems has become a bigger issue in nato, now that a u.s.-soviet treaty would eliminate missiles capable of hitting targets 300 to 3,120 miles away. the short-range arms would be the only nuclear weapons left in western europe
as promised at a defense ministers' meeting in montebello, canada, in 1983, nato already has reduced the number of short-range systems below a 4,600 ceiling. the other half of the montebello decision is pending. it calls for:
_ new, more accurate and reliable artillery shells, notably for 155-millimeter howitzers, capable of hitting targets 10-15 miles away. research is finished and that weapon is in the early development stage
_ a new air-to-surface missile with a range of about 350 miles. the could be in the development stage shortly, especially if a final decision is reached to simply modify existing air-launched cruise missiles. the weapons would be deployed on u.s. f-16s, f-111s, west german torndados and other fighter-bombers
_ a replacement for lance missile, a 1960s generation weapon deployed in 1972. there are 88 lance launchers in western europe and nato envisions replacing them with equipment capable of firing a missile about 130 miles. the replacement is in the early design stage
in a summit-ending communique, president reagan and the other 15 leaders said ``we are determined to sustain the requisite efforts to ensure the continued viability, credibility and effectiveness of our conventional and nuclear forces, including the nuclear forces in europe which together provide the guarantee of our common security.''
the final summit communique avoided use of the word modernization, to which west germany objects. instead, the document said nato will maintain ``an appropriate mix of adequate and effective nuclear and conventional forces which will continue to be kept up to date where necessary.''
of the nato allies, west germany is the most concerned about the pace of modernization. many political figures there would prefer less talk about nuclear improvements and more talk about negotiations with the soviets to reduce the number of short-range weapons on both sides
in deference to west germany, officials before and after the summit took pains to stress the fact that the lance replacement, the most powerful of the weapons, has not even been built, much less set for deployment
nato secretary general lord carrington said the allies were concerned that some people might think ``modernization'' might signal introduction of new, more destructive weapons. ``modernization actually means weapons that are more accurate and possibly less destructive,'' he said
frank gaffney, a former deputy assistant secretary of defense and advocate of rapid-as-possible improvements in the short-range systems, said thursday deployment of the new weapons would enhance the chances of getting an agreement at future arms talks with the soviets
the pentagon's 1987 report on soviet military power said east bloc forces have ``a substantial numerical superiority'' in short-range nuclear forces
the body of a 9-year-old boy, handcuffed and naked, was found inside the family's clothes dryer, authorities said thursday
the death of the boy, james l. keller, appears to have been accidental but the investigation was incomplete, said deputy police chief robert pepin
he said police were called to the home wednesday night and officers found the parents trying to revive the boy
as near as we can tell,'' said pepin, ``he had been playing with a couple of siblings and somehow or other ended up in the dryer.''
kankakee county coroner james orrison said there were some burns on the body, indicating the dryer had been turned on, but that he had not determined the cause of death
police do not know why the boy was naked and his hands cuffed. pepin said the accident happened in the basement while the father was sleeping and the mother was out of the house
earlier this week, the body of a 12-year-old humboldt, wis., boy was found nude in a portable dishwasher that had been turned on. police said the death was apparently accidental but they were continuing to investigate
doctors have isolated the aids virus from the cervixes of aids-infected women, a discovery that sheds some light on how the disease is transmitted
it may explain how a woman passes on the disease to babies during birth and to her sex partners, researchers say
doctors at massachusetts general hospital isolated the virus from the cervixes of three of four aids-infected women
these findings indicate that there is actually virus within the cervix tissue itself, and the virus can be secreted'' into the genital fluids, said dr. martin s. hirsch, senior author of the report. ``these might be a source of subsequent infection to others.''
experts had known before that infected women can have aids virus in their genital regions, although it was unclear where it came from
this shows pretty clearly that the source of the virus within the genital secretions is actually cells within the cervix,'' hirsch said in an interview
he said the cervix might also be infected directly during intercourse from contact with virus-laden sperm, although the study doesn't prove the aids virus actually gets into women's bodies this way
the study, directed by dr. roger j. pomerantz, was published in the march issue of the annals of internal medicine
the researchers found the virus in endothelial cells that line blood vessels in the inner layer of the cervix, as well as in germ-eating macrophages and other blood cells within the cervical tissue
it's interesting and raises possibilities that perhaps the cervix could be infected directly by the virus, rather than get there through the blood,'' said dr. jay a. levy of the university of california, san francisco
the new research adds one more site to the growing list of targets of the aids virus, known as hiv
the virus kills by destroying helper t-cells, blood cells that orchestrate the body's immune defenses against all kinds of microscopic invaders, among them the aids virus itself. however, experts have learned that the virus also infects other types of blood cells as well as other parts of the body, including the eyes and the brain
last month, levy and others published a report showing that the aids virus also infects the rectum and colon. that could explain one way that the disease is spread during anal intercourse
many experts have assumed that for an aids infection to occur, the virus must enter the bloodstream through a tear in the body's tissues. the discovery of infected rectal and cervical tissue, however, suggests this might not always be necessary. instead, infection might occur by direct viral contact with the rectum and the female sex organs
a local infection of susceptible cervical cells from infected semen may preceed systemic spread of hiv,'' the researchers wrote
hirsch said he believes, though cannot prove, that the aids virus can penetrate intact cervical tissue, but infection might occur more readily if the cervix is inflamed by venereal disease
about 40 percent of babies born to infected women catch the virus themselves, either before or during birth. the study raised the possiblity that delivery by caesarean section might lower the risk to the newborn but says there is no proof for this
the women tested in the study were all heroin users who likely got infected from contaminated needles
it may not be the great train robbery, but it could be the great rail theft _ every inch of a 2,000-foot stretch of city-owned railroad track in great falls has disappeared
they did a good job, too,'' said city engineer stu pearson. ``they took the railroad, the ties and the gravel.''
time of the theft is a bit uncertain _ sometime between august 1984 and last week. value of the stolen track was estimated at $80,000
pearson said he learned last week the track was missing. he was notified by the manager of the construction company that laid the track for the city
i had to sit down and catch my breath,'' pearson said. ``i couldn't believe it was gone. but sure enough, you go up there and there's not a lick of rail.''
he has since done some investigating. ``everybody that i've talked to ... can remember work going on, but they can't remember who did it,'' he said
the track spur, installed in 1978, extended from the burlington northern railroad's main line into an industrial park that is now partially occupied
the problem is serious, pearson said, because rail service is an important factor in selling lots in the industrial park. although the spur obviously had not been used much in the last few years, it may be needed when the economy improves, he said
pearson said he has asked officials from the bn and milwaukee road railroads to check records to determine whether their workers removed the track by mistake. he has yet to receive a response
the cost to replace the track would be about $160,000, he estimated, but the city has no plans to do so yet
early immigrants to the united states will be honored at a special stamp ceremony involving sweden and finland on march 29, the u.s. postal service said thursday
the occasion is the settlement 350 years ago of new sweden _ in what is now delaware _ by immigrants from those northern european nations
a stamp dedication ceremony will be held in the grand opera house in wilmington, del., where the issuance of a 44-cent u.s. airmail stamp will be marked
at the same time, stamps commemorating the same settlement will also be issued in helsinki, finland, and vaxjo, sweden
a hunch by a caseworker led to a tearful reunion of a mother with her 15-month-old son who was kidnapped when he was 18 days old
alisha wetselline-rodriguez held her son, eric, on wednesday and was so excited she could barely speak
i understand he has to get used to me,'' ms. wetselline-rodriguez said as she cradled the boy, dressed in red overalls and a striped shirt, during a visit to the home where he has been cared for
for months after eric was kidnapped from his home on dec. 9, 1986, ms. wetselline-rodriguez called police and got the same message: nothing yet
she then resorted to a nationwide search using fliers and getting in touch with child-welfare agencies
on christmas eve last year, texas department of human services worker mary forrester noticed a striking similarity between a picture of eric on a missing-children flier and the picture of an abandoned child who had been turned over to the agency
the identification process began then; the boy's mother was officially notified monday night that her son had been found
it was a one-in-a-million case,'' said ms. forrester. ``i wasn't even supposed to get the case, but another worker was overloaded. and when i first saw the flier, i threw it away. something made me go back and look at it.''
family court judge harold gaither jr. on wednesday returned the boy to ms. wetselline-rodriguez's custody after reviewing evidence from blood tests and testimony by officials
a few months after his kidnapping, a dallas woman took eric to a local catholic church and told a priest that a woman she met in a park had asked her to care for the child for a week while the woman went to houston to seek work
the church turned the child over to the state last may
the woman never returned, and efforts to find her have failed, according to dallas county assistant district attorney beverly storey
ms. forrester said the boy would have been eligible for adoption in november, but she postponed that process because she had a feeling about the case
john and diane noster, who have nurtured the boy for 10 months and have celebrated his first steps and first birthday, will keep the boy for another week, giving him a chance to grow accustomed to his mother
i've waited this long, what's another week?'' said ms. wetselline-rodriguez, who turned 22 on dec. 29. ``this is the best christmas and birthday present i've ever had.'' fever</head>
u.s. health officials warned thursday that new prevention and control programs are needed to prevent western hemisphere epidemics of dengue fever, a tropical disease carried by mosquitoes
the incidence of dengue in most countries of the (americas) region has continued to increase in recent years,'' the u.s. centers for disease control reported
in brazil alone, 47,370 cases of dengue were officially reported in 1986, and health authorities there estimate that between 300,000 and 500,000 cases may have actually occurred. in mexico, 21,975 cases were officially reported
dengue fever is caused by infection with a dengue virus and can prompt fever, pains in the joints, and even death
thirty-three cases of dengue fever were reported in the united states in 1986
the cdc noted that the disease is transmitted by mosquitoes, including the aedes albopictus, or ``tiger mosquito,'' which is increasingly prevalent in the united states. the species has now spread to 17 states, mostly in the south, east and midwest
while the ultimate significance of the presence of (the tiger mosquito) is not known, it is likely to increase the efficiency of virus maintenance in infested areas,'' the cdc said in its weekly report
the cdc also blamed the increase in dengue infections in the americas on the simultaneous circulation of several different types of dengue virus
a 73-year-old man described as a dangerous repeat offender was sentenced to 6 to 25 years in prison thursday after he pleaded guilty to stealing limburger cheese and other food from a grocery store
hairm richardson entered the plea to a single count of aggravated robbery just before he was to go on trial on charges of aggravated robbery, felonious assault and possessing criminal tools. warren county prosecutors agreed to drop the other charges in exchange for the guilty plea
richardson, of miamisburg, was accused of shoplifting two pounds of bacon, a sausage and a jar of limburger cheese from a franklin grocery store last october and then pulling a knife on a store employee who tried to stop him
prosecutors said richardson's ``criminal tool'' was a large coat with extra pockets sewn inside, allegedly for the purpose of hiding shoplifted food
james beaton, an assistant county prosecutor, said he was satisfied with the sentence and said richardson will probably spend the rest of his life behind bars
i don't think he'll see the light of day,'' beaton said
in 1942, richardson and three brothers were convicted of first-degree murder in the slaying of a man who tried to stop a robbery in a bar and all four were sentenced to life. richardson was paroled in july 1964 after then-gov. james rhodes commuted his conviction to second-degree murder
in 1981, richardson was convicted of misdemeanor theft in miamisburg and was sentenced to 30 days in jail and fined $250, police said. in 1982, franklin police charged him with drug abuse and trafficking in marijuana; he served less than 10 months of a 1-to 5-year sentence before being paroled in may 1983, officials said
we have to take a hard line on it. the guy's dangerous,'' beaton said in an interview. ``this guy is not your average 73-year-old man, not by a long shot.''
he's as strong as an ox and in perfect health,'' franklin police detective rick thacker said
if convicted of the original charges, richardson could have received a 10- to 25-year term for aggravated robbery and 8 to 15 years for each of the two felonious assault charges
an apartment cooperative that requires new owners and renters to speak english has sparked threats of picketing among hispanics, who claim the rule is discriminatory
the language requirement was imposed at the paradise towers apartment building after communications problems arose with a colombian couple who could not speak english. other residents complained they could not make the couple understand that their grandchildren were wandering too close to a dangerous seawall, the president of the condominium's board of directors said
the bylaw, which went into effect more than year ago, was publicized recently by a story in the miami herald
hispanics, angered at what they call a discriminatory policy, plan to picket outside the 70-unit cooperative later this week
this is a blatant violation and we will do whatever has to be done to get this changed,'' said mike morales, a south broward hispanic leader. ``so long as people have the money to pay, be it from spain, europe or any other part of the world, they should be able to live where they want.''
according to the fair housing act of 1968, discrimination in housing is prohibited on the basis of race, religion, sex, color and national origin. representatives of the u.s. justice department say the cooperative's bylaw could violate the act
under the bylaw, no apartment can be sold or leased unless at least one member of the new household can read, understand and speak english
it's sad that in a place like south florida, which depends a lot on economic relations with south america for its livelihood, that something like this could happen,'' said attorney osvaldo soto, chairman of the spanish american league against discrimination in miami
but residents of the cooperative, which screens all prospective owners and renters, say the rule is necessary to maintain safety and the building's private club atmosphere
we screen everyone for the protection of our tenants. we don't want undesirables living here,'' said charles levy, retired lawyer and president of paradise towers' board of directors. ``and if we can't communicate with people, it creates a real burden.''
the colombian couple moved out of the condominium in october 1986, and the bylaw was passed overwhelmingly in january 1987 by board members and residents. if the couple had stayed, they would have been exempt from the new bylaw, levy said
no one has yet been turned away or kicked out because of the rule, he said
despite the ruckus, board members said the cooperative has no plans of amending the bylaw unless residents demand it
some 450,000 tyrolia ski bindings are being recalled because of heel and toe lug breakage which could lead to serious injury, the consumer product safety commission said thursday
the voluntary recall was announced by tyrolia freizeitgerate of austria, which said consumers should cease using the affected bindings
if the lugs holding the ski bindings to the ski should fail during use, serious injury could occur because of loss of control by the skier, the commission said
generally, should breakage occur, it happens when the boot is being inserted into the binding. but five injuries have been reported that may have been related to lug failure, the agency said
the affected bindings can be identified by the color of the toe lug and the production code stamped on the right side of the base of the heel plate
bindings being recalled are:
_grey toe lugs: models 480, 230 and 177 with production codes starting with h; model 190 with production codes starting with g or h
_blue toe lugs: model 290 with production codes starting with f
_white toe lugs: model 290 with production codes starting with f; model 280 with codes starting with g; models 220 and 170 with codes starting with f or g or ending with 4; model 180 with codes starting with g; model 90 junior with codes ending with 4
_black toe lugs: model 80 junior with codes ending with 4 or 2
ski bindings with red lugs are not being recalled
tyrolia said consumers who bring their ski bindings to the shop where they were purchased or to their nearest tyrolia dealer by april 30 will be given new replacement bindings at no charge
after april 30 consumers will be given a choice of reconditioned bindings at no charge or new replacement bindings at a charge of between $18 and $21
consumers with questions can contact tyrolia at 1-800-343-5999 in the united states or 1-800-265-7252 in canada. the commission can be reached at 1-800-638-2772. issue</head> to bush.</note>
sen. bob dole pocketed an endorsement from conservative former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick on thursday and urged a federal death penalty for drug ``overlords and kingpins'' as he sought to invigorate a faltering super tuesday campaign
dole also stepped gingerly around the issue of whether gop presidential campaign rival george bush was involved in possible cia payments to panamanian strongman manuel noriega. bush has refused to discuss anything he did as cia director that might affect national security and criticized dole for talking about cia matters
on thursday, dole cited news reports saying noriega may have gotten millions of dollars from the cia but did not speak directly of bush the way he did when the kansas senator first raised the subject on wednesday
dole's aides hoped to use the endorsement from kirkpatrick, a former democrat, to attract conservative support in several of the southern states holding primaries and caucuses next tuesday. ms. kirkpatrick, who declined some moves to get her to run for the gop presidential nomination, is popular among conservatives for her hard-line foreign policy views
michael murphy, whose firm produces campaign commercials for dole, said ms. kirkpatrick's endorsement statement had been taped, and advertisements would be ready by the end of the day in case senior officials decide to use them in the super tuesday campaign
dole's aides concede he is running behind bush in most of the 17 states holding primaries and caucuses next tuesday, many of them in the south. the senator said his goal for those primaries is ``to get our share of delegate'' at stake, and insisted it was not possible for bush to strike a knockout blow on that day
but he offered no prediction on how many of the 712 available delegates he hopes for
he also conceded he is running behind bush in south carolina, which holds its primary on saturday _ and talked instead of same-day caucuses in his home state of kansas and in wyoming, two states where he said ``we look particulary good.''
ms. kirkpatrick, who left the democratic party after joining the reagan administration, praised dole warmly as a candidate who is ``serious and strong and smart and honorable and can be elected.''
i know george bush and bob dole,'' she told a news conference. ``i've worked with both of them on foreign policy problems, and i have more confidence that dole can produce the flexibility and the strength'' to deal with the country's problems and sit across from soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
dole called ms. kirkpatrick the ``heart and soul of the reagan revolution.''
earlier, in a speech to a white house conference on drug abuse, dole said it was wrong to give clean needles to drug addicts, as is being done in new york. ``giving clean needles to addicts may be intended to prevent disease, but it also endorses addiction,'' he said
he added that he favors imposition of a death penalty for ``the drug overlords and the kingpins'' of the international drug trade
dole used his speech to take a slap at noriega, who has been indicted on drug charges in this country, saying, ``we don't need him around either.''
but he seemed to back off slightly from comments he made while campaigning in louisiana on wednesday
at the time, he said there were ``some who say he's (noriega) been on the (cia) payroll since 1966.''
speaking of bush, who served as cia director from 1976 to 1977, he said, ``he made all those decisions in the cia. what were they? was noriega on the payroll when he was cia director? the cia payroll?''
asked to explain his comments at a news conference at which he won ms. kirkpatrick's endorsement, dole cited published reports saying that ``for many years noriega was on the cia payroll, maybe got millions of dollars from the cia
that's all i've suggested. there are a lot of cia directors over the past 20 years. i'm also suggesting that it shouldn't come as any surprise to anyone that noriega and others in panama have been involved in the drug business.''
virtuoso violinist and cultural ambassador henryk szeryng, known for his refreshing and moving renditions of bach and brahms, died thursday of a cerebral hemorrhage. he was 69
szeryng died in kassel, west germany, according to herve corre of the musician's paris office. he had suffered a cerebral hemorrhage early wednesday, then died after 24 hours in a coma
renowned worldwide for a vast repertoire which he executed with great skill and feeling during a career that spanned more than 50 years, szeryng was to have performed wednesday in brussels at a concert to benefit aids research
the polish-born musician, who traveled on a diplomatic passport as mexico's official cultural ambassador, also was known for his special preference for resurrecting neglected or lost works for the violin
last fall he delighted concert-goers in atlanta with a performance of a previously lost violin concerto by reynaldo hahn
szeryng also prided himself on introducing relatively unknown contemporary works to audiences worldwide
a tonalist and colorist with the technical command of a master, he thrilled audiences with what critics called ``his obvious delight in playing.'' instead of wrinkling his brow with the pained look of many of his colleagues, he appeared enraptured, smiling happily as he played favorite passages
arthur rubinstein, the polish-born pianist who died in 1982, once called him ``a musician's musician ... who gave real music lovers what they wanted: great moments of emotion.''
szeryng was born on sept. 22, 1918, in zelazowa-wola, poland, which was frederic chopin's birthplace. his father was a wealthy iron and lumber magnate and his mother was a professional pianist who taught the young henryk the piano and harmony when he was only five. his elder brother played the violin and szeryng, fascinated by the instrument, took it up at seven
it was totally beyond my comprehension,'' he said in a 1983 interview. ``how could one find the right notes and the right intervals on a fingerboard which is totally blank? piano playing was much simpler. you had white keys and black keys.''
polish violinst bronislaw huberman, a family friend, encouraged szeryng to pursue his violin studies and persuaded his parents to send him to berlin where he studied with carl flesch. huberman's political ideas also influenced szeryng's lifelong commitment to peace
in 1936, he studied at the paris conservatory, winning the coveted first prize only nine months after entering. he studied composition with the legendary nadia boulanger and gabriel bouillon and became friends with jean cocteau, pablo picasso and igor stravinsky
at the outbreak of world war ii, szeryng, who spoke seven languages fluently, was made polish prime minister wladislav sikorski's official translator and later became a personal goverment liaison officer. but he never abandonded his music, giving more than 300 concerts at allied hospitals and bases, even during air raids in britain
in 1941, he accompanied the exiled prime minister to latin america in search of a home for about 4,000 polish refugees displaced by the war. they were accepted by mexico. moved by this humanitarian gesture, szeryng took mexican citizenship in 1946
in 1970, he was appointed special music adviser to mexico's unesco delegation in paris and became the first musician to enjoy diplomatic status
although he once called bach his ``bible'' and chopin his ``first musical food,'' szeryng also had a passion for contemporary music. he said it gave him ``an extra portion of spontaneity and freshness.''
funeral services are to be held in monte carlo, monaco, his european home for many years, at a date to be announced. election</head>
the commission created to recommend solutions to the government's debt woes is apparently embroiled in a dispute with the reagan administration even before it begins meeting
house budget committee chairman william gray iii complained thursday that the administration was trying to dictate how the national economic commission would conduct its work in an effort to keep the panel's deliberations secret during the presidential election campaign
i don't think this commission should start off being dictated to by the white house,'' gray, who is a member of the commission, told reporters. ``someone is suggesting that we meet in a cave and roll a stone over the opening.''
gray took issue with a suggestion made by treasury secretary james a. baker iii that the 14-member bipartisan commission, which was created by congress last year, should hold its deliberations in secret and not release any reports before the november presidential election
while saying that the administration wanted the commission ``to go to work,'' baker suggested in an apperarance before the senate appropriations committee on tuesday that the commission's findings would carry more weight if the panel did not become embroiled in the presidential election campaign
the commission, which includes former democratic party leader robert strauss and chyrsler corp. chairman lee iacocca, is scheduled to hold its first meeting on friday in washington
gray said the first session would be a get-acquainted luncheon, but he said the panel would need to quickly make decisions on setting up a schedule of meetings and deciding how it would operate
however, the disagreement over such a fundamental issue as whether to hold open hearings suggests that the panel may have trouble operating, particularly if the members split along party lines. six members have been appointed by republicans and six by democrats
gray suggested that republicans were trying to keep the commission under wraps so that it would not become a forum for airing reagan's biggest economic failure, the string of record federal budget deficits
i don't think it is appropriate for the white house to say there should be nothing said or done until they get out of town,'' gray said. ``that is like the guilty party saying don't hand down sentence until we leave town.''
the commission is considered by many to be the best hope the next president will have to reach a quick consensus with congress on significant ways to reduce the budget deficit, which is expected to exceed $150 billion this year
the commission is scheduled to issue its final report on march 1, early in the next administration and presumably when a new president would have the most leverage to get his proposals through congress
the commission eventually will have 14 members. president reagan has already named as his choices former defense secretary caspar w. weinberger and former transportation secretary drew lewis, who is now chairman of union pacific corp
republican and democratic congressional leaders have named 10 other members and the new president-elect will name the final two members after the november election
gray's comments came following a budget committee hearing in which federal reserve chairman alan greenspan repeated his suggestion that a 15-cent-a-gallon increase in the federal gasoline tax would be a good way to help shrink the budget deficit. the gasoline tax is currently at nine cents a gallon
greenspan had voiced the same suggestion in testimony wednesday before the senate budget committee
in some unusually specific suggestions to congress, greenspan said thursday that an increase in the gasoline tax of 15 cents would raise $15 billion annually in new revenues while leaving retail gasoline prices still well below the levels of the early 1980s
responding to questions, greenspan said he favored a gasoline tax over an oil import fee, which is favored by the domestic oil industry, because an oil import fee would raise energy costs for american manufacturers, thus reducing their competitiveness with foreign producers
the u.s. marine officer kidnapped in lebanon two weeks ago has been selected for promotion to the rank of colonel, the corps said thursday
lt. col. william ``rich'' higgins, until last summer a military aide to former defense secretary caspar w. weinberger, was selected by a promotion board along with 78 other lieutenant colonels for advancement
the promotion list was published thursday. higgins is no. 55 on the list of 79 and would not actually receive the new rank for another year at the earliest
the marine promotion board was formed early this year to screen a field of 165 men and women, long before higgins' kidnapping on feb. 17
the 43-year-old officer was in lebanon because he had been assigned to temporary duty with the united nations, heading a group of observers in lebanon attached to the u.n. truce supervision organization
a decorated vietnam combat veteran, higgins served as the junior military assistant to weinberger for two years _ from june 1985 to june 1987. budget cuts</head>
budget cuts imposed by congress will lead to a slowdown in the air force's space launch operations this year and layoffs of as many as 500 contractor employees, the service said thursday
the roughly 28,000 civilian employees who work directly for the air force systems command, however, should not have to endure any unpaid furloughs, the service added
the air force said the head of the systems command sent a message to his field commanders thursday informing them of a variety of steps aimed at coping with a $281 million cut in his operations and maintenance fund
gen. bernard p. randolph has ordered a slowdown in operations at vandenberg air force base, calif., and cape canaveral air force station, fla., the service said. that move will force the contractors who operate the two space launch facilities to trim their work forces and delay some scheduled space launches, the air force said
the command also is offering early retirement to employees; cutting spending on travel, supplies and maintenance; and enforcing a hiring freeze
based on your planned and very difficult reductions in mission support, the command can still meet its critical mission without a furlough at this time,'' randolph wrote
but we have almost no room for error.''
the air force systems command, headquartered at andrews air force base, md., outside washington, is the arm of the service responsible for developing and procuring new aircraft and weapons. it is also the parent, however, of the air force's space division
the air force uses facilities at vandenberg and cape canaveral to launch military satellites into space
to save money, the air force said the contractors at the two facilities have been told to cut back to one shift per day, five days a week. currently, the contractors _ pan american world services inc. at cape canaveral and the federal electric corp. at vandenberg _ employ a total of about 5,000 workers
lt. col. doug kennett, a spokesman, said it would be up to the contractors to decide how many employees to lay off but ``it could get as high as 10 percent.''
the reduction in shifts ``will increase processing time to prepare for launches by at least 30 days,'' the service added
some test launches will have to be delayed and maintenance of existing facilities will be deferred.''
kennett declined to say how many launches might be delayed or which satellites would be affected
the move to avoid furloughs within the systems command follows a congressional outcry over plans by the air force logistics command to furlough its 84,000 civilian workers up to 10 days this year because of budget cuts
the operations and maintenance account for the systems command was reduced this year to $1.65 billion from $1.935 billion in fiscal 1987. of that fiscal 1988 total, about $231 million is earmarked for the operation of the two space centers _ down $22 million from fiscal 1987
the cuts stem from a reduction in the pentagon's budget under the terms of a deficit reduction compromise that was negotiated by the white house and congress last november
missiles fell on tehran and baghdad for a fourth day thursday and iraq said it had ``abundant'' supplies for continuing the deadly exchange
iraq's official news agency also said warplanes bombed dezful in western iran and the southern city of shiraz in the latest round of the ``war of the cities,'' whcih has taken thousands of lives in the 7{-year-old conflict
the soviet union denied supplying the rockets to either side. both are believed to use soviet-made scud-b surface-to-surface missiles
dispatches from the official news agencies said iraq fired two missiles into tehran and one into qom, the holy city of iran's shiite moslem hierarchy, and iran hit baghdad three times
that brought the total in four days to 27 iraqi missiles _ 24 fired at tehran and three at qom _ and 11 launched at baghdad by iran
iran said 13 people were killed and 40 wounded thursday in the air raids on dezful and shiraz, and 20 wounded by a missile strike on a tehran hospital. iraq said women and children were killed in baghdad, and houses and shops destroyed
since the missiles began flying monday afternoon, iran has listed 30 people killed and more than 130 wounded in tehran and said there were no casualties in qom. iraq has not given specific figures
an editorial in al-thawra, organ of iraq's ruling baath party, said the nation ``has highly abundant quantities of `al hussein' missiles that are ready to pound the (iranian) charlatans.''
al-qadissiya, the army daily, declared: ``the number of missiles we have used so far is only a sample of what we have in store to deter the enemy once and for all.''
the missiles are named for a saint of shiite moslems, who make up slightly more than half of iraq's 16 million people and the overwhelming majority of iran's 50 million
iran's official news agency quoted kamal kharrazi, a member of the supreme defense council, as saying iran is ``quite capable of continuing the war of the cities'' until baghdad stops its ``inhuman attacks.''
although iraq said it developed its own missiles, western military analysts believe they are scud-bs with strap-on boosters enabling them to reach tehran and qom, both about 290 miles from the iraqi border
iran also uses scud-bs, supplied by its arab allies syria and libya, but does not need boosters because baghdad is only 80 miles from the frontier
earlier this week, iran protested to the soviet ambassador about what it described as soviet-made missiles used by iraq. iran also said it knew what country shipped the weapons to iraq, but did not give the name
in moscow, foreign ministry spokesman gennady gerasimov said thursday: ``attempts are being made to present things in such a way as if the soviet union had something to do with'' the missile battle
claims of this kind are absolutely unfounded,'' he said. ``the u.s.s.r. has not supplied either of the sides with weapons for launching such strikes and in no way sanctioned them.''
tehran radio quoted military communiques as saying the missiles fired thursday were aimed at iraq's intelligence headquarters in baghdad and a baath party center. iraq said they hit residential areas
military experts say the scud-b is not accurate enough at the ranges involved to hit specific targets
filmmakers steven spielberg and george lucas asked a skeptical senate panel thursday to give artists final rights over their works, including the unapproved coloring of classic motion pictures
the destruction of our film heritage is only the tip of the iceberg,'' lucas testified
american law does not protect our painters, sculptors, recording artists, authors or filmmakers from having their lifework distorted, and their reputation distorted,'' said lucas, who directed the hit movies ``star wars'' and ``american grafitti.''
spielberg and lucas, makers of eight of the 10 biggest moneymaking movies ever, were the latest emissaries from hollywood asking that the united states adopt international copyright standards that give creators _ not those who put up the money _ so-called ``moral rights'' over their work
we're here representing the 95 to 97 percent of directors who don't have the clout we have,'' spielberg told the senate judiciary subcommittee on patents, copyrights and trademarks
those testifying in opposition to the directors' request included producer david brown, who backed ``jaws,'' spielberg's first major hit. ``producers and production companies are part of the creative process,'' said brown, asking that congress leave arguments over rights to individual negotiations
the ``moral rights'' provision would prevent changes being made in a motion picture without the consent of the screenwriter and director once the movie has been released theatrically
i've seen my first film, `sugarland express,' cut down to 76 minutes to fit into a television time slot. right now, i have no right to protest this,'' said spielberg
the issue has become more heated since media magnate ted turner began buying the rights to old movies like ``casablanca'' and ``yankee doodle dandy'' and began releasing new versions with color added by computer
publishers and the creators of computer programs testified that adherence to the berne convention on international copyright would make it easier to protect american products against ``piracy'' abroad
bills in the house and senate would add the united states to the 76 nations that are now part of the berne convention agreement, but none would give artists guaranteed rights to their work over the economic rights of the financier
outrageous acts will be committed'' if the law is not changed, lucas said. ``as new technologies come on, you're going to find them fouling up what we know as copyright and art.''
but the five senators on the subcommittee said they would support only a limited expansion of the copyright standards
the issue of `moral rights' is one that may have to wait for another day,'' said subcommittee chairman sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz
spielberg said afterward, ``i don't think they sounded negative in there. they sounded practical.'' ``botha must ...''</note>
president p.w. botha said thursday his party's election losses to the far right were ``temporary disappointments,'' but they will force tough choices about his cautious reform of racial policy
leaders of the conservative party were jubilant about the decisive victory over the national party in two parliamentary by-elections wednesday. they said it shows increasing numbers of whites want apartheid strengthened and oppose even a token role for the black majority in national politics
botha must decide whether to appease those voters or move ahead with reforms in spite of them. the far right sees his goal of limited power-sharing as surrender. most black leaders and white liberals reject it as inadequate
one of the few black leaders showing any sympathy for botha was kenneth mopeli, chief minister of the qwaqwa tribal homeland, who said the election results ``spell disaster for the country.''
they not only signify a triumph for the policy of partition and fragmentation of the country, but also mean that the principle of power-sharing espoused by the national party has been effectively opposed,'' he said
under botha's concept of power-sharing, south africa's 26 million blacks would have a voice in national policy but the 5 million whites would retain control
he is unlikely to push for changes dramatic enough to win support from major black leaders, but made clear thursday he does not want to be seen as caving in to the far right
economic, social and political reform must continue, the president said, but he cautioned in the same statement: ``excessive demands often lead to excessive reactions.''
frederik de klerk, education minister and the national party leader in transvaal province, attributed conservative success to the demise of a smaller far-right party and displeasure with new wage freezes imposed on government employees
both seats in wednesday's by-elections went to conservatives in last may's national white elections but the winners were forced to resign, one on a technicality and one because of bankruptcy
de klerk noted that while the conservatives increased their winning margins compared to last year, national party support was stable. combined totals in the two rural transvaal districts wwere 15,478 votes for the conservatives and 11,830 for the nationalists, compared with 12,718 and 11,575 last year
andries treurnicht, conservative party leader, said the results would ``have a snowball effect'' in other elections
his party is favored to win a special election later this month and appears likely to cut into national party support in nationwide municipal contests in october
chris van der heever, chief conservative spokesman in transvaal, predicted the 6-year-old party would win control of local councils throughout rural transvaal and possibly in pretoria and blue-collar urban areas. he said the party also expects to do well in coastal areas, where many whites protested the recent opening of beaches to blacks
van der heever predicted the governing would put increasing emphasis on security and law-and-order issues. he and other conservatives suggested the view that botha's crackdown last week on anti-apartheid groups, which provoked international outrage, was an election gimmick
the independent pretoria news said in an editorial thursday: ``after being fed a diet of national party racism for decades, it is not surprising that the farmers ... voted for the old precepts of that party as espoused now by treurnicht.''
botha insists his reform program does not threaten white interests, which he pledges to protect through continued segregation of housing, schools and health services
it has few components so far
one would allow a limited number of multiracial neighborhoods, subject to approval by residents and the government. another, spurned by most prominent blacks, would form a ``national council'' where botha would negotiate a new constitution with black leaders to bring the racial majority into national politics
the national party has been in power since 1948 and has firm control of the 178-member house of assembly, with 133 seats to the conservatives' 22, but conservatives won 26 percent of the vote nationwide last may and expect to gain many more seats in the next general election. the anti-apartheid progressive federal party has 17 seats
separate parliament chambers for people of mixed race and those of indian descent were established in 1984, but have little power
both the national and conservative parties rely heavily on support from afrikaners, descendants of the dutch settlers who arrived in the 17th century. afrikaners make up about 60 percent of the white population
the city of nairobi is broke and it is raiding other budgets and intercepting employees' health fund contributions in order to continue providing essential services, it was reported thursday
j. musyoka-annan, the town clerk, told the kenya times that the city is owed about $38 million in unpaid rates and other charges. he did not say how much the city owed its creditors
in order to continue providing services to its 1.5 million residents, city officials have not been paying debts, forwarding employees' tax deductions to the government or paying their national health insurance fund contributions, musyoka annan said
he said officials are paying for other services by borrowing money from the world bank-financed water fund, which was set up to fund water projects in the city
property assessments, the city's only source of money, is not expanding and expenses are increasing, he said
president daniel arap moi dismissed elected councillors in 1982 and appointed a commision to run the city following public outcry over uncollected garbage, irregular hiring practices and mismanagement at city hall. says</head>
women who bear premature babies can provide more milk for their infants by not smoking, an agriculture department scientist reported thursday
physiologist judy m. hopkinson instructed mothers who delivered babies 8 to 12 weeks early to empty both breasts at least six times a day. she said 23 of the non-smoking mothers, or 80 percent, maintained enough milk after the infants went home. but only 3 of the 11 mothers who smoked, or 27 percent, continued to produce enough milk
hopkinson is located at the department's children's nutrition research center at baylor college of medicine in houston. her findings were reported here by the department's agricultural research service
in non-smokers, low milk production is usually due to ``mothers not pumping their breasts enough,'' she said. ``generally, it's not a physiological problem.''
but ``smokers have significantly lower milk volume than non-smokers,'' hopkinson said. the 11 smokers averaged 11 percent less milk during the first two weeks after giving birth and 40 percent less by the fourth week
the infants have to be tube-fed because they are too immature to suck and swallow, and ``mothers want to give them their milk,'' she said. ``it's one of the few things they can do, and it's a very emotional issue.''
but many women who deliver prematurely are not getting the appropriate information to produce enough milk, hopkinson said. most of the mothers can increase milk production by pumping more frequently. five times a day is enough to maintain volume, she said, and 8 to 10 times a day will increase milk volume within a week or two
hopkinson said mother's milk is preferred over formula or donor milk beckause it is more suited to the infant and may also enhance the infant's immunity to infections. even so, she said, for very low-birthweight babies, mother's milk must be fortified with extra protein and minerals, including calcium and phosphorous
shifting of a clay and limestone foundation is being considered as a possible cause of the ashland oil inc. oil tank collapse that fouled two rivers and threatened drinking water in parts of three states
we are looking at a number of things, including the quality of materials and possible issues surrounding the tank foundation,'' said matt hayman, spokesman for the national bureau of standards
two ashland contractors disagree about whether the stone and clay pad under the 4-million-gallon steel tank sank before the collapse or was eroded by escaping oil
workers began taking soil samples last saturday from the 120-foot diameter foundation that supported the tank bottom and will continue their search for clues next week, betsy mallison, spokeswoman for the state department of environmental resources, said wednesday
one of our researchers was there specifically to be included in the soil examination of the base,'' said hayman
the jan. 2 collapse allowed an estimated 730,000 gallons of oil to enter the monongahela river, which joins the allegheny river at pittsburgh to create the ohio river. about 23,000 suburban pittsburgh residents lost water service for most of the week after the collapse, and shutoffs were threatened in pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia towns that draw water from the ohio
employees of dennis jaskolski contracting co. helped dismantle the tank after it collapsed and found that portions of the foundation appeared to have sunk between 12 and 18 inches, said dennis jaskolski
after we moved the floor pieces off, you could see that a third of the foundation had dropped lower,'' he said
there appeared to be a defect in the stone base,'' jaskolski said. ``when the metal bottom was laying flat on top of it you couldn't see it, but then we started cutting up the floor.''
there is no visible settlement on the tank pad,'' said ralph zimmerman, whose company, ralph zimmerman excavating inc. of nearby clairton, laid the foundation
when the tank collapsed it ripped the bottom too, and where it ripped quite a bit of stone was washed out,'' he said
zimmerman said state and federal investigators questioned him about the work his company performed
bid specifications required a base of compacted clay 3 to 4 feet thick, topped by a foot of crushed limestone
ashland spokeswoman margaret thomson said company officials would not speculate on whether the foundation played any role in the collapse
others have speculated that the collapse might be traced to metal fatigue in the 45-year-old steel used for the tank, freezing temperatures the day of the accident or problems with vents in the tank. work</head>
the owner of a nursing home has been indicted on charges he induced 11 irish nationals to illegally enter the united states and work for him without permits, federal officials said today
a federal indictment handed up wednesday alleges that peter h. starr persuaded the 11 nurses' aides and orderlies to quit their jobs and move to the united states even though he was told that it was unlikely they would be granted work permits
starr, 35, of scituate, owner of the queene anne nursing home in hingham, allegedly recruited the workers through advertisements in a dublin newspaper. after receiving 75 responses, he traveled to dublin to interview the applicants before offering jobs to 11 of them, the indictment alleged
in may 1977, he applied for temporary permits allowing the 11 to enter the united states and work
starr was informed by the state division of employment security, which processes the applications for the federal labor department, that it was unlikely the requests would be granted. but then starr allegedly told the workers to obtain tourist visas and falsely state on their applications that they never had requested permission to work in the united states
the irish nationals are cooperating with investigators and likely would be witnesses if starr is brought to trial, u.s. attorney frank mcnamara jr. said
charles t. cobb, district director of the immigration and naturalization service, said the 11 men and women have been granted permission to remain in the united states until august and could request resident status. they range in age from the low 20s to 38, said cobb, who refused to release their names
starr faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine if convicted.  
a travel agency owner who allegedly bilked customers out of $5 million disappeared from a cruise ship shortly before a mutiny of its crew in central america, passengers say
fernando inigo, the agency owner, left the cruise ship galazy before dawn in puerto quetzal, guatemala, promising crew members he would reboard in costa rica with money to pay them, passengers told the houston chronicle
crew members refused to continue working when they weren't paid
inigo and his wife, lorna, of san antonio are two of five defendants named in a lawsuit filed last week by the texas attorney general's office against golden cruisetours inc. and two of its affiliates
the three other defendants _ fernando mendrillo, fermin gutierrez and manuel fernandez _ only maintain postal boxes in san antonio, officials said
a hearing on the lawsuit is scheduled for friday in san antonio
assistant texas attorney general raul noriega, who said he had visited the inigos' house in san antonio, said neighbors have not seen the couple for several weeks
they appeared to have taken some possessions and left, noriega said. their child was removed from school, and the family's cars remained in the driveway
morris j. kirschberg, attorney for golden cruisetours, declined to comment on the case earlier this week but said through a secretary that he has not heard from the inigos since the lawsuit was filed
after the vessel left costa rica and passed through the panama canal, the galaxy's captain had all passengers leave the ship in panama city on feb. 21
the galaxy is owned by global cruises of panama, one of the affiliates named in the suit, of which inigo owns 5 percent, noriega said
he (inigo) was very nervous,'' said galaxy passenger dorothy c. hayes. ``we were told he wasn't feeling well.''
ms. hayes said inigo talked with her and other passengers before leaving the ship. ``he said that he had to leave in guatemala to meet with his bankers (in guatemala city) and then he would catch up with the ship in costa rica,'' she said. he never showed up, she added
in a letter to the associated press, passenger peggy enger of lakewood, colo., described conditions on the ship when passengers first boarded feb. 11 in acapulco
we entered into the main lobby, it was filthy, carpet was oil streaked, it smelled of diesel fuel,'' mrs. enger wrote
because of failures in the air conditioning system, cruise officials said only 50 passengers could sail, she said
i couldn't believe under those conditions that anyone would have signed up,'' mrs. enger said. she and her husband decided against sailing with the ship, which she said left port feb. 12, a day behind schedule
an attorney general's audit of golden cruisetours in january determined that the company had booked a high percentage of 36 future cruises on the galaxy, noriega said. each cruise carries about 200 passengers each; the cost was $1,500 cash in advance. a conservative estimate of receipts from would-be passengers on future cruises was $5 million, he said
improvements in the nation's efficiency in churning out goods and services slowed by almost half last year despite revised figures showing higher output in the the fourth quarter, the government said thursday
the labor department said productivity among non-farm businesses responsible for three-fourths of the nation's economic activity rose at an annual rate of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter in contrast to a deterioration of 0.2 percent reported in preliminary figures last month
the revisions raised the productivity improvement for the entire year from 0.8 percent to 0.9 percent, slightly more than half the 1.6 percent gain of 1986, despite the lowest hourly labor cost increases in more than four decades
the efficiency improvements for the year were the smallest since 1982, when an economic recession depressed output so much that productivity actually declined 0.6 percent from 1981
anything less than 1 percent is a disappointing number,'' said roger brinner, an economist for data resources inc. of lexington, mass. ``it gives you very little room to buffer pay increases and not much leeway to improve the standard of living.''
the revised figures showed output of goods and services by non-farm businesses _ which account for about three-fourths of the nation's economic production _ rising by an annual rate of 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter
that is the greatest increase in nearly two years and compares with a rise of 5.1 percent in the preliminary figures before the gross national product was revised upward last week by the commerce department
but in achieving that higher output, businesses increased the total hours worked by their employees by 5.3 percent
brinner said that reflects an increase of 3 million in the number of americans with jobs last year and ``gives you an indication that we may have an employment glut as well as an output glut'' as seen in the high level of unsold inventories
still, the higher output helped reduce the annualized increase in labor costs associated with each unit of goods or services in the fourth quarter from 3.7 percent in the preiminary figures to 3.1 percent in the final ones, the labor department said
despite figures showing that hourly wages rose an average 2.8 percent for all of last year, workers still lost 0.8 percent of their income for each hour they worked after taking inflation into account, according to the revised statistics
manufacturing workers fared even worse. their average wage increases of 1.3 percent dropped their purchasing power after inflation by 2.2 percent for the year
productivity in manufacturing improved 3.3 percent over the year _ unchanged from the preliminary figures _ with output up 4.3 percent on only a 1 percent increase in the number of hours worked
that combination dropped the labor costs associated with each product coming out of the nation's factories by an average 1.9 percent in 1987, the report said
frankly, we don't foresee much improvement in productivity this year,'' said donald straszheim, chief economist for merrill lynch. ``productivity improvements require rapid growth and we haven't been experiencing much of that lately.''
an illegal alien deported to mexico died a day later while trying to cross back into the united states, officials said
police said juan lopez cruz, 28, was killed instantly wednesday when he fell off a catwalk under the tex-mex railroad bride as he attempted to cross into the united states near downtown laredo
a railroad official estimated the distance to the ground as 35 feet
members of a group of aliens who were also attempting to cross the border told police they met cruz on the mexican side of the rio grande. he offered to show them how to get across the railroad bridge, they said
the witnesses told police cruz was walking ahead of the group when he suddenly fell. the group of about five, which included some children, continued on the catwalk, crossing successfully, and notified a security officer of the accident, police said
the other aliens were turned over to the u.s. border patrol for deportation
officials said cruz had been picked up by u.s. immigration officials in san antonio and was deported tuesday. laredo police said they would contact the u.s. immigration office in san antonio for more information on the victim. woman</head>
aretha franklin, long ago canonized as the queen of soul music, has become the all-time biggest female grammy winner with 14 awards
before wednesday night's telecast of the 30th annual grammy awards show from radio city music hall, franklin fell behind opera diva leontyne price and jazz great ella fitzgerald, who held 13 and 12 trophies respectively
franklin soared ahead after picking up prizes for best female rhythm and blues vocalist for her lp, ``aretha,'' and with george michael for best rhythm and blues performance by a duo for their single, ``i knew you were waiting (for me).''
still, she has a long way to go to overtake grammy's all-time top winner, sir georg solti, conductor of the chicago symphony, whose recording of beethoven's 9th symphony won a grammy for best orchestral recording and raised his lifetime total to 26
vladimir horowitz, the pianist who had 20 grammys entering the ceremonies, won two more for best classical instrumental performance and best classical album for ``horowitz in moscow.'' he also received the president's special merit award from the academy
horowitz is followed on the list by composer henry mancini, with 20 awards; producer-musician quincy jones with 19; pop-rhythm and blues superstar stevie wonder with 17; composer john t. williams with 15; franklin with 14; price with 13; fitzgerald tied in 9th place with singer-songwriter paul simon with 12 grammys each; and conductor pierre boulez in 10th place with 11 trophies
the ptl television ministry said thursday it is banking on a telethon to help it make quarterly payments to the internal revenue service ordered by a federal bankruptcy judge
the fort mill-based ministry, hit by hard times since the fall of founders jim and tammy bakker, was ordered by u.s. bankrupcty judge rufus reynolds to make payments of $550,000 to the irs every three months to settle tax debts
reynolds settled on the amount wednesday after the irs argued for payments of $800,000 a quarter and ptl agreed to payments of $300,000 a quarter. the first payment is due may 2
it looks like the projections indicate we'll be able to meet the may 2nd obligation,'' said m.c. ``red'' benton, the ministry's executive vice president
the success in meeting the payments will greatly depend on a ptl telethon that began monday and will run through the end of march with the goal of raising $4.5 million above normal donations, he said
the payment is meant to be an interim settlement on ptl's debt to the irs and could be adjusted each quarter if necessary, reynolds ruled
the irs has said the total tax bill is between $61.8 and $82 million, while ptl has maintained the bill is closer to $5 million
determination of the final bill is still before the u.s. bankruptcy court, which has been handling the case since ptl filed for reorganization june 12
in a separate action last week, attorneys for the irs and ptl argued in u.s. district court over reynold's decision to prevent the tax agency from revoking ptl's tax exempt status while the ministry reorganizes. a ruling in that case is expectedsoon
ptl's bankruptcy trustee, david clark, told reynolds on wednesday that the ministry is ``in a period of transition away from the celebrity preacher.''
we will be seen by the audience as somewhat different, something fresh, as a ministry that they can have confidence in,'' he said
also wednesday, benton told the court that the ministry was considering selling some of the 1,600 to 1,700 acres of unused land it owns around its heritage usa christian retreat
we want to talk to realtors about how we can best market'' the land, benton told reynolds. ``we'll have to develop a plan for you.''
reynolds, though, cautioned ptl officials against selling developable land with a high money-making potential
reynolds said heritage usa could become self-sufficient apart from income generated by the ptl television ministry
are you going to abandon the christian city?'' the judge asked
we're still interested in having a christian city, a christian retreat,'' benton said
but benton said afterwards the ministry is trying to decide whether it wants to continue in the business of building homes
clark now oversees the ministry begun by the bakkers, who resigned last year in the middle of a sex scandal that continues to have repercussions in the world of televangelism
a prisoner who escaped 10 years ago from the federal women's prison here apparently lived a crime-free life in arizona using an acquaintance's identification cards, federal officials said
mary hughey cantrell, who was 30 when she failed to return from a 1977 christmas furlough, pleaded guilty wednesday to a charge of escape from the alderson federal correctional institution
she will be held at the prison pending her april 22 sentencing, federal officials said thursday. the charge carries a maximum five-year sentence and a $5,000 fine
federal public defender ira kirkendoll said cantrell went to arizona shortly after her escape and worked for several years as a maid in private homes and resorts
cantrell was arrested jan. 5 in phoenix, ariz., after the internal revenue service spotted a discrepancy in income tax returns for a harriet walker, cantrell's acquaintance, who had never worked in arizona
officials said they didn't know how cantrell gained possession of walker's identification or where walker lived
it's pretty unusual, the length of time,'' kirkendoll said after u.s. district judge elizabeth hallanan accepted cantrell's plea. ``apparently she has reformed to some degree.''
assistant u.s. attorney kirk brandfass said the woman's decade of crime-free living, aside from maintaining a false identity, should be considered at sentencing
my heavens, that ought to count for something,'' the prosecutor said outside hallanan's court in beckley
u.s. marshals wouldn't allow an interview with cantrell, who was sentenced to three years after a 1975 conviction for passing counterfeit money. cantrell, who still has about 470 days to serve on her original sentence, was paroled in may 1976 but was returned to the prison in early 1977 after a parole violation
the transportation department proposed a wide range of drug tests thursday for more than a half million airline employees from pilots to mechanics, although officials acknowledged they have no clear evidence of a drug problem in the industry
announcement of the drug testing program, which would go into effect after what may be a lengthy rulemaking process, came amid conflicting court cases on whether such tests are legal. a federal judge earlier this week declared random drug tests of civilian army employees as unconstitutional
but transportation secretary jim burnley said drug testing _ especially random testing _ ``is absolutely critical'' in the aviation industry to make certain travelers are not endangered by a flight crew member, mechanic or other employee in a safety-sensitive job being impaired by drugs
we can't wait for weeks and months while these (drug testing) cases wind themselves through the courts,'' burnley told a news conference. he said he was confident the department's testing program would eventually meet the court's approval
the union representing more than 40,000 airline pilots accused burnley of ``headline grabbing'' and questioned the need for a drug testing program in an industry where no drug problem has been shown
there's never been a scheduled air carrier accident in the united states that has been attributed to drugs,'' declared roger hall, a vice president of the air line pilots association. he promised to challenge any random drug testing rule in the courts when it becomes final
the association of flight attendants, which has 23,000 members, also criticized the broad scope of the department's testing proposal and said there see no justification for random testing
we're opposed to random testing. there's never been an incident where flight attendants have performed poorly in an evacuation because of drugs,'' said matthew finucane, the union's safety director
while burnley provided no specific evidence to show a problem with drug use among commercial airline employees, he insisted ``there isn't any reason to believe that aviation has been exempted'' from a problem that is widespread in society
i'm not going to wait until we have a mid-air collision because a pilot is impaired or we lose a plane because a maintenance persons (is on drugs) on the ground,'' said burnley
the transportation department estimates that 511,000 airline industry employees would be subject to the various drug tests called for in the proposed regulation. the employees include more than 50,000 pilots flying regularly scheduled commercial aircraft, 86,000 flight attendants and 297,500 aircraft mechanics
other airline workers that would be subject to the tests include cockpit crew members such as flight engineers and navigators, aircraft dispatchers and security personnel who work at screening checkpoints at airports
under the proposal, employees would be subject to a pre-employment test, periodic testing whenever a person is taking a physical, post-accident testing and random testing as well as test for reasonable cause. an employ would be subject to an initial test on a sample of urine and a more sophisticated test if the first test shows the presence of drugs
the airlines or other employers would have to submit a testing plan to the transportation department within 180 days after a final rule is issued. burnley said he expected a final rule before the end of the year, although he declined to be more specific
drug testing, especially random testing, is absolutely critical in our efforts to create a drug-free aviation system for the american people,'' said burnley. ``no matter how stringent our safety regulations ... all it takes is one person on drugs in one of these sensitive airline jobs to endanger the lives of hundreds of innocent people.''
the department's regulation covering airline employees has been expected for months. burnley's predecessor, elizabeth dole, called for increased testing in all modes of transportation after drugs were implicated in the jan. 4, 1987 collision of a freight train and an amtrak passenger train. the crash near baltimore killed 16 people and injured 170
burnley said the proposed regulation covering airline employees would be followed by similar proposals covering other transportation employees including railroad workers and commercial truck drivers
the proposal does not cover private, so-called ``general aviation'' pilots. burnley said the department sought to limit the scope of the testing requirement to airline employees involved in carrying commercial passengers
there have been a variety of drug-testing cases heard in the federal courts with conflicting decisions
a federal appeals court, for example, has upheld random drug testing of certain transportation department employees including air traffic controllers. but another appeals court on tuesday knocked down similar testing of civilian army employees. a federal court in san francisco, meanwhile, has declared post-accident drug testing of railroad workers as being unconstitutional
last monday the u.s. supreme court, in what is expected to be a critical case, agreed to hear an appeal involving random testing of u.s. customs service employees. a lower court had ruled in favor of the customs service employees, who had challenged the tests
four canadian and nine soviet skiers set off thursday under a hazy, primrose-colored arctic sunset to cross the north pole and make a statement about east-west cooperation
the 13 men face not only a 1,073-mile trek, but also must eat and sleep in the same tent for 100 days
the journey got off to a late and rocky start from the snowy fields of ice floes that link this northernmost tip of the archipelago known as severnaya zemlya _ which means ``northern land'' _ with the polar ice cap
their faith was tested on the eve of thier departure when expedition leader dmitri shparo proposed expanding the soviet team to nine members
it was an 11th-hour decision,'' said canadian team leader richard weber, revealing some of the uncertainty his countrymen felt in allowing a further shifting of numbers in favor of the soviets. ``but when we sat down, we couldn't come up with any good reasons why not.''
weber and shparo met with western and soviet reporters at a remote encampment on sredny island, 93 miles south of this departure point
shparo termed the canadian concession ``magnanimous.''
weber said shparo informed him wednesday that he didn't want to cut from the team any of the soviets who had been in training
by morning, which arrives late on the severnaya zemlya, spirits were high and the explorers lumbered through crowded barracks weighing packs and redistributing gear
an mi-6 helicopter shuttled the skiers and a small group of journalists to the starting point, a windswept jumble of ice floes frozen into a single white expanse that stretches 1,240 miles to the canadian arctic
the rev. laurie dexter of fort smith, northwest territories, an anglican minister, stood on a snowy ridge overlooking the solid field that is the arctic ocean and called on ``the faith we have in each other'' to take his fellow skiers safely across the pole and into a new age of understanding
the men, bundled in red suits trimmed with dog fur and sponsors' logos, sped off at 2:30 p.m. as the sun hung just over the horizon
the expedition will continue to canada's cape columbia, with an arrival scheduled for early june
the route has been covered in two parts by members of separate teams, but this is the first attempt at a transcontinental crossing of the pole
the joint expedition was planned for 1980, but the canadians abandoned the attempt when soviet troops drove into afghanistan in december 1979
shparo, 46, led the first soviet polar ski trek in 1979, and weber, 28, of old chesea, ontario, covered the cape columbia-north pole segment in 1986
the most interesting part for me will be the social factor of being in a very small tent with a large number of people for a very long time,'' weber told reporters who visited the ski team's headquarters in dickson, the soviet arctic circle settlement that is the northernmost city in the world
dexter said the tent measures about 14.8 feet square
there are inevitably frayed nerves and tensions, but all of us are experienced enough and mature enough to let those things pass and get on with the expedition,'' he said. talks</head>
pakistan and afghanistan agreed thursday on a nine-month timetable for the withdrawal of red army troops from afghanistan and said half the soviet soldiers should be out of the country in the first 90 days
the two points had long hindered progress toward a settlement aimed at ending nine years of fighting in afghanistan, where an estimated 115,000 soviet troops are backing the government against moslem guerrillas
but a u.n. report released thursday warned that success at the geneva talks could leave another primary problem unresolved: the return of more than 5 million afghan refugees who have fled to neighboring pakistan and iran
the report said the refugees are unlikely to return unless the afghan government of president najib is replaced by one that includes opposition and refugee representation
that didn't dampen the optimism of afghan foreign minister abdul wakil, who told reporters, ``nothing important stands in the way of concluding a settlement. from our side, things could be regarded as finalized.''
he said u.n. officials had established that ``all refugees want to return.''
agreement on the withdrawal timetable had been widely expected
when the u.n.-mediated talks began nearly six years ago, moscow offered a four-year withdrawal span and gradually lowered this
last month, soviet leader mikhail gorbachev said the estimated 115,000 red army troops could be out of afghanistan within 10 months starting in mid-may if a geneva settlment was signed by the middle of this month
wakil said he was confident that remaining ``other issues,'' which he did not specify, also would be resolved, provided ``pakistan could abide by the tacit and formal agreement not to raise anything new.''
pakistan represents the insurgents in the talks
pakistan has said that a successful settlement must be accompanied by formation of a broad-based transitional government to replace the afghan government
pakistan's chief delegate, acting foreign minister zain noorani, reaffirmed that position to reporters after meeting with mediator diego cordovez, who shuttled between the two sides for 2{ hours thursday
we are firmly convinced that a settlement without creating circumstances of peace and stability in afghanistan will not persuade 5 million afghan refugees to return,'' noorani said. he did not name any specific time limit as to when that government should be in office
noorani planned to return to islamabad for a weekend of consultations between the goverment and political leaders. he said pakistan would then decide whether it was prepared to sign a settlement with the najib government, which pakistan does not recognize
wakil reiterated that najib's policy of national reconciliation envisaged a ``coalition government'' open to all political forces, including the pakistan-based resistance movements
the resistance movements, claiming to represent about 200,000 guerrillas, have rejected any power-sharing with najib. they have presented a plan of their own for an islamic government
wakil also took issue with the u.n. report, prepared for the 43-nation u.n. human rights commission. it voiced reservations about kabul's plans for a ``national front'' of the various parties that would have a leading role in charting policies. it noted that such umbrella bodies exist in soviet bloc countries
wakil said the national front envisaged by kabul could not be compared with those existing in czechoslovakia and east germany. these, he said, came into being long ago and ``under completely different circumstances.'' stallone</head>
actress brigitte nielsen says she has no regrets about marrying sylvester stallone _ it was good for business
i have more success than i've ever had,'' nielsen, who has since split from the ``rocky'' star, says in the march 21 issue of us magazine. ``so whatever i have done, i must have done something right because i'm doing good, and more important, i feel good.''
she adds that ``my business was terrific whether i was married or not'' but ``it might have taken longer'' to make it if she had not married the actor
to stay on top, you have got to have personality and talent,'' she says. ``then it doesn't matter who you were married to.''
adding that she wants to be taken seriously, nielsen says it is ``frustrating to be seen as a bimbo.''
nielsen is engaged to jets defensive lineman mark gastineau
communities that once relied on a single industry for jobs and looked to corporate mangers for leadership must diversify their economies and take charge of their destinies, urban planners said thursday at an international symposium
before, like it or not, companies took care of life. you may not have liked everyting they did. but they were there. it was secure,'' said john clarke, a trenton, n.j., architect who headed a team that studied depressed mill towns in this once mighty steelmaking region
but when that goes away, suddenly you turn around and say, `gee, the leadership used to be the company.' now the leadership has to be you,'' clarke said at the international remaking cities conference
it's a painful transition experienced by older industrial centers worldwide, the experts said
the trend is inescapable in that we're moving from an industrial, manufacturing economy into a service economy,'' said james franklin, an architect and land planner with american institute of architects
there are many cities that already face the same problem and will continue to face it for a period of time,'' he said
the four-day conference is exploring ways to revitalize aging industrial cities in the united states and great britain
britain's prince charles, honorary chairman of the meeting, will get a first-hand look friday at the dispair and disrepair of the mill towns lining the monongahela river south of pittsburgh
an outspoken advocate of inner-city rehabilitation, the prince plans to visit a new jobs center for the region's blue-collar unemployed and a high school computer training classroom
on saturday he will address the approximately 350 people attending the conference, sponsored by the american institute of architects and royal institute of british architects
in his speech, the 39-year-old heir to the british throne is expected to comment on the recommendations made by conference delegates for revitalizing cities
the mayors are asking us ... do they have a right to determine land use and a right to determine the future development of the community. these communities have got to learn that'' their leaders have not only the right but the obligation to influence the use of former mill sites, clarke said
they've been so much under the mantle of the steel industry that their sense of the company town was so great that there was very little sense that they could in fact control what they had to do with an economy,'' said charles zucker, community planning consultant with the american institute of architects in washington, d.c., and a member of clarke's planning team
in its 120-page report, presented monday after a four-day study of area communities, the 17-member team recommended ``the greening of american industry'' with parks, gardens, marinas and shops to replace darkened hulks dominating the riverbank
although drawing praise from many, the report was criticized by those waiting and praying for the resurrection of the steel industry
the general feeling is ``you're getting a garden. you're getting flowers. you're getting no jobs,'' said tony mcgann, a community planner from liverpool, england, and another team member
in our area, we didn't want to see shipping die. we didn't want to see the shipping factories die. but they all died. they never came back,'' he said. ``so people who are waiting for steel to come back, they live in a cuckoo land.''
public participation is a key to success in urban planning, the conference participants said
we've seen what happens when nothing happens'' and when outsiders' views are thrust upon communities, said raymond rhinehart, a spokesman for the american institute of architects
no one, least of all urban planners, want regions to forget their industrial heritage. that's why the planning team suggested that several ironmaking furnaces near pittsburgh become museums
but there's another motive
displays of equipment used in the ``heroic and hard old days,'' make it clearer that ``you need to rethink you goals and move on with your life,'' franklin said
farmers who participated in last year's feed grain program will get about $1.45 billion in government ``deficiency'' payments this month, the agriculture department said thursday
milton hertz, executive vice president of the department's commodity credit corp., said the payments will included about $1.3 billion for corn farmers and $225 million for sorghum producers
the subsidies will be paid in generic certificates, which can be redeemed for ccc-owned surplus commodities
under the program, deficiency payments are required when average market prices fall below a prescribed target price. the payments make up the difference between the target and the market price or support level, whichever is higher
in addition to the $1.45 billion due this month, corn producers received about $2.6 billion in advance payments for 1987 participation, and sorghum producers got advances of $225 million
a white house conference on fighting drugs ended thursday with the chairwoman exhorting representatives to return to their communities to fight the scourge of drugs
lois haight herrington called for a ``final assault'' on drugs in the last year of the reagan administration
those interested in eliminating drugs cannot ``give themselves the luxury'' of relaxing after the three-day conference for a drug-free america because ``dealers, users and smugglers'' are ``waiting to see us let down, become distracted,'' ms. harrington said
members of the conference will present recommendations to president reagan, she said
the conference turned into a critique of the administration's record on what is being done. several speakers, including a member of reagan's cabinet, said that not enough is being done to eliminate drugs
we need to get away from a policy of containment,'' said rep. clay shaw, r-fla. ``we want you to come up with a plan for victory. let's fight it like we fought world war ii, not like vietnam. let's fight to win.''
a group of republican senators on thursday demanded that senate rules be changed to make it more difficult to arrest absent senators, the fate of sen. bob packwood last week when he missed a quorum call
their ``sense of the senate'' resolution proposed a rule change that would prohibit the seizure of an absent senator between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m. ``unless the pending business is of a compelling nature.''
the senate sergeant-at-arms arrested packwood, r-ore., in his office at about 1:30 a.m. last wednesday when he and most other republicans fled the chamber to prevent the senate from establishing a quorum. a quorum of 51 senators was needed to keep the senate in session, and the republicans were trying to end an all-night debate on a campaign spending bill
packwood literally was carried into the senate chamber by u.s. capitol police detectives accompanied by sergeant-at-arms henry giugni. giugni had been ordered to bring senators to the floor by a 45-3 vote of senators who were present
packwood's unique arrival gave the democrats a quorum and the senate remained in session all night
packwood seemed to take his arrest in good humor and later appeared at a news conference with giugni, laughing about the incident
other republicans were not amused. sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., complained thursday that the incident meant senators might have to remain in hiding in their offices. ``senators should not have to make a decision whether to leave the light on in your office at night,'' he said
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., who had made the original motion that absent senators be arrested, said thursday: ``we bored the american people today with almost four hours of talk about the `tough life' of senators.'' he called the discussion ``a tale of woe'' and suggested ``there are several million americans who would be glad to trade places with us.''
byrd criticized the resolution, citing the provision that would limit late-night arrest warrants other than for ``compelling'' reasons. ``who's to determine that?'' byrd said. ``the senate determines that and it determined that the other evening.''
the resolution, which was referred to the rules committee, also proposed that any arrest warrant include ``a written statement establishing the reasons for arrest.''
sponsors were sens. alan simpson of wyoming, john chafee of rhode island, william armstrong of colorado, rudy boschwitz of minnesota, thad cochran of mississippi, arlen specter and john heinz of pennsylvania, dan quayle of indiana, mitch mcconnell of kentucky, kit bond of missouri, dan evans of washington, robert kasten of wisconsin, alfonse d'amato of new york, gordon humphrey of new hampshire, jake garn of utah and wallop
tamil rebels dressed as soldiers raided a village and killed 16 people, most of them women or children, a military official said thursday
he said the tamils attacked with automatic weapons wednesday at morawewa village, 27 miles west of trincomalee port on the island nation's eastern coast
on thursday, three rebels were reported killed in a gun battle with police at a roadblock in the southeast. police chief s. wijesinghe of the ampara district said there were no police casualties
the officer reporting the morawewa raid said nine children, four women and three men were killed and three people wounded
all the dead were of the sinhalese ethnic majority except for one tamil, he said, speaking on condition of anonymity in accordance with police regulations. he blamed the attack on members of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest rebel group
members of the tigers militia led a four-year ethnic war for a separate tamil homeland. they were blamed for the killings of more than 200 sinhalese in october last year soon after the tigers renounced a peace accord designed to end the war
more than 8,000 people have been killed in the ethnic conflict, which began in 1983
tamils make up 18 percent of the country's 16 million people and most are hindus. they claim discrimination by the majority sinhalese, who are predominantly buddhist and control the government and army
political television ads grew more negative as well as more plentiful thursday with sen. albert gore jr. and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis going on the attack for the first time less than a week before super tuesday
gore, dukakis and vice president george bush all sent out critical ads in many of the 20 states holding primaries and caucuses next week
gore launched the first tv attack of his campaign, a pointed 60-second excerpt from the feb. 18 democratic debate in dallas
within those 60 seconds, gore accuses gephardt of voting against minimum wage increases, against creating the department of education, for tuition tax credits and for reagonomics _ and reversing his positions on all four issues
the next president of the united states has to be someone the american people can believe will stay with his convictions. ... you've got to be willing to stand your ground and be consistent,'' gore says
a gephardt spokeswoman said there would be no direct response to the gore ad
gephardt has been running commercials criticizing both gore and dukakis for several days in super tuesday states. dukakis began responding wednesday night with an ad assaulting gephardt's populist message that ``it's your fight too.''
the dukakis ad consists of a rolling list of corporate political action committees that have contributed to gephardt's campaign. ``is dick gephardt really fighting your fight, or theirs?'' asks the narrator. dukakis does not accept pac contributions
gephardt, making a stop at baltimore-washington international airport, called the dukakis ad ``absolutely ridiculous'' and said only 5 percent of his overall contributions are from pacs
he said all of his pac contributions were fully disclosed, and he charged that dukakis has received millions of dollars ``from special interests who do business with the state of massachusetts.''
it raises the specter of a serious conflict of interest,'' gephardt said and added that his campaign would release a partial list of those contributors friday
responding to gephardt's response, dukakis aide leslie dach said, ``the dukakis campaign does not take a dime of corporate pac money or any money from a lobbyist registered in the state of massachusetts.''
bush also joined the negative fray with an ad appearing in south carolina, which holds a gop primary on saturday. the ad denounces senate republican leader bob dole for not being able to get judge robert bork's supreme court nomination confirmed by the senate. and it says dole has failed to vote with the reagan administration 30 percent of the time
the candidates stepping up their media campaigns in the final stretch included bush and dukakis with their bulging campaign coffers and jesse jackson who has borrowed money to keep his presidential drive going
dukakis put tv ads in six additional super tuesday states between wednesday and thursday, bringing his total to nine _ north carolina, georgia, alabama, arkansas, oklahoma, washington, florida, texas and maryland
bush's ad director, sig rogich, said the vice president has been running ads in florida, texas, south carolina and most other super tuesday states. ``you'll see more of our ads now in the last few days before super tuesday,'' he said
jackson planned to start $100,000 worth of tv ads friday in eight southern states. the tv purchase, jackson's largest so far, targets alabama, florida, louisiana, mississippi, north carolina, south carolina, texas and virginia
dole's latest negative ad attacks bush for supporting reagan's veto of a protectionist textile trade bill and mocks his explanation: ``c'est la vie.''
frank fahrenkopf jr., chairman of the republican national committee, said the bush-dole match has become ``pretty rough'' but that that is not all bad, as long as they keep their advertising accurate
in many ways i've welcomed what's happened,'' fahrenkopf told reporters in boston. ``in january i was concerned with the lack of fire in the belly.''
soldier of fortune magazine was negligent in publishing a classified ad that led to the contract killing of a texas woman and should pay $9.4 million to the victim's family, a federal jury said thursday
gary wayne black, 18, and marjorie eimann, 64, filed the suit seeking $22.5 million from the self-styled ``journal for professional adventurers.''
sandra black, gary's mother and mrs. eimann's daughter, was shot to death feb. 21, 1985 at her home in bryan
an attorney for the magazine said it would appeal the verdict
considering the evidence the jury was presented, and the fact that we weren't allowed to present all our evidence, we're disappointed but not surprised,'' attorney larry thompson said
this fight goes three rounds like a lot of first amendment cases. we lost the first round, but put your money on us in the next two rounds.''
jurors said the magazine should pay $1.5 million to black and $400,000 to mrs. eimann. the two received $7.5 million in punitive damages. the jury heard testimony for two weeks and deliberated 12 hours
mrs. eimann shook hands and hugged the six jurors and said, ``i just want to thank every one of you for doing what you did for sandra. we loved her so much.''
mrs. black's husband, robert, is on texas' death row for paying john wayne hearn $10,000 to kill her. hearn is serving three life terms in florida for the black slaying and two others in that state
black contacted hearn through a personal services classified ad offering the services of vietnam veterans. hearn placed the advertisement in soldier of fortune in late 1984 and it appeared in four issues
the ad read, ``ex marines. '67-69 nam vets. ex-di, weapons specialist _ jungle warfare. pilot. me. high-risk assignments. u.s. or overseas.'' it also provided a telephone number
attorneys for the boulder, colo.-based magazine and its parent company, omega group ltd., did not dispute that the ad brought hearn and black together, but insisted magazine executives had no way of knowing the ad was for illegal activity
magazine attorneys insisted the responsibility for mrs. black's death rested with her husband and hearn and not the magazine
soldier of fortune witnesses defended the publication as a legitimate military journal, saying the personal services classified ads were run to provide employment for vietnam veterans who had difficulty finding work and wanted to do bodyguard work, security duty or mercenary fighting overseas
witnesses for the plaintiffs contended the ad's reference to ``high-risk assignments'' meant hearn and others using similar words in ads were making themselves available for criminal activity
a criminologist testified the personal services classified ads section _ dropped in 1986 _ appealed to paranoids
late in the trial, attorneys for the plaintiffs discovered that james graves, the magazine's managing editor, had signed an affidavit in a 1982 murder-for-hire case linked to the magazine's ads
his action was contrary to the insistence of magazine officials, who contended no one at soldier of fortune knew of any crimes linked to the classified ads. house</head>
nasa administrator james c. fletcher went to capitol hill thursday to argue for an $11.5 billion space budget but listened instead as space committee members complained that their recommendations were being ignored by the committee that holds the purse strings
i'm not so certain that anything we say in these hearings is going to make much difference,'' said rep. robert walker of pennsylvania, the ranking republican member of the house science &amp; technology subcommittee on space science and applications
there is an attitude in the budget committee at the present time that nasa will get no more money this year than they got last year,'' he said
the national aeronautics and space administration, trying to recover from the january 1986 challenger shuttle accident and gearing up for a start on a manned space station, will spend an estimated $8.9 billion this year, far below what the agency had requested
nasa had asked $767 million to begin the space station and but received just $425 million. president reagan's budget for 1989 would give the agency $11.5 billion, but lawmakers at thursday's hearing said no amount approaching that would be approved by the house appropriations committee, which sends legislation for spending to the full house
fletcher told the subcommittee that the budget now being considered could make or break the nation's space program
it is not an overstatement to say that the future of the u.s. civil space program rides at risk in this budget,'' he said
no one on the committee argued with him. but walker and others suggested that nasa had to do a better job in selling itself to the rest of congress
it seems to me they (nasa) have to bring people of credibility, like astronauts, to go in and buttonhole members of congress and explain the facts of life,'' he said. ``it seems to me that nasa is going to have to begin to get awfully aggressive in how the nasa budget is presented.''
walker said the american people are willing to support a rational space program but ``there is no pressure being felt on capitol hill at the present time, none whatsoever.''
rep. george brown, d-calif., a strong space program booster, talked of ``erratic funding'' for the space program
that is not the way to develop a strong, world-class program,'' he said. ``while these cuts have been happening, the military program doubled or tripled.''
rep. bill nelson of florida, the subcommittee chairman, said ``there is only one person who can really lead the nation's space program and that is the duly elected leader of this nation. the nation's space pgoram is going to depend on the degree of commitment coming from president reagan in this next year.''
fletcher protested that reagan is committed to the budget, that ``it is not a half-hearted budget.''
to that, nelson responded: ``i'm talking about real deeds as well as words. i'm talking about threats of vetoes that are real threats; i'm talking about sitting down at the table and working with the congressional leadership.''
contra leaders agreed thursday to meet their sandinista foes inside nicaragua, but insisted on the participation of cardinal miguel obando y bravo, who has drawn objections from nicaraguan president daniel ortega
we are accepting a face-to-face meeting in nicaraguan territory,'' director alfredo cesar said in a communique after a daylong meeting of the directorate
the contras thursday appointed adolfo calero, considered to be one of the more hardline directors, to head their delegation
ortega has proposed that the talks take place in southern nicaragua with his brother, defense minister humberto ortega, heading the sandinista delegation
the contras also said that obando y bravo, who was dismissed by ortega as a mediator after two previous negotiating sessions, must be present as a ``witness and guarantor.''
cardinal obando y bravo represents the only moral authority in nicaragua that can guarantee compliance'' with the peace agreement reached last year by the five central american presidents, cesar said
ortega had suggested that the meeting be held in the town of sapoa near nicaragua's costa rican border on march 10-12, but cesar said the time and place should be worked out later
he said guarantees of the contra delegation's safe passage must also established before the meeting
the communique signed by the five directors of the nicaraguan resistance, as the contra rebels are formally called, lambasted ortega for dismissing obando y bravo as a mediator
it called the action ``unilateral and dictatorial,'' and praised the cardinal of managua for his help in getting the peace talks going
the contras had been the first to propose talks inside nicaragua, which the sandinistas inititally rejected. now that the sandinistas have reversed their position, they must demonstrate their sincerity, said cesar
it would be very difficult for them to put this on the table as a bluff,'' he said. ``public opinion is going to be judging all these actions.''
the communique said the talks in nicaragua should be based on the agreement reached before the breakup of talks in guatemala last month
that includes a 30-day truce while the contra troops enter protected enclaves, a total amnesty, freedom of expression and a national dialogue, said cesar
declaring that new york city schools are ``on trial,'' a new chancellor was sworn in thursday to lead the 939,000-pupil education system and vowed to cut deeply into the central bureaucracy to gain needed reform
business as usual must come to an end, and it must do so today,'' said richard r. green, who ended a 30-year career in the minneapolis schools to take on the new york city post
frequently departing from the text of his 20-minute inaugural address, green laid out a reform agenda for the next year which included deep cuts in the central bureaucracy
by july 1, i will have a management team in place that i can rely on. and there will be some transfers out of 110 livingston,'' he said, referring to the downtown brooklyn headquarters of the city board of education
he also said he was determined to remove the time clocks that teachers are now required to punch. and he said he would work to find a way to make school facilities more readily available to parents' groups
green made no mention of his controversial suggestion of an 11-month school year which he made off-the-cuff wednesday while touring several schools
among those greeting green on the podium were mayor edward i. koch, gov. mario m. cuomo, and board of education president robert f. wagner jr
the otherwise serious ceremony also included laughter
when wagner began to administer the oath of office to green and said, ``i, state your name,'' green joked: ``i, state your name.''
green had surprised many at an earlier press conference by high-handedly signaling koch to sit down. koch turned the tables on green at his inaugural when, at the beginning of mayor's introductory remarks, he pointed with mock anger at green and said: ``sit down, chancellor!''
koch continued: ``you are the head of this new army. we are soldiers in your army. you tell us how to help you and those that don't, you give me their names.''
during his remarks, green said that koch had told him on a visit to city hall that ```you can have anything you want except more money.' that is a fair point but i consider that a negotiable issue.''
koch shrugged and shook his head
legislation approved by the senate banking committee grants banks broad new securities powers and in other provisions offers a mixed bag for users of financial services
the bill, passed on an 18-2 vote late wednesday night, substantially repeals the 1933 glass-steagall act, which separated banking from the securities business in the aftermath of the 1929 financial crash
if eventually signed into law, it would grant banks immediate power to underwrite mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds. banks would be able to deal in mutual funds and corporate bonds six months after enactment
in a concession to the securities industry, the bill withholds power from banks to underwrite corporate stock _ viewed by senators as the riskiest securities area _ unless congress authorizes that in a separate vote by april 1991
sen. william proxmire, d-wis., chairman of the committee and the bill's sponsor, said competition from banks likely will result in lower underwriting fees paid by businesses and state and local governments
mutual fund fees could edge down for individual investors and more competition in the underwriting of securities backed by home mortgages could save home buyers as much as $1,000 on a $100,000 mortgage, proxmire said
consumer groups also hailed a section of the bill sponsored by sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., that provides new safeguards on home equity loans
but they said limits on bank involvement in insurance, also sponsored by dodd, could reduce competition in that field
michelle meier, an attorney for consumer's union, said thursday she was disappointed in the insurance limits. she and five other consumer activists had argued in a letter to committee members that allowing banks into insurance ``could reduce the cost of insurance and force the insurance industry to become more efficient.''
dodd acknowledged thursday that his interest in limiting bank involvement in insurance stems from the concentration of insurance companies in connecticut
this is like hogs in iowa. to me it's important,'' dodd told reporters. but he added that there are sound arguments for being cautious about letting banks take on the risk of insurance underwriting
and, he said, ``there's plenty of competition. i defy you to go out to any hamlet or borough in america and not find insurance agents competing against each other.''
the home equity loan provision of the bill requires lenders to disclose the interest rate on loans in a clear and uniform manner as well as closing costs and repayment terms. it also would prohibit lenders from unilaterally changing the terms of a home equity line of credit after the contract is signed
meier and leslie gainer of u.s. pirg, a group associated with consumer activist ralph nader, said in a statement that the senate version is an improvement over a similar home equity bill in the house
another section would make it easier for consumers to shop for a place to put their money by requiring banks and mutual funds to advertise in a uniform manner the interest rate paid on deposits and money market accounts
proxmire, dodd and others predicted that the lopsided committee vote would ease passage of the legislation through the senate. but similar bills in the house face more uncertain prospects, where jurisdiction over the issue is shared by the energy and commerce and the banking committees
banking committee chairman rep. fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., who has expressed great skepticism about allowing banks too many new powers, is expected to introduce a proposal in the next several weeks. the finance subcommittee of energy and commerce is expected to follow with its own version
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., chairman of the finance subcommittee, has said he favors phasing in new powers for banks _ a more cautious approach than adopted in the senate bill _ so federal regulatory agencies aren't swamped
it is essential that congress link the introduction of new powers to regulatory preparedness,'' markey said in a statement thursday
the state health department will investigate the hospital where a black teen-ager was taken after she said she had been sexually assaulted by a group of white men, a department spokesman said thursday
the department will ask for the medical records of st. francis hospital in poughkeepsie, which treated tawana brawley for nearly eight hours on nov. 28 following the attack, spokesman peter slocum said
miss brawley, 16, of wappingers falls, was found wrapped in a garbage bag along a road. she was smeared with excrement and ``kkk'' and ``nigger'' were scrawled on her body. she says she was kidnapped for four days and sexually abused by six men
her family has complained about her treatment at st. francis, where she was taken by ambulance on the day she was found
we are obviously interested in it simply because of the media reports,'' slocum said
the health department could impose a fine if it finds care was improper, ``but our primary concern, rather than any kind of punishment, is to make clear the standards of care are improved,'' slocum said
he was unsure how long the investigation would take
a source described as close to the brawley family but not identified told the poughkeepsie journal that the family was upset because miss brawley was released from the hospital unable to walk and lapsing in and out of consciousness
miss brawley went to the emergency room of the westchester medical center in valhalla twice on dec. 2. she was admitted after her second visit, hospital spokeswoman nancy mcpartlin said
she was discharged dec. 4, mcpartlin said. she said the hospital would provide no details about miss brawley's treatment
a spokesman for st. francis hospital denied the hospital did anything wrong when treating miss brawley
miss brawley was treated for a cut on the scalp and examined for possible hypothermia, spokesman frank hemrick said. she was tested to determine if she was raped, and the records were sent to the fbi
the test found miss brawley was not raped, according to several published reports. but a spokesman for the teen-ager, the rev. al sharpton, claims miss brawley was raped and the tests were botched
a bill to allow a state park to serve liquor to visiting democrats during their national convention in july survived some republican jabs in the georgia senate thursday
the democratic-controlled senate passed it, 40-13, and returned it to the house for consideration of a technical amendment
the bill was backed by gov. joe frank harris, a democrat and a teetotaler who last year vetoed a bill to expand the areas of stone mountain park where liquor can be sold to the public
sen. roy barnes, a democrat who is harris' senate floor leader, said the bill to allow the park's governing authority to sell liquor to private gatherings would aid some large functions planned at the park near atlanta ``in july.''
when republican sen. tom phillips tried to force another democratic speaker to name that event, barnes drew laughter by asking: ``isn't it true that the republicans chose as their meeting site bourbon street in new orleans?''
barnes argued the bill simply allowed the state to sell the liquor rather than forcing conventions to bring in their own
but democratic sen. max brannon, an opponent of liquor sales, said he was ``very shocked this is an administration bill'' and added: ``i know a liquor bill when i see a liquor bill.''
barnes drew laughter when he said: ``if i had my perfect world to do, there'd be a lot of things different in this world: we wouldn't have liquor, wouldn't have sin, wouldn't have republicans.''
pat robertson apparently will not seek a recount in south dakota's republican presidential primary even though he fell only a few hundred votes short of winning any delegates, gordon howie, robertson's state campaign director, said thursday
in official results, released thursday by the state board of canvassers, robertson came up 371 votes short of receiving the 20 percent of the gop vote he needed in order to receive any national convention delegates from the state
i think at this point it's unlikely'' a recount will be sought, howie said. ``i think we're going to be satisfied having beaten (vice president) george bush,'' he added
officially, sen. bob dole of kansas won the primary with 55.2 percent of the vote, robertson was second with 19.6 percent, and bush third at 18.6 percent. dole thus will get all 18 of south dakota's delegates to the gop national convention
howie said robertson's national campaign appears unlikely to file any complaint that could lead to a recount. ``obviously, we'd like to have delegates ... but indications are we're not going to challenge the vote,'' he said
questioning
pat robertson should not hide from his religious past while seeking the republican presidential nomination, the rev. donald j. dunlap, robertson's pastor, said in an interview published thursday
robertson's ``apocalyptic theology'' concerning the biblical prophecy of the world's end could help mold his foreign policy as president, dunlap told the roanoke times &amp; world-news
robertson has tried to avoid campaign questions about his religious past and statements he made in writings and television broadcasts. ``those statements became a matter of the public record,'' said dunlap, pastor of freemason street baptist church in norfolk, of which robertson has been a member for 28 years
they were a mixture of his religious beliefs as they impacted upon his political beliefs,'' he added
he said that ``where he made public policy statements derivative of his religious beliefs, i think the media and his opponents have every right to question him on that as much as they have a right to question (vice president) george bush on his involvement in the iran-contra affair, as much as they have a right to question (kansas sen.) robert dole about votes he cast in congress.'' wounded</head>
an arab stabbed a teen-age jewish settler in the back thursday as he shopped for the jewish purim holiday in the occupied west bank city of hebron, the army and witnesses said
minutes later, angry jewish settlers attacked photographers taking pictures there, witnesses said
elsewhere in the west bank, israeli troops wounded four palestinians in violent protests
on the diplomatic front, u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz arrived in israel thursday night for a last-ditch effort to sell his peace proposal. he was met by foreign minister shimon peres, but no statements were made
legislators of prime minister yitzhak shamir's right-wing likud bloc have rejected the u.s. proposal, saying they will not agree to an international conference or to the exchange of land for peace
the scuffle in hebron, 20 miles south of jerusalem, began shortly after 16-year-old settler aharon peretz was stabbed
the army said later peretz was treated for slight injuries at a jerusalem hospital and released
a photographer on assignment for time magazine was struck with her camera by enraged jewish settlers. she fell to the ground unconscious, with a one-inch gash in her forehead that required five stitches
the attack reflected the growing anger of settlers and much of the israeli public at the news media, which they blame for tarnishing israel's image abroad and for inflaming unrest in the territories by their presence
in the arab village of idna on thursday, riot police fired on dozens of palestinians who stoned their jeep. an army spokesman said three arabs were wounded in the legs
troops shot a fourth arab youth in the neck after palestinians in beita, a village eight miles east of nablus, hurled rocks at soldiers, according to hospital officials and the arab-run palestine press service
in the gaza strip, troops fired 16 tear gas canisters to subdue about 250 girls demonstrating at their school in rafah, a palestinian reporter said
in hebron, photographers were standing outside the home where peretz received first aid when a settler attacked reuter photographer jim hollander as he took pictures of a little girl
hollander said the settler, without explanation, punched him in the face, breaking his glasses and giving him a swollen lip
when hollander's wife, rina castelnuovo, tried to break up the scuffle, another settler grabbed her camera and hit her in the head. she fell to the ground unconscious, blood gushing from her forehead, hollander said
she was on assignment for time
it was like revenge on the press,'' said israeli news photographer eli herskovitz, who was at the scene. ``those settlers went crazy.''
shamir said this week he was considering further restrictions on journalists in the occupied lands, and the haaretz newspaper reported thursday all senior army officers and most soldiers serving there support a press ban
reuter bureau chief paul taylor said the agency filed complaints with hebron police and the west bank military command. the army said it was investigating
soldiers later declared hebron a closed military area, detained dozens of arab residents and rounded them up in a central square
as detainees looked on, dozens of settlers staged a purim parade, dancing in the street and singing ``the people of our ancestors lives.'' soldiers with clubs guarded the marchers
purim is a religious holiday commemorating esther, the jewish queen of persia who saved the jews from destruction 24 centuries ago. celebrants wear costumes and spray harmless foam on passers-by
peretz, one of about 60 jews who live in hebron among 70,000 palestinians, ``felt a sharp jab in his back, turned and saw an arab with a knife,'' brooklyn, n.y.-born settler miriam levinger of hebron said in an interview
she said peretz chased his assailant several yards and threw a can of purim foam at him before collapsing
it was the third serious attack on a settler since unrest began dec. 8. according to u.n. figures, 76 arabs have been killed, including several by jewish settlers
israel took the gaza strip and the west bank from egypt and jordan in the 1967 middle east war
both peretz and his father, meir peretz, complained that reporters got in the way of soldiers trying to pursue the assailant
the head of jewish settlements in the west bank, shilo gal, condemned the attack on the journalists. harlingen</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis accused rival richard gephardt on thursday of trying to impose ``a $50 billion burden on this nation's economy'' with an oil import fee
dukakis, barnstorming across texas in quest of the 183 democratic delegates at stake in the biggest super tuesday primary, also said the missouri congressman's trade legislation would ignite a global trade war like the one that ushered in the great depression
meanwhile, the dukakis campaign rolled out an anti-gephardt television ad. as the screen is filled with the names of banks, defense contractors, utilities and other big businesses whose political action committees have contributed to gephardt, a narrator asks, ``is dick gephardt really fighting your fight ... or theirs?''
to revive the ailing u.s. oil industry _ a major issue in texas _ dukakis said he favors targeted incentives to encourage small, independent producers to ``do their drilling and get that rig count up.'' in addition, he called for repealing the oil windfall profits tax, filling the strategic petroleum reserve and boosting natural gas production
gephardt supports a fee on oil imports. however, dukakis said, ``an oil import fee will put a $50 billion burden on this nation's economy. we don't need that.''
dukakis took another dig at gephardt in a speech at the harlingen airport. recalling an exchange monday in a williamsburg, va., debate when gephardt asked if dukakis is running ``for president of mexico or president of the united states,'' the governor said to cheers, ``i said, dick, if i'm president of the united states, i'm going to pay attention to our relationship with mexico, and i'm going to make sure that my proposals do not wreck the economy of mexico.''
a mariachi band greeted dukakis in harlingen and he repeated more than five minutes of his speech in spanish for the largely hispanic crowd. he promised that in january 1989, ``we're going to stop the shooting war in nicaragua and begin to go to work with our neighbors in mexico ... as partners to create opportunity on both sides of the border.''
dukakis, on a visit to a successful small manufacturer of rubber parts for oil drills in the east texas town of tyler, also took a shot at gephardt's trade policies, which call for retaliation in response to foreign nations' trade practices that are judged unfair
we can never agree to go back to policies that almost destroyed us 50 years ago. there's always somebody who suggests that: throw up the walls, hunker down,'' dukakis said
invoking a baseball metaphor, he recalled the towering left-field wall at fenway park, home of the boston red sox, and said, ``you can build that wall as high as you possibly can, and jim rice can still hit it out.''
later, in corpus christi, he said, ``trade wars are like nuclear wars. they have no victors, only victims.''
glenn hilbun, 31, a supervisor at the rubber parts plant, said, ``down here, a lot of people are not really familiar with what dukakis stands for. face it, texas is a bush state'' _ a reference to the republican vice president
polls in texas show a tight democratic field and many undecided voters
dukakis, considered strong in hispanic south texas, was trying to rally that support with stops here and at harlingen and laredo on the border before heading on to houston and lubbock. he heads west friday to denver, cheyenne and seattle, but was due back in san antonio saturday night
speaking to 350 supporters on a stage set under palm trees before corpus christi bay, he said the 1981 reagan tax cuts, supported by gephardt, are ``the primary cause of a trade deficit that has cost 2 million american jobs. we can't lead the world if we're in debt to it.''
dukakis said 1.25 million southern workers ``depend on exports for their jobs. these workers need a president who will use his authority to insist on fair treatment for american goods and services overseas. as president i will use that authority.''
even at mp industries, the thriving tyler business that got off the ground 11 years ago with help from a small business administration loan, dukakis found firsthand evidence of u.s. trade problems
a gleaming, green computerized $100,000 lathe bore the manfacturer's name on its side in bold letters: hitachi-seiki. another key piece of equipment came from italy
this is the story everywhere,'' said dukakis. ``we're buying streetcars in japan.''
the pta on thursday urged presidential candidates to ``pay more than lip service'' to the educational, after-school and health needs of the nation's children
a pta memo to all 10 candidates, released in time to catch their attention before the super tuesday primaries in 16 states, reflects a more activist stance on children's issues by the 6.1 million-member association, said arnold fege, the pta's director of governmental relations
until now, fege said, the group has focused on individual issues and never developed a complete agenda
we see a lot of the candidates kissing kids at rallies, but we don't hear much on what the candidates intend to do about children's issues,'' fege said. ``we want to force the candidates to take a position on these issues.''
the pta's message to the candidates, formally called ``a memorandum to the 41st president of the united states: a national children's agenda `because children are the future,''' asks the next president to convene a ``children's summit'' of parents, teachers, government officials and social service workers immediately after inauguration day. the group's task would be to ``recommend a coordinated, comprehensive and workable national youth and family policy.''
the four-page memo also recommends:
_increased spending on the chapter 1 and head start programs for disadvantaged children
_that the federal government work with the states to develop a plan to equalize spending on education among the states
_that public schools be encouraged to play a bigger role in providing early childhood, preschool and before- and after-school care
_that the federal government provide sufficient money for ensuring that all children be immunized against polio, diphtheria, measles, tetanus, whooping cough and mumps
_that the federal government assist states and local education agencies in providing preventive education programs on drug abuse, teen suicide, teen pregnancy and aids
_that the federal government commit whatever resources are necessary for adequate shelters, health services and education for homeless families and youths
fege acknowledged that the pta's recommendations are costly and he suggested that the money come from additional taxes, rearranging federal spending priorities or continuing the budget deficit
our organization has become indignant that the presidential candidates are not putting meaty children's issues on the agenda,'' fege said. ``we want them to pay more than lip service.''
negotiations aimed at reaching a new long-term grain agreement between the united states and the soviet union are scheduled to start next week in vienna, the reagan administration announced thursday
we look forward to our discussions with the soviets on a new u.s.-soviet long-term grain agreement,'' said a joint statement from agriculture secretary richard e. lyng and u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter
such an agreement would represent the third such arrangement between the two nations since 1975. the second was signed in 1983
we expect the vienna meeting to be the first step in the negotiating process,'' the statement said. it said the earlier accord ``have been important in stabilizing grain trade between our two countries and we are optimistic we will be able to achieve another mutually beneficial agreement.''
under the current agreement, which expires sept. 30, the soviets agreed to purchase 9 million metric tons of u.s. wheat and corn products annually for five years. four million tons of that amount must be wheat and 4 million tons must be corn
the soviets may satisfy their commitment to purchase an additional 1 million tons by buying wheat, corn, soybeans or soybean meal, or any combination of those commodities, with every ton of soybeans or soybean meal counting as two tons of grain
the announcement follows a sale by private exporters of 500,000 metric tons of subsidized u.s. wheat to the soviet union announced earlier this week. at recent prices it would have a value of $50 million
the sale was subsidized under the export enhancement program, in which private exporters receive surplus government commodities in exchange for shipping american grain overseas
more than 6.8 million tons of subsidized wheat has been sold to the soviet union under the program for delivery in the year that began last oct. 1
it represents a turnaround from 1986, when the soviets fell 3.8 million tons short of the minimum under the five-year agreement
the united states then made offers to the soviets under the export enhancement program and they resumed buying in may 1987
more than 81,000 aids cases were reported to the world health organization by the end of february, nearly double the number registered a year before, the agency said thursday
however, nearly one-third of the countries reporting had not updated their national figures for at least six months, the organization said
who said it was notified of 81,433 cases of acquired immune deficiency syndrome in 133 countries, with 4,167 new cases in february alone. by the same point last year, 91 countries had reported 42,404 people suffering from the deadly disease
the actual number of aids cases is believed to be twice the reported total, said dr. jonathan mann, head of who's aids program. he has predicted at least 1 million cases by 1990
the report said 42 countries had not updated their numbers for at least six months, including rwanda and the central african republic which last reported a combined figure of 959 cases in late 1986
the united states last month listed a total of 53,069 cases, up from 31,036 a year earlier. france reported 3,073 cases by dec. 31, more than 2{ times the 1,221 cases reported at the end of 1986
the numbers reported by canada increased less markedly. the figure stood at 1,488 in january, against 1,000 in april 1987
uganda reported 2,369 cases by the end of october, four times the number registered 12 months earlier. the number of people suffering from the disease in brazil more than doubled in 10 months, reaching 2,325 cases by dec. 7
of 28 european countries reporting to who, albania was the only one to list no cases. in the other 27 countries, the reported total of 10,177 cases represented a 128-percent increase within a year, who said
the aids virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers. it is most often transmitted through sexual contact
other means of transmission include transfusions of tainted blood or blood products, and the sharing of contaminated hypodermic needles or syringes by drug abusers. aids can also be passed from mother to child at or before birth
four libyan pilots who landed in egypt two days earlier flew their soviet-built warplanes home thursday in a rare example of cooperation between the combative neighbors, sources in both countries said
an egyptian government source said permission for the mig-23s to leave indicated cairo accepted a libyan explanation that bad weather and shortage of fuel forced the planes down. he spoke on condition of anonymity
cairo newspapers had presented the landings as a defection
egypt's official middle east news agency quoted a libyan air force spokesman as saying the planes ``returned to libya today (thursday).'' it said the confirmation was distributed by jana, the official libyan agency
it is a gesture of egyptian good will,'' the government source said of the decision to allow the planes to return home. he referred indirectly to a political rift that has allowed few such gestures in 15 years
he said the pilots and mig-23s left for libya from the mediterranean town of mersa matrouh, where they were taken after landing at a desert oasis near the border
on tuesday, mena quoted an official source as saying four libyan mig-23s had landed at an egyptian airfield. a source at the cairo airport said they put down at siwa oasis, 30 miles east of the border and 385 miles west of cairo
libya remained silent until thursday morning, when an air force spokesman who was not identified said the planes asked permission to land in egypt after running low on fuel
his statement, distributed by the official agency jana, said bad weather had thwarted repeated attempts to land in libya
president hosni mubarak confirmed the landing to reporters tuesday night and said of a reported asylum request by the pilots: ``egypt is their country. the matter is under study.''
in three cases last year, libyan fliers defected to egypt in a transport plane and two helicopters
the statement by the libyan air force spokesman thursday was a departure from usual practice in that it was couched in friendly terms
he said was quoted as saying: ``the pilots were treated in a fraternal way at the egyptian base. the aircraft, with their pilots, are on their way to return to their land of the great jamahiriyah (libya).''
egypt and libya have been at odds since egypt refused a merger proposal from libyan leader moammar gadhafi in the early 1970s. they fought a five-day border war in july 1977 after several bombings in cairo and other egyptian cities that egypt blamed on the libyans. robertson</head>
fallen tv evangelists jimmy swaggart and tammy bakker have been invited to be hosts of the annual loyal order of hibernians parade, but organizers say they won't be surprised if the answer is no
last year organizers invited lt. col. oliver north to be grand marshal of the half-block long st. patrick's day parade. the year before it was deposed philippine president ferdinand marcos. neither accepted
this year they want swaggart, who stepped down from his pulpit after tearfully admitting that he had sinned, to be grand marshal, said mayor jim lynch
they want mrs. bakker, wife of former ptl evangelist jim bakker, to be parade queen. bakker stepped down last year after revelations of sex and hush money
we had a little dissension on that, but one of the guys said if she wore green eye shade it would be ok,'' lynch said
they also want republican presidental candidate pat robertson, a former tv minister, in charge of publicity
he has a good irish bent for saying the first thing that comes to his mind,'' lynch said. ``we like him because he's not too bothered with facts.'' speaker</head>
rep. newt gingrich said thursday he has decided to delay seeking an ethics investigation of house speaker jim wright to give other activist republicans time to consider whether to join him in the action
gingrich, r-ga., said his announcement last month that he planned to ask the house ethics committee to initiate an investigation of wright prompted several other house republicans to inquire about joining his complaint
we've been meeting with people, answering their concerns and trying to give them an opportunity to decide whether they want to co-file with us,'' gingrich said
under house rules, any member can ask the ethics panel to investigate another member. the panel, composed of six democrats and six republicans, can reject such a request only by a majority vote
gingrich declined to identify the other republicans who had expressed an interest in joining the complaint against wright. he said he has briefed house republican leader robert michel of illinois, but does not expect michel to participate
there is a question of whether it would be appropriate for a leader who has to work with the speaker on a daily basis to be involved in this type of issue,'' gingrich said
he has called for an investigation of allegations of unethical conduct by wright, d-texas, that have been raised in news reports over the past 10 years
the reports include allegations that wright has failed since 1980 to file required financial disclosures reports from a company in which he is a partner and that he received 55 percent royalties on a book published by a friend whose printing company worked for wright's campaign committees
gingrich said thursday he still intends to seek an investigation of wright before the end of the month, even if no other congressmen join with him
louis g. seaton, former chief labor negotiator at general motors corp., died thursday after a brief illness. he was 81
seaton, who had homes in sarasota, fla., and orchard lake, retired in 1970 after more than 42 years with the world's largest automaker. he died in sarasota
he joined gm as a graphic artist in 1928, transferring to the industrial relationship department four years later
in 1946, he was named director of labor relations, with responsibility for day-to-day relations with the united auto workers and national contract negotiations until his retirement. he became a vice president in 1957
lou seaton was a pioneer in the fields of labor relations and personnel policy in general motors and the domestic automobile industry,'' said gm chairman roger smith
survivors include his wife, kathleen; a daughter; son; three brothers; 10 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. a funeral was scheduled for monday in orchard lake
a former secret service agent said thursday that former presidents ford and carter will find far more privacy when no they no longer have federal agents protecting them
michael endicott, a secret service agent for 20 years who now provides private security for former president nixon, told the senate government operations federal spending subcommittee there should be a time limit on secret service protection of former presidents and their families
i believe the government should provide funding to the former president so that they can manage their own day-to-day security needs,'' endicott said. ``there is a need for a security or law enforcement presence around a former president that naturally flows from occupying the most important office in the country.''
but endicott, testifying on a bill that would reduce federal protection for former first families, said secret service protection often limits the recipient's freedom of movement. he said he has never felt nixon's safety has been threatened since he began to handle his security, traveling to cities around the world and attending sporting and other public events
at most of these events, we usually sit in the general public seats, even though vip boxes are usually available,'' he said. ``there is more privacy with fewer people. we are able to go to more ballgames now than when he had secret service protection.''
the big difference, he said, is that the secret service must ``protect against the potential threat, while i can protect from the actual threat.'' endicott said he, alone, travels with nixon, whereas the secret service must assign up to 24 agents to protect former presidents
endicott said most of the threats nixon has received have come from people unable to carry them out, such as inmates in mental institutions
former presidents ford and carter will find out what president nixon did,'' he said. ``there is a hell of a lot more privacy in smaller numbers.''
the legislation introduced by sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., would eliminate secret service protection for former presidents and their families after they have been out of the white house for five years. it provides for emergency and extended protection after that if it is deemed necessary by the treasury department
chiles said secret service protection for ford and carter and their families cost $8 million in 1986. nixon gave up his federal government protection, which then cost about $3 million a year, in 1985
the chiles bill also calls for a $300,000 annual limit on staff and office allowances, to be reduced over a nine-year period to $200,000. chiles told the hearing that programs for ex-presidents, including an annual $99,500 annuity, secret service protection, office allowance and staff, has gone from $380,140 in 1960 to about $26 million in the fiscal year that ended last sept. 30
the american people want former presidents to live a dignified retired life as an elder statesman, free from any real danger and free from any need to commercialize _ to huckster _ the office of the preisdency,'' he said. ``but the programs were left open-ended. things have gotten out of hand.''
each of the former presidents wrote letters to chiles on his legislation. ford and nixon agreed with its purpose on security protection
carter said the elimination of security ``would make it almost impossible for us to live a normal private life at home free of uninvited vistors, to attend major events if our attendance is publicized, or to travel to many places in our country or abroad.''
he said he can not afford private security. however, he said if secret service experts can reduce the level and cost of his protection, he would not object.  
pro-iranian kidnappers freed west german hostage ralph schray in west beirut on thursday after holding him for five weeks, and he was turned over to the west german embassy in damascus
the west german charge d'affaires, klaus auchenbach, refused to make any comments to reporters as he shuttled between the embassy and the foreign ministry, about a mile apart in the syrian capital
he said it was ``not worthwhile'' for them to wait around, indicating that schray would not appear in public
this raised speculation the former captive may not be as well as bonn portrayed him to be after his ordeal. the bonn foreign ministry had said earlier that schray, 30, was in ``good physical condition.''
friedhelm ost, the west german government's chief spokesman in bonn, said only that the syrian government had handed schray over to embassy officials
schray, a lebanese-born industrial engineer, was freed before dawn. a syrian military source in the lebanese capital said he was driven the 55 miles to damascus under heavy syrian escort
on wednesday, the holy warriors for freedom claimed responsibility for schray's abduction and said he would be freed within hours as a result of syrian mediation
the official syrian arab news agency said foreign minister farouk al-sharaa contacted his german counterpart, hans-dietrich genscher, by telephone to report that schray has been released and was safe in the hands of syrian troops in lebanon
the agency said genscher ``expressed his deep gratitude to syrian president hafez assad for all the efforts syria has exerted and reiterated bonn's determination to consolidate the traditional ties between the two nations.''
a few hours after his arrival in damascus, an embassy employee said schray was still inside the embassy. he spoke on condition of anonymity and would not comment on schray's physical condition
schray's lebanese wife, rana mounla, and his uncle george abu nassar, were seen leaving beirut in the early afternoon
mrs. schray, who is pregnant, said: ``i'm going to see him.''
she said: ``i'm taking clothes for him.''
she indicated the couple would return to beirut, saying: ``when we're back together in beirut tomorrow we'll both talk to you.''
schray's kidnappers also claimed responsibility for kidnapping two west germans in january 1987 _ rudolph cordes and alfred schmidt. schmidt was released in september, but cordes remains in captivity
schray's mother, fahima schray, said from fort myers, fla., that her son's captivity was ``the most terrible days of my life. it was so difficult.''
i couldn't sleep last night one minute. this morning, everything has changed completely, as if i'm a new woman,'' she said
there are 22 foreigners missing after being kidnapped in lebanon. they include nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
the hostage held longest is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was seized march 16, 1985
schray's release brought to seven the number of foreign hostages that have been released by kidnappers since september: two frenchmen, two west germans, a south korean, a norwegian and a swede
in their statement wednesday, the holy warriors for freedom said schray would be freed as ``goodwill gesture number two.'' they had also called schmidt's release a goodwill gesture
but they warned: ``we have an assortment of german targets on our hit list and also have a hand stretched out for dialogue.''
west german officials say the germans have been kidnapped in an effort to pressure bonn to release two lebanese shiite brothers
one of the brothers, abbas hamadi, has since been put on trial in duesseldorf on charges of kidnapping schmidt and cordes to press for the release of his brother, mohammed ali
mohammed ali is being held in frankfurt on charges of involvement in the 1985 hijacking of an american twa jetliner to beirut and the murder of a u.s. navy diver on board
the kidnappers warned that any pressure on them ``will only lead to ... the liquidation of the cordes case.''
the group is believed to be led by abdel-hadi hamadi, a third hamadi brother, who also is head of the security apparatus of hezbollah, or party of god, a fundamentalist iranian-backed faction linked to the kidnapping of the 22 foreigners still missing in lebanon
a house subcommittee chairman accused secretary of interior donald p. hodel of breaking faith in his budget proposal to increase operational funds for the national parks by only $3 million next year
congress intended that some $52 million in park fees being collected this year be added to the operations and maintenance account in the national park service budget for next year, said rep. bruce vento, d-minn
vento, who is chairman of the parks subcommittee of the house interior committee, told hodel ``you're breaching faith'' at a hearing of the full committee on the budget requests of the interior department
park operations and maintenance got $731 million for the current fiscal year. for the year beginning oct. 1, hodel is seeking $734 million
hodel referred vento to a passage in the committee's report to the house budget committee early last year recommending a ``stable funding base'' of $675 million
but in the catch-all spending bill enacted in december for the government as a whole, congress increased the park operations and maintenance account by about $15 million and then added $40 million in fee revenue for specified projects
that $40 million (is added) to the baseline,'' making it $715 million, argued rep. larry craig, r-idaho
our commitment was that we would not offset park fees against the base operating level,'' hodel told craig. ``i think we've kept faith. we're not being treated fairly.''
when his turn came, vento said, ``are you going to sit there and tell me there haven't been reductions in other park operations ... to offset the fees?''
hodel replied, ``i am,'' and vento rattled off a series of reductions of $2.7 million, $3.2 million and $3.9 million. ``what are they?'' he asked. he got no direct answer
the operations and maintenance request ``doesn't even provide the 2 percent (pay) increase for employees. you're going backward, not forward,'' vento said
israelis donned funny hats and costumes thursday to celebrate the jewish holiday of purim, but the festivities were overshadowed by three months of arab protests in the occupied territories
we have some very serious news, but first we want to wish you a happy purim,'' an israel army radio announcer said in a phrase that symbolized the joy and tension of the day
the radio then reported that israeli troops shot and injured at least three palestinian protesters and that a 16-year-old jewish youth was wounded when an arab assailant stabbed him in the the west bank town of hebron
the youth said he threw a canister of purim foam at the attacker, the national itim news agency said. pranksters spray the harmless foam at passers-by on the holiday
the radio marked purim with a prank, saying the transport ministry decided to replace all male taxi drivers with women because men are ``too arrogant, aggressive and ruin tourism.''
purim is a religious holiday honoring esther, the jewish queen of persia who saved the jews from destruction at the hands of the leader haman 24 centuries ago
jews celebrate the deliverance by reading the biblical book of esther in synagogues. whenever the reader mentions the name of the hated haman, the congregation shouts and shakes noisemakers
jews also mark the holiday by drinking wine, sending gifts and holding carnival parades. about 500,000 people gathered in tel aviv thursday to watch 1,500 people march in a purim parade
media pranks are considered an essential part of purim, but the jokes were overshadowed by the unrest in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, where 76 palestinians have died at the hands of israelis since dec. 8
on israel army radio, actor tuvia tzafir impersonated foreign minister shimon peres and prime minister yitzhak shamir switching their views on peace with the arabs
a cartoon in the daily maariv newspaper showed the government dressed for purim as a clown rocking on unsteady feet. the drawing showed a palestinian wearing the head of a peace dove but holding a knife and firebomb, and the army in the mask of a barking monster
the costumes chosen by children also reflected the political tension
in addition to young esthers, brides and ninja warriors, some boys in jewish west bank settlements dressed up as soldiers, complete with riot helmets, plastic shields and clubs. but one customary children's costume was missing this year _ that of the arab
in jerusalem, 27 students of the bezalel arts academy, which usually throws one of the best purim parties in town, were detained and others dispersed by police during a march wednesday
police said the students violated conditions of a permit for a purim procession when they unrolled signs saying, ``let's not lose our humanity.''
a swedish relief worker held captive in lebanon for 25 days said thursday the worst moment for him and a norwegian colleague was when they were given injections they feared would be fatal
the swede, 44-year-old jan stening, and william jorgensen, 58, of norway, were working for the u.n. relief and works agency when they were kidnapped feb. 5. the agency cares for palestinian refugees in lebanon
stening and jorgensen were freed tuesday and reunited with their families at a vienna hotel the next day, after arriving from beirut
at a news conference thursday, stening said: ``when we got those shots was a very tense situation.''
he said it happened a few hours before their release, and ``we both said goodbye ... because we said that was our very last moment.''
the purpose of the injections was to make them unconscious so they could be moved to another location, he said, but the captives thought the shots were meant to kill them
asked whether they were forced to take the injections, he said: ``we never discussed what we were forced to do. we just accepted everything.''
with stening was his wife lis, a stockholm lawyer, and his 12-year-old son daniel. he did not attend a news conference with jorgensen on wednesday night, explaining that he wanted more time with his family
jorgensen told reporters one of the kidnappers told them, ``we thought you came from a secret service'' but an investigation showed that to be a mistake
stening said four gunmen kidnapped them near sidon, south lebanon's provincial capital, as they were driving in a marked u.n. car from their base in tyre to beirut
both said they had no idea who abducted them. stening said the captors spoke arabic except for the last few days in an apartment that appeared to be in beirut, when one spoke english
usair has agreed to buy 50 boeing 737 jetliners with options for 30 additional aircraft, a deal worth $2.4 billion if all the options are exercised, the airline said thursday
delivery of the new jets will begin in april 1989 and continue through december 1991
the twin-engine, short-to-medium range aircraft is the most popular jet ever sold by the seattle-based boeing co. the deal with usair brings to 2,001 boeing 737s on order
edwin colodny, usair chairman and president, said the order ``is indicative of the health and vitality'' of the airline, which has its headquarters at washington national airport
our track record makes it possible to order these new aircraft which will benefit our passengers and the communities we serve,'' colodny said in a statement
usair group, the holding company for usair as well as piedmont aviation and pacific southwest airlines, recently reported a 1987 net income of $194.6 million on revenue of $3 billion
the three airlines together fly 166 boeing 737 aircraft, more than any other carrier. piedmont was the initial customer of the boeing 737 series 400 jetliner which is the newest version of the plane
the 50 aircraft on order will include of the smaller series 500 models that will be introduced by boeing in early 1989. the boeing 737s have a seating capacity ranging from 108 seats for the series 500 model to 150 seats in the series 400 jet
usair, which traditionally has concentrated its flights in the northeast expanded into the fifth largest airline company last year with the acquisition of psa and piedmont. while the three airlines still operate as separate carriers there are plans to merge them into a single carrier in the future
a general strike called to press for the end of gen. manuel antonio noriega's military rule lost steam thursday and the sponsors indicated they might end it
the indefinite stoppage began monday and already has lasted longer than any of five general strikes last year
a leader of the opposition national civic crusade told the associated press actions by the united states and other countries will become more important if internal pressure diminishes
many stores that closed on previous days reopened thursday. two factories resumed operations in the main industrial zone, which had been a virtual ghost town since monday. management personnel at others indicated they were preparing to resume production
some supermarkets and pharmacies had closed, but were open for business thursday
the banking situation was confused. international banks opened but limited the amount of withdrawals. lines formed outside privately owned local banks as word spread they intended to open, but some still were closed in the afternoon
riot police in trucks patrolled on thursday in several neighborhoods that were the scene of confrontations with stone-throwing youths tuesday and wednesday. no violence was reported
members of the civic crusade predicted wednesday night that support for the strike would decline, but were encouraged thursday by reports that it had gained support outside the capital and withheld a decision about ending it
roberto aleman, who heads the lawyers' component of the alliance of 200 business, professional, labor and political groups, said foreign pressure will be crucial in the coming days and weeks
anything that tends to damage the government of noriega, we support,'' he said. he praised actions designed to freeze panamanian government funds deposited in several u.s. banks
the government will find itself besieged by economic and diplomatic measures taken in the united states and latin america,'' aleman said. ``the measures will oblige the regime to take extremely unpopular measures such as raising taxes and firing public employees.''
he predicted that would increase popular discontent and lead to broader and more militant opposition
eliott abrams, assistant secretary of state for inter-american affairs, said wednesday the u.s. government is inclined to support such efforts
air panama suspended daily flights to miami, its only connection with the united states. sources at the state-owned airline said the purpose was to avoid any u.s. attempt to embargo aircraft
washington still considers eric arturo delvalle the legitimate president of panama. he was ousted last friday after trying to fire noriega, who commands the 15,000-member defense forces, which include the military and police
delvalle is in hiding in panama
the new government named former foreign minister aquilino boyd the new ambassador to washington. it was not clear whether he would try to take up the post still occupied by delvalle's ambassador, juan sosa
noriega was indicted last month in florida for alleged involvement in smuggling cocaine from colombia to the united states. he also is charged with allowing drug traffickers to launder profits in panamanian banks
a panama city newspaper quoted a member of the joint chiefs of staff as denying reports that that noriega was purging the armed forces
national assembly member guillermo cochez told a news conference wednesday the general ordered the early retirements of two colonels and two majors whose loyalty was suspect. cochez belongs to the opposition christian democrats
col. leonidas macias was quoted by the pro-government paper la estrella as saying: ``everything is normal and no one has been retired or dismissed.''
here is the 215-210 roll call thursday by which the house approved a democratic version of humanitarian aid to nicaragua's contra rebels. a later vote negated the approval
a ``yes'' vote is for the democratic package
voting yes were 212 democrats and 3 republicans
voting no were 37 democrats and 173 republicans
xxx denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there is one vacancy in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, yes; erdreich, yes; flippo, yes; harris, yes; nichols, xxx
republicans _ callahan, no; dickinson, no
republican _ young, no
democrat _ udall, yes
republicans _ kolbe, no; kyl, no; rhodes, no; stump, no
democrats _ alexander, yes; anthony, yes; robinson, yes
republican _ hammerschmidt, no
democrats _ anderson, yes; bates, yes; beilenson, yes; berman, yes; bosco, no; boxer, yes; brown, yes; coelho, yes; dellums, no; dixon, yes; dymally, yes; edwards, yes; fazio, yes; hawkins, yes; lantos, yes; lehman, yes; levine, yes; martinez, yes; matsui, yes; miller, yes; mineta, yes; panetta, yes; pelosi yes; roybal, yes; stark, yes; torres, yes; waxman, yes
republicans _ badham, no; dannemeyer, no; dornan, no; dreier, no; gallegly, no; herger, no; hunter, no; konnyu, no; lagomarsino, no; lewis, no; lowery, no; lungren, no; mccandless, no; moorhead, no; packard, no; pashayan, no; shumway, no; thomas, no
democrats _ campbell, yes; schroeder, yes, skaggs, yes
republicans _ brown, no; hefley, no; schaefer, no
democrats _ gejdenson, yes; kennelly, yes; morrison, yes
republicans _ johnson, no; rowland, no; shays, no
democrat _ carper, yes
democrats _ bennett, no; chappell, yes; fascell, no; gibbons, yes; grant, yes; hutto, no; lehman, yes; mackay, yes; mica, yes; nelson, no; pepper, no; smith, yes
republicans _ bilirakis, no; ireland, no; lewis, no; mack, no; mccollum, no; shaw, no; young, no
democrats _ barnard, yes; darden, yes; hatcher, yes; jenkins, yes; lewis, yes; ray, no; rowland, yes; thomas, yes
republicans _ gingrich, no; swindall, no
democrat _ akaka, yes
republican _ saiki, no
democrat _ stallings, yes
republican _ craig, no
democrats _ annunzio, yes; bruce, yes; collins, yes; durbin, yes; evans, yes; gray, yes; hayes, yes; lipinski, no; price, yes; rostenkowski, no; russo, yes; savage, no; yates, yes
republicans _ crane, no; davis, no; fawell, no; hastert, no; hyde, no; madigan, no; martin, no; michel, no; porter, no
democrats _ hamilton, yes; jacobs, yes; jontz, yes; mccloskey, yes; sharp, yes; visclosky, yes
republicans _ burton, no; coats, no; hiler, no; myers, no
democrats _ nagle, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ grandy, no; leach, yes; lightfoot, xxx; tauke, no
democrats _ glickman, yes; slattery, yes
republicans _ meyers, no; roberts, no; whittaker, no
democrats _ hubbard, yes; mazzoli, yes; natcher, yes; perkins, yes
republicans _ bunning, no; hopkins, no; rogers, no
democrats _ boggs, yes; hayes, no; huckaby, no; roemer, xxx; tauzin, no
republicans _ baker, no; holloway, no; livingston, no
democrat _ brennan, no
republican _ snowe, no
democrats _ byron, no; cardin, yes; dyson, yes; hoyer, yes; mcmillen, yes; mfume, yes
republicans _ bentley, no; morella, yes
democrats _ atkins, yes; boland, yes; donnelly, yes; early, yes; frank, yes; kennedy, yes; markey, yes; mavroules, yes; moakley, yes; studds, yes
republican _ conte, no
democrats _ bonior, yes; carr, yes; conyers, yes; crockett, yes; dingell, yes; ford, yes; hertel, yes; kildee, yes; levin, yes; traxler, yes; wolpe, yes
republicans _ broomfield, no; davis, no; henry, no; pursell, no; schuette, no; upton, no; vander jagt, no
democrats _ oberstar, yes; penny, yes; sabo, yes; sikorski, yes; vento, yes
republicans _ frenzel, no; stangeland, no; weber, no
democrats _ dowdy, xxx; espy, yes; montgomery, no; whitten, yes
republican _ lott, no
democrats _ clay, yes; gephardt, xxx; skelton, no; volkmer, yes; wheat, yes
republicans _ buechner, no; coleman, no; emerson, no; taylor, no
democrat _ williams, yes
republican _ marlenee, no
republicans _ bereuter, no; daub, no; smith, no
democrat _ bilbray, yes
republican _ vucanovich, no
republicans _ gregg, no; smith, no
democrats _ dwyer, yes; florio, no; guarini, yes; howard, yes; hughes, yes; rodino, yes; roe, yes; torricelli, yes
republicans _ courter, no; gallo, no; rinaldo, no; roukema, no; saxton, no; smith, no
democrat _ richardson, yes
republicans _ lujan, no; skeen, no
democrats _ ackerman, yes; biaggi, xxx; downey, yes; flake, yes; garcia, yes; hochbrueckner, yes; lafalce, yes; manton, yes; mchugh, yes; mrazek, yes; nowak, yes; owens, yes; rangel, yes; scheuer, yes; schumer, yes; slaughter, yes; solarz, yes; stratton, no; towns, yes; weiss, yes
republicans _ boehlert, no; dioguardi, no; fish, no; gilman, no; green, no; horton, no; houghton, no; kemp, no; lent, no; martin, no; mcgrath, no; molinari, no; solomon, no; wortley, no
democrats _ clarke, yes; hefner, yes; jones, yes; lancaster, yes; neal, yes; price, yes; rose, yes; valentine, no
republicans _ ballenger, no; coble, no; mcmillan, no
democrat _ dorgan, yes. probe</head>
a leading nuclear power critic on thursday labeled the nuclear regulatory commission an ``outlaw agency'' for not launching an independent investigation following evidence of drug and alcohol abuse at the seabrook nuclear power plant
like a mother who refuses to confront a child on drugs, the nrc refuses to confront the possibility of danger at seabrook,'' said rep. edward j. markey, d-mass. ``they have turned their backs on the people of new england and ignored their own mandate as the agency that insures nuclear plant safety.''
markey renewed his call for an independent investigation after releasing an affidavit from john powell, former assistant construction director at the new hampshire nuclear power plant, that said a longtime seabrook subcontractor was fired in 1986 for alleged drug abuse by its employees
powell's sworn affidavit backs up evidence markey released earlier this year, the congressman said
david scanzoni, spokesman for plant operator new hamsphire yankee, confirmed that pittsburgh testing laboratories, hired in 1976 to test concrete used at the plant, was fired in 1986 following drug allegations. the allegations were never proven, he said
scanzoni said the work of pittsburgh testing, like other seabrook subcontractors, went through a series of rigorous tests and internal checks
and he said the company's work was reviewed again by new hampshire yankee following the drug allegations. scanzoni said he did not know if the nrc re-checked the work after pittsburgh testing was dismissed
nrc chairman lando w. zech jr., in a letter to markey this week, said there was no need for an independent review of seabrook's construction ``in light of the extensive safety reviews.''
the nrc staff has carefully reviewed your report and advises us that no new issues have been raised to support the contention that the safe operation of the seabrook plant is in question due to construction deficiencies caused by drug or alcohol use,'' zech wrote
he said ``routine and special inspections'' showed that seabrook is a well-built and safe reactor
scanzoni released a statement from powell, who retired last year, defending the company
no drug or alcohol problems at seabrook have had any impact on safety related systems or construction at seabrook,'' powell said. ``in general terms, there have been no major problems at seabrook in terms of substance abuse. there have been some minor drug and alcohol incidents, but action was taken immediately.''
scanzoni refuted the congressman's charges that new hampshire yankee tried to cover up drug problems at the plant, noting that most of the documents cited by markey came from the company
democrats _ applegate, yes; eckart, yes; feighan, yes; hall, yes; kaptur, yes; luken, yes; oakar, no; pease, yes; sawyer, yes; stokes, yes; traficant, no
republicans _ dewine, no; gradison, no; kasich, no; latta, no; lukens, no; mcewen, no; miller, no; oxley, no; regula, no; wylie, no
democrats _ english, no; mccurdy, yes; synar, yes; watkins, yes
republican _ edwards, no; inhofe, no
democrats _ aucoin, no; defazio, no; wyden, no
republican _ d. smith, no; r. smith, no
democrats _ borski, yes; coyne, yes; foglietta, yes; gaydos, yes; gray, yes; kanjorski, yes; kolter, no; kostmayer, yes; murphy, no; murtha, yes; walgren, yes; yatron, yes
republicans _ clinger, no; coughlin, no; gekas, no; goodling, no; mcdade, no; ridge, no; ritter, no; schulze, no; shuster, no; walker, no; weldon, no
democrat _ st germain, yes
republican _ schneider, no
democrats _ derrick, yes; patterson, yes; spratt, yes; tallon, yes
republicans _ ravenel, no; spence, no
democrat _ johnson, yes
democrats _ clement, yes; cooper, yes; ford, xxx; gordon, yes; jones, xxx; lloyd, no
republicans _ duncan, no; quillen, no; sundquist, no
democrats _ andrews, yes; brooks, no; bryant, yes; bustamante, yes; chapman, yes; coleman, yes; de la garza, yes; frost, yes; gonzalez, yes; r. hall, no; leath, xxx; leland, yes; ortiz, yes; pickle, yes; stenholm, no; wilson, no; wright, yes
republicans _ archer, no; armey, no; bartlett, no; barton, no; boulter, no; combest, no; delay, no; fields, no; smith, no; sweeney, no
democrat _ owens, yes
republicans _ hansen, no; nielson, no
republican _ jeffords, yes
democrats _ boucher, yes; olin, yes; pickett, yes; sisisky, no
republicans _ bateman, no; bliley, no; parris, no; slaughter, no; wolf, no
democrats _ bonker, no; dicks, yes; foley, yes; lowry, yes; swift, yes
republicans _ chandler, no; miller, no; morrison, no
democrats _ mollohan, no; rahall, yes; staggers, yes; wise, yes
democrats _ aspin, yes; kastenmeier, yes; kleczka, yes; moody, yes; obey, yes
republicans _ gunderson, no; petri, no; roth, no; sensenbrenner, no
republican _ cheney, no. witness' sex life. edits throughout to tighten. no pickup.</note>
the arizona senate on thursday rejected an attempt by gov. evan mecham's lawyers to introduce evidence at his impeachment trial about a key witness' sex life
this is neither a circus nor another episode of peyton place,'' said democratic sen. jesus ``chuy'' higuera, arguing against admission of the affidavit offered by the first-term republican governor's lawyers
the senate voted 21-8 against hearing the evidence but decided 26-3 to ask the maricopa county attorney to investigate the conduct of the witness, department of public safety director ralph milstead
milstead is expected to testify about an allegation that mecham ordered him not to cooperate with a probe of an alleged death threat against a former mecham aide who was testifying before a grand jury investigating the governor
clearly, the introduction of this evidence would make these proceedings more sensational and titillating,'' said republican sen. greg lunn
but he added: ``i don't believe the entire life of director milstead is on trial. the character and actions of governor mecham are on trial.''
lunn said evidence of an alleged 1982 sexual affair between milstead and a former dps employee would be clearly irrelevant and unfair
we've already done more for ralph milstead's sex life than a centerfold in cosmopolitan,'' said an exasperated republican sen. john mawhinney
republican sen. peter kay had spurred debate on the issue when he moved for admission of the affidavit. he said milstead's sex life was relevant to his character
the former dps employee had reportedly claimed that milstead had sex with her while he was married and once threatened her if she revealed their affair
moments after debate ended on the sex matter, an unidentified man in the spectator's gallery screamed out: ``you make me sick! i have to get out of here!''
the trial was recessed while the man was ushered out and taken to a room for questioning. he did not resist
earlier, the senate heard testimony that mecham tried to block the state attorney general's investigation of the alleged death threat because he believed the prosecutor was ``out to get him.''
james chilcoat, dps assistant deputy director, testified he was told by milstead that mecham instructed milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's office
meanwhile, mecham took his case to the public, appearing on three national television shows thursday morning a few hours after he addressed a cheering crowd of 4,000 supporters at a rally wednesday night
mecham, who has stayed away from his impeachment trial since it began monday, also is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and of misusing $80,000 in state money by loaning it to his auto dealership
mecham, 63, is the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in 60 years. he also faces a may 17 recall election and a march 22 trial on felony charges accusing him of concealing the loan
chilcoat, a dps lieutenant colonel, gave details of the alleged threat similar to those related by two other dps officers who testified earlier
he said he was told that lee watkins, then mecham's prison construction chief, threatened in november that a mecham staffer then testifying before a grand jury about the campaign loan might ``go on a long boat ride'' or ``wind up at the bottom of a river'' if she continued talking
the department could see some embarrassment coming to the governor's office and obviously we were going to get blamed for that,'' chilcoat said. ``we had told the governor (about the threat) to reduce his risk and we were at a loss as to why he hadn't done anything.''
chilcoat said milstead personally gave mecham the information and came back dismayed
he (milstead) said the governor had instructed him not to go to the attorney general's office, not to help those people out there, that they were out to get him,'' chilcoat said
a two-thirds vote of the senate would be required to convict mecham on any count of the 23 articles of impeachment and remove him from office. the senate could, by another two-thirds vote, then bar mecham for life from holding any state office
mecham has remained highly visible since his trial began. on the network tv morning shows he said, ``i haven't broken any laws,'' and blamed arizona newspapers for his problems
mecham was asked on abc about the impact of former u.s. sen. barry goldwater's view that mecham should resign. ``barry doesn't know what's going on,'' mecham said. ``he's sort of past history.'' comments. no pickup</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz on thursday renewed an american drive to open arab-israeli peace talks by urging palestinian arabs to form a joint delegation with jordan for negotiations
jordan, with palestinians, is a good concept,'' shultz said. he cited family and cultural ties between palestinians living in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza and those living in jordan
the structure is there, so there is a lot to be said for this approach,'' shultz said on a flight to israel following a meeting in london with jordan's king hussein. ``i think it is a good one.''
he described his two-hour meeting with the king as ``very worthwhile,'' but declined to give details to reporters traveling to the middle east with him
pleading that the situation was delicate, the secretary also would not say what approaches he had in mind for israel's prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, whom he will meet separately on friday
but shultz hinted he was making headway in his effort to convene negotiations within a month
peres met shultz on his arrival thursday night, but no airport statements were issued
from israel, shultz plans to embark on quick flights to syria and egypt for more talks, then return to washington over the weekend
president reagan, in belgium for a north atlantic treaty organization summit, announced wednesday he was sending shultz for added talks with mideast leaders. shultz returned to the shuttle he began earlier this week
the u.s. proposal seeks to defuse the explosive situation in the west bank and gaza strip by opening talks soon on how the 1.5 million palestinians in the occupied territories could control their daily affairs
according to the u.s. plan, the israelis, jordanians and palestinians would then open negotiations in december on an overall peace settlement
israel took the lands from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
we are at an interesting and important time in this negotiation,'' shultz said thursday. ``and the best thing i can do as far as maximizing the prospects of getting anywhere is not to talk about it.''
still, shultz spoke forcefully about the merits of a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation. he urged all parties involved to adopt realistic goals
what i'm trying to do is to get people, all of whom have dreams, to focus on the dreams that have a foundation of reality . .. as i go around that is the message i try to carry,'' he said
the composition of the arab delgation that would talk peace with israel is a major issue confronting shultz on his swing through the region
jordan and syria demand a role for the palestine liberation organization. reporters in amman with shultz last week were informed jordan would no longer press the plo to agree to a joint delegation
the issue is important because the united states and israel both refuse to negotiate with an organization committed to dismantling the jewish state
shultz said all the parties _ the united states, israel, jordan and egypt _agreed palestinians ``have to have a say'' in the negotiations
to a very considerable degree,'' shultz said,``it's their rights, their human condition that's involved. ... by including them in a jordanian-palestinian delegation, you are making arrangements for that and i think that can work.''
at a news conference earlier in brussels, shultz took a tough stance on the plo while declaring that ``any suitable settlement has to deal the legitimate rights of the palestinian people.''
shultz insisted u.s. policy toward the plo had not changed since a 1975 law, enacted as a guarantee to israel, prohibited negotiating with the plo so long as yasser arafat's organization did not recognize israel's right to exist
but shultz said he wanted to meet with palestinians as soon as possible, even though a session could not be arranged right away
here is the 216-208 roll call thursday by which the house defeated a $30 million package of humanitarian aid to nicaragua's contra rebels
a ``yes'' vote is for the aid package
voting yes were 203 democrats and 5 republicans
voting no were 45 democrats and 171 republicans
xxx denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there is one vacancy in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, yes; erdreich, yes; flippo, yes; harris, yes; nichols, xxx
republicans _ callahan, no; dickinson, no
republican _ young, no
democrat _ udall, yes
republicans _ kolbe, no; kyl, no; rhodes, no; stump, no
democrats _ alexander, yes; anthony, yes; robinson, yes
republican _ hammerschmidt, no
democrats _ anderson, yes; bates, no; beilenson, yes; berman, yes; bosco, no; boxer, no; brown, yes; coelho, yes; dellums, no; dixon, yes; dymally, yes; edwards, yes; fazio, yes; hawkins, yes; lantos, yes; lehman, yes; levine, yes; martinez, yes; matsui, yes; miller, yes; mineta, yes; panetta, yes; pelosi yes; roybal, no; stark, yes; torres, yes; waxman, yes
republicans _ badham, no; dannemeyer, no; dornan, no; dreier, no; gallegly, no; herger, no; hunter, no; konnyu, no; lagomarsino, no; lewis, no; lowery, no; lungren, no; mccandless, no; moorhead, no; packard, no; pashayan, no; shumway, no; thomas, no
democrats _ campbell, yes; schroeder, no, skaggs, yes
republicans _ brown, no; hefley, no; schaefer, no
democrats _ gejdenson, yes; kennelly, yes; morrison, yes
republicans _ johnson, no; rowland, no; shays, no
democrat _ carper, yes
democrats _ bennett, yes; chappell, yes; fascell, yes; gibbons, yes; grant, yes; hutto, no; lehman, yes; mackay, yes; mica, yes; nelson, yes; pepper, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ bilirakis, no; ireland, no; lewis, no; mack, no; mccollum, no; shaw, no; young, no
democrats _ barnard, yes; darden, yes; hatcher, yes; jenkins, yes; lewis, yes; ray, yes; rowland, yes; thomas, yes
republicans _ gingrich, no; swindall, no
democrat _ akaka, yes
republican _ saiki, no
democrat _ stallings, yes
republican _ craig, no
democrats _ annunzio, yes; bruce, yes; collins, yes; durbin, no; evans, yes; gray, yes; hayes, yes; lipinski, yes; price, yes; rostenkowski, no; russo, yes; savage, no; yates, yes
republicans _ crane, no; davis, no; fawell, no; hastert, no; hyde, no; madigan, no; martin, no; michel, no; porter, no
democrats _ hamilton, yes; jacobs, no; jontz, yes; mccloskey, yes; sharp, yes; visclosky, yes
republicans _ burton, no; coats, no; hiler, no; myers, no
democrats _ nagle, yes; smith, no
republicans _ grandy, no; leach, no; lightfoot, xxx; tauke, no
democrats _ glickman, yes; slattery, yes
republicans _ meyers, yes; roberts, no; whittaker, no
democrats _ hubbard, yes; mazzoli, yes; natcher, yes; perkins, yes
republicans _ bunning, no; hopkins, no; rogers, no
democrats _ boggs, yes; hayes, no; huckaby, no; roemer, xxx; tauzin, no
republicans _ baker, no; holloway, no; livingston, no
democrat _ brennan, no
republican _ snowe, no
democrats _ byron, no; cardin, yes; dyson, yes; hoyer, yes; mcmillen, yes; mfume, yes
republicans _ bentley, no; morella, yes
democrats _ atkins, yes; boland, yes; donnelly, yes; early, no; frank, yes; kennedy, no; markey, yes; mavroules, yes; moakley, yes; studds, yes
republican _ conte, no
democrats _ bonior, yes; carr, yes; conyers, yes; crockett, yes; dingell, yes; ford, yes; hertel, yes; kildee, yes; levin, yes; traxler, yes; wolpe, yes
republicans _ broomfield, no; davis, no; henry, no; pursell, no; schuette, no; upton, no; vander jagt, no
democrats _ oberstar, yes; penny, yes; sabo, yes; sikorski, yes; vento, yes
republicans _ frenzel, no; stangeland, no; weber, no
democrats _ dowdy, xxx; espy, yes; montgomery, no; whitten, yes
republican _ lott, no
democrats _ clay, yes; gephardt, xxx; skelton, no; volkmer, yes; wheat, no
republicans _ buechner, no; coleman, no; emerson, no; taylor, no
democrat _ williams, yes
republican _ marlenee, no
republicans _ bereuter, no; daub, no; smith, no
democrat _ bilbray, yes
republican _ vucanovich, no
republicans _ gregg, no; smith, no
democrats _ dwyer, yes; florio, no; guarini, yes; howard, yes; hughes, yes; rodino, yes; roe, yes; torricelli, yes
republicans _ courter, no; gallo, no; rinaldo, no; roukema, no; saxton, no; smith, no
democrat _ richardson, yes
republicans _ lujan, no; skeen, no
democrats _ ackerman, yes; biaggi, xxx; downey, yes; flake, yes; garcia, yes; hochbrueckner, yes; lafalce, yes; manton, yes; mchugh, yes; mrazek, yes; nowak, yes; owens, yes; rangel, yes; scheuer, yes; schumer, yes; slaughter, yes; solarz, yes; stratton, no; towns, yes; weiss, yes
republicans _ boehlert, no; dioguardi, no; fish, no; gilman, no; green, no; horton, no; houghton, no; kemp, no; lent, no; martin, no; mcgrath, no; molinari, no; solomon, no; wortley, no
democrats _ clarke, yes; hefner, yes; jones, yes; lancaster, yes; neal, yes; price, yes; rose, yes; valentine, no
republicans _ ballenger, no; coble, no; mcmillan, no
democrat _ dorgan, yes
democrats _ applegate, no; eckart, yes; feighan, yes; hall, yes; kaptur, yes; luken, yes; oakar, no; pease, yes; sawyer, yes; stokes, yes; traficant, no
republicans _ dewine, no; gradison, no; kasich, no; latta, no; lukens, no; mcewen, no; miller, no; oxley, no; regula, no; wylie, no
democrats _ english, no; mccurdy, yes; synar, yes; watkins, yes
republican _ edwards, no; inhofe, no
democrats _ aucoin, no; defazio, no; wyden, no
republican _ d. smith, no; r. smith, no
democrats _ borski, yes; coyne, yes; foglietta, yes; gaydos, yes; gray, yes; kanjorski, yes; kolter, no; kostmayer, yes; murphy, no; murtha, yes; walgren, yes; yatron, yes
republicans _ clinger, no; coughlin, no; gekas, no; goodling, no; mcdade, no; ridge, no; ritter, no; schulze, no; shuster, no; walker, no; weldon, no
democrat _ st germain, yes
republican _ schneider, no
democrats _ derrick, yes; patterson, yes; spratt, yes; tallon, yes
republicans _ ravenel, no; spence, no
democrat _ johnson, yes
democrats _ clement, yes; cooper, yes; ford, xxx; gordon, yes; jones, xxx; lloyd, no
republicans _ duncan, no; quillen, no; sundquist, no
democrats _ andrews, yes; brooks, no; bryant, yes; bustamante, yes; chapman, yes; coleman, yes; de la garza, yes; frost, yes; gonzalez, no; r. hall, no; leath, xxx; leland, yes; ortiz, yes; pickle, yes; stenholm, no; wilson, no; wright, xxx (by tradition the speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, no; armey, no; bartlett, no; barton, no; boulter, no; combest, no; delay, no; fields, no; smith, no; sweeney, no
democrat _ owens, yes
republicans _ hansen, no; nielson, no
republican _ jeffords, yes
democrats _ boucher, no; olin, yes; pickett, yes; sisisky, yes
republicans _ bateman, no; bliley, no; parris, no; slaughter, no; wolf, no
democrats _ bonker, no; dicks, yes; foley, yes; lowry, yes; swift, yes
republicans _ chandler, no; miller, yes; morrison, yes
democrats _ mollohan, no; rahall, yes; staggers, yes; wise, yes
democrats _ aspin, yes; kastenmeier, no; kleczka, yes; moody, no; obey, yes
republicans _ gunderson, no; petri, no; roth, no; sensenbrenner, no
republican _ cheney, no
a former pro football player was indicted wednesday on charges of murdering a man 31 years ago in a case reopened at the request of the victim's mother
bobby hoppe, 53, was released on $7,500 bail wednesday in the 1957 slaying of teddy donald hudson. the 24-year-old hudson was killed by a shotgun blast fired into his car as he drove down a neighborhood street, police said
the charges against hoppe, a former washington redskins player who is now athletic director at chattanooga state technical community college, came 14 months after police reopened the case at the request of georgia hudson
police would not say what led them to arrest hoppe, who had been a suspect during the original investigation, and gave no motive for the slaying
police initially thought the death might be liquor-related, since in 1953 hudson was sentenced to prison on a liquor conviction and was a reputed whiskey runner
in addition, allegations were made during the original investigation that hoppe shot hudson over hoppe's sister, whom hudson was dating, but there wasn't enough evidence for an arrest, said police spokesman freeman cooper
hoppe declined to talk about the case. his lawyer, leroy phillips, said only that he is convinced of hoppe's innocence
at the time of the slaying, hoppe was a starting running back at auburn university, then called alabama polytechnic institute. he was on the team that won the 1957 national championship
after playing briefly for the redskins, hoppe was a teacher, coach and administrator at several high schools in chattanooga and in georgia
mrs. hudson asked police to reopen the case after a meeting of families and friends of murder victims, a support and counseling group. the case was taken up by two detectives on a newly-formed task force on long-unsolved murders
hoppe will be tried under state law as it existed in 1957, which means that he could receive 20 years to life in prison. current law allows the death penalty
richard gephardt parried a television attack on his presidential campaign with a challenge thursday, saying he'd return pac contributions if massachusetts gov. michael dukakis returned every dollar from those who do business with the state of massachusetts
dukakis spokesman leslie dach said the campaign has taken no money from any corporate pacs or registered lobbyists in massachusetts
the missouri congressman said he was defending his record against his rival's latest television advertisements, which implied he might have trouble representing american workers while accepting funds from their employers
i'll give back every penny of money that i've gotten from political action funds if he will return the money to all the people who have given him money who do business with or are licensed by the state of massachusetts,'' gephardt said in a short airport stop at baltimore-washington international airport
gephardt, who made two whistlestops in maryland five days before super tuesday balloting, has taken third place to dukakis and jesse jackson among likely maryland primary voters, according to the latest baltimore evening sun polls
after his airport news conference, he paid a courtesy visit to maryland gov. william donald schaefer. gephardt said he didn't come seeking an endorsement, and he didn't get one from the governor, who said again he will remain neutral at least through the maryland primary
the campaign exchanges between him and dukakis have turned increasingly scrappy as super tuesday nears
we will make public tomorrow (friday) a partial list of some of the interests that have given money to his campaign,'' gephardt told reporters gathered in a small airport terminal. ``he's got appointees of his own state government who are awarding contracts to many of the people who have given money to his campaign. is that a conflict of interest? i think that's a legitimate question.''
the missouri congressman said he not let special interests dictate his votes
i've never made a decision in my public life based on those contributions,'' he said. ``i have fought for a new trade policy. i have fought for a new tax policy and in my whole career i've fought against vested interests and the establishment of this country. and i find it odd that now gov. dukakis calls it into question whether or not i have been the one who fights for the working people of this country,'' he said
gephardt said only 5 percent of the $5 million to $6 million raised in his campaign for the presidency has come from pacs and is documented in the public record
responding to dukakis' latest attack that his oil import fee proposal would saddle americans with a $50 billion burden, he said the types of oil industry incentives supported by dukakis haven't worked in the past. he defended imposition of an oil import fee, saying it wouldn't cost consumers in the long run
the question is, do you want to pay 10 cents more a gallon now for gasoline and have the money all go to our treasury, or do you want to sit here and be vulnerable to opec and wait for a few years and let opec raise the price by 40 or 50 cents a gallon and take all the money to opec?''
terence c. golden, who has been administrator of the general services administration for nearly three years, resigned thursday because of his wife's health, a gsa spokesman said
golden, 43, became chief of the agency in june 1985, after serving as assistant secretary for administration at the treasury department. before joining the government in march 1984, he was a residential developer for a large dallas firm
the gsa is the government's housekeeping agency. it owns or leases 6,800 buildings nationwide
gsa spokesman joseph slye said golden sent his resignation in a letter to the white house. the letter was not released. the resignation is effective march 18, he said
the agency recently has been under attack for its handling of $55 million in government telecommunications contracts. the gsa's inspector general, the justice department and a senate committee are investigating allegations that agency employees leaked confidential information to competitors during bidding for the contracts
the gsa's handling of that contract is being scrutinized because the agency is also taking bids on a contract worth as much as $25 billion over 10 years to replace the government's phone network
at the gsa, golden opened 10 child-care centers in federal workplaces around the country and 25 more are planned for this year. he got congress to authorize $350 million to complete the federal triangle complex of buildings on pennsylvania avenue, which was begun during the roosevelt administration
in february 1987, he restricted smoking for 890,000 federal workers to designated areas in government buildings
the following may, he adopted new telephone regulations allowing federal workers to make daily phone calls home to check on children, spouses and day-care centers. formerly they could only call home in emergencies
he also persuaded congress and the president to provide more generous travel expenses to federal workers. attends school in arcadia, corrects 1989 to 1991 in 11th graf, bgng: ``ryan said ...''</note>
i came face to face with death at 13 years old,'' ryan white told the white house aids commission thursday
that was three years ago when he was diagnosed as having the deadly disease during surgery to remove part of his lung because of pneumonia. doctors gave him six months to live
but the indiana youngster told the panel he decided instead ``to live a normal life, go to school, be with my friends and enjoy day-to-day activities.''
as it turned out, those modest goals were not so easy to attain, mostly because of the ridicule heaped on him by others in kokomo
because of the lack of education on aids, discrimination, fear, panic and lies surrounded me,'' he told the commission. ``i was labeled a trouble-maker, my mom an unfit mother and i was not welcome anywhere. people would get up and leave so they would not have to sit anywhere near me. even at church, people would not shake my hand.''
finally, last summer, ryan, his mother and sister decided to move to another indiana town _ cicero. there things were different
they had the good fortune to move three doors away from jill stewart, who had just been elected president of the student council and welcomed ryan as a neighbor
she sat beside him thursday while ryan told his story, and then she told her own _ about how the 600 students at hamilton heights high school they attend in nearby arcadia ``had witnessed ryan's pain in his former community'' and how they decided ``there was no reason for ryan to go through that pain again.''
she told how school officials worked with the student council and parents to educate the community about acquired immune deficiency syndrome. eventually, she said, the students ran out of questions to ask about aids, which is an incurable disease that is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers and infected blood or blood products
by this time, they were asking how they could help ryan,'' she said
ryan said of his life: ``i'm a normal, happy teen-ager again. i have a learner's permit, i attend sports functions and dances. i made the honor role just recently, with two as and two bs. ... i believe in myself as i look forward to graduating ... in 1991.''
miss stewart, a 17-year-old senior who aspires to study human genetics _ or maybe law _ told the panel her story was intended to show how aids education in the schools can work to head off discrimination. that was part of the speech she had handwritten on a green-and-white sheaf of computer printer paper
then she ad libbed a few lines
in the end, she said, ryan _ who contracted the virus through contaminated blood agents given for threatment of the hemophilia he was born with _ helped his new classmates more than they helped him
no one realizes how much he has done for us,'' she said. ``he helps us put life in perspective in so many ways. these things you cannot measure.''
when the teen-agers were finished, the members of the white house commission applauded. industry</head>
industrial-state lawmakers, citing national security concerns, urged the reagan administration thursday to protect the domestic bearing industry against cheaper imports that are driving american manufacturers out of business
if we lose our domestic bearing industry, our military would become dangerously dependent on foreign nations to supply us with these vital components,'' said rep. nancy l. johnson, r-conn., and 38 other lawmakers in letters to commerce secretary c. william verity jr. and defense secretary frank carlucci
bearings are used in fighter jets, tanks, submarines, missiles and other defense systems. foreign competition has ``gravely injured'' u.s. manufacturers, mrs. johnson said
in july, the industry asked the commerce department to impose import restrictions on overseas bearing makers, but no action has been taken
mrs. johnson, who represents a western connecticut district with several major bearing employers, said nearly 65 percent of ball bearings sold in the united states now come from abroad, and that figure is growing
the congresswoman cited a 1986 defense department study that concluded bearings ``are a strategic industry, critical to the nation's defense.'' and the pentagon found that the domestic bearing industry is in ``imminent danger of being unable to support national defense needs'' and urged immediate action
nonetheless, two years after the release of this report, the federal government has still not implemented any steps to assist the bearing industry,'' mrs. johnson said
the industry filed for temporary relief under the trade expansion act of 1962 to provide u.s. companies with enough time to modernize
the anti-friction bearing manufacturers association, which represents 43 companies nationwide, asked the commerce department last summer to restrict foreign imports to 32 percent of the domestic ball bearing market and 18 percent of the roller bearing market. imports make up about 40 percent of the roller bearing market, mrs. johnson said
the commerce department has until july to make a recommendation to president reagan, but mrs. johnson has lobbied verity to expedite the process and was ``informally assured'' by the department that it would be moved swiftly, according to johnson aide caroline willson
the text of a written statement by president reagan commenting on the house's defeat of a democratic plan for ``humanitarian'' aid for the contras and for young victims of the nicaragua war:
the house has once again failed to approve an aid package for the nicaraguan democratic resistance. i call on the house and senate to act urgently to develop an aid package which is effectively deliverable and of sufficient quantity to sustain the nicaraguan freedom fighters. if not, the prospects for peace and democracy inside nicaragua will diminish quickly. jackson comment in arkansas</note>
jesse jackson, sweeping through country hard hit by depressed oil and farm prices, said thursday he wants to revitalize the u.s. oil industry and economy with a hemispheric energy alliance
the democratic presidential candidate said his proposal for a pan-american energy security alliance, in cooperation with canada and the latin countries, would free the united states from reliance on the opec nations
he said it could also be part of an overall cooperative strategy to help latin countries reduce their debt so that they could purchase more american products, thereby reducing the u.s. deficit
jackson picked up the endorsement of veteran state sen. gene stipe, who has served in the statehouse for 40 years, and a handful of other legislators here
he is the best thing in the race,'' said stipe, who until recently had supported sen. paul simon, d-ill
stipe said he now backs jackson because ``i can see he has a chance to be president. he has the momentum. after super tuesday, they're not going to be able to stop him.''
he predicted other white oklahomans would also back jackson and help him in the state's super tuesday primary
later, at the university of arkansas, jackson was endorsed by john j. hooker, a former tennnessee gubernatorial candidate who said he was representative of many more whites from his home state who supported jackson
after super tuesday, the rebels are going to come to jesse by the hundreds of thousands,'' he said to cheers
hooker said jackson's success in five northern states with voting-age populations of 1 percent or less had caught the attention of many whites who did not support jackson in his 1984 race
in an interview later, jackson declined to specify what his expectations were for super tuesday but expressed cautious optimism that he would pick up significant white votes
i can only say that i'm reaching out,'' he told the associated press
jackson said ``one can never be so certain about what's going to happen tuesday,'' but added: ``my sense is there's a higher comfort level'' among whites for his candidacy
jackson is trying to pull white voters into his camp, and campaign manager gerald austin said jackson's strategy is to pull in up to 10 percent of the white vote as well as his solid base of black support on super tuesday
at the state capitol, jackson was greeted by a standing ovation from a joint session of the legislature. he teased some lawmakers for wearing campaign buttons of other presidential contenders, telling them not to support candidates that ``are not viable.''
jackson is spending most of the pre-super tuesday campaign days bouncing across what he calls ``the new south'' and its bordering states. he is intent on making inroads in 105 congressional districts where his campaign sees a chance to gain a significant part of the 1,307 delegates up for grabs on tuesday
his campaign on friday will launch a $100,000 tv campaign in eight states, one featuring endorsements by comedian bill cosby and other spots highlighting jackson's accomplishments
jackson focuses on the new south, saying that voting rights and other freedoms have been won by blacks but economic inequity amounts to a new form of slavery
he is trying to pull white voters into his campaign for ``economic justice.''
his prospects in oklahoma, where more than 30 banks closed last year, are good, according to stipe, although sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and rep. richard gephardt of missouri are also strong
protesters demanding lower prices set fire to stores in a third day of disturbances thursday. a merchant killed one protester and wounded another, authorities said
police said 300 people were arrested in santiago, the caribbean nation's second-largest city, where soldiers fired tear gas to disperse rioters. demonstrations were also reported in slum sections of santo domingo, the capital
a roman catholic church leader, monsignor agripino nunez collado, called on leaders of government, labor, business and the church to begin talks on the demonstrations and the country's economic problems
protests against inflation broke out last week in eight of the 26 dominican provinces, leaving five people dead and 20 injured. on saturday, president joaquin balaguer announced a 25 percent increase in the monthly minimum wage to about $75, but new demonstrations broke out this week
on thursday, protesters set fire to an undetermined number of stores in santiago and hurled firebombs at businesses in santo domingo
a merchant in the city fired a gun into a mob that tried to burn down his store, killing miguel cruz vazquez, 21, and wounding andres antonio batista, 18, police said
protest organizers, grouped as the front for popular resistance and popular unity council, said demonstrations would continue friday and saturday if the government did not move to curb inflation
the government has made no comment on the latest violence. last week, balaguer threatened to call out the army to contain unrest
inflation was 30 percent last year, according to private economists, and might top 50 percent this year
the protests have been the worst since balaguer took office 1{ years ago in the nation of more than 6.5 million people
the nation's largest labor federation, barred from all political activity, said thursday it would hold a national congress in april to discuss the ban
the federation, the congress of south african trade unions, threatened a three-day protest if the april 11-13 meeting is prohibited. it puts its membership at 750,000
other organizations also announced plans to defy the government's emergency regulations. eighteen opposition groups were barred last week from conducting any activity not approved by the government
the south african youth congress said it was changing its name in an attempt to get around the restrictions
nkosi molala, president of the newly banned azanian peoples organization, said he and two colleagues were detained by police for most of the day and questioned about a new group, the azanian coordinating committee. he said police warned him the new group would be banned, too, if it was a renamed version of the restricted organization
the south african council of churches is one of several groups which promised to take over projects of the 18 banned organizations. it said it defied a government order to submit copies of its monthly journal, ecunews, for review under emergency censorship laws
the church council said it was notified by minister of home affairs stoffel botha it had committed a criminal offense and he threatened legal action
the council is a coalition of most protestant churches in south africa, except for the white dutch reformed church
the council said it told botha it would not comply with any order under the state of emergency proclamation because the 20-month-old decree violated ``the christian understanding of justice,'' by eliminating the right of the accused to defend themselves in open court
the congress of south african trade unions has called for international disinvestment from south african business, redistribution of wealth to the workers and a complete boycott of south africa to pressure the government to change laws that deny a national vote to the black majority of 26 million
the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
also on thursday:
_dr. ivan toms, a 35-year-old white doctor who has run a clinic in the cape town black township of crossroads since 1980, was sentenced to 630 days in prison for refusing to serve, even as a non-combatant, in the south african defense force. toms said he objected to stationing white conscripts in black townships, in the south african-occupied territory of namibia and in neighboring angola
_a judge ruled that police who hid behind crates in a truck to entrap stone-throwing youths were to blame for three deaths when they fired on a crowd in the 1985 ``trojan horse'' incident in athlone, a mixed-race township outside cape town. in an inquest, magistrate gert hoffmann ruled the police action was unreasonable and referred the case to the attorney general for investigation of criminal charges. prevention</head> with 10 grafs to update with evening session. should stand for ams</note>
education secretary william j. bennett told the white house aids commission thursday he and surgeon general c. everett koop are in 95 percent agreement about how to attack the spread of the disease
as for the other 5 percent, bennett suggested it is ok for a doctor and an educator to differ on what to emphasize in their messages to the american public
they can handle it,'' he said
bennett's comments were in response to a statement by retired adm. james d. watkins, chairman of the commission, that many witnesses had told the panel differences among top federal officials were sending ``equivocal messages'' on aids education and prevention
during a brief evening session, the commission unanimously adopted 60 pages of recommendations watkins made last week as the basis for an interim report to be forwarded to president reagan next week
the formal report closely follows the watkins draft, including his call for an additional $20 billion in state and federal spending over the next decade to combat intravenous drug abuse and improve treatment for aids patients
the most rapid spread of the disease is now occurring among intravenous drugs abusers who catch aids by sharing contaminated needles and then pass the virus to their sexual partners and offspring
despite the call for sharply higher spending, the interim report is viewed as relatively uncontroversial compared with the issues watkins says the panel will address in its final report, such as testing, anti-discrimination and preventive education
the version approved by the panel did not delete any of watkins' specific recommendations, but contained additional wording in several sections
for example, a paragraph was added to the introduction to emphasize ``that available data do not provide a basis for comfort or complacency to any segment of our society. ... we express our concern that inaccurate and misleading statements suggesting that (the virus) cannot be spread through heterosexual activity could stimulate transmission among those who would see such reports as bases for ignoring the danger that does, in fact, exist.''
koop had told the panel tuesday he was ``outraged'' at media reports downplaying the danger of the virus spreading through vaginal intercourse
in a section that concentrates on the danger of intravenous drug users spreading the disease by sharing needles, language was added to say: ``in addition to direct transmission, the use of drugs that impair judgment can contribute to sexual transmission.''
commissioner theresa l. crenshaw, a physician who specializes in sex therapy, has expressed concern at several hearings that too much alcohol or marijuana use can lead people to do things they would not do if they were sober
the perfunctory evening session to adopt the final report followed a full day of hearings that featured bennett and, on a separate panel, ryan white, an indiana teen-ager who contracted aids during treatment for hemophilia
the most publicized difference between koop and bennett is over what emphasis to put on use of condoms and spermicides to prevent the spread of aids among sexually active people
whether it (the difference) is real or non-substantive, it is a real perception out there,'' watkins said
dr. koop and i are very close, extremely close,'' bennett said. ``i think koop and i agree 95 percent of the way. it's all right for the surgeon general and the secretary of education to speak a little differently about these things.''
he cited a hypothetical situation of a youngster discussing ``what he or she is doing'' with a doctor and with a counselor
the doctor's advice would probably emphasize the medical aspects, as it should,'' said bennett. ``the teacher or counselor's advice might emphasize other things. some shading of difference is ok. some measure of disagreement is ok.''
when the american people ask for leadership, they are not saying, `we're a bunch of dummies, tell us what to think,''' bennett said. ``they want to know our best thinking. and if our best thinking diverges on some points, they can handle it.''
bennett said he does not dispute koop's position that sexually active people, including teen-agers, must be aware that condom and spermicide use, although imperfect, are the only protection against contracting aids sexually
the difference, especially involving adolescents, is where to put the emphasis, bennett said
what he does not condone, the education chief said, is teachers going through ``a kind of incantation'' on abstinence and sexual monogamy in aids prevention classes, ``then proceeding for the rest of the class to talk (to teen-agers) about how to protect themselves.''
it's like saying, don't smoke, but if you do, smoke low tar. don't drink, but if you do, keep it to 70 proof. i think these are equivocal messages.''
koop told the commission earlier in the week that while he also believes the best advice is abstinence, or at least monogamy, ``i think it is also realistic to understand that sexually active teen-agers are unlikely to reverse their pattern and go backward, and therefore prevention for them has to be our third line of defense. ... we have to teach them about the protection of themselves and others through the use of condoms and spermicides.''
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a incurable, contagious disease that attacks the body's immune system, rendering it incapable of resisting other diseases and infections
the disease is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from infected pregnant women to their offspring
the supreme court on thursday confirmed president abdou diouf's re-election to a second, five-year term with 73 percent of the vote
diouf won sunday's elections with 828,301 of the 1,135,501 votes cast. his nearest opponent, abdoulaye wade of the senegalese democratic party, polled 291,869 votes or 26 percent, said a communique
two other candidates split the remaining votes
results for the 120-seat national assembly were to be announced later. diouf's party had a lopsided majority in the old assembly
opposition leaders, including wade, claimed the voting was rigged. they have been detained since violent clashes between stone-throwing youths and riot police broke out monday and tuesday. the violence followed a preliminary government announcement that diouf was re-elected
a storm dumped freezing rain and up to 6 inches of snow on the east and midwest on thursday, downing power lines and causing hundreds of traffic accidents
meanwhile, rain and thunderstorms battered the central gulf coast region. during a six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. est, pensacola, fla., had 1.46 inches of rain, valparaiso, fla., 1.19 inches and milton, fla., .90 inches
dry weather prevailed over much of the rest of the nation
in indiana, downed tree limbs interrupted power in parts of indianapolis. up to 4 inches of snow fell on kokomo and 3 inches on lafayette, sheridan, portland and crawfordsville
power outages also hit thousands of homes in central illinois
freezing rain, sleet and snow fell on central ohio, where up to 5 inches of snow were expected
up to 5 inches of snow fell in eastern kansas, and more than 6 inches fell across parts of oklahoma and texas
a band of snow extended from western pennsylvania through central illinois to west-central texas, with freezing rain reported from ohio to missouri. rain and snow also fell over montana
earlier, the storm dumped up 13 inches on parts of the texas panhandle, thunderstorms triggered flash floods in east texas and a tornado ripped the roofs off mobile homes near galveston. the weather was blamed for at least four traffic deaths
up to 4 inches of snow were expected in parts of west virginia and up to 6 inches in northeastern pennsylvania. up to six inches were possible in southeastern new york state
temperatures were above 50 degrees from south-central texas to the southern and middle atlantic coast, with 70s in louisiana, mississippi and florida. temperatures generally were below freezing from the upper half of the mississippi valley to northern new england, with teens across northern sections of the great lakes region
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 17 degrees at houghton, minn., to 86 degrees at the southwest florida regional airport in fort myers
the low for the nation was 14 degrees below zero at international falls, minn
friday's forecast called for rain extending from the lower and middle mississippi valley to northern florida, the carolinas and the mid-atlantic coast, with thunderstorms from alabama to virginia. snow will extend from northern ohio to new jersey. rain and snow will extend from wyoming across the northern plains, with snow most likely in wyoming. rain will extend from the northern and central pacific coast to northwest montana, with rain likely in washington and western oregon. fair to partly sunny skies will prevail across the rest of the nation
temperatures will remain below 50 from the northern and central rockies to the middle and northern atlantic coast. highs will be in the 30s and upper 20s from eastern montana through the upper half of the mississippi valley to new england; above 60 from california through southern new mexico and across the lower mississippi valley to the southern atlantic coast, and in the 70s in southern california, southwestern arizona and extreme southern texas, and from southern louisiana to florida and southern georgia. to update with comments on bank funds.</note>
six republican and democratic congressmen introduced a bill thursday to impose an ``immediate, dramatic and devastating'' trade, air travel and currency embargo against the regime of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega
the lawmakers said they would seek speedy congressional approval of the embargo bill
but they said they also hoped to prod president reagan to act independently to adopt a far stronger series of punitive sanctions against the noriega regime than he has approved to date
the proposed embargo would bar all imports from panama, prohibit all u.s. exports to that nation, bar all air travel between the two countries and prohibit u.s. banks from transferring any funds to panama and its banking system
by stopping the transfer of funds from u.s. banks to panama, we go for the jugular,'' said sen. alfonse d-amato, r-n.y., a principal sponsor of the embargo plan
because of panama's heavy reliance on its economic ties with the united states, the impact of a u.s. trade embargo would be immediate, dramatic and devastating to noriega and his cohorts,'' d'amato said
panamanian opposition leader ricardo arias calderon, president of the christian democratic party, told reporters later that a trade embargo would be ``strong medicine'' but that such a remedy is sometimes needed for people to regain their health
other sponsors of the embargo bill are sens. edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; david durenberger, r-minn.; bob graham, d-fla.; john kerry, d-mass.; and jesse helms, r-n.c
the senators told reporters they introduced the embargo legislation at the specific request of eric arturo devalle, who was ousted as panama's president after attempting to remove noriega as commander of panama's defense forces
noriega was indicted by a federal grand jury in miami last month for accepting $4.6 million to protect international drug traffickers using panama as safe haven
kerry said that imposing the embargo gives the united states the ``best chance'' of removing noriega but provides no guarantee of that result
but d'amato predicted imposing the embargo ``would spell the end of noriega within a matter of days.''
d'amato said the proposed ban on bank transfers to panama will worsen pananama's banking crisis and cash shortage
he said it would represent an important blow at a banking system he said has been used as a conduit for laundering billions of dollars in proceeds from illicit drug sales in the united states
a ban on panamanian goods will paralyze a $412 million market representing 60 percent of panama's total exports, d'amato said. a ban on u.s. exports to panama will affect a 30 percent slice of all panamanian imports, he said
delvalle's representatives have been attempting to seize cotrol of panamanian government assets in the united states through court action, saying the new government took power illegally
at the state department, spokeswoman phyllis oakley said the administration had taken measures to prevent the new government from gaining access to official panamanian funds in u.s. banks
she said deputy secretary john c. whitehead has signed a document certifying the administration's position that ambassador juan b. sosa has full authority over panamanian assets in any federal reserve bank or federally insured bank, ``to ensure that panamanian government funds in u.s. banks are not removed by the noriega regime.''
sosa has estimated that panamanian government deposits in u.s. banks total about $50 million
at a news conference thursday night at the panamanian embassy, an attorney for delvalle said federal courts in new york and boston have issued temporary restraining orders to prevent the transfer of official panamanian funds on deposit in u.s. banks to the panamanian government
we believe that whatever funds are in those institutions are at this point frozen and cannot be transmitted to the noriega regime,'' said lawyer daniel resnick
ms. oakley also said that, at sosa's request, 17 panamanian consular officers in the united states are no longer being recognized as representatives of that government
mrs. oakley said there has been no final decision on a proposal by delvalle's representatives that a $7 million fee for panama canal operations due the panamanian government on march 15 be withheld
but, she said, ``we have every feeling that the requests probably are going to be honored.''
in brussels on thursday, reagan gave a one-word answer when asked whether he felt noriega should be replaced: ``yes.''
secretary of state george p. shultz, who was with reagan at the nato summit, called noriega ``bad news'' but indicated that the administration must move cautiously in taking action against him
we want to do it properly, we want to do it right, we want to do it effectively,'' shultz said. his tone contrasted sharply with that of assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, who has said the administration is prepared to abide by the wishes of delvalle, whom it still regards as the constitutional leader of panama
reagan's national security adviser, colin l. powell, told reporters aboard air force one en route to washington that there was no obvious successor to noriega in panama
there is no apparent leader _ military or civilian _ waiting in the wings that you can have any reasonable form of assurance to say, `that's the guy who can succeed noriega.' so even if noriega should leave, we are anticipating a period of instability,'' powell said
in a another development, the chairman of a house foreign affairs task force on international narcotics control said he will ask congress to repudiate reagan's recent certification of five latin american nations as having fully cooperated with u.s. efforts to eradicate narcotics cultivation and trafficking
task force chairman rep. lawrence j. smith, d-fla., said he will introduce legislation next week to reverse the administration's action and decertify mexico, bolivia, peru, uruguay and the bahamas
he said the evidence is clear to him that none are in full cooperation with u.s. anti-narcotics efforts
smith said he also is considering adding laos and burma to the list of allegedly uncooperative nations but said they pose special problems and that further study is needed before a decision is made
the congressman said his list does not include colombia, whose government he said has tried to cooperate in eradicating narcotics cultivation despite intensive pressure from criminal narcotics cartels headquartered in the country
col. moammar gadhafi climbed onto a bulldozer and knocked down the gate of a tripoli prison thursday as thousands of libyans cheered, a western diplomat said
the official libyan news agency jana, monitored in rome, said 400 inmates were freed after gadhafi ``demolished'' the prison with the bulldozer. it said the former prisoners chanted slogans hailing ``the festival of liberty.''
the western european diplomat said he saw dozens of men with crewcuts come pouring from the prison, to be joyously greeted by relatives
the diplomat was reached by telephone by the associated press in rome. he spoke on condition of anonymity
he said about 50 other people, who appeared to be gadhafi aides, also drove bulldozers during the rally to knock down a wall surrounding the prison
the diplomat said gadhafi, clad in a military jacket and slacks, gave a 30-minute speech to the crowd in which the libyan leader praised his own record as leader of the 1969 revolution that brought him to power
on wednesday night, gadhafi said in a speech that he was releasing all libyan prisoners except those accused of plotting with foreign countries, according to jana. he promised to destroy the prison and invited prisoners' relatives to watch
the agency quoted him as saying the release included prisoners who plotted to assassinate gadhafi in the past
the libyan leader said, however, that the amnesty does not cover those ``accused of treason by linking themselves with foreign powers that have tried to use force to arrive at things of their own,'' according to jana, which said he put the number of those prisoners at 100 or fewer
gadhafi's regime has been described as merciless toward opponents. libyan dissidents have been assassinated abroad and libyan state television has sometimes broadcast executions of people convicted on treason charges
amnesty international, the human rights organization, said last september it received no reply to its appeals for 75 political prisoners it said were being held in libya
the united states bombed libya on april 15, 1986 after accusing the gadhafi government of supporting terrorism
in a crackdown on violators of china's one-child policy, authorities in southwestern china arrested people running an illegal operation to remove women's intrauterine devices, a state-run newspaper said thursday
the peasants daily said the group made huge profits by enticing women to remove their iuds with appeals to the traditional belief that ``more sons equal more happiness.''
the brief report said the group was headed by xu guanghui and ma heyuecai, but gave few details and did not say how many people were involved
it said people in the group removed iuds from 644 women in butuo county in sichuan province, using unsterilized bamboo and iron hooks. many women became infected and several died, the paper said
the iud is the main form of birth control in china's countryside
the belief in the importance of having a son has enjoyed a resurgence in the countryside following the breakup of communes and return to family farming. more children mean more hands to help at planting and harvest time
the population growth rate has jumped from 1.1 percent in 1985 to 1.4 percent in both 1986 and 1987. china's population of 1.07 billion increased by 15 million in 1987, or nearly 1.5 million over target, according to official statistics
china wants to limit the population to 1.2 billion by the year 2000
the government punishes violators of the one-child limit by imposing fines, but as peasants have become more prosperous, the fines have become less of a deterrent
authorities plan to tighten enforcement of the one-child limit by basing evaluations of officials' job performance in part on their conduct of family planning work. they also called for increased family planning education
the u.s. embassy in east berlin has posted a denial on its outside wall of a report in the communist party newspaper that the u.s.-mexican border resembles a battle zone
it also said people try to get into the united states, not out of it, as in the case of east germany
embassy officials posted the printed denial monday in a glassed-covered case attached to the wall of the embassy about 300 yards from the brandenburg gate in east berlin, where east germans can walk up and read it
the statement disputes a report in the party newspaper neues deutschland that calls the u.s.-mexican border a ``fighting zone.''
neues deutschland said there is often shooting in the area, with an ``average of 3,000 arrests per day,'' and u.s. border troops guarding it were trained to ``shoot instinctively.''
in its denial, the embassy says the border is a ``showplace and symbol of a complex social and economic situation'' and ``every u.s. citizen is free to leave the united states when they want to.''
apparently in reference to restricted zones along the berlin wall and the heavily fortified east german border with west germany, the embassy statement says the border between the united states and mexico has no fortifications
it has never had mine fields, automatic shooting devices, shoot-to-kill orders, moats or barriers of steel and cement, to hinder vehicles from crossing,'' the statement says, and in contrast to the situation in east germany, ``people attempt to enter our country.''
in addition to the berlin wall and armed guards, east germany has steel-mesh fences and walls along its nearly 870-mile border with west germany to prevent escapes to the west
the east germans for years also had mine fields and automatic shooting devices along the border, but began dismantling them several years ago
according to west german figures, 188 east germans have died trying to escape across the the border since the berlin wall was built in august 1961
a principal who banished a high school senior from homeroom for humming and singing along to the national anthem when it is played over the intercom says the dispute is a question of ``who's in charge.''
sara sprague, a 17-year-old member of the choir at north kingstown high school, said that her humming and singing were a ``spontaneous reaction to the music'' and that she was within her rights
principal paul rennick said sara was ``playing games'' by violating school policy requiring silence when the anthem is played
katherine janis, her homeroom teacher, said the humming was part of ``noisy and disruptive'' behavior by miss sprague, who has been banished for the past three weeks
the controversy began last month when she began humming to the anthem and was reprimanded by janis. the next day, miss sprague sang along _ quietly, she said _ and found herself in the assistant principal's office
the issue went public when sara wrote a letter to a local newspaper in protest
this is a pretty patriotic school. the flag is everywhere. george washington is on the walls,'' the principal said. ``it's not a question of patriotism, it's a question of who's in charge.''
miss sprague's mother, jane sprague, said she is backing her daughter
it's hard for me to believe that a school supported by local, state and federal taxes won't let students sing the national anthem if they want to,'' she said
moorpark has gone through four mayors in four months _ including three in one night
john lane, a sergeant for the los angeles police department, was mayor thursday after becoming the third person to accept the job wednesday night
at 8:08 p.m. wednesday, mayor john galloway resigned in an apparent effort to stave off a reorganization that would have put lane in the mayor's chair
mayor pro tem eloise brown took over. she served for 22 minutes before she was replaced. at 8:30 p.m., the council voted lane into the mayor's chair
ms. brown was partially to blame for her brief 22-minute reign. she voted against herself in the 4-1 vote ``because i am a good sport.''
dancing clay raisins, party animal spuds mackenzie and a piano-playing moonman edged out human actors in a list of popular tv advertising campaigns. it seems the humans cost too much and are too risky
we seem to be heading into a period when we see more created celebrities, not necessarily human beings, in commercials,'' said david vadehra, president of video storyboard tests inc
the new york-based consumer research firm based its 10th annual survey on interviews with more than 25,000 people about what commercials they liked best last year
leading the list was the campaign for california raisins, which used clay models of raisins dancing to the song ``heard it through the grapevine.''
second was bud light beer commercials, many of which featured the english bull terrier spuds mackenzie. other bud light commercials offered variations of what can go wrong if you simply order a ``light'' without specifying the brand
the ad campaign for pepsi soft drinks placed third, and miller lite beer commercials were fourth
ads for mcdonald's restaurants came in fifth. the campaign included some commercials that featured a piano-playing character shaped like a moon crescent who extolled dinner at mcdonald's to the tune ``mack the knife.''
more than 5,000 striking high school teachers and students marched through the city center thursday demanding increased government spending on education
no to austerity, spend more money on education!,'' the teachers chanted outside the education ministry. there are 25,000 high school teachers in athens
the public high school teachers, who make an average of $416 a month, want a 30 percent raise, improved health benefits and increased spending on education
the students demand a one-year reduction in the four-year vocational high school curriculum, fewer admission requirements for technical colleges and guaranteed jobs after graduation
they chanted ``we want work, bread, education!'' as they marched behind the teachers
both students and teachers want premier andreas papandreou's government to allocate 15 percent of the state budget to education
for 1988, the education budget totals 9.8 percent of overall government spending
veteran cosmonaut yuri romanenko appeared at a news conference on thursday to show the world he was in fine fettle after his record 326-day space voyage
the red-cheeked, 43-year-old romanenko said he had just come back from a vacation in kislovodsk, where he had been doing push-ups and other exercises to readjust his body to gravity after 11 months of weightlessness
romanenko, who returned to earth on dec. 29, said there were italian news reports that he suffered ill health effects from the flight, and he wanted to disprove them
i feel fine,'' he declared
a soviet space medical specialist and other space officials at the news conference agreed that romanenko, the mission commander, was in good shape
romanenko also assured reporters that a fellow spaceman was in no serious danger when pressure in his spacesuit suddenly dropped during a 3-hour, 40-minute spacewalk on april 12, 1987
cosmonaut alexander laveikin and romanenko had embarked on the spacewalk to learn why their orbital space station mir was not able to dock properly with a laboratory module called kvant
romanenko said a lever switched in the incorrect position caused a loss of air pressure in laveikin's spacesuit. asked if the depressurization was life-threatening, he responded, ``there was nothing particularly scary about it.''
he said normally the suit should be kept at 0.45 atmospheric units but the level dropped to 0.35 because a lever that controls pressure was set incorrectly
romanenko said the cosmonaut contacted mission controllers in the soviet union, who transmitted a command to regulate the pressure and ``within moments the pressure was back to normal, that is 0.45.''
on the spacewalk, laveikin and romanenko found what was preventing mir from docking with the kvant module: an ``alien object'' had gotten into the docking unit. romanenko said thursday the object was a cloth bag containing ``hygenic devices.''
the cosmonauts removed the bag and mission controllers sent a signal that successfully docked mir and kvant. soviet scientists had tried for a week to rescue the 11-ton kvant, which is used to conduct a variety of experiments, including those in biotechnology and astrophysics
an explosion tore through a dynamite factory thursday and killed five people, officials reported. eight people were injured
the victims in the blast in ablon, a normandy town near the english channel, were rene rubier, 53, director of the nobel p.r.b explosifs factory; his deputy, marcel delhom, 58; factory superintendent philippe gentil, 38, and two workers
it was the third explosion at the factory in three years. in march 1985, three people were killed. in march 1987, an explosion forced the plant to close until dec. 10 while new safety measures were implemented
the factory employs 135 people and produces about 20 tons of explosives a day for civilian use
jean amet, chief administrator of the calvados region, said the explosion occurred in a machine that packs the dynamite into blocks. he said the injured were in satisfactory condition
i saw a large flame which rose over the buildings, then, almost immediately, i heard a loud noise and the flash disappeared,'' said claude hubert, an ambulance driver who was about a half-mile away
the blast occurred shortly after the factory opened at 9 a.m
poland, east germany and czechoslovakia ended an unprecedented ``ecological summit'' thursday by pledging to combat pollution that may threaten half of the region's woodlands
the three-day meeting in the western city of jelenia gora reflected the neighboring countries' concern about increased pollution, particularly in border regions. it was their first high-level meeting devoted to the environment
more than 148,000 acres of forests in western poland are threatened with destruction caused by air pollution, officials say
deputy premiers from the three countries agreed ``to expand and deepen cooperation'' in environmental protection, the official polish news agency pap reported
they also decided to meet next year in czechoslovakia and draw up an environmental protection agreement, pap said
deputy premier jozef koziol of poland was quoted as saying the three countries have ``acknowledged the existing degradation and have undertaken to take swift joint effective measures in order to halt and then reduce environmental contamination.''
the pap report did not describe the measures
a polish television news report said the agreement provides for joint research on pollution-control technology and joint production of such equipment
east germany's delegation was led by hans reichelt and czechoslovakia's delegation by jaromir obzina
participants in an independent ecological seminar organized by the opposition freedom and peace movement, a banned polish peace and ecology group, wrote an open letter to the officials, saying 30 percent to 50 percent of the forests in the region would die by 1995 if pollution levels do not change
the letter, drawn up at the feb. 26-28 seminar in the southwestern city of gliwice, demanded that the public in the three countries be kept informed about environmental agreements and their progress
the letter said ``nothing or almost nothing is done to ensure'' the implementation of documents drawn up at meetings of soviet bloc countries
the ecology activists said the concentration of sulphuric oxides in the area is among the highest in europe and demanded that the three countries install equipment to control pollution at six coal-burning power plants in the region
poland has demanded czechoslovakia pay cleanup costs for several major oil spills in the oder river
the supreme court refused thursday to legalize a local union of solidarity steel workers, but members said they would continue their activities despite police harassment and threats of dismissal
in another development, a prison official said the outlawed labor federation's leader for the southern silesia industrial area has been on hunger strike since feb. 5 at a katowice prison. jan andrzej gorny is protesting what he describes as his ``unjust conviction.''
gorny is serving 1{ years on conviction of not paying alimony and using false identity cards. jerzy rybarczyk, a spokesman for the central board of penitentiaries, said gorny has been force-fed since feb. 9
opposition activists said gorny also was protesting denial of visits from his family, but rybarczyk said that issue was resolved
at the supreme court hearing, chief justice jan wasilewski upheld a lower court that ruled in december against registering the solidarity local at the steel plant in stalowa wola, southeastern poland
wasilewski said polish law prohibits more than one trade union at a plant
dozens of solidarity factory committees filed in the past year for legal recognition under a 1982 law that was supposed to provide for union pluralism. the supreme court has rejected all such appeals presented to it
we are going to continue ... our activities and widen them,'' said wieslaw wojtas, 31, who heads the solidarity local's 33-member organizing committee
he predicted management will treat the local's members ``more harshly'' now, but said they would resist any attempts to dismiss solidarity activists
we have considered the possibility of declaring a strike but we will use it only as a last resort,'' he said in an interview after the hearing. ``we have many other means before that.''
solidarity members at the stalowa wola plant have been watched, transferred to other jobs and summoned for talks with management, security police and local authorities, wojtas said
wladyslaw liwak, lawyer for the local, argued at the court hearing that prohibiting union pluralism violates international labor and human rights agreements signed by poland and hinders efforts for economic reform
solidarity, the first free trade union movement in the soviet bloc, was outlawed following a martial law crackdown in poland in december 1981
legislators rewriting brazil's constitution have voted to cut the minimum voting age from 18 to 16
legislators doubling as a constituent assembly voted 355 to 98 late wednesday in favor of reducing the minimum voting age. the proposal would be included in a final draft of the new constitution, which is expected to be considered by the two houses of congress later this year
if approved, the constitutional article would permit 5.7 million more voters, increasing the electorate to nearly 78 million of the nation's 141 million people
voting would not be mandatory for teens under 18 under the proposal, while remaining mandatory for those between the ages of 18 and 70
teen-agers interviewed by local newspapers about their new civic responsibilities had mixed reactions
leandro martins, 16, told the jornal do brasil newspaper his generation was not ``responsible enough'' to choose elected officials, while 17-year-old david oliveira was quoted as saying ``at last we can have some say in what goes on.''
the 559 legislators have been meeting since february 1987 to replace the authoritarian charter handed down by the military regime that ruled from 1964 to 1985
they also are deciding when brazilians will vote for president and the country's future system of government
burt reynolds says he'll probably marry longtime steady loni anderson within the year, and that the two want to have children
for a long time, i felt it was impossible to marry an actress,'' said reynolds, 52, said in the interview in the latest edition of us magazine
it's so difficult for an actor and actress to get married, to fight for the mirror. loni has been successful in breaking down all of those things,'' he said of the actress, who starred in the now-defunct television series ``wkrp in cincinnati'' among other roles
reynolds, himself a sex symbol, said ms. anderson, 43, has suffered the classic ``dumb blonde'' misperceptions
she's a college graduate, an art major and she's taught school. she's raised a fabulous daughter,'' he said. ``all of that speaks for itself. that's part of what makes me so proud of her.''
added ms. anderson: ``you'd think that when i peroxided my hair my brains went down the drain.''
chrysler motors corp. bowed to employee pressure and said thursday it won't sell its acustar inc. parts subsidiary. however, it said it will close or sell within 18 months four plants employing about 2,000 people
the united auto workers said it was pleased by the acustar decision but urged chrysler to find ways not to close the four plants: amplex van wert in van wert, ohio, trenton chemical in suburban detroit, detroit forge and detroit trim
the proposed sale of acustar, which employs about 28,000 in the united states, mexico and canada and had $3 billion in sales in 1987, had been vehemently opposed by uaw members who threatened plant-by-plant strikes
workers at chrysler plants throughout the company also had stopped attending management-union meetings and participating in other joint activities, and 1,000 picketed chrysler's highland park headquarters
we looked at all the offers, took into account the feelings of our employees and decided not to sell,'' said john guiniven, a spokesman for the no. 3 automaker
chrysler had said it was considering selling the subsidiary because it didn't want to invest in the research needed to upgrade some operations. chrysler already buys about 70 percent of its parts from outside sources
the four plants in jeopardy make trim for automobiles, chemicals used in auto paints and other parts. ``we are going to sell all four and if not, they will be closed,'' guiniven said
hundreds of beekeepers dumped their beehives outside parliament on thursday to protest imports of artificially sweetened foreign honey
earlier the beekeepers, some wearing white coveralls and black net face masks, marched through the city center shouting ``no more foreign honey!''
there are 20,000 beekeepers in greece, which produces more than 12,000 tons of honey. greece is the only member of the european community with a honey surplus and exports about 1,200 tons yearly, the agriculture ministry says
our goal is to stop the import of adulterated foreign honey which is being sold here as an european community product,'' said nicolaos papadopoulos, president of the attica beekeepers' cooperatives
other beekeepers claimed the imported honey was diluted with glucose to make it taste sweeter
greek-produced honey is thick and fudge-like, with a distinctive taste derived from the nectar collected by bees from thyme and other mountain herbs
juanita kidd stout was sworn in thursday as a justice of the pennsylvania supreme court, becoming the first black woman in the nation to sit on a state's highest court
gov. robert p. casey appointed the former philadelphia common pleas court judge to serve out the term of william d. hutchinson, who left for the federal bench
a justice will be elected to fill the seat in november. stout, who reaches the mandatory retirement age of 70 next year, is not running
stout, who served on the city's common pleas court since 1959, borrowed from the 4-h club motto in her remarks after taking the oath of office
i promise you that during my tenure on the supreme court of pennsylvania, however short it may be, i shall strive to make the best better,'' she said
the former english teacher has a reputation for correcting lawyers in court when they misspeak and for editing the opinions of colleagues
the trouble is, when judge stout sent me a note like that it was a correction. when justice stout sends me a note now, it will be a reversal,'' said common pleas president judge edward j. bradley, drawing laughter from the crowd in the supreme court chambers. falklands</head>
argentina said thursday it plans a ``defensive alert'' during scheduled british military exercises in the falkland islands and if necessary ``will execute corresponding defense plans.''
the foreign and defense ministries denounced the exercises, due to begin monday and end march 31, as ``violating ... (argentina's ) sovereign rights'' over the islands, which this nation claims were stolen by the british in 1833
argentina has said the exercises will chill efforts to restore relations, broken in 1982 when the two countries fought a bloody, 74-day war over the remote south atlantic islands
a joint comminque by the two ministries said the exercises contradict u.n. resolutions declaring the region a zone of peace. british officials have said the exercises are essentially defensive
the statement said that although argentina ``repeatedly has expressed willingness to resolve the dispute in peaceful and negotiated form'' the government is obliged to ``protect the lives and property of those who inhabit argentine soil'' and has adopted a defensive alert
the british exercises will be strictly watched, the ministries said
in the event it is necessary, corresponding defense plans'' will be executed, the communique said
the ministries did not go into specifics
but the statement warned foreign shipping that vessels will be subject to ``visit, inspection or capture under terms of international law'' by argentine authorities ``with the objective of avoiding their involvement in incidents.''
the maneuvers were reported to include planned use of phantom fighter jets and hundreds of british troops
on april 2, 1982, argentine troops captured the islands, but britain sent a task force and defeated the argentines. in the fighting, 712 argentines and 256 british were killed
brig. gen. ernesto crespo, air force chief of staff, said thursday that his branch will remain alert to any orders it may receive from the government regarding the british maneuvers
you must consider that this is not a simple exercise in the malvinas (falkland) islands,'' crespo said. ``it is much more important and involves peace in the south atlantic and, as a result, not only our country but other american states as well.'' picks up 3rd graf pvs, `the duke ...'</note>
britain's prince andrew waved to his wife, sarah, as he streaked overhead in a jet catapulted from the deck of the aircraft carrier nimitz on thursday during a tour off the california coast
the airshow was a highlight of the day at sea for the duke and duchess of york, both pilots, who also inspected one of the catapults and the massive chains that hold the ship's two 60,000-pound anchors
this is one of the loneliest walks i've ever done,'' the prince said moments before he boarded the s-3a viking anti-submarine warfare jet while sarah remained on deck
as the engines screamed, an apprehensive duchess, wearing a flight helmet, clutched a gift teddy bear and watched the jet hurled off the bow
the jet wheeled back for a low fly-by and husband and wife waved to each other before the pregnant duchess boarded a helicopter for a flight to long beach, where the royal yacht britannia is docked
the couple _ the duchess sporting a uss nimitz baseball cap _ had arrived aboard a navy helicopter. it landed on the carrier 60 miles west of los angeles as a loudspeaker announced: ``duke of york arriving.''
the duke, a helicopter pilot in the royal navy who saw action in britain's falkland islands war with argentina, saluted vice admiral john h. fetterman jr., commander of naval air forces in the pacific
trailing andrew was the duchess, in a blue dress and white coat with navy blue trim
the couple were presented leather flight jackets bearing the inscriptions ``duke of york'' and ``duchess of york,'' then sat down to watch an air show from the main deck of the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
dramatic moisture blasts, an aircraft-enveloping fog caused as a jet breaks the sound barrier, brought a wide-eyed reaction from the duchess
helicopters demonstrated anti-submarine warfare techniques and supersonic jets made frequent fly-bys
jet after jet touched down on the deck at 160 mph, catching one of four cable arresters on the carrier's stern and stretching them 150 yards before coming to a halt. the planes then folded their wings and taxied to catapults
fetterman narrated for the duchess while the duke engaged in spirited conversation with the ship's skipper, capt. brent bennitt
all then went below for lunch. the menu included cream of asparagus soup, marinated mushrooms, melba toast with grilled parmesan cheese, chicken salad on a tomato wedge, cherries jubilee, mineral water and iced tea
spam? no spam,'' lt. tim o'leary, the ship's spokesman, said in response to reporters' queries
the couple, touring southern california to promote british trade, started the day with a visit hosted by the international foundation for learning disabilities at park century school in los angeles
british actress joan collins, a supporter of the charity, was on hand for the visit
the duke and duchess arrived in los angeles last friday and depart sunday
bandits ambushed an armored van on a superhighway thursday, put a hand grenade on the hood to force guards out of the vehicle and stole $1.3 million in cash and bonds, the italian news agency ansa reported
the van, carrying money from milan to two banks in sondrio in northern italy, was held up in the seregno area just outside milan by gunmen riding in four cars
a policeman in serengo contacted by telephone thursday said he had no details. ansa gave this account:
a gunman in one car shot out the van's tires. another car rammed the van from behind and a third cut it off from the front. the fourth car parked on the shoulder of the highway headed in the other direction
four men with pistols and rifles got out. when the driver and two guards stayed locked inside the van, the gunmen placed a grenade on the hood
fearing they would be blown up, the three got out. the driver was hit over the head with a pistol butt. the two others were forced to open the safe
the robbers grabbed the bags, jumped into the car parked on the other side of the highway and sped off toward milan
a police explosives' expert later detonated the grenade in a nearby field
a california condor thursday laid the first egg ever produced in captivity by a pair of the endangered birds, boosting efforts to save the species, the san diego wild animal park said
if the egg hatches at the end of its two-month incubation, it will be the first california condor ever conceived in captivity, officials said. only 27 of the birds exist, all in captivity, said park spokesman tom hanscom
biologists moved the egg from the nest to an incubator, according to plan, hanscom said. the egg may not produce an offspring because the female is old and her mate, a young male, may be sexually immature, park officials cautioned
by taking the egg from its parents at an early point, scientists hope to induce the pair to ``double-clutch,'' or produce a second egg to replace the lost one
california condors have been decimated in the wild by lead poisoning, caused by eating lead shot in animal carcasses, biologists said
the last california condor in the wild was captured and brought to the wild animal park on april 3, 1987 in a last bid to restore the vanishing species
fourteen of the birds are kept at the san diego park in enclosures not on view to the public. the 13 others are similarly housed at the los angeles zoo
since 1981, scientists have hatched 13 condors in captivity from eggs taken in the wild. the birds, which have a wingspan of about 9 feet, are dark reddish-brown with a curved beak
the centrist social democrats and liberals officially united thursday after eight months of stormy infighting over the policies of the merged party
the new social and liberal democrats party hopes to end the dominance of prime minister margaret thatcher's governing conservatives and the main opposition, the socialist labor party
the social democrats voted nearly 2-1 and the liberals more than 7-1 to merge in mail ballots after separate party conventions approved the merger last month. but only slightly more than half the party members voted
liberal leader david steel, who is expected to be elected leader of the new party, told a news conference it will give ``hope to a whole new generation.''
steel pledged to press for rejuvenation of the ailing national health service and run-down inner city neighborhoods
the social democrats' leader, robert maclennan, said britain ``needs a great national party, with roots in all our communities.''
maclennan called the conservatives ``complacent, centralizing, autocratic'' and the labor party ``the complacent, inert, bureaucratic alternative.''
david owen, who resigned as social democrat leader in opposition to the union, urged members to boycott the vote and called it ``a fiasco.'' he plans to continue the social democrats as a separate party
the two parties placed a distant third in last june's general election, in which mrs. thatcher won a third term as prime minister. homework</head>
a 12-year-old who earned $500 by going a year without television missed the first show she planned to watch thursday night. she was doing homework
i watched the last half of `cheers' because my homework ran into it,'' jenny machalleck said. ``i had planned to watch `cosby' but i was doing homework through that.''
earlier thursday, she received the $500 check promised by her parents if she could go for a full year without television. the deal they made on march 2, 1987, was to cure what she called a six-hour-a-day tv habit
thursday's experience _ missing tv while finishing school work _ was quite a change, said jenny, a seventh-grader. ``before, i would never worry about my homework. i would just watch tv,'' she said
as for her first sampling of tv in a year, she said, ``it was fun to watch because i hadn't watched in so long. but i found i hadn't really been missing anything.''
i was just not as enthusiastic as i thought i would be,'' she said
about 200 leftist rebels raided a northern mountain village, set fire to a police detachment and kidnapped a policeman, the military said friday
a report at the philippine constabulary headquarters in the capital said the attack by the communist new people's army rebels occurred thursday in sadanga, about 180 miles north of manila
it said police manning the outpost put up a brief fight but surrendered after two defenders were wounded. the report said the rebels confiscated police firearms, burned down the outpost and took a patrolman, helbert pacho, as a hostage before fleeing to the forest
a separate group of rebels ambushed reinforcements from a nearby police station, but the report did not say whether casualties resulted
the communists have been fighting to overthrow the government for 19 years
philip henry alston jr., a former ambassador to australia and a top campaign aide to former president jimmy carter, has died after a short illness. he was 76
alston, an influential atlanta lawyer who died wednesday, began supporting carter in 1966, the year he lost the governor's race to lester maddox
he was chairman of carter's successful gubernatorial bid in 1970 and headed the committee for jimmy carter, carter's national campaign organization, when carter was elected president in 1976
carter, as governor, appointed alston to the board of regents, and as president appointed him ambassador
alston, a navy veteran of world war ii, raised millions of dollars for the university of georgia
survivors include his wife, elkin goddard alston; a son; a daughter and five grandchildren. funeral arrangements were incomplete. grafs 5-6</note>
democrats michael dukakis and richard gephardt stepped up their attacks on each other for taking money from special interests thursday, with gephardt raising ``the specter of a serious conflict of interest.'' republican bob dole and democrat albert gore jr. touted new endorsements
dole won backing from a favorite of the republican right, former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick, and gore got support from charles robb, the former governor of virginia, and gov.-elect buddy roemer of louisiana
both parties' presidential hopefuls focused on the big round of primaries coming up across the south and elsewhere
republican front-runner george bush and rivals pat robertson and jack kemp were all in south carolina, where republicans vote saturday in what bush hopes will be a victory that propels him toward far more delegates in the rest of the south on super tuesday
a poll in friday's editions of the washington post suggested bush holds a decisive lead in the state. in the survey of 1,000 people who say they will vote in saturday's primary, 49 percent supported bush, 26 percent dole, 14 percent robertson and 7 percent kemp
robertson bought half an hour of air time on television stations around south carolina thursday night to ``set the record straight'' on religion issues. the former television evangelist said he believes in the separation of church and state, but added: ``i do not and i will not deny my beliefs or my church.''
dukakis, the massachusetts governor, began airing a television commercial that mocks gephardt's claim to be fighting against the establishment. the ad lists some of the corporate political action committees and other special interests that have contributed to gephardt's campaign
the missouri congressman fired back with an accusation that dukakis was bankrolled by ``an all-star cast of eastern establishment money interests'' as well as individuals and businesses that are regulated by his state government
i'll gladly give back every penny in pac contributions if mike dukakis will return the millions he's received from special interests who do business with the state of massachusetts,'' gephardt said. ``these are people who depend on the state government he runs for their livelihood, and it raises the specter of a serious conflict of interest.''
dukakis spokesman leslie dach said the campaign has taken no money from any corporate pacs or registered lobbyists in massachusetts
gephardt also found himself under attack from a new gore television commercial
gore's ad, aired across the south, is a 60-second clip from their debate in dallas two weeks ago, when gore accused gephardt of flip-flops on a list of issues, including president reagan's economic proposals. ``where are you this week on reaganomics?'' gore asks gephardt
on the campaign trail, dukakis defended his opposition to a fee on imported oil in texas, the big prize of super tuesday primaries and a state where local sentiment runs in favor of the tax. he said an oil import fee ``will put a $50 bilion burden on this nation's economy.''
he also lashed out at the heart of gephardt's populist message, his call for tough retaliatory trade sanctions, dismissing them as ``policies that almost destroyed us 50 years ago.''
gephardt was back in his home state after picking up $425,000 at two fund-raisers there a day before _ money that is critical for getting his message on television ads in the south
in kansas city, he visited a general motors automobile assembly plant that is scheduled to close in april because of poor domestic auto sales. he pledged a fight to open foreign markets to u.s. cars
among the other democrats, jesse jackson campaigned in the oil patch, telling the oklahoma legislature he hopes to revitalize the domestic oil industry through an alliance with canada and latin american countries to reduce dependence on opec states in the middle east
bidding to expand beyond his base of black voters, jackson won the endorsement of a vetern white oklahoma lawmaker and won a standing ovation from a joint session of the legislature
gore, whose entire presidential strategy depends on jump-starting his campaign in the southern primaries, gained in robb one of the southern endorsements he has most sought
robb, favored to win a gop-held senate seat this year in virginia, said gore's foreign policy and defense policy ``more closely aligns itself with what i think is right for our party and right for the country.''
dole appeared with kirkpatrick at a washington news conference, saying she ``symbolizes the soul of the reagan revolution.'' his campaign readied television commercials featuring the endorsement of kirkpatrick, a former democrat and university professor whose tough talk against communism endeared her to president reagan
dole also spoke at a white house conference on drug abuse and urged a federal death penalty for drug ``overlords and kingpins.'' he opposed distributing clean needles to drug addicts, as is being done in new york to combat the spread of aids, saying ``it also endorses addiction.''
bush continued to focus most of his southern campaign on south carolina, and in rock hill he invoked a quote from former baseball player yogi berra in stressing his experience
i won't make the wrong mistakes,'' bush said
kemp kept up his tough talk on panama, calling for revoking the panama canal treaty if that country's military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega, indicted on u.s. drug charges, retains power
if they want to keep noriega, we're going to have to keep the panama canal,'' kemp said
robertson, the gop wildcard candidate who is also focusing on south carolina, traveled by bus along the towns of the pee dee river
robertson's organizational strength helped him score a two-to-one victory over bush in alaska's precinct caucuses the day before
prime minister yitzhak shamir said wednesday he was considering further restrictions on news media access in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, saying journalists have harmed israel
shamir did not say what steps he might take. under current regulations, soldiers are authorized to temporarily close parts of the occupied territories to reporters. the army frequently uses this measure to keep the news media from the sites of violent clashes
in a sharply worded attack, shamir accused journalists of being biased against israel and suggested such bias was part of official editorial policy
there is no lack of people (israeli officials) who are ready to explain what is happening,'' shamir told american jewish leaders in jerusalem
the trouble is they (reporters) don't want to listen. they are looking for arab sources of information. maybe they even have some instructions from their establishment.''
shamir called on american jewish leaders to quell within their ranks any criticism of israel, saying it was ``non-jewish to join an anti-israeli front of non-jewish people.''
several prominent american jews, including actor-director woody allen and rabbi alexander schindler, head of jewish reform congregations in the united states, have criticized israel in past weeks for its crackdown on arab protests in the occupied territories
by u.n. count, 76 palestinians have been killed and hundreds wounded in unrest in the occupied lands since dec. 8
a vermont office worker won a prize wednesday for a poem judged among the six best of 20,000 entries in a worldwide competition among english-speaking poets
arthur stone of morrisville, vt., was the only american among six finalists chosen by ted hughes, the british poet laureate, and irish poet seamus heaney. they selected the six from a list of 600 compiled by six other poets from the entries
it's a nice thing to happen _ it's rather surreal to be a poet in america,'' said stone after receiving a check for 500 pounds ($885) and a fountain pen in the arvon international poetry competition. the prizes were awarded at sotheby's auction house in london
the quality of the poetry was very high and we wished we could have given more prizes,'' said hughes, who spent a week with heaney reading the 600 poems in cambridge, mass., where heaney is a professor at harvard university
there were 100 more poems we would have liked to give prizes to, but we will put them in an anthology with the finalists and the 10 runners-up,'' he said
the runners-up, who won 250 pounds ($440), included four americans: brendan galvin, mary karr, patrick madden and pat maquire. their hometowns were not immediately available
the top prize of 5,000 pounds ($8,850) went to selima hill, whose poem ``the notebook'' is the imaginary diary of a patient in a psychiatric hospital. the other five finalists were not ranked
stone, 43, was born in long beach, calif., grew up in the mojave desert and now works for the office of alcohol and drug abuse in vermont
he said in an interview he writes poetry as a pastime, jotting down ideas on bits of paper and often getting his best ideas just after waking up or just before going to sleep
asked what his colleagues think of his poetry, stone said: ``well, they refer to me as `the poet' rather than the information and planning specialist, which is my job.''
stone has had poems published in american literary magazines and calls ``late arrival,'' the 51-line prize-winning poem, ``a realistic confessional about my initiation into the world.''
it starts with his birth and plunges quickly into memories of his boyhood, with people telling him their experiences and advising him to learn from them
stone said his poem was triggered by a work of another american poet, denis johnson
there's a lot of cross-fertilization in the arts and it's extremely important,'' stone said. ``i'm active in theater and i play saxophone in a jazz ensemble. it all helps me with my poetry.''
arvon is a foundation which teaches writing. the contest was its fifth. the organization gets its name from the arvon seat of poetry in the ``mabinogion,'' the book of welsh medieval tales
police searched homes of suspected neo-nazis in 61 west german cities wednesday, confiscating nazi flags and arresting four people, officers said
a police official in stuttgart, where federal authorities coordinated the searches by state and local police, said the arrests came during raids on homes of right-wing extremist suspects in munich, duisburg, grevenbroich and hanover
the official, who spoke on condition of not being further identified, said that more than 90 homes in all were searched for evidence of membership in the illegal neo-nazi group action front of national socialists-national activists. the national government banned the group in december 1983 on the ground it advocated violence against leftists and foreigners and promoted outlawed nazi ideology
the searches were apparently carried out in conjunction with the release from prison of prominent neo-nazi michael kuehnen, a former west german army lieutenant who headed the outlawed action front organization
kuehnen was freed from butzbach prison north of frankfurt on wednesday after completing a 3{-year sentence for distributing banned right-wing extremist propaganda, said jochen schroers, a spokesman for the frankfurt prosecutor's office, in a telephone interview
a coach from communist romania's olympic team met with immigration officers at a secret location wednesday after appealing for asylum in canada, an immigration department spokesman said
he's in a secluded place, a safe place with security,'' spokesman gerry maffre said in ottawa
the coach was not identified, but olympic sources and canadian news media said he was dumitru focseneanu, the romanian bobsled coach whose team had 27th and 30th place finishes at the winter olympic games in calgary last week
we're trying to find out what he really wants to do,'' maffre said
the bobsled coach reportedly refused to board a bus taking the 22-member romanian team to calgary airport monday night and sought refugee status
the federal immigration department was handling the case. the soviet union filed an angry protest over an immigration hotline set up in calgary to handle emergencies and possible defection cases
the romanian was the only known defector among more than 1,800 olympic athletes and 1,000 coaches and officials from 57 countries. but three romanian speed skaters and their coach left calgary abruptly the day before the games began amid speculation the athletes planned to defect
city police superintendent len esler said the defector approached two police officers at the athletes' village at the university of calgary about 9:30 p.m. monday and ``requested political asylum.''
esler said the man was taken to a police station where immigration officers picked him up. he refused to give the man's name ``for his safety and the safety of his family.''
focseneanu was in calgary last december during a bobsled world cup competition
the romanian embassy in ottawa refused to comment
wilf lindner, manager of the calgary immigration center, said the man would be allowed to stay only after a medical examination, a security check into his background and an immigration department hearing
all decisions are made on a case-to-case basis,'' he said
the chicago cubs on wednesday promised to stay at wrigley field unless faced with ``circumstances beyond the cubs' control.''
mayor eugene sawyer, who had demanded the commitment from the club's owners, the tribune co., before signing an ordinance allowing night games at the 72-year-old ballpark for the first time in cubs history, said he was satisfied
i am extremely pleased that the tribune co. has responded positively to my firm commitment of assuring chicago cubs fans that our national league team will stay in chicago,'' the mayor said
last week, the city council voted to allow the cubs to play eight night games this year and 18 in each of the following years until 2002. wrigley is the only major-league ballpark without lights
in a letter to the mayor, the team vowed to stay at wrigley field ``as long as they have the ability to hold games and conduct business as described in the ordinance, and events or circumstances beyond the cubs' control do make this, in their reasonable judgment, either not practicable or not financially feasible.''
the letter from john w. madigan, executive vice president of the tribune co, didn't specify what circumstances could prompt the team to move
but don grenesko, cubs executive vice president for business operations, said over the weekend that the team wanted an escape clause if voters banned alcohol at the park
wrigley field neighbors fearful of unruly fans and traffic problems night games could bring have threatened to launch a campaign to vote the precinct dry
the national assembly opened a special session wednesday to try to clear the way for general elections. two opposition parties meanwhile squabbled over a plan to merge
the one-week special session, the third this year, was called to adopt new laws governing legislative elections, expected in mid-april
whether the assembly would be able to adopt new election laws was not clear, because rival political parties could not agree on the issue
the adoption of new laws is necessary to hold the general elections
efforts to merge two opposition parties appeared successful last week but snagged on the role that kim dae-jung should play in a new integrated party to be formed
the opposition agreed to join forces to mount a united front in the coming voting for parliament following its presidential defeat last december, 
since kim young-sam resigned the presidency of the main opposition reunfication democratic party last month, pressure has been building on kim dae-jung to resign as well as chief of his party for peace and democracy
kim dae-jung said he would step aside if the opposition unites, but he indicated this week he would continue to remain active
fifty-three reunification legislators wednesday accused kim dae-jung of reneging on his promise to resign and demanded he take a back seat in the united opposition party
kim dae-jung's followers proposed wednesday that the new party be led by the two kims
kim young-sam objected to the idea, but said he would be satisfied with being an ordinary party member. he said he wanted to atone for the opposition defeat last december
the two kims divided 56 percent of the opposition vote in south korea's first direct presidential elections in 16 years. that gave the victory to roh tae-woo of the governing democratic justice party, who received a 36.6 percent plurality
since that defeat, both kims have been under public pressure to retire from politics
some remembrances make for odd, inconclusive theater
take ``wenceslas square,'' which opened wednesday at the new york shakespeare festival public theater. it's a fragmented memory play about an american theater professor who returns to prague several years after the 1968 soviet invasion and discovers what repression can do to people who have tasted freedom
that seems like an unlikely subject for larry shue, best known as the author of ``the foreigner'' and ``the nerd,'' two cheerfully goofy comedies that triumphed in new york despite critical sniffles from the press
shue, who died in a plane crash in 1985, apparently based the play on an incident in his own life. the comedy-drama focuses on the professor and his assistant, a young photographer who has agreed to shoot pictures for the scholar's book. shue was the photographer, and he tells the story in flashback
the episodic play seems unfinished, not completely worked out, as it follows the professor, played by jonathan hadary, and his assistant (bruce norris) during their eastern european adventure. the duo meet and interview a variety of theater and government people, all played either by victor garber or dana ivey
individual scenes in ``wenceslas square'' are often effective and very funny, but transitions are choppy. maybe that's why director jerry zaks utilizes a turntable set that keeps the play on a dizzy merry-go-round course
shue tries to show the accommodation the czechs made to restrictions on their personal and artistic lives. it's something the professor and his assistant gradually perceive, but the evening never builds to a dramatic pay-off. one wonders what the play would have been like if shue had been able to do some rewriting
still there are some wonderful, gentle comic moments, many of them provided by an impeccable cast. garber has a delightful scene as a befuddled czech trying to decipher the vagaries of the english language, while ivey is appealing as the man's sympathetic, ever-helpful wife
the play doesn't so much end as just stop when the professor and his assistant complete their two-week stay. you really don't know much more about them after their visit than before. at least shue has made the trip a modestly amusing journey
japan and the united states agreed wednesday that the tokyo government will pay a larger share of the costs of running u.s. military bases in japan
under the new agreement, signed by foreign minister sosuke uno and the acting u.s. embassy charge d'affaires, l. desaix anderson, japan will pay all benefits and allowances for the 21,000 japanese base workers, including transportation, housing and retirement expenses
the united states pays the salaries of the japanese workers
the pact will replace a year-old accord and boost japan's share of allowances for japanese base workers from a maximum 50 percent to 100 percent by 1991, the u.s. embassy said in a statement
japan's financial contribution will account for about 40 percent of the annual cost of maintaining u.s. bases in japan once the protocol is fully implemented, the statement said
tokyo and washington signed an initial accord in january 1987, requiring japan to cover up to half the expenditures for japanese workers at u.s. bases. wednesday's agreement amends that pact
in fiscal 1987, japan set aside $128 million to offset costs for japanese employees at the bases. with the yen's rise of about 100 percent against the dollar over the past three years, however, the cost to the united states of maintaining the japanese base workers has skyrocketed
the new agreement follows a pledge by prime minister noboru takeshita during a visit to washington in january to increase japan's contribution toward maintaining u.s. forces in japan
millionaire philanthropist armand hammer said he will spearhead a campaign to raise $1 billion a year to wipe out cancer by the year 2000
the extra capital ``would provide the resources we need to cure cancer in the next 10 years,'' hammer said in a telephone interview from los angeles on wednesday
the money will go directly to research at the national cancer institute in bethesda, md., said hammer, a non-practicing physician who turns 90 in may. ``there will be no overhead charges,'' he said
the institute's annual research budget is $1.4 billion
hammer, chairman and chief executive officer of occidental petroleum corp., already has donated $100,000 for cancer research and has received commitments from nine other industrialists to do the same
about 475,000 people died last year from cancer. the death rate from most major forms of the disease has improved little over the past 15 years
however, the director of the national cancer institute, dr. vincent devita, expressed guarded optimism on whether the extra dollars would lead to a cure. at the very least, it would ``make a dent,'' devita said
with the help of a mass media campaign, the drive will seek to raise $500 million in private contributions, which hammer hopes will be matched in federal funds. some congressmen already have agreed to support the effort, he said
libyan leader col. moammar gadhafi said wednesday he was releasing all libyan prisoners except those accused of plotting with foreign countries, the official libyan news agency jana reported
jana also said that gadhafi announced he would reach out to the united states once it changed its policies toward his country
both statements came in a speech to the general people's congress, the north african country's highest policy-making body, according to jana dispatches monitored in rome
gadhafi said about 400 prisoners would be freed from the tripoli prison on thursday and the prison would be torn down, jana said
among those being freed are prisoners who plotted to assassinate gadhafi before and after he seized power in 1969, he was quoted as saying
i forgive them regardless of the sentences passed against them,'' the colonel was quoted as saying
the amnesty does not cover those ``accused of treason by linking themselves with foreign powers that have tried to use force to arrive at things of their own,'' jana quoted gadhafi as saying. there are less than 100 such prisoners, he said
it was not clear where these remaining prisoners would be kept if the tripoli prison is demolished
according to jana, gadhafi also announced abolishment of ``extraordinary trials'' and said all cases will be referred to a ``people's court'' run by the people's congress
gadhafi's regime gained a reputation over the years as being ruthless toward political opponents. numerous libyan dissidents were assassinated abroad and his regime periodically televised public executions for alleged treason
last septemer, the human rights organization amnesty international said it received reports of libyan prisoners being beaten on the soles of their feet or hung upside down from a perch and beaten. it said it received no reply to its appeals for 75 political prisoners it says are being held in libya
on relations with the united states, gadhafi was quoted as saying the ``animosity will remain'' until the united states ``recognizes our right to live, respects us over our own land and asks for cooperation with us as equal. and then we shall stretch our hands to it.''
he said the united states denies rights to libyans because it recogniezes only a 12-mile territorial limit in the u-shaped gulf of sidra. libya claims the entire gulf
u.s. and libyan forces clashed in the gulf in march 1986, and a month later u.s. jets bombed libya in retaliation for libya's alleged involvement in international terrorism
package does not contain the following items from the news digest: brussels, belgium _ nato rdp, a0542; ramallah, occupied west bank _ israel-havens, a0467; washington _ civil rights, a0454; new york _ grammys-little richard, a0481; washington _ reagan-drugs, a0418; ft. lauderdale, fla. _ dole in the south, a0415; undated _ political rdp, a0455; washington _ candidates-tobacco, a0419-22; dedham, mass. _ thrill killing, a0474; brussels, belgium _ nato-reagan's dividends, a0432; detroit _ import woes, a0489; new york _ federated, a0507; pahokee, fla. _ poor-leaving pahokee, a0416; managua, nicaragua _ nicaragua, a0505; edinburgh, scotland _ scotland-aids-addicts, a0456; abidjan, ivory coast _ life abroad-polygamy, a0413; chicago _ simon, a0469; beirut, lebanon _ lebanon-hostage, a0517
president reagan is sending secretary of state george p. shultz on a new round of talks with mideast leaders in search of a formula for negotiations to end the 40-year arab-israeli dispute
leaving at the windup of a north atlantic treaty organization summit meeting, shultz planned to stop first in london to see king hussein of jordan and then to fly to jerusalem
on friday, in a fast-paced sequence, he will meet separately with israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres, go to egypt and syria for talks with leaders there _ and immediately fly home
prime minister yitzhak shamir said israeli withdrawal from the occupied west bank and gaza strip would have ``disastrous consequences'' because the arab world is bent on destroying the jewish state
shamir's remarks came on the eve of secretary of state george p. shultz' scheduled return to the region for a second round of talks with israeli and arab leaders on the u.s. plan for middle east peace
also wednesday, soldiers in the west bank city of ramallah fired tear gas into the city hospital, forcing doctors to don gas masks and sending dozens of choking patients fleeing
organizers called a three-day-old general strike against gen. manuel antonio noriega their most successful yet, and the united states stepped up economic pressure on panama's military strongman
on wednesday, doctors joined businesses in the strike, which organizers said would continue at least through today. they also said they would increase street demonstrations that have brought scattered violence to the capital
strike leaders said participation in the stoppage was expected to fall off slightly today. nonetheless, they said it had halted 85 percent of the nation's economic activity and called it an unqualified success
the reagan administration is ready to step up a campaign of economic warfare against panama's six-day-old government by denying it access to millions of dollars in canal fees and u.s. bank accounts
assistant secretary of state elliott abrams, a leader in the u.s. effort against panama's military strongman manuel antonio noriega, raised the prospect that the next payment due to panama for panama canal operations will be withheld
abrams said wednesday that action would be taken if such a request were made by ousted president eric arturo delvalle. state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley said that the request already had been received
irish rockers u2 led the new wave with two awards at a surprising 30th annual grammy awards, where michael jackson was shut out and paul simon won again for ``graceland.''
we don't see this as a peak for u2,'' lead singer bono said wednesday night after the socially conscious band copped its awards for ``the joshua tree,'' its 12-million selling album. ``it's just a beginning.''
simon, who won album of the year in 1987 for his south african project ``graceland,'' surprisingly captured record of the year honors in 1988 for the title cut, which featured backing vocals by the everly brothers
the nation's aspirin makers have agreed to refrain from advertising claims that their product can prevent a first heart attack, after being challenged by the food and drug administration
summoned by a letter that reminded them of the fda's regulatory power, the drug manufacturers met for more than an hour on wednesday with fda commissioner frank e. young, who then announced the agreement at a news conference
young said the agency was concerned that aspirin ads citing a recent medical journal study could be misleading
gov. evan mecham drew criticism at his senate impeachment trial for sending all 30 senators a statement pleading his case, but gained promises of $100,000 in defense funds at a raucus rally
several senators said wednesday it was inappropriate for the first-term republican governor to contact them because they are serving as his judges and jury. mecham attorney thomas crowe contended there was nothing wrong with the governor's action
the trial was expected to resume today with testimony on an allegation that mecham tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
the aids virus infects the lining of the cervix, which may help explain how the deadly disease spreads during sex and childbirth, according to a study released today
the research suggests, though doesn't prove, that the woman's cervix might be infected directly during intercourse through contact with virus-laden sperm. experts knew that infected women may have the aids virus in their genital sections, but it was unclear where this virus came from
it appears that the cervix could be an initial site of infection during intercourse and a source of virus that later infects sexual partners and infants during birth. news digest: jerusalem _ am-israel; jerusalem _ am-shultz; obediyeh, occupied west bank _ am-israel-collaborators; damascus, syria _ am-lebanon-hostage; brussels, belgium _ am-nato-gorbachev; washington _ am-contra aid; washington _ am-us-panama; panama city, panama _ am-panama-us; phoenix, ariz. _ am-mecham; khlong yai, thailand _ am-boat people; chicago _ am-toothbrushes; undated _ am-political rdp; biloxi, miss. _ am-bush-south; austin, texas _ am-texas court. ^by the associated press</note>
nato leaders pledged thursday to modernize nuclear weapons in europe to deter war and intimidation, glossing over a dispute that had threatened to mar solidarity at the first alliance summit in six years
summing up two days of talks by leaders of the 16-member organization, president reagan said, ``the state of the alliance is excellent. we're strong, we're united, we're prosperous and we're free.''
all of us understand the absolute necessity of maintaining the credibility of our deterrent,'' he said, underscoring nato's commitment to keep nuclear weapons in europe
the united states is forging ahead with plans for better nuclear shells and short-range air-to-surface missiles, but is moving less rapidly to replace 88 aged ground-launched rockets, partly out of deference to west germany, u.s. officials said thursday
the shells are in development and the air-to-surface missile is close to that stage, the officials said
the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity in washington as nato leaders in brussels ended their two-day summit, said major decisions remain, however, on how to replace the 75-mile-range, ground-launched lance missile
the transportation department proposed a wide range of drug tests thursday for more than a half million airline employees from pilots to mechanics, although officials acknowledged they have no clear evidence of a drug problem in the industry
announcement of the drug testing program, which would go into effect after what may be a lengthy rulemaking process, came amid conflicting court cases on whether such tests are legal. a federal judge earlier this week declared random drug tests of civilian army employees as unconstitutional
but transportation secretary jim burnley said drug testing _ especially random testing _ ``is absolutely critical'' in the aviation industry to make certain travelers are not endangered by a flight crew member, mechanic or other employee in a safety-sensitive job being impaired by drugs
lie detectors, likened by one lawmaker to ``20th century witchcraft,'' would be largely banned from use in job interviews and the private workplace under legislation approved by the senate on thursday
on a 69-27 vote, the senate approved a bill co-written by sens. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., and orrin hatch, r-utah _ normally adversaries on labor-management issues _ outlawing about 85 percent of the current use of polygraph examinations
conservative opponents predicted that president reagan would sign the legislation once a final version of the bill has emerged from a senate-house conference
sales were unexpectedly slow in february, the nation's largest general retailers reported thursday, prompting worries that a year-old bout of sluggishness in the retail sector has yet to run its course
the results do not bode well for the economy,'' said fred wintzer, a retail industry analyst for the investment firm alex. brown &amp; sons inc. in baltimore
it's definitely indicative of a further slowing in the consumer sector,'' agreed jeffrey b. edelman, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc
president p.w. botha said thursday his party's election losses to the far right were ``temporary disappointments,'' but they will force tough choices about his cautious reform of racial policy
leaders of the conservative party were jubilant about the decisive victory over the national party in two parliamentary by-elections wednesday. they said it shows increasing numbers of whites want apartheid strengthened and oppose even a token role for the black majority in national politics
botha must decide whether to appease those voters or move ahead with reforms in spite of them. the far right sees his goal of limited power-sharing as surrender. most black leaders and white liberals reject it as inadequate
aids patients are at vastly increased risk to commit suicide, not only compared to the general population but compared to victims of other terminal illnesses, a study has found
aids victims are doubly exposed to self-destructive impulses, first when they learn they have the disease, and second when the disease begins to affect the central nervous system, researchers said
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome has been associated with secondary depression and other psychiatric syndromes ... all of which are associated with higher suicide rates,'' the researchers wrote in friday's issue of the journal of the american medical association
the soviet union has resumed bombarding the u.s. embassy in moscow with low-intensity beams of microwave radiation, the state department said thursday
microwave signals in the 5-11 ghz (gigahertz) range continue to be detected at the moscow embassy chancery,'' the department said in statement issued by its bureau of diplomatic security
the statement marked the department's first status report on the still-unexplained radiation problem since nov. 10, 1983, when then-ambassador arthur hartman told reporters in moscow that a microwave beam in operation between july 14 and oct. 19, 1983 had been protested to the soviet foreign ministry
in conducting a ``decision-makers poll,'' an investment house economist asks: ``overall, is it fair to say that the federal budget process is out of control?''
fair? while it appears that some experts can't decide on an answer, that shouldn't deter anyone having a casual acquaintance with numbers from offering an independent view
consider:
_the budget has been out of balance for about two decades, and a president dedicated to budget balance not only hasn't reached that goal in two terms, but has suffered the worst imbalances of any president in history
_the president now proposes a budget in deficit by $129.5 billion for fiscal 1989, while the congressional budget office disagrees with that figure to the tune of $46.5 billion more
_the failure of congress and the white house to agree on deficit-cutting forced creation of a national economic commission to devise some answers by march 1, 1989 _ in effect postponing any decision until then
well? is it or isn't it out of control?
if you agree that it is, you might agree on several other aspects of government that seem equally in disarray. taxes, for example
does the united states have a tax policy?
if it does, you might experience difficulty in finding it among all th changes, revisions, amendments, differing opinions, revocations, increases, decreases, inconsistencies, exceptions and the like
between 1964 and 1986, congress enacted 16 major tax bills and dozens of lesser bills. in 1981, the economic recovery tax act promised big corporate tax reductions. by 1986, other acts had turned it into an increase
such tortured turns provoked the tax foundation to comment that ``the history of major tax legislation since 1964 represents a seesaw of revenue decreases and increases without any apparent consistency...''
perhaps as confusing as any tax event _ and serving to abet the notion that something is out of control _ is the tax reform act of 1986
that act was widely publicized as allegedly cutting, simplifying and making taxes fairer. somehow, taxpayers are now finding, a tax-rate cut can mean higher taxes. simpler? no, more complex. fairer? debatable
a sense of lost control is also impressed on the mind of any observer of the federal bureaucracy, the cutting of which was a keystone of the platform on which ronald reagan was elected to the white house
you probably recall the promise: power would be transferred from the public to the private sector, allowing private enterprise to grow as government shrank. government would get off the backs of people
but what happened, in spite of good intentions on the part of the most powerful political figures in the nation, was very different. the bureaucracy spread and swallowed some of the private sector's energy
a study just released by the conference board, largely business supported, shows that major companies must devote more _ not less _ attention to federal regulatory and legislative issues since the reagan administration took office
more than 80 percent of the 300 companies surveyed stated that both the number and importance of federal issues have climbed since the beginning of 1981. nearly half say these issues have increased greatly
sobering and instructive,'' says seymour lusterman, who authored the study
most corporate leaders, he observes, ``have come to believe that many of the forces behind their regulatory and legislative concerns are outside the control of any administration.''
quite sobering and instructive _ and provocative too. it makes many people wonder just how and by whom power is exerted, or whether it is exerted instead by a system out of control
hunters in rural france are mobilizing in support of their traditonal use of a glue-like substance, cages and nets to trap birds _ methods banned throughout western europe since 1979
hunting groups say the centuries-old practices should be protected as part of france's national heritage. they maintain that the impact on bird flocks is trivial
there is an anger which is in danger of exploding,'' said henry sallenave, president of the regional hunting federation in the landes in southwestern france
these are simple people living in contact with the land and they don't understand the measures, since less than 1 percent of the migrating (bird) population is taken.''
bird protectionists succeeded in 1979 in getting the european economic community to ban such practices as the ``gluaux'' (gluey, lime-smeared sticks), ``matoles'' (a cage) and ``pantes'' (a spring-triggered net) to such birds as thrushes, skylarks, wood pigeons and swallows
france agreed to the eec directive, but contends that an exception in the agreement for ``judicious exploitation'' of small numbers of birds covers these traditional french hunting practices
so trapping with gluaux has continued, although only in certain rural districts of southeastern france
french officials argue that the ban should not be allowed to wipe out a small, but significant part of living french history
france is acting within the spirit of the eec directive, because very few birds are taken,'' said gerard tendron, a technical adviser at the french environment ministry
but the eec commission disagreed and brought france before the european court in luxembourg. a ruling is expected sometime this spring
in similar cases brought against belgium, west germany, italy and the netherlands, the european court decided in favor of the ban
premier jacques chirac of france has promised french hunters that the court rules in favor of the ban this time, he will try to have the eec directive changed so that it does not apply to traditional hunting
when the thrushes begin to migrate in early october, hunters plant tall sticks smeared with bird lime, a kind of natural glue extracted from the holly bush. when the birds land on the sticks, their feet stick to them
few of the birds caught this way are killed and eaten. most are put into cages and used to attract larger flocks that then are killed by hunters with shotguns
hunting in this way is still allowable but limited to 30 sticks per hunter. bird protectionists contend, however, that it is next to impossible to police the limitations in rural regions
in southwestern france, skylarks are trapped with the matole, a cage perched on three small sticks that falls on top of a bird
wood pigeons and swallows are trapped in the landes and the pyrennees with pantes, huge nets that operate on a system of springs to trap the birds inside
whole villages often turn out to shoo birds toward the nets set up in the fields
hunters claim these methods do no harm. sallenave described the birds trapped as ``a natural renewable capital'' and said their methods have little impact on the bird populations concerned
practitioners of the gluaux method say they take only 75,000 thrushes a year while hunters with guns kill about 13 million annually. the national hunting federation estimates that 30,000 of the 1.8 million hunters in france use the old-fashioned systems
antoine reille of the bird protection league said his group opposes these traditional hunting methods on he grounds that they are not selective and a hunter may not always be able to recognize a protected bird and free it as he is required to do so by law
he and other protectionists say protected robins and ortolans often fall prey to the trappers. in the landes, ortolans are a prized culinary delicacy, eaten whole
the protectionists also say that by the time a hunter frees a protected bird from the gluaux stick, its feathers are so impregnated by the gluey substance that they fall out in a few days and the bird dies of cold
dana carvey, the church lady of ``saturday night live,'' is taking another stab at the movies. but this time will be different
it's the first time i've ever been in a film and gotten to be funny,'' said carvey, who co-stars in ``moving'' with richard pryor
carvey plays ``a very upstanding young man'' named brad sanders. pryor is moving his family from new jersey to idaho; sanders is hired to drive pryor's prize saab turbo to the new home
and it's not until later that he finds i'm a world renowned, 10-person schizophrenic,'' carvey says
we mostly see three of them. we see him as a straight person. we see him as a sort of norman bates-type character _ kind of weird. and we seen him in a character like dennis hopper in `apocalypse now.' no one can get close to him. sort of a burned-out character.''
carvey describes the movie as ``a fun, free-flowing comedy.'' he was allowed to improvise, allowed to flesh out his characters
pryor ``was incredibly generous to me, and just a gentle, sweet person to work with, just generous. there was none of this, `get out of the way, kid.' it was totally, `what do you want to do?' and `go ahead.' it was nice.''
for a long time, carvey was pegged as the bland nice guy, an innocent kid. he was in 1985's ``tough guys'' as the probation officer of aged convicts burt lancaster and kirk douglas. he also was pigeonholed in a series of tv shows, including mickey rooney's straight man in a short-lived 1981 nbc sitcom, ``one of the boys.''
then, in october 1986, he finally got his chance to do comedy on television with ``saturday night live,'' introducing audiences to the church lady, burned-out rock singer derek stevens, lord christie and a host of other characters, personalities and voices
newsweek magazine credited him with ``almost singlehandedly rejuvenating'' the show
now in his second season on the show, carvey is changing his repertoire. the self-righteous, judgmental church lady will only be doing two or three more appearances this year; carvey says many of the weekly guest hosts want to do the skit, but he is concerned about burning out the character
this season his characters have included hans, who, with franz (``snl'' regular kevin nealon) offer physical fitness instruction on tv
they have some of the same elements as the church lady, with a superior attitude, but totally the other way. instead of being a 54-year-old spinster, i'm a 25-year-old austrian weight lifter.''
hans and franz epitomize ``vanity obsession with being fit'' _ characters who say, ``i'm superior to you, because i have these muscles,''' carvey says
that's what the real fun of playing these characters is. it's making fun of those people who really feel they have the truth and the answers for everybody. self-righteous, arrogant, `i'm superior to you' people drive me nuts.''
carvey has had other movie offers but has turned them down because he didn't find the characters very likable
mostly, they were kind of glib ... and i just feel that's not my style,'' he says
i want to find a different style, someone who's a little more vulnerable than funny, and then evolves. my whole thing is that everybody's sort of pretending, just a little bit, that they're a little bit stronger than they are. everybody.''
with chinese rule nine years off, many of hong kong's brightest people are moving overseas. local leaders are growing increasingly concerned
immigration visa applications are up sharply and businesses report a rise in the number of professionals resigning to emigrate before 1997, when this british colony reverts to chinese sovereignty and rule from beijing
no one knows quite how extensive the problem is, but it's certainly a problem,'' said jimmy d. mcgregor, director of the hong kong general chamber of commerce. ``as 1997 approaches, this problem becomes more acute.''
to a large degree, he added, ``it's the perception of china which is causing people to make that decision to go.''
hong kong, a capitalistic speck on china's southeastern coast, enjoys one of asia's highest standards of living
the communist government in beijing has promised the territory can retain its capitalist system for 50 years after 1997 and enjoy a ``high degree of autonomy.''
but a high percentage of hong kong's 5.7 million people are refugees from china and many are skeptical about beijing's promises
a recent poll by survey research hong kong, an independent market research company, indicated one-fifth of hong kong's 1.5 million families have at least one member with foreign residency rights or with the intent to obtain such rights from other countries
many of the people planning to leave are skilled professionals and business executives; companies are noticing increased emigration among top-level employees
the problem area is in the executive level,'' said michael broadbent, spokesman for the hong kong and shanghai bank, the colony's premier bank. about 8 percent of the bank's 670 locally hired executives resigned to emigrate last year, compared with 3 percent the year before, he said
yes, we are concerned about it. no, we are not unduly alarmed. nobody likes to lose qualified people who you've invested a lot of time and money in training.''
the california-based bank of america also has noticed a significant rise in emigration among top-level employees in hong kong, even though it is boosting wages and increasing training costs, said senior vice president stephen b. hunt. ``the issue of turnover is becoming a significant issue in our business.''
joseph y.s. cheng, a political analyst at chinese university of hong kong, says that when his friends in their 30s and 40s ``look around at their friends they can hardly find any people who are determined to stay.''
they discover that every friend has already secured a passport, is about to do so, or is in the process of doing so,'' said cheng
the colonial government does not keep emigration statistics. although hong kong people have a history of resettling overseas, several indicators show the exodus is increasing
last year, 53,471 people, or nearly 1 percent of the population, applied for a police document certifying the holder has no criminal record, an increase of 50 percent from 1986. the document is required by many countries to obtain visas
statistics from the australian, canadian and u.s. consulates indicate 1987 visa applications were well above previous year levels, in many cases because of expanded immigration programs for people with money or professional skills
the exodus is causing enough concern that local organizations are offering a seminar in april on ``how to turn the emigration exodus to your advantage'' and how to ``create the incentive to stay.''
top government officials have expressed concern about the emigration rates but argue that many people will return to hong kong once they have obtained a foreign passport
they claim many people seek foreign passports primarily as insurance for after the chinese take over and estimate as many as 8,000 people returned to hong kong in 1986 after obtaining residency rights in other countries
but among the well-educated hong kong chinese holding foreign passports are those who plan to remain in the colony just long enough to make money before the chinese take over
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
hot singles
1.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
2.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
3.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
4.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
5.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
6.``just like paradise'' david lee roth (warner bros
7.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
8.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)
9.``i want her'' keith sweat (vintertainment)
10.``can't stay away from you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
11.``i found someone'' cher (geffen)
12.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
13.``love overboard'' gladys knight &amp; the pips (mca)
14.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
15.``be still my beating heart'' sting (a&amp;m)
16.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
17.``the dock of the bay'' michael bolton (columbia)
18.``what have i done to deserve this?'' pet shop boys &amp; dusty springfield (emi-manhattan)
19.``girlfriend'' pebbles (mca)
20.``hungry eyes'' eric carmen (rca)
top lp's
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)--platinum (more than 1 million units sold
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)--platinum
3.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)--platinum
4.``tiffany'' tiffany (mca)--platinum
5.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)--platinum
6.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
7.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)--platinum
8.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)--platinum
9.``the lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)--platinum
10.``whenever you need somebody'' rick astley (rca)--gold (more than 500,000 units sold
11.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)--platinum
12.``whitney'' whitney houston (arista)--platinum
13.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
14.``cloud nine'' george harrison (dark horse)--platinum
15.``heaven on earth'' belinda carlisle (mca)--platinum
16.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)--platinum
17.``permanent vacation'' aerosmith (geffen)--platinum
18.``whitesnake'' whitesnake (geffen)--platinum
19.``blow up your video'' ac-dc (atlantic)
20.``appetite for destruction'' guns &amp; roses (geffen)--gold
more
country singles
1.``too gone too long'' randy travis (warner bros
2.``this missin' you heart of mine'' sawyer brown (capitol-curb)
3.``life turned her that way'' ricky van shelton (columbia)
4.``turn it loose'' the judds (rca-curb)
5.``i'm gonna miss you girl'' michael martin murphey (warner bros
6.``love will find its way to you'' reba mcentire (mca)
7.``touch and go crazy'' lee greenwood (mca)
8.``shouldn't it be easier than this'' charley pride (16th avenue)
9.``i wanna dance with you'' eddie rabbitt (rca)
10.``famous last words of a fool'' george strait (mca)
11.``face to face'' alabama (rca)
12.``wilder days'' baillie &amp; the boys (rca)
13.``santa fe'' the bellamy bros. (mca-curb)
14.``i didn't'' johnny rodriguez (capitol)
15.``i'll always come back'' k.t. oslin (rca)
16.``it's only make believe'' ronnie mcdowell (curb)
17.``timeless and true love'' the mccarters (warner bros
18.``it's such a small world'' rodney crowell &amp; roseanne cash (columbia)
19.``the last resort'' t. graham brown (capitol)
20.``strangers again'' holly dunn (mtm)
adult contemporary singles
1.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
2.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
3.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
4.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
5.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
6.``can't stay away from you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
7.``seasons change'' expose (arista)
8.``hungry eyes'' eric carmen (rca)
9.``without you'' peabo bryson &amp; regina belle (elektra)
10.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
11.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
12.``twilight world'' swing out sister (mercury)
13.``dreams i dream'' dave mason (with phoebe snow) (mca)
14.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
15.``could've been'' tiffany (mca)
16.``what have i done to deserve this?'' pet shop boys (emi-manhattan)
17.``you will know'' stevie wonder (motown)
18.``when we was fab'' george harrison (dark horse)
19.``what a wonderful world'' louis armstrong (a&amp;m)
20.``theme from `l.a. law''' mike post (polydor)
more
black singles
1.``fishnet'' morris day (warner bros
2.``never knew love like this'' alexander o'neal &amp; cherrelle (tabu)
3.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
4.``you will know'' stevie wonder (motown)
5.``thinking of you'' earth, wind &amp; fire (columbia)
6.``no half steppin''' shanice wilson (a&amp;m)
7.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
8.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
9.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
10.``take good care of me'' jonathan butler (jive)
11.``lovey dovey'' tony terry (epic)
12.``every drop of your love'' stacy lattisaw (motown)
13.``plaything'' rebbie jackson (columbia)
14.``some kind of lover'' jody watley (mca)
15.``run to me'' angela winbush (mercury)
16.``look what you started'' the temptations (motown)
17.``ooo la la la'' teena marie (epic)
18.``that's where you'll find me'' deja (virgin)
19.``going back to cali'' l.l. cool j. (def jam)
20.``rainy night'' chico debarge (motown)
top pop compact disks
1.``faith'' george michael (columbia)
2.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)
3.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)
4.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)
5.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
6.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
7.``lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)
8.``now and zen'' robert plant (esp-atlantic)
9.``a momentary lapse of reason'' pink floyd (columbia)
10.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
11.``cloud nine'' george harrison (dark horse)
12.``phantom of the opera'' original london cast (polydor)
13.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)
14.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)
15.``blow up your video'' ac-dc (atlantic)
16.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
17.``the lion and the cobra'' sinead o'connor (ensign)
18.``whenever you need someone'' rick astley (rca)
19.``waiting for columbus'' little feat (warner bros
20.``inside information'' foreigner (atlantic)
end
the following are the most popular videocassettes as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
videocassette sales
1.``lady and the tramp'' (disney)
2.``jane fonda's low impact aerobic workout'' (lorimar)
3.``callanetics'' (mca)
4.``an american tail'' (mca)
5.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
6.``jane fonda's new workout'' (lorimar)
7.``star trek iv: the voyage home'' (paramount)
8.``platoon'' (hbo)
9.``the godfather'' (paramount)
10.``robocop'' (orion)
11.``kathy smith's starting workout'' (fox hills)
12.``the sound of music'' (cbs-fox)
13.``top gun'' (paramount)
14.``pink floyd the wall'' (mgm-ua)
15.``sleeping beauty'' (disney)
16.``the wizard of oz'' (mgm-ua)
17.``mary poppins'' (disney)
18.``scarface'' (mca)
19.``kathy smith's body basics'' (jci)
20.``predator'' (cbs-fox)
videocassette rentals
1.``platoon'' (hbo)
2.``dirty dancing'' (vestron)
3.``robocop'' (orion)
4.``predator'' (cbs-fox)
5.``la bamba'' (rca-columbia)
6.``no way out'' (hbo)
7.``dragnet'' (mca)
8.``spaceballs'' (mgm@ua)
9.``roxanne'' (rca-columbia)
10.``lethal weapon'' (warner)
11.``the big easy'' (hbo)
12.``the secret of my success'' (mca)
13.``outrageous fortune'' (touchstone)
14.``revenge of the nerds ii: nerds in paradise'' (cbs-fox)
15.``the believers'' (hbo)
16.``nadine'' (cbs-fox)
17.``jaws the revenge'' (mca)
18.``harry and the hendersons'' (mca)
19.``summer school'' (paramount)
20.``the fourth protocol'' (lorimar)
if you're heavily into the bon jovi and the beastie boys, you're in probably the only demographic group that won't find something to like in two widely divergent music specials offered by cbs
on saturday, willie nelson is host of his own network special, ``willie nelson, texas style,'' a tribute to his home state which he reveals in a soothing hour of country, rock and blues music combined with an affectionate travelogue to some of his favorite lone star places
then on monday, barry manilow pays homage to jazz and big band music in ``barry manilow: big fun on swing street,'' set in an imaginary neighborhood of break dancers, saxophone players and blues singers, where the '40s meet the '80s
manilow wasn't, shall we say, successful in his last network venture, the 1985 cbs musical movie ``copacabana,'' which marked his acting debut. this time, he sticks to the music. there is no dialogue in ``swing street,'' a bluesy, jazzy, coolly evocative, extended music video
there's no dumb sketches on it. we did that on purpose,'' said manilow, during a recent break in the midst of his two-year tour. ``bruce and jack and i sat down and wrote a conceptual hour that takes the viewer on a trip down this imaginary place called swing street, during which we meet all the characters who inhabit swing street, and they are played by the guests. there's no talking except for the voiceovers, and it's all music, because i wanted to do a music special with a capital m.''
bruce and jack are manilow's collaborators, bruce sussman and jack feldman. their concept also produced an album, ``swing street,'' that features the performers on the special, plus stan getz, who was in the hospital when the special was taped, manilow said
sussman suggested that this kind of high-style music special is the wave of the future on network television, which still tends to rely on the standard host-guest-song-sketch kind of variety program
one of the problems with variety television is that mtv has forever changed variety television, and it hasn't responded to that,'' sussman said. ``this is something else, it's not mtv, but something that certainly has been influenced by that development.''
who knows whether this is going to make it rating-wise,'' said manilow, ``but what was definitely not making it was somebody standing up there saying, `my next guest is dionne warwick, my next sketch is,' you know. this sort of had a point of view, even if it was odd.''
the special includes manilow songs such as ``hey mambo'' and ``black and blue,'' but also standards such as ``summertime'' and ``stardust.''
manilow's guests are jazz singers carmen mcrae and diane schuur _ her duet with manilow on ``summertime'' is a show-stopper _ saxophonists gerry mulligan, tom scott and dana robbins, bass player stanley clarke and singer phyllis hyman, plus the vocal groups full swing and kid creole and the coconuts
nelson's special is as bright and sunny as manilow's is dark and smoky, with footage of nelson walking around his hill country home, playing host to his band members and friends on his golf course, riding his bicycle down to mona's yacht club for a game of dominoes with the locals, and floating down the rio grande with jazz guitarist jackie king
next door to the golf course is willie's own recording studio _ dubbed ``cut 'n' putt'' _ where bruce hornsby does a session. ray charles joins willie at alley oop's on east sixth street in austin, and asleep at the wheel jams with him at carl's corner, a truck stop
willie also takes a sentimental tour of his boyhood home of abbott, texas, where his sister bobbie recalls their grandmother tying young willie up to keep him from running off
she staked him just like she did the cow,'' bobbie laughs
that didn't stop me from running away,'' willie recalls. ``it slowed me down some.''
elsewhere in television:
blake honored _ director blake edwards will be honored at the second annual american comedy awards with the lifetime creative achievement award. edwards made such films as ``the pink panther,'' ``victor-victoria, ``10,'' and more recently ``blind date'' and ``that's life.'' the awards show will be broadcast may 17 on abc
have americans really changed their spending habits?
it is still too early to say, but that might be one of the developing consequences of the great stock market crash of october
before the crash it was common to hear about the foolish spending habits of ordinary americans. among other criticisms, for example, it was said that they were living beyond their means, financing their lifestyle with credit
at one point late last year the savings rate fell under 2 percent, a record low. as personal income stagnated, the use of credit rose
it was perhaps the live-for-now consumer style that best exemplified the time. jobs were plentiful and money was available, and enticements of the marketplace left little time for worrying about future recessions
then came the crash. and while statistics show that only a small percentage of american households had any direct ownership of stocks, the suddenness of the decline seemed to shock them into an awareness of sudden dangers
confidence shrank. immediately following the crash, the university of michigan survey recorded a sharp rise to 45 percent in the percentage of families expecting bad times financially. only 38 percent foresaw good times
consumer spending slowed. in fact, in the fourth quarter it declined from the previous quarter at a 3 percent annual rate. motor vehicle and parts purchases fell 36 percent. furniture and household equipment dipped 3 percent
people even cut into their food budgets. spending on food fell 2 percent, clothing and shoes 7 percent and gasoline and oil 1 percent. and for the most part, that pattern extended into the first month of this year
meanwhile, personal saving as a percentage of disposable income averaged 4.8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared to a third-quarter rate of 2.8 percent. and the higher savings rate continued into january
while it cannot be attributed to the crash, evidence of another turnabout was becoming clear: the american economy was relying less on consumption and more on production, a turnabout that had been awaited for two decades
during that long period, americans seemed willing, able and happy to hawk their jewels _ personal, industrial and, some critics maintained, even those of a spiritual nature. it was a time of great material success, and greed
the danger, americans were told throughout that two-decade period, was that no nation could continue to consume more than it produced without wasting its economic power. but consumption continued nevertheless at every level of life
lately, however, the scene appears to have changed. the growth of consumption has waned in relation to that of production. manufactured goods, not just agricultural products, are being exported. money is being saved. and people have a wise eye on the future
the michigan survey now shows that confidence has returned to where it was before the crash _ but with a big difference. the confidence expressed is mainly about the near term, not for the more distant horizon
what appears to have happened is that families are more cautious judges; they feel safe in expressing confidence over the next year because they understand the forces at work. they simply don't see a recession coming
but, unlike the pre-crash confidence readings, consumers are less certain about the next five years. that suggests realism; nobody can say what might happen five years ahead. that being so, overconfidence is foolishness
the new attitude appears healthier. goals appear to be more realistic. tempered by the crash, people seem aware that an economic quake is possible, and that the time to deal with the possibility is now _ not after it happens
vaid rani chawla has her dearest wish. she is going to have a son, after two daughters
it means an end to the biting taunts of her mother-in-law and neighbors. she will gain ``honor'' by having a boy
i wanted people to say that a son is born in chawlas' house. one son is a must,'' said mrs. chawla, who now is six months pregnant
she knows for sure it's a boy because she had amniocentesis, a test many indian women use to learn the sex of their unborn. if the test shows a girl is on the way, many women have abortions
the practice is drawing fire from social activists who say it is a perverted use of modern science to perpetuate age-old social prejudices against women
the test is intended to detect congenital deformities, but it has come to be known as the ``boy-girl test'' in india
widely used in developed countries, amniocentesis is a procedure in which a small sample of the amniotic fluid that bathes the fetus in the womb is withdrawn by a long hypodermic needle
the fluid contains cells that have flaked off the fetus. the chromosomes in these cells can be examined for evidence of birth defects, but they also tell the sex of the fetus
boy or girl _ know the sex of the unborn child,'' say advertisements by clinics in indian newspapers
mrs. chawla, 32, shyly admitted she would have had an abortion if her test had proved ``negative'' _ meaning another girl
there are no definite numbers on how many abortions occur after such tests. one authoritative study said 78,000 female fetuses were aborted from 1978 to 1983 nationwide following sex-determination tests. abortions are legal in india, a country of 780 million people, as part of the government's population-control program
while the issue has generated demands for banning amniocentesis clinics, doctors who run the lucrative businesses say it is better to abort a female fetus than to subject an unwanted child to a life of suffering
people are willing to keep producing children until they get a son,'' said k.k. loomba, who runs new delhi's most popular boy-girl testing clinic. ``tell me, is it not better to let them have a choice so they don't have six daughters before they have a son?
either you should educate the masses that there is no difference between sons and daughters or give them a choice. this test, in fact, is helping the population-control program of the government.''
but vibhuti patel, a women's rights activist from bombay, counters: ``by this logic it is better to kill the poor rather then let them suffer poverty and deprivation.''
both sides agree that the answer lies in social education to try to end entrenched anti-female attitudes
in india, sons are looked upon as potential wage earners and as support for parents in old age. girls are considered a constant burden on resources, and money is needed for their dowry at the time of marriage
a developing consumer society has increased demands for dowry from the traditional jewelry to cars, refrigerators, even houses
this has given rise to ``bride burning,'' the killing of young wives by greedy husbands and in-laws _ usually by setting the women ablaze with kerosene from kitchen stoves and saying it was an accident. at least two women die such fiery deaths every day in new delhi
there are no short-term solutions to the problems of women in india,'' said madhu kishwar, editor of manushi, india's only feminist magazine. ``banning amniocentesis is not the answer because it only will go underground and there will be no monitoring.''
ashok kumar, a businessman waiting in a clinic while his wife was being tested, expressed the attitude of many indians
we have three daughters,'' he said. ``they will get married and go away while a son will carry my name forward.''
besides, he added, old people and neighbors constantly bothered his wife about it
we were made to feel that something was missing.''
he said that even though he and his wife cannot afford four children, they decided to take another chance for a son
it is estimated that up to 1 percent of americans suffer from post traumatic stress disorder, a mental illness brought on by especially harrowing experiences. while not limited to a single group, the disorder afflicts as many as half a million vietnam veterans. this is one veteran's story
it was before dawn, still dark in the cemetery where vietnam veteran john coughlin was paying another visit to the graves of two friends. suddenly, his mind flashed back to vietnam where he'd flirted with death, where his legs had been torn by shrapnel, where he had earned three purple hearts
though it was now 1978, long after his return home from battle, he suddenly sensed that he was under attack. it was may 8, near the anniversary of a battle in which many of his friends were killed, and suddenly the viet cong seemed all around again
he grabbed a shotgun from his car and fired off 14 shots, yelling insults at the imagined enemy. ``i'm going to get every one of you that killed my buddies,'' he vowed
some of the shots struck the back of a police station across the street from the cemetery in quincy, just south of boston
as police gingerly surrounded him, he shouted, ``i don't want any hassle. just leave me alone. i want to die just like billy and jo jo.''
john coughlin died last nov. 5 alone, save his war souvenirs and his american and marine flags. the medical examiner said he died of an overdose of doxepin, an antidepressant drug. friends said he died of a broken heart. he was 42
his legacy was that tragic episode in the cemetery that brought a new awareness to the plight of as many as half a million vietnam veterans suffering from post traumatic stress disorder, the delayed trauma of combat
coughlin was the first vietnam veteran to successfully use the syndrome as a defense against criminal charges
charged with unlawful possession of a firearm, he was allowed to serve two years on probation while undergoing psychiatric treatment, and the charges were eventually dropped
i was convinced that regardless which tab you put on it, there was a mental illness there and no justice would be served in prosecuting him,'' said gerald m. kirby, a former assistant district attorney who handled the case. ``fortunately nobody had been hurt.''
although coughlin was not a crusader for veterans' rights, his attorney, lawrence siskind, said the court's action helped give recognition to post traumatic stress disorder as a serious mental illness
this was a court that said there's a problem,'' siskind said. ``it wasn't just peace groups or veterans groups marching on washington anymore. now somebody could say the va should do something, because here it was accepted.''
dr. ted nadelson, chief of psychiatry services at the boston va medical center, said coughlin ``was kind of a leading edge of a wedge'' that led to that recognition of the illness
dr. terence m. keane, director of the ptsd center at the va center, said the disorder has been treated for at least 100 years, but it wasn't until 1980 that the american psychiatric association gave it greater recognition and status by assigning the name
in 1981, the va ruled that veterans could receive service-connected disability payments if they were diagnosed as having the stress disorder no matter when it developed after discharge. other types of service-connected disabilities must be claimed within a year of discharge
coughlin was cursed with each of the ills of the disorder _ flashbacks, nightmares, intense depression and anxiety, difficulty in relationships and the use of alcohol and drugs
vietnam was so difficult for him, and yet, like other veterans, he couldn't give it up, said nadelson. ``that is an important issue for vietnam veterans, the attachment to it,'' he said
coughlin felt guilt about surviving when friends had been killed. in the last years of his life, he lived in the past among his war memorabilia
he told friends and relatives a few days before his death that he wanted to pull his life together. he said he planned to get a job and move from the room he rented in a three-story rooming house in boston where a dozen other tenants lived, some of them, like him, down on their luck
his room resembled a vietnam bunker, its shades drawn and its walls painted black. he kept a large american flag on one wall over the windows. two smaller american flags were folded away. on the wall behind his bed hung a marine flag. cardboard boxes were filled with vietnam snapshots, including a few of viet cong bodies, and newspaper articles on vietnam, some about him
his proudest possession was an american flag his father gave him when he returned home
i guess that was the first time my father was proud of me, when i got decorated in vietnam,'' he said with tears in his eyes last july in an 18-minute interview videotaped in color with nadelson to help in understanding the stress disorder. he said that the father of a friend of his had taken the place of his own father, a businessman who was often busy working
many troubling feelings remained with coughlin up to his death, nadelson said
when he signed up for a second vietnam tour, coughlin said, it was not just for flag and country. part of it was rage
and liking it,'' he told the psychiatrist. ``addictive. i'm talking about killing, the feeling, the power.''
coughlin was nervous and emotional on the tape, at times shaking and weeping. his comments were often disjointed and lacking elaboration, and at times it was unclear what he meant. one of his front teeth was missing and he wore a scraggly beard
he said he was scared when he first went to vietnam
the first couple months there you're afraid. you see everything. then it doesn't matter after you see death so much. it just doesn't matter. you don't allow yourself to have the feelings. you numb out and then all of a sudden you're put back into people where things are like it never happened
you experience life and death, the closeness ... and all of a sudden you're put back into what they call a real world, a supposedly civilized world, and you cannot cope. it's not that you don't want to. it's that you're afraid to get close. you're afraid to express feelings. the whole atmosphere of people not understanding ...''
like many other veterans who fought in the unpopular war, coughlin received hate mail and calls from people who opposed the war, according to relatives and friends. typical was one letter containing a picture of a destroyed village that said, ``you did this.''
his look and his attitude was that society had basically thrown him out,'' said robert solmente, a boyhood friend. ``i'd say he died of a broken heart.''
coughlin grew up in braintree, a middle class boston suburb. his father died in 1981. his mother and two sisters are his only immediate survivors. he never married. the family declined to discuss his case publicly
he graduated from braintree high school in 1963. his loves were cars and sports
john leroy, who was coughlin's football coach at the school and is now principal, remembered him as an average student but an idealistic and competitive young man who worked hard. although a second-string guard on the team, he rarely, if ever, missed a practice
he enlisted in the marines on jan. 12, 1965. fourteen months later, he was in vietnam
during one battle, he waded through open rice paddies and waist-high water under heavy fire to gain a vantage point on enemy positions and call in artillery fire. for this, he received a commendation from the commanding general of the 1st marines
between august and november of 1967, he was wounded three times, the last time so badly that he had to be evacuated by air from the battlefield and sent to a navy hospital near boston. he was discharged from the marines on oct. 25, 1968
i had nightmares right from maybe a month, month and a half after living with my parents,'' coughlin said. ``they suggested i go seek help ... wasn't safe to be in the house.''
for several years, he lived with four or five other veterans in a house in suburban holbrook. he went from job to job; he parked cars for $1.75 an hour, he was a bouncer at a playboy club in boston, he worked as a salesman. he started drinking heavily and using drugs to escape
from 1970 to the end of his life, he was in and out of va hospitals 26 times
in september 1984, six years after the flashback in the quincy cemetery, he draped a flag over his shoulder at his holbrook home, brandished a hunting knife and begged police who were called to the scene to shoot him. ``he stated that he was like a wounded dog and should be put out of his misery,'' said holbrook police chief john white
it's hard to relate to someone that hasn't experienced what you have,'' coughlin said in the taped interview. ``it's hard to have them understand. it becomes very hard to make the split between what is real and what is fantasy. the biggest problem is letting go of the past, especially when you're proud of something and people are trying to take that away.''
despite all of his problems, he said that if he had his life to live over he would change little, but he might do some things differently
i made private first class out of boot camp,'' he recalled. ``out of 78, four of us got promoted. my father came all the way down from boston to south carolina to see that. i wouldn't trade that for nothing.''
george esper is the ap northeast regional reporter, based in boston
pat robertson has built a name, fortune and accelerating political career on a televison network dedicated to preparing the world for the second coming of jesus christ. yet the republican presidential aspirant now bristles at the label television evangelist
it's become, in my estimation, a bigoted slur,'' robertson said after his second-place finish in the iowa caucuses. religious broadcaster is the term he prefers
during his 30 years in that field, whatever the label, robertson brought charismatic faith and conservative politics to his stands on social and political issues, including who is fit to govern
individual christians are the only ones, really, and jewish people, those who trust the god of abraham, isaac and jacob, are the only ones that are qualified to have the reign, because, hopefully, they will be governed by god and submitted to him,'' robertson said in a 1985 broadcast of his program, ``the 700 club.''
three years later, his political advisers paint robertson as a yale law school-educated businessman, emphasizing the abilities it took to build his christian broadcasting network from almost nothing to the nation's third-largest private cable operation
hardly mentioned these days are the special religious gifts he has talked of in the past
religious revival is a major part of robertson's belief. the secret to revival is powerful prayer, including, some believers say, speaking in tongues, a state in which a person filled with the holy spirit talks in a language unknown to him and to his listeners
robertson's first such experience with that gift came when his son timothy was ill. robertson has written that the boy had a fever of 105, was unconscious and experiencing muscle spasms
i laid my hands on him and cried out again. ... i was suddenly aware of how much god loved him. ... i just consciously lifted tim up to the lord. ... suddenly i was aware of the love of god enfolding him and the power of god going through him. he opened his eyes, murmured, `daddy, i gotta go to the bathroom.'''
in his joy at his son's recovery and in his efforts to praise god, robertson said he began speaking in tongues
with revival and prayer also comes healing, a major part of robertson's past fund-raising telethons. he described one incident that occurred during a telethon
i grabbed one of the ringing phones and heard a little child on the other end saying she had a terrible scar on her face and wanted me to pray that god would remove it. i prayed and hung up. seconds later the phone rang again. it was the girl's grandmother
she was almost hysterical. `my grandchild hung up the phone and turned around and the scar, that horrible scar, was gone. ... god had wiped it off her face!'''
during other telethons, according to robertson:
_an 84-year-old man who had been blind for three years had his sight restored. so did the blind piano player on ``the 700 club.''
_a woman was healed, on camera, of arthritis of her spine
_a baby's twisted foot was healed before the eyes of her father
_and 25 people were instantly healed of deafness
besides the ability to speak in tongues and heal, robertson in his autobiography credits the holy spirit with giving him other gifts
one of the manifestations of the holy spirit that was operative in my life was the word of knowledge. i could tell, almost instantaneously, if a person was speaking the truth or falsehood,'' he said
robertson also says his belief carries the gift of prophecy
in a 1980 mailing to ``the 700 club'' members, robertson said the european economic community was the beast with seven heads and 10 horns prophesied in the bible, and that the anti-christ will emerge from it
this anti-christ would bring great persecution to christians and jews. given the current european disdain for both the christian gospel and the nation of israel, it is not hard to imagine parts of the book of revelations coming to pass,'' robertson said
if his calculations were correct, he said, the anti-christ was 27 years old and ``being groomed to be the satanic messiah.''
robertson's strong support for israel is based on his interpretation of the bible, which he believes prophesies the end of the world
in his 1984 book ``answers to 200 of life's most probing questions,'' robertson wrote, ``we are getting very close to the time when god is going to say that the human race has gone far enough. that is why i firmly expect to be alive when jesus christ comes to earth.''
during a 1981 ``the 700 club'' program, robertson said the united states is referred to only once in the bible but will play an important role in the world's end by offering aid to israel in its fight againt the palestinians
the palestinians have been raping, killing and bombing innocent israelis for years,'' robertson said
while robertson may play down his religious gifts and background as he seeks the republican nomination, his supporters do not
in 1986, when robertson announced that he was considering a run for the presidency, he was introduced by the rev. harold bredsen, who said, ``only a man who god has anointed, only a man who loves god and, whatever cost, obeys god _ only that man can lead us in this hour. we are here tonight because we belive that you, pat, you are that man.''
supporters still see him in that light, according to the rev. billy mccormack, director of robertson's freedom council in louisiana
they really do feel that the time has come for god to raise up a man _ as he has in past history _ daniel, gideon, david, paul, nehemiah and john the baptist,'' mccormack said
leadership. moral strength. excellence in education. toughness
it is on words such as these that presidential campaigns are built
each of the 10 candidates has fashioned his campaign around one or more themes, seeking to convince voters that his is the right vision to lead america into the 1990s
with voters in 20 states holding primaries or caucuses this tuesday, here are snapshots of the candidates and the issues they are running on
bush is running, more than anything else, as ronald reagan's co-pilot
i am proud to have stood with this president through thick and through thin, and in good times and bad times, next to ronald reagan, without cutting and running,'' the vice president told supporters in dallas last month
bush has vowed, ``i'm not going to raise taxes, period,'' and he has called for lowering the tax on capital gains from 28 percent to 15 percent. ``i want to be the fellow to hold the line on the taxes, and the way to do it is to discipline the congress, not the american people,'' he says on the stump
bush also says repeatedly he wants to be known as ``the education president.'' he calls education ``the best answer to poverty'' and the surest route to jobs. he has promised to boost funding for head start, a pre-school program for poor children, and to maintain pell grants, college scholarships based on need
bush also has proposed a new form of u.s. savings bonds that would allow parents to earn interest tax-free on bonds for their children's college education. bush hints that he will be more generous than reagan in funding other education programs and fighting illiteracy, a cause his wife, barbara, has championed
bush, 63, stresses his experience as a congressman, director of the central intelligence agency, ambassador to the united nations and envoy to china and, since 1981, vice president. he was an early and ardent supporter of the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty with the soviets and has said he would press aggressively for further arms control breakthroughs, including a ban on chemical weapons
i've been to 74 countries as your vice president, met most of the world leaders,'' he says, boasting that he will be ready to provide strong leadership in foreign affairs from his first day in the oval office
he's one of us,'' the dole campaign likes to tell voters
i believe my lifetime record of public service _ from the battlefield to capitol hill _ offers the kind of leadership the country is looking for as we face the tremendous challenges that lie ahead,'' says the kansas senator
dole, 64, is running as a conservative, pragmatic lawmaker who has mastered the art of compromise in his 19 years in the u.s. senate, including two years as majority leader. ``i've made the tough choices,'' he says
dole espouses a modified spending freeze to balance the federal budget by 1993. he has suggested limiting every program, including social security, to budget increases of two percent in order to end the deficits as high as $230 bilion a year that have doubled the national debt during the reagan years
dole often cites the key role he played five years ago in forging a compromise that ended a half-decade of financial turmoil for the social security system
dole backed the inf treaty after some initial hesitation. he is also sponsoring legislation to provide $400 million in grants to help pay for child care. he has refused to say he would not raise taxes under any circumstances
the upstate new york congressman and former professional football quarterback is the champion of free enterprise, supply-side economics, low taxes and the status quo in social security, including full cost-of-living increases
kemp, 52, a nine-term congressman, is an enthusiastic supporter of the strategic defense initiative who has promised a full and early deployment of a space-based anti-missile system. he has opposed the inf treaty
kemp is an ardent free-trader who has promised to veto any ``protectionist'' trade legislation. he has sponsored legislation to set up a north american free-trade zone
in reply to a questionnaire from a non-partisan group, the roosevelt center for american studies, kemp said he was running as an alternative to candidates in both parties ``who look to the future with such anxiety and pessimism that they can think only of ideas that would impose austerity and pain, protectionism and isolationism. they would meet the challenge of budget deficits by increasing taxes, cutting back on social security benefits for the elderly, and weakening our national defense
they would meet the challenge of competition by raising new walls to foreign imports. and they would meet the challenge of securing global peace by conceding territory and human freedom to those who respect the rights of neither. i believe there is a better way, a more confident way, and that is why i am running for president.''
the former television evangelist and founder of the christian broadcasting network says he is running to arrest the ``moral decay'' that he believes is eroding the american family and american institutions
a critic of the inf treaty, robertson promises to take a tough stand against communism. he has claimed repeatedly that the soviet union has secretly installed nuclear missiles in cuba
he is a pronounced critic of public education and supporter of aid for private education
he has called the federal deficit the single worst problem facing the country, and contends he could save billions of dollars by squeezing waste and attacking mismanagement in the federal bureaucracy
robertson, 57, has said he would ``shift away from welfare programs which encourage family breakup.'' he has suggested increased the personal deduction for children, and said that if working women get tax deductions for child-care, mothers who stay home to raise their children should also receive tax breaks
robertson has said that the other candidates are too focused on government programs, when the real problem underlying the united states' economic problems ``is moral decay.''
we need as a people to come together and say we will restore the greatness of america through moral strength,'' says robertson
dukakis, 54, is running largely on his record in his nine years as governor of massachusetts, a state that has bolted out of the economic doldrums in the past decade
the son of greek immigrants, dukakis says the message of his campaign is ``good jobs and real opportunity'' for all, with special emphasis on education and research
speaking of his own family's success story, dukakis says, ``i am running for president because i believe all americans have a right to share in that dream. i believe i have the strength to run this country, the experience to manage our government, and the values to lead our people.''
he says the united states cannot stand ``four more years of credit-card economics.'' but he has proposed tougher tax collection, not tax increases, as the key to reducing the deficit, and claimed it could bring in as much as $110 billion from tax scofflaws and cheats
he has been an outspoken critic of the reagan administration's strategic defense initiative and its aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua
he proposes to expand support for education and overhaul welfare programs along the lines of massachusetts' successful effort to place welfare recipients in jobs
dukakis has also proposed a universal health insurance program for workers in his home state and asked, ``isn't is about time that this nation committed itself to basic health security for its citizens?''
he has espoused public-private partnerships to tackle problems such as housing and homelessness
he opposes the gephardt amendment in the house-passed trade bill, which would mandate automatic u.s. retaliation against countries that fail to trim their trade supluses
no candidate has summarized his campaign in fewer words than gephardt, 47, a veteran of six terms in congress from st. louis, mo.: ``it's your fight, too!''
behind those pugnacious words is a candidate who has led efforts in congress to take a tough stance against countries with huge imbalances in their trade accounts with the united states
to his critics, the gephardt amendment to the trade bill smacks of protectionism that could lead the world into a tariff war with no winners
but for gephardt, with his now famous commercial about the $48,000 hyundai _ which is what he claims the korean car would sell for if the u.s. applied the same tariffs that the koreans do on imports _ it is simply a way of letting the world know that the united states means business
gephardt voted for president reagan's big cut in tax rates in 1981. he has been a leading opponent of aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels
he has called for a new agriculture policy to help family farmers, and accused corporate america of being greedy and short-sighted
once an opponent of abortion, gephardt now opposes efforts to pass a constitutional amendment to make abortion illegal
the tennessee senator, who turns 40 on march 31, has tried to establish himself as the conservative in the democratic field, although he has been a liberal on social issues and health programs during his 11 years in congress (the past three in the senate)
i choose to stand up for what i believe in: an end to the arms race, environmental protection, better schools and economic strength,'' says gore
gore has voted in the past for humanitarian aid for the contra rebels, although he opposed the reagan administration's most recent request. he opposes military aid to the contras
the son of a senator, gore has built his campaign around a southern strategy, hoping that a strong showing there will vindicate his decision not to contest the iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary
he claims to differ from the other democrats with his support for reagan policy in the persian gulf, the invasion of grenada and the midgetman missile
hart, the former colorado senator, has hitched his off-again, on-again campaign to his ``new ideas,'' including military reform and economic restructuring
he has offered the most detailed budget blueprint of any candidate, outlining plans to cut the deficit by more than $100 billion by 1993 and to balance it by 1995
his blueprint includes cuts in military spending and farm subsidies. he would raise the minimum wage and provide more aid for schools and colleges. he wants to impose a $10-per-barrel fee on oil imports and keep the top tax rate at 33 percent for upper-income taxpayers
hart would also make wealthy social security recipients pay income taxes on 85 percent of their benefits, tax capital gains at death, raise cigarette and liquor taxes, and impose a 10-percent levy on purchases of furs, planes and other luxuries
the baptist minister and civil rights leader has called for major cuts in pentagon spending and major increases in federal spending on schools and other social programs
jackson, 46, a native of south carolina who now lives in chicago, has called for ``an end to economic violence.''
there's something wrong when corporate owners make exhorbitant profits while workers lose their jobs,'' says jackson. ``the workers must unite across lines and race, sex and religion.''
jackson has called star wars ``an impossible technological solution to a political problem. it will cost over a trillion dollars if pursued, and in the end will not produce a defense but an arms race in the heavens.''
he has proposed keeping a 38.5 percent tax bracket for wealthy americans and promised to reduce the deficit by cutting military spending ``without cutting our defense, make corporations and the wealthy pay their fair share of taxes and put america back to work.''
jackson says reducing the trade deficit will require ``controlling u.s.-based multi-nationals which close u.s. factories and take jobs overseas'' and ``increasing third world living standards so they can buy more from us.''
i'm not a neo-anything,'' boasts the illinois senator. ``i'm a democrat.''
i'm proud to stand up for the values of franklin roosevelt, harry truman and jack kennedy. i stand for leadership that cares,'' he told the roosevelt center
simon is a longtime supporter of federal education programs and author of 11 books, including one decrying americans' ignorance of foreign languages
to get people back to work, simon has proposed an $8 billion, last-resort public works program that would pay 10 percent more than welfare or unemployment could offer
he has promised to send congress within 60 days of taking office ``a comprehensive long-term (care) program that will move on the huge unmet long-term care needs our society has.''
he believes that reducing the unemployment rate and lowering interest rates are the keys to cutting the federal deficit. if necessary, he says, he will seek an income tax surcharge on the wealthy
broiler chickens, you might say, have more than kept abreast of the times, they have a leg up on most other farming operations
indeed, says an agriculture department report on the nation's broiler industry, raising chickens these days ``seems more like a factory assembly line'' than part of farming's livestock sector
consider what has happened to broiler production and consumption in the united states, remembering that the young birds were once called frying chickens, or fryers, and were a seasonal treat for most families
now, broilers are everywhere and in many forms, packaged whole or cut up; in specialized parts such as wings, legs and breasts; ready to cook; even cooked, baked or barbecued. not to mention all the fast-food variations
this highly integrated, efficiency conscious industry virtually exploded with growth after specialized broiler operations emerged in the late 1930s and early 1940s,'' the report said. ``unlike more diverse beef and hog industries, broiler production is now dominated by a handful of operators, most of whom control their products from incubation to retail.''
when a hog or cattle producer has ``finished'' animals ready for market, they are sold live to a slaughter plant, which in turn may sell the carcasses at wholesale to other buyers. eventually, the beef and pork reaches consumers
but the broiler sector's first point of sale typically is not at the farm, the report said. it's later when the slaughtered, cut up or ready-to-cook birds are sold to wholesalers or retailers
the report is in the march issue of farmline magazine published by the department's economic research service. most of the article is attributed to economist lee christensen
improved genetics, better balanced rations and environmentally controlled housing increased producers' efficiency in raising chickens,'' the report said. ``this helped the industry produce large amounts of economically priced product and capture a greater portion of the market for meat.''
christensen cited some statistics to back up that assertion:
_growers turn out heavier birds in less time. a broiler weighing 3{ to 4{ pounds can be produced in 7 to 8 weeks, about half the 12 t0 14 weeks it took 30 years ago
_it takes only about 2 pounds of feed or less to grow a pound of broiler, down from 4 pounds of feed to 1 pound of bird in the 1940s
_as a result, the average time it takes to raise a group of birds, or brood, is nearly two weeks shorter than a decade ago, allowing growers to produce an extra brood each year. most turn out more than six broods annually
behind the increase in production has been a corresponding rise in consumption,'' the report said. ``much of it occurred while meat consumption levels in general were climbing. now, however, overall meat consumption is leveling off, while broiler consumption continues to rise.''
the report added: ``in all, consumption grew more than 29-fold, from about two pounds per person in 1940 to an estimated 60 pounds in 1987.''
as broilers became specialized, great shudders ran through the poultry industry. christensen said the independently owned small-flock operations that marketed chickens through small processing plants disappeared, giving way to a highly integrated industry dominated by relatively few processors
most of these firms, he said, are located in northeastern arkansas, northern georgia and alabama, central missouri, eastern texas, the delmarva peninsula of delaware and maryland, north carolina and central california
in 1984, 134 firms _ operating 238 federally inspected plants _ processed more than 4 billion birds weighing nearly 18 billion pounds,'' christensen said. ``the four largest firms during that year operated 41 plants that slaughtered 33.7 percent of all the broilers produced.''
by comparison, he said, in 1964, 201 firms operated 320 plants and slaughtered a third fewer chickens
a typical firm might include a hatchery, feed mill, processing plant, and field service, management and marketing staffs, he said. the birds are produced under contracts with growers who provide the facilities and management. typically, it takes 150 to 300 contracts to provide a processor's annual needs
the farmer, or grower, also has experienced concentration. in 1982, the u.s. agricultural census showed 30,100 farms producing broilers, down from 42,185 in 1959. but total output rose to 3.5 billion birds from 1.4 billion during the same period, with the average rising to 116,844 birds in 1982 from 33,637 in 1959
also, the number of broiler farms that each year sell more than 100,000 birds increased to 13,214 in 1982 and represented 89 percent of total production. in 1959, there were only 2,254 of the large farms, and they accounted for less than 29 percent of total output
christensen said many problems remain, including cycles of production and prices, and disease outbreaks. but chicken consumption will probably continue to climb for some time, fueled by a growing population and rising per capita consumption, perhaps to 67 pounds by 1990 and 95 pounds per person by the turn of the century, he said
the broiler industry, however, will not be easy for newcomers, meaning that future growth will have to come from existing firms
new firms cannot afford to jump into the business of raising chickens,'' christensen said. ``the capital investment needed to establish new broiler production and processing facilities is very large, and would be undertaken only after careful analysis.''
a 9 percent decline in new home sales in january pushed sales activity to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession
a downturn in housing often has been a harbinger of recession, but analysts said wednesday they believed falling mortgage rates offered hope of a rebound in home sales in coming months
the commerce department said sales of new single-family homes fell in january for the third consecutive month, dropping to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 535,000 units. that was the slowest pace since the last recession was ending in december 1982
private economists say the 0.6 percent decline in orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods in january may not be as serious as it first appears
the commerce department said wednesday orders for both durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $212.6 billion in january, down $1.25 billion from december, when orders rose 2 percent
it was the first setback in orders since a 1.4 percent drop in august, but economists noted it reflected a swing in the volatile transportation category
federated department stores inc. has agreed to be acquired by r.h. macy &amp; co., but an undaunted campeau corp. proceeded with its rival bid for the nation's fifth largest retailer
federated and macy said wednesday they had signed a definitive agreement under which macy would begin a cash tender offer of $74.50 a share for about 80 percent of federated's 89.6 million outstanding shares, or a total of $5.25 billion. stock in the merged company was included in the deal
campeau said late wednesday it was increasing its previously announced $66 cash tender offer to an effective $68 a share
sears, roebuck &amp; co. says it was beginning a three-year overhaul of its flagship merchandise group to make each segment of its retail business more competitive
the restructuring, which will trim an undetermined number of people from the merchandise group's management, will make sears stores more responsive to customer needs and wants, officials said wednesday
banks recorded their least profitable year since the great depression in 1987, but a top federal regulator sees better days ahead
the nation's federally insured commercial banks earned $3.7 billion last year on assets of $3 trillion, down from $17.5 billion earnings in 1986, l. william seidman, chairman of the federal deposit insurance corp., said wednesday. but he said the drop in earnings was due entirely to large banks adding to reserves to cover anticipated losses on third world loans
federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan says congress should consider trimming social security and other entitlement programs as it searches for ways to reduce the federal budget deficit
greenspan held out little hope wednesday for major deficit reductions in other areas _ although he proposed a 15-cent gasoline tax
oil futures prices remain weak amid confusion over the true level of u.s. oil reserves
on the new york mercantile exchange, crude oil for april delivery closed 5 cents lower at $15.67 per 42-gallon barrel wednesday. the contract had been down as much as 30 cents early in the day
among refined products, wholesale gasoline for april delivery finished at 44.90 cents per gallon, off .39 cent
near-term contracts for wholesale heating oil moved counter to the market's bearish trend with the contract for april delivery settling at 43.93 cents per gallon, up .46 cent
analysts said reports of relatively low supplies of heating oil, compared to levels of previous years, touched off the buying in that sector
but in general, analysts said the market was confused by discrepancies in official estimates of crude oil reserves as compiled by the american petroleum institute and the department of energy
a gap between the estimates issued in recent weeks has put traders on the defensive
there is a scarcity of hard fundamental information right now,'' observed william byers, an analyst with bear, stearns &amp; co. ``we've come to the end of the heating seasons, and traders are looking for something to hold on to.''
afg industries inc., which last week agreed to be taken private in a $940.5 million buyout by its chairman, is being confronted by a competing, higher offer
the investment partnership forstmann little &amp; co. offered wednesday to acquire afg for more than $33 cash a share, although it conditioned the size of the premium on its ability to meet with management and to review internal corporate information
afg announced feb. 25 that it had agreed to a two-step buyout valued at $33 a share by a new company by a new company headed by afg founder and chairman, r.d. hubbard
that offer would pay $33 cash a share for 94 percent of afg's stock and $33 per share in preferred stock or a combination of cash and stock, for the rest of the shares. based on afg's 28.5 million common shares outstanding, the offer had an indicated value of $940.5 million
afg rose 12{ cents to $32.25 a share wednesday on the new york stock exchange. the new offer was announced hours after the market closed
forstmann little, which specializes in leveraged buyouts, stated its offer was not conditioned on financing commitments being obtained. it indicated its decision on the final size of its buyout offer depended on ``prompt receipt and evaluation of information regarding the company'' and on an opportunity to meet with afg management
the firm stated it was capitalized at about $2.7 billion, with $2.4 billion of that available for future acquisitions
irvine, calif.-based afg, one of north america's leading makers of flat glass, declined through a spokesman to comment on the proposal
forstmann little is in the process of acquiring stanadyne corp., a major manufacturer of plumbing fixtures and diesel fuel injection systems, in an $820 million leveraged buyout
in a leveraged buyout, a company is acquired mainly with borrowed funds that are repaid with the target company's cash flow or by the sale of its assets
the firm also has led buyouts of lear siegler inc., dr pepper co., sybron corp. and topps co. inc. in recent years
analysts widely had expected competing offers to emerge for afg, deeming the hubbard bid as relatively low
hubbard's offer was made by clarity holdings corp., a newly formed company headed by hubbard
afg became well recognized outside its own industry in 1986 when it launched an unsuccessful hostile takeover bid for lear siegler, the aerospace and manufacturing conglomerate based in santa monica, calif
in 1987, afg made an unsucessful hostile bid for gencorp. of akron, ohio, which formerly was known as general tire &amp; rubber co
late last year, afg announced it had agreed to purchase ford motor co.'s glass-making operations in canada, which with annual sales of about $150 million was the industry leader in that country. no terms were disclosed for that deal, which closed early this year
a merger agreement with r.h. macy &amp; co. hasn't dampened the frenzied bidding for federated department stores inc., as rival suitor campeau corp. has escalated its attempt to acquire the nation's fifth-largest retailer
following federated's announcement wednesday that it had agreed to be acquired by macy for cash and stock worth more than $5.45 billion, campeau sharply revised its own all-cash proposal in an attempt to woo federated shareholders
federated and macy said they had a definitive agreement under which macy would acquire federated and form a new company, macy's-federated inc. the deal still must be approved by shareholders of both companies
macy, the nation's 10th-largest retailer, operates 96 stores in 14 states, while federated has 650 stores _ including such department stores as bloomingdale's, filene's and bullock's _ in 36 states
under the agreement, macy would pay $74.50 a share in cash for about 80 percent of federated's 89.6 million outstanding shares, or a total of $5.25 billion. the remaining federated shares would be exchanged for stock in the new company
campeau, which had been offering $68 a share _ totaling $6.1 billion _ for all of the outstanding federated shares, responded by changing its offer to $75 a share for 80 percent of federated's stock. in a subsequent merger, campeau would pay $44 a share for the remaining stock, giving the total deal a combined value of $68 per share, campeau said
campeau also said it would file suit to challenge $45 million in fees that federated agreed to pay macy if their deal fell through. if the fees are invalidated or withdrawn, campeau said it would pay $46.20 per share for the 20 percent of federated shares remaining after a merger
campeau's new proposal expires at midnight est march 15
the amended campeau bid was announced after the close of trading on the new york stock exchange, where federated's stock fell $1 a share to $66.75
wall street analysts said it was hard to predict what federated's shareholders would do, given the difficulty of putting a value on the stock portion of macy's offer
macy is privately held, so it is difficult to know how much its shares are worth
it's really tough to figure out which is a better deal,'' said joseph ronning, a retail industry analyst with brown brothers harriman &amp; co
if you want immediate money, go for cash'' in the campeau offer, said monroe h. greenstein, an analyst with bear stearns &amp; co. inc
but in the long term, greenstein said, he considered the macy bid better because it offered better potential for future growth for federated
no matter who ends up controlling federated, the new owner is expected to sell the company's gold circle discount stores and ralphs supermarkets
among cincinnati-based federated's department stores are the bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, i. magnin., rich's, abraham &amp; straus and lazarus chains
either macy or campeau were expected to sell several of those chains if they acquired federated. abraham and straus and rich's were considered likely candidates for a sale by macy, because they are direct competitors with macy stores in new york and atlanta, respectively
under the macy agreement, federated management would have a strong voice in the new company, filling 40 percent of the seats on its board of directors
however, federated chairman howard goldfeder, 61, said at a news conference wednesday he would resign after helping macy chairman edward finkelstein implement the merger
goldfeder said he expects to be paid $3.06 million when he leaves the company under a ``golden parachute'' severance agreement approved by federated's board of directors. similar payments are due other top federated officers
in deciding to merge with macy, the federated board had considered the $68 a share campeau merger offer as well as an indication from campeau that the offer could be increased to $69.50 under certain unspecified conditions, macy and federated said
the companies stated that federated's board had turned down campeau's alternative $66-a-share tender offer as inadequate, but it did not characterize the $68 and $69.50 bids
federated refused to elaborate on the statement, and macy referred all questions on the board's discussion to federated
new york-based macy was taken private by a management group in a $3.6 billion leveraged buyout in 1986. its stores rang up $5.21 billion in sales during the fiscal year ended last aug. 1
campeau, through its allied stores division, owns the jordan marsh, stern's, ann taylor and maas brothers chains
here are the nation's nine largest general retailers, ranked by sales in their 1987 fiscal year, which ended jan. 31:
_sears, roebuck and co. _ $30.21 billion
_k mart corp. _ $25.63 billion
_wal-mart stores inc. _ $15.96 billion
_j.c. penney co. inc. _ $13.98 billion
_federated department stores inc. _ $11.12 billion
_dayton hudson corp. _ $10.5 billion
_may department stores co. _ $10.31 billion
_montgomery ward &amp; co. _ $4.61 billion
_f.w. woolworth co. _ $4.17 billion
r.h. macy &amp; co., which was the 10th largest retailer when it went private in 1986, does not report monthly sales figures
here is a list of the retailers owned by federated department stores inc. and the states in which their stores are located:
abraham &amp; straus _ new jersey, new york, pennsylvania
bloomingdale's _ connecticut, florida, massachusetts, maryland, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, texas, virginia
bullock's and bullock's wilshire _ arizona, california, nevada
burdines _ florida
children's place _ california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, missouri, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas, virginia, wisconsin
filene's _ connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island
filene's basement _ connecticut, massachusetts, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, rhode island
foley's _ arizona, new mexico, oklahoma, texas
gold circle-richway _ florida, georgia, kentucky, new york, north carolina, ohio, tennessee
goldsmith's _ tennessee
lazarus _ indiana, kentucky, ohio, west virginia
i. magnin _ arizona, california, illinois, maryland, oregon, washington
mainstreet _ illinois, michigan
ralphs _ california
rich's _ alabama, georgia, south carolina
here is a list of the retailers owned by r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and the states in which the stores are located:
aeropostale _ california, new jersey
charter club _ new jersey
macy's _ alabama, california, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, louisiana, maryland, nevada, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas
morgan taylor's fantasy _ new jersey
federated department stores inc. traces its roots to columbus, ohio, where german immigrant simon lazarus sr. opened a men's clothing store in 1848
since then, the business has evolved into the nation's fifth largest general retailer with more than 650 department stores, supermarkets and specialty and discount stores
the store opened by lazarus developed into f&amp;r lazarus co., a department store chain
in 1929, fred lazarus jr. and simon lazarus, grandsons of the company founder, formed federated department stores with filene's in boston and abraham &amp; straus in brooklyn. bloomingdale's in new york joined three months later
today, the company's divisions also include bullock's, burdine's, foley's, i. magnin and rich's department stores; main street and children's place specialty stores; and gold circle discount stores and ralphs supermarkets
federated was based in columbus for its first 16 years, acting as a holding company for its founders. it moved its headquarters to cincinnati near the end of world war ii and became an operating company
the company rang up sales of $11 billion last year
r.h. macy &amp; co. inc., whose holdings include the largest store in the world, returned to private ownership in early 1986 when a management group bought the nation's 10th biggest general retailer for $3.58 billion
that has been the biggest acquisition of a retailer, although the deal will fall to second if macy succeeds in its bid to acquire federated department stores inc. for $5.25 billion in cash plus securities
macy is widely known for its rivalry with its now defunct new york competitor, gimbel's department store, and as the subject of the perennial christmas movie favorite ``miracle on 34th street.'' the movie centered on macy's popular thanksgiving day parade, which celebrates the arrival of santa claus at macy's flagship store on new york's herald square each year
started in 1858 by rowland hussey macy, a former nantucket whaler who had failed at several earlier attempts in the retailing business, the first macy store in downtown manhattan sold fancy goods and stationery items
the company was acquired in 1896 by isadore and nathan straus, and it began selling stock to the public in 1927 as it expanded into a nationwide operation
macy operates 96 stores in 14 states, including macy's department stores and aeropostale, charter club and morgan taylor's fantasy specialty stores
its macy's store at herald square in new york has 2.151 million square feet of space, making it the world's largest store and as big as some shopping centers
here are some details on the operations of federated department stores inc. and r.h. macy &amp; co., which announced a merger agreement wednesday:
revenues _ $5.21 billion (fiscal year ended aug. 1, 1987)
pre-tax profit _ $60 million
divisions _ macy's, aeropostale, charter club, morgan taylor's fantasy
stores _ 96
states _ 14: alabama, california, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, louisiana, maryland, nevada, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas
ownership _ private
headquarters _ new york
revenues _ $7.57 billion (nine months through oct. 31, 1987)
after-tax profit _ $136 million
divisions _ abraham &amp; straus, bloomingdale's, bullock's, burdines, children's place, filene's, foley's, gold circle-richway, goldsmith's, lazarus, i. magnin, mainstreet, ralphs, rich's
stores _ 650
states _ 36: alabama, arizona, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, missouri, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, oregon, pennsylvania, rhode island, south carolina, tennessee, texas, virginia, washington, west virginia, wisconsin
ownership _ public, 21,000 shareholders
headquarters _ cincinnati. 1987</head>
the united states continued to import more electronics than it exported last year, although exports increased at the fastest pace since 1980, the electronic industries association said today
exports of electronic products grew to $40 billion last year, 20 percent over the $33.4 billion in 1986, while imports rose to nearly $57.9 billion, up 15 percent from $50.3 billion in 1986, the trade group said
peter f. mccloskey, the group's president, said a lower dollar, improved quality and aggressive marketing are making u.s. exports more competitive in the world marketplace
in 1980, exports rose 21 percent over the previous year, while imports rose 13 percent. but between 1981 and 1986, the increase in imports outpaced the rise in exports, the association said
the trade group also said its analysis of commerce department figures showed canada was the no. 1 importer of u.s. electronics last year, buying more than $5 billion worth. the united kingdom ranked second at $3.9 billion, japan was third with $3.8 billion and west germany was fourth at $3.1 billion
japan continued to top the list of foreign suppliers of electronic products to the united states, with sales of nearly $25 billion last year, the group said. it was followed by taiwan with nearly $5.6 billion in sales, korea with $4.3 billion and singapore with $4.0 billion
three years of price increases are beginning to take their toll on foreign car sales, as buyers taking another look at american models find improved cars with stickers as much as $2,000 lower than comparable imports
automakers in japan and western europe have been forced to raise prices to compensate for the plummeting dollar, which has fallen 50 percent against their currencies since 1985
while the european companies felt the bite sooner, industry analysts said japanese car sales also appear to be softening, particularly for smaller companies and nissan, which has been hurt by a lack of new products
there is definitely suffering,'' said thomas o'grady, industry analyst with integrated automotive resources in wayne, pa
general motors corp., ford motor co. and chrysler corp. have turned the weak dollar to their advantage by holding down prices instead of matching their foreign competitors increase-for-increase as before
they are all looking at 1988 as the year of the return of the domestic (car) or the start of that return,'' said chris cedergren, industry analyst with j.d. power and associates in agoura hills, calif
price increases have added as much as $6,000 to the sticker of a german car and $3,000 for a japanese model since the dollar began falling. the price difference between a japanese car and a comparable american model has reached $1,500 to $2,000, analysts said
japanese car prices have risen nearly 25 percent in the past three years. european autos have risen less on a percentage basis but more in dollar terms because they predominantly are luxury models that cost more to start with
european makers felt the pinch from the weak dollar first because japanese auto prices had a built-in cushion: u.s. dealers faced with heavy demand had been tacking $1,000 to $2,000 on to the sticker price and still selling all the cars they could get
buyers didn't begin to notice that japanese cars were growing more expensive until late in 1986, when dealers had used up the cushion and began raising prices. but even then, the difference meant only a few dollars more in monthly payments
furthermore, buyers who had been weaned from american cars by the quality and reliability of japanese cars were willing to pay a little extra for the imports, said joseph phillippi, analyst with shearson lehman hutton in new york
as a result, while total car sales declined 10.7 percent in 1987, japanese import car sales fell only 9.7 percent while gm, ford and chrysler's domestic car sales together fell 16.7 percent
the currency-related price increases pushed european makers such as bmw, mercedes-benz and porsche further into the ultra-luxury stratosphere with new cars that cost $40,000 to $70,000, and pushed many buyers out of the market
during january, sales fell by about 28 percent for mercedes-benz, volvo and porsche, 51 percent for alfa-romeo and 60 percent for peugeot
but the japanese fought back. companies such as toyota motor corp., honda motor co. and mazda motor corp. accepted smaller profits and squeezed steady efficiency improvements out of their factories at home to protect their u.s. market share
helped by the strength of the japanese yen, used to buy raw materials from weaker-currency nations, they were able to keep price increases so small that the big three accused them of predatory pricing in the united states
they also began shifting some production to the united states and began offering or planning cars to fill the void left by the europeans in the $20,000 to $30,000 luxury market
but despite their efforts, higher prices have begun to hurt japanese car sales. while toyota and honda remain strong, other makes are showing signs of strain
in january, nissan's import car sales fell 19.6 percent in january from a year ago and isuzu's sales fell 16.7 percent. japanese makers also are reporting higher inventories of unsold cars and are increasing their use of buyer incentives, analysts said
still, they warn, the big three have only a limited time to take full advantage of the import weakness and win back some of the buyers they lost to the japanese earlier in the decade because the japanese will adapt to the new currency level
the japanese will have fully adjusted within 18 months from now,'' o'grady said
the tiny investment banker james d. wolfensohn inc. has gotten a big name to hang out his shingle at the firm: former federal reserve chairman paul volcker
volcker was named wednesday as chairman of the new york-based firm, and also as a professor at princeton university
the announcements ended the months of speculation over volcker's next career move that followed his decision last year not to accept another term at the fed
volcker's international reputation and widespread connections stemming from his tenure at the central bank were highly prized by wall street, and his decision to join wolfensohn represents a coup for the firm
volcker, who served as director of the federal reserve from 1979 to 1987, ``brings great experience in the whole area of finance and general economic matters,'' said james wolfensohn, the firm's founder, president and chief executive officer
he's a great negotiator and will help run client relations and add to the breadth of the services we bring to our clients,'' wolfensohn said
wolfensohn said the six-year-old firm specializes in work with major american and international companies and their strategies in mergers and acquisitions
he said he has known volcker for at least 10 years
volcker, who graduated from princeton's woodrow wilson school of public and international affairs in 1949, is the first to hold the school's frederic h. schultz class of 1951 professorship of international economic policy
the princeton post and the position with wolfensohn are effective immediately
at a news conference wednesday morning in princeton, volcker said he declined professorship offers from a number of other universities, including harvard, from which he received his master's degree in political economy in 1951
i had discussions with a number of ivy league and non-ivy league universities,'' he said. ``i think it is fair to say that there was a certain pull here for my alma mater, though i have a another alma mater in the ivy league
i felt comfortable here. the school combines my interest in the public service and in economic policy.''
volcker said he intends to spend the coming months at princeton meeting with graduate students and attending a faculty seminar on international trade
i'm delighted to have the opportunity to get the kind of intellectual stimulus you can get here and i hope to contribute a little bit,'' he said. ``i'm somewhat intimidated by the fact that i'm having to go back and do a little teaching. i'm hoping for a little assistance to help me through those early stages.''
during the 1988-89 academic year he plans to teach both semesters at the graduate and undergraduate levels
sears, roebuck and co. says a three-year overhaul of its $28 billion retail stores operation will make the nation's biggest general retailer more responsive to customers and more profitable for investors
retailing analysts see the shakeup as an attempt to revive sluggish sales and profits within the company's merchandise group, which saw its share of sears' total revenue slip to about 58 percent in 1987 from more than 65 percent in 1985
basically what we find today is a sears company not as strong as it was last year,'' analyst allan bortel, a senior vice president for shearson lehman hutton inc., said wednesday
sears says its planned new retailing structure would improve its competitiveness, which in turn would better serve its customers and shareholders
if we have a leaner management organization, because we will be that much more competitive, we will be delivering greater revenues and greater income to the bottom line,'' said company spokesman philo holland after sears announced the restructuring wednesday
the restructuring, which will trim an undetermined number of people from the merchandise group's management staff of about 4,000, is aimed at making each department of every sears store more competitive, officials said
the plan calls for each department, from womens apparel to lawn and garden supplies, to be reorganized under its own, unique management structure
the apparel business will be run differently from the hardware business,'' holland said. ``you need different organizational structures to compete in different businesses.''
michael bozic, chairman and chief executive officer of the merchandising group, stated that the restructuring would reduce the number of management levels, making each segment of sears' merchandise business leaner and more independent
we are competing in many diverse businesses, each with its own unique structure, and (we) have been essentially using one organizational format to compete in all of these businesses,'' bozic said
the changes we make will result in a company that is better structured to maintain its position as america's premier retailer,'' he said
officials said they had no estimate of the number of employees to be affected or the cost savings involved
the ultimate size and structure will be determined by how we choose to compete in the different businesses we are restructuring,'' holland said
he said the reduction in management personnel would be achieved through attrition, severance bonuses and early retirement offers
bortel said he didn't expect massive layoffs or sales of valued assets in the near future
sears is a very conservative company and does not do anything in a radical way,'' bortel said in a telephone interview from san francisco
worldwide demand for oil may drive prices up to nearly twice present levels and increase dependence on persian gulf supplies, according to a study by harvard university
the yearlong study released wednesday said the improved economies in industrial nations since oil prices dropped in 1986 have discouraged conservation efforts and reduced oil stockpiles
former federal reserve chairman paul volcker has been named to a professorship at princeton university and the chairmanship of james d. wolfensohn inc., a new york city investment banking firm
volcker, who graduated from princeton's woodrow wilson school of public and international affairs in 1949, is the first to hold the school's frederic h. schultz class of 1951 professorship of international economic policy
the princeton post and the position with wolfensohn are effective immediately, volcker said wednesday
a growing amount of tax money withheld from workers' paychecks is being misused by employers, often never finding its way to the government, the internal revenue service says
the total of these delinquent social security and income taxes rose by 49 percent from 1982 through 1987, to almost $3.73 billion, william m. wauben, irs assistant commissioner for collections, said wednesday
he said about 338,000 employers have failed to pay or account for that sum
on-time peformance by the nation's major airlines improved slightly during january, but three out of every 10 flights still were at least 15 minutes late, the transportation department said
the 14 airlines that are monitored in the monthly report had 69.2 percent of their flights arriving within 15 minutes of schedule, compared with 66.4 percent in december, the report released wednesday said
southwest airlines had the best record in february with 85 percent of its flights arriving on time, while continental airlines had the worst mark with a 65 percent on-time arrival record
new rules are being prepared to help farmers pay off loans owed to the farmers home administration, including provisions that allow the agency to write off some of the debt so that families can stay on the land, officials say
joe o'neill, an fmha spokesman, said wednesday the new rules probably will be ready by june. in many cases, over-burdened borrowers could have much of their debt written off, trimmed back to reflect their assets in hopes of keeping them in business. he said he had no estimate of how much debt the fmha might write off under the new rules
the stock market posed a small gain wednesday as the dow jones average of 30 industrials finished up .83 at 2,071.29
the dollar strengthened in foreign exchange trading, while gold prices were narrowly mixed. bond prices edged higher in light trading
cocoa futures prices fell to life-of-contract lows for the fourth consecutive day on fears that the international cocoa organization will be unable to control the effects of steadily rising production
soaring sales to japan and britain helped send total u.s. wine exports in 1987 to 11.87 million gallons, a 64 percent increase over the previous year, a trade group reported
the dollar's decline against foreign currencies, including a 55 percent drop against the japanese yen over the past two years, was largely the cause, the wine institute said wednesday
u.s. wineries also have begun more aggressive promotions to overseas markets, said sam folsom, a spokesman for the san francisco-based institute
overall, u.s. exports totaled $60.8 million in 1987, up from $34.8 million the year before. calfornia wines account for about 95 percent of american wine exports
exports account for only 3 percent of all california wine shipments, but the sales are considered important because domestic sales have been less than dynamic in recent years, according to wine experts
japan is one of the fastest growing markets
there's a growing awareness of califoria wines, particularly among japanese yuppies,'' said wine consultant jon fredriskson
japan was the largest export market in terms of dollars, importing $14 million worth of american wine, or 2.25 million gallons, up from $7.3 million worth in 1986
canada imported $10.9 million, but in greater bulk. its imports reached 3.3 million gallons, up from 2.6 million in 1986. in terms of gallons, it was the largest importer of american wine. graf pvs, young said ... a version moving on general news wires.</note>
the head of the food and drug administration said today the agency hopes to make a decision in a few months on whether aspirin manfacturers can advertise claims that their products help reduce a first heart attack
fda commissioner frank e. young said he was pleased with a voluntary agreement from the nation's aspirin manufacturers wednesday not to make such claims until data from a recent study can be fully analyzed
young, interviewed on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' said people with high blood pressure, liver disease, gout or ulcers face the risk of bleeding complications from aspirin and should seek the advice of a doctor on its usage
he also said that while there is some evidence that healthy men between the ages of 45 and 85 might use an aspirin every other day to reduce the risk of heart attack, there is no evidence that it would help women or younger men
we didn't want to see people get hurt. we felt it important to get the facts in...'' young said. ``we hope to make our decision within a few months.''
summoned by a letter that reminded them of the fda's regulatory power, aspirin manufacturers met for more than an hour on wednesday with young, who then announced the agreement at a news conference
young said the agency was concerned that aspirin ads citing a recent medical journal study could be misleading
the manufacturers agreed to exercise voluntary restraint and refrain from further promotion of the study results until the facts of the study are known and the necessary analyses were completed and appropriate physician labeling made available,'' young announced in a formal statement
though he called the action ``voluntary'', young said later on public television's ``macneil-leher news hour'' that if the manufacturers ``go and make a misbranded claim then we could take action. ... the extreme action is to call the product misbranded and seize it.''
the commissioner insisted that the meeting was not called in response to advertising already run, saying he was ``so busy'' that he never read, listened or watched advertising
young said the meeting was prompted by publicity surrounding an aspirin study published jan. 28 in the new england journal of medicine
in the study, more than 11,000 physicians over the age of 40 took one aspirin every other day, while another group of physicians took placebos, or fake aspirin. at the end of 57 months, the study showed that those taking aspirin had 47 percent fewer heart attacks
young said the study was incomplete and the fda has not approved aspirin for use in the prevention of an initial heart attack
until the fda analyzes the study and formulates formal physician instructions on the use of aspirin against first heart attacks, young said drug companies cannot promote aspirin for this use
there are no loopholes in the agreement for ads already prepared, he said
from this time forward, any ads in the pipeline will not be grandfathered (escape enforcement),'' said young
william c. macleod, director of consumer protection at the federal trade commission, which regulates drug advertising, refused repeatedly at the news conference to say if his agency had taken any action regarding ads by aspirin manufacturers, nor would he say that inappropriate ads had been run
in a feb. 24 letter, young ``invited'' the drug manufacturers to attend a meeting at his fda office to discuss the aspirin findings. he wrote of his concern that ``the dissemination of certain types of information is clearly premature.''
the letter also cited the federal law that forbids mislabeling drugs
the agency did not identify the manufacturers attending the meeting, and most of those leaving the closed-door session refused to comment. an exception was dr. edward henry of squibb pharmaceutical products, who would say only: ``we're all in agreement. it was a very good meeting.''
several drug companies have produced ads promoting the use of aspirin to help prevent a second heart attack. these were based on a 1985 study that was analyzed by the fda
but the study announced in january was the first to suggest that aspirin could help prevent a primary, or first, heart attack
young said his concern is that the latest study involved a narrow group _ all physicians in good health _ and that the aspirin therapy is not appropriate for everyone, particularly the young. he said the study showed that aspirin therapy could increase the risk of stroke
the commissioner also said unsupervised aspirin use can cause intestinal bleeding and aggravate gout, peptic ulcer, and kidney and liver disease
to take it willy-nilly every other day, particularly if you are a young man or woman, you are more apt to have a stroke or suffer from a bleeding ulcer,'' he said
young said it will take about six months for the fda to analyze the aspirin study and then publish new labeling rules for the drug. further reagan quotes and background. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
president reagan indicated today he believes panamanian gen. manuel antonio noriega must go, while secretary of state george p. shultz said economic sanctions against noriega's government were being ``considered carefully.''
reagan, during an unscheduled meeting with british prime minister margaret thatcher at the conclusion of the nato summit, was asked during a picture-taking session if he thought noriega should relinquish power
yes,'' the president responded. he did not elaborate
during a subsequent photo session with belgian prime minister wilfried martens, reagan was asked if the united states was ready to seize panamanian assets in american banks
i can't give you an answer yet,'' he replied. ``we still have a lot of talking to do.''
reagan last friday said he had no plans to intervene militarily in panama and said he thought the american options were limited in the area
shultz called noriega ``bad news'' but said that no decision had been made on sanctions
assistant secretary of state elliott abrams had raised the prospect in washington on wednesday that the next payment due to panama for panama canal operations would be withheld if such a request were made by ousted president eric arturo delvalle
state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley said that the request already had been received
at a news conference today in brussels following the conclusion of the nato summit, shultz told reporters, ``noriega is bad news for panama, he's bad news for the region.''
he said there were a ``variety of things'' the united states could do, including restricting the flow of money into the panamanian treasury. ``that is being considered carefully,'' he said. ``we want to do it properly, we want to do it right, we want to do it effectively.''
in washington, abrams said the administration would respond to a request by delvalle to withhold the canal payments
if he tells us he doesn't want that money going to noriega, then we're not going to give it to noriega.''
panama receives a reported $80 million in canal-related fees annually. four members of the house merchant marine and fisheries committee demanded wednesday that the administration halt all such payments to panama
the united states continues to regard delvalle as panama's constitutional president and seeks the removal of noriega, under federal indictment on drug smuggling charges, from the nation's political life
delvalle was ousted last week after attempting to fire noriega and has been in hiding in panama since then
at stake is a $7 million u.s. payment due march 15 for canal tolls, fees and services. much more is involved in what appears to be a parallel u.s. effort to keep the new panamanian government from gaining access to official accounts in u.s. banks
william d. rogers, of the arnold &amp; porter law firm in washington, said the administration was taking legal steps to ensure that the banks may make disbursements only to the panamanian ambassador who served under delvalle, juan b. sosa
rogers, who represents delvalle and his allies here, said the state department was issuing ``formal certifications'' that it regards sosa as ``the accredited representative of the recognized government of the country.''
at the state department, ms. oakley said only that such certifications were being prepared. she declined to specify their purpose
asked about the u.s. position on that issue, abrams told the cable news network: ``we know who the legitimate government of panama is. if the government of president delvalle says to american banks, `don't pay money to noriega,' then all those banks are going to come to the state department and say, `who's got the authority here? noriega or delvalle?'
we're going to answer that question. delvalle is president of panama. and noriega has been fired and he does not have legitimate authority here.''
sosa estimated that u.s. bank deposits of the panamanian government total $50 million
rogers seemed confident that the u.s. government action would preclude any panamanian government withdrawals from u.s. accounts, but neither abrams nor ms. oakley offered confirmation of that claim
also on wednesday, u.s. district judge lloyd f. mcmahon in manhattan issued a temporary restraining order blocking republic national bank from turning millions of dollars over to the new government
the noriega opponents dropped the suit afterward when the bank agreed to transfer the funds to the federal reserve bank of new york
rogers said the settlement does not affect four other banks being sued: marine midland na, irving trust co., bankers trust co. in new york, and the bank of boston in that city
the point is not to get money but to deny money to noriega,'' he said. include volkswagen comment. picks up 10th graf pvs, a nhtsa ... a version moving on general news wires.</note>
the national highway traffic safety administration and volkswagen appear to be working together to keep the public from learning if sudden acceleration is still a problem in audi 5000 cars, a congressman says
nhtsa, which last year ordered a massive recall of the vehicles for installation of a device to fix alleged throttle problems, has failed to press volkswagen of america inc. to place post-recall reports of sudden acceleration on the public record, rep. george hochbrueckner, d-n.y., said wednesday
in a letter to nhtsa administrator diane steed, hochbrueckner said he was ``disturbed by evidence ... which suggests that nhtsa willingly acquiesced to (volkswagen's) refusal to turn over the incident reports.''
he demanded that volkswagen turn over all documents relating to post-recall reports of sudden acceleration to congress, rather than to the agency responsible for investigating the complaints
congress has no power to compel the documents be turned over to it, said andy kennedy, an aide to hochbrueckner
nhtsa is auditing its january 1987 recall of 255,336 1978-86 audi 5000s for installation of the throttle device. the agency has received 1,750 complaints of sudden acceleration in audi 5000s, resulting in 1,269 accidents, 430 injuries and five deaths
a nhtsa memorandum by wolfgang reinhart, dated last january, said the agency asked vw for the documents in june 1987, but they were not included in the automaker's response in july
the documents were made available by volkswagen for inspection in its washington office rather than being delivered to nhtsa, the memo said. ``the source documents were reviewed by (nhtsa) personnel and the summaries were found to be accurate summations of the very bulky source documents,'' it said
volkswagen late wednesday issued a statement in response saying that ``nhtsa has not given us any special concessions, neither have we been relieved of any of the burden of responding to the agencies' requests for information.''
the automaker said the summaries were an interim report. ``at no time was it suggested that this status update would take the place of the technical data required by nhtsa, or that we had refused to provide nhtsa with this data, or that we would permanently retain the data in our possession,'' volkswagen said
a nhtsa spokesman said there had been other instances in which nhtsa had requested summaries of complaints rather than the complaints themselves. he was unable to say how common the practice was
he declined to comment specifically on hochbrueckner's allegations. the spokesman demanded anonymity, citing agency policy
the stock market edged upward today, struggling to extend its late-winter rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose .66 to 2,071.95 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 539 up, 469 down and 498 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 25.36 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the market's recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its monthly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
koppers co. jumped 6[ to 51\. an investment group including the wall street firm of shearson lehman hutton inc. began a $45-a-share offer for the company, and traders quickly concluded that a higher bid or bids might be in the offing
home depot rose 1\ to 24]. the stock was added to standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to track the performance of the 500
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks crept ahead .02 to 150.70. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .74 at 291.66
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average eked out a .83 gain to 2,071.29
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 5 to 3 on the nyse, with 908 up, 560 down and 500 unchanged. big board volume totaled 199.63 million shares, against 199.99 million in the previous session
republic national bank of new york has agreed to transfer millions of dollars in panamanian funds to the federal reserve bank and in return, foes of panama's dictatorship have dropped a lawsuit against the bank
the settlement was announced wednesday evening, hours after a federal judge signed an order barring republic national from releasing the contested funds to the regime of military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
the judge's action came at the request of panamanian president eric arturo delvalle, ousted last week following his unsuccessful attempt to fire noriega but still recognized by the u.s. government as the legitimate head of panama
the suit appeared to be part of a coordinated effort to deny money to noriega's cash-strapped regime, which already has been cut off from u.s. aid. the state department also has asked a group of banks not to disburse panamanian government funds to noriega
filed on behalf of the republic of panama at manhattan federal court, the suit asserted a ``massive transfer of funds'' to noriega had already occurred and up to $10 million more would be transferred unless the court stopped it
but late in the day, the bank said the lawsuit ``has been voluntarily dismissed and republic national bank of new york has transferred to the federal reserve bank of new york, any funds held by it of banco nacional de panama.''
william d. rogers, attorney for the noriega opponents who brought the lawsuit, confirmed the settlement in a telephone interview from his washington office. but rogers said he didn't know much much money had been transferred to the federal reserve bank for safekeeping
the point is not to get money but to deny money to noreiga,'' said rogers, adding that the settlement doesn't affect similar lawsuits against three other new york banks: bankers trust, irving trust and marine midland
those banks were included after the original lawsuit was filed but were not immediately included in u.s. district judge lloyd f. macmahon's temporary restraining order which had been signed earlier in the day
noriega, military leader of panama, was indicted on drug charges by two u.s. grand juries in florida feb. 4. delvalle sought to dismiss noriega feb. 25 but was ousted by noriega supporters and has gone into hiding
on tuesday, delvalle took steps through his supporters to freeze panamanian assets outside the country
panama's u.s. ambassador, juan b. sosa, who has maintained that delvalle's ouster was unconstitutional, said he had no precise figures on the amount of money in panamanian accounts but estimated it to be $50 million
according to court papers, sosa told all four banks by telex tuesday that only he was authorized to approve transfer of money from the panamanian accounts
a pair of connecticut entrepreneurs have in hand the blueprints they think will alter the popular image of modular homes as boxy structures that sway in the breeze
harvey f. gerber jr. and his wife, wendy a. horgan, have formed a company that will sell modular houses designed by an architect to look like and compete with the best custom-built homes
it's a new market with few competitors
the incentive to homebuyers is that so-called ``high-end modular homes'' can be built at a lower cost and much faster than comparable stick-built homes that are constructed from the ground up, gerber said
the four styles offered by gerber builders inc. are two-story homes, with large porches, 9-foot ceilings, family rooms, multiple bathrooms and at least three bedrooms. the houses also allow for personalized touches, such as a choice of flooring, siding and trim molding
the price ranges from about $70,000 to $130,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house, depending upon whether a buyer purchases an unfinished model or a completed home. the price of land isn't included
what we have here is a product that is aimed at a high-end market. it is going to be indistinguishable from the best stick-built homes,'' gerber said during a recent interview
gerber, 39, and his wife are both former wall street attorneys. they got their start in construction 10 years ago when they began renovating historic buildings in new york city. they had branched out into condominium construction in new jersey when they decided to focus on modular homes
they chose connecticut because of their connections to the state. ms. horgan, originally from new canaan, received her master's and law degrees from the university of connecticut. gerber attended yale and got his law degree from fordham university
the company has constructed a victorian-style model on its 11-acre headquarters site in newtown, an affluent suburban community about 70 miles north of new york city. the firm is constructing three other models on a parcel in sussex county, n.j
the completion of the model was the culmination of three years of design work and planning that has cost the company about $1 million, gerber said
the company's goal is to sell at least 100 homes the first year and begin construction of connecticut's first modular home factory at the newtown site
if all goes well, ground could be broken on the proposed 57,000-square-foot factory this summer. the factory would produce 300 homes a year and the product line would be expanded to include lower-priced and more expensive models along with the intermediate-priced models now being offered
the gerber homes currently are constructed by contempri homes in taylor, pa., and shipped to connecticut. all the gerber homes have been designed by deborah berke, who teaches architecture at yale university and runs a business in new york city
modular homes account for about 5 percent of all housing starts nationwide, and perhaps 15 percent of new houses in the northeast, where most modular home factories are located, said barbara martin, special projects consultant for the buildings systems council of the national association of home builders in washington, d.c
she could name only three companies selling high-end modular homes
george oswald of techno craft inc., another modular home company, predicts that 50 percent of the housing starts in the northeast will be modular homes by the year 2000
techno craft, which opened a 100,000-square-foot factory in mcelhattan, pa., last year, already has about $80 million in orders for its luxury homes
we're the ones who broke the sound barrier by going into the high-end (modular home) market,'' oswald said
the smallest techno-craft home is 2,600 square feet, with its colonial mansion models ranging up to 7,000 square feet, oswald said. the cost averages about $50 a square foot. the homes are sold finished and are available only through developers
gerber plans to sell to individual home buyers and small contractors
his current models cost about $65 a square foot completed, or about $130,000. it would take a crew several days to assemble the six pieces of each model and then about three more months to complete the home, gerber said
to those wanting to save money, the company will sell unfinished homes for about $35 a square foot, or about $70,000. for that price, the home comes with much of the work done, such as all the plumbing and electrical wiring run, and the insulation and wallboard installed. but an unfinished house has no roof, no siding, and the plumbing and wiring need to be hooked up
the company also will sell kits to those more than 30 miles away from its newtown office
we've gotten universal praise from every bank, appraiser, engineer, contractor and prospect who has visited the house (in newtown) prior to its formal opening,'' said gerber. ``at the same time, we haven't had the ultimate test, which is market exposure. we can't conclusively say we've designed a hula hoop, although that's what we believe.''
italian financier carlo de benedetti must identify his allies before government regulators will allow an extension of his offer for societe generale de belgiqe s.a, belgium's biggest holding company, a banking commission official said thursday
the official, who asked not to be named, said the french investment firm cerus s.a, through which de benedetti has sought control of societe generale, had asked to extend its offer beyond friday's original deadline
but the banking commission demanded that cerus names all its allies, specifying how many shares of societe generale each owns, by friday night before approving the request, the official said
cerus itself has a 18.6 percent stake in societe generale. but de benedetti claims he and his allies control 47.2 percent of the company's 28.2 million shares
a rival alliance centered around the french investment cie financiere de suez and belgium's biggest insurer, groupe ag, says it has a majority stake of 52 percent
both sides have voiced doubts on the claims of their opponents, and have each laid claim to the company's proposed capital increase of 12 million shares, which was approved by a brussels court tuesday
the ruling, however, is subject to confirmation by by a higher court
de benedetti wants to turn the 166-year-old societe generale into a holding company with interests across europe and wants to run the day-to-day affairs
the rival alliance wants to keep societe generale anchored in belgium
the company has interests in about half of belgium's 50 biggest companies and has an important stake in the country's gas, electricity and petroleum sector and belgium's largest bank
xerox corp. said thursday it would redeem $365 million in preferred shares issued in 1983 to help finance its acquisition of crum and forster inc., a property and casualty insurance company based in morristown, n.j
xerox said it would pay $52.72{ each for 6.94 million preferred shares that pay an annual dividend of $5.45. holders of the other 1.9 million shares of the preferred issue previously agreed to exchange their shares for a new issue of preferred stock
xerox, based in stamford, conn., said it financed the redemption with money from a variety of sources, including two new series of preferred stock issued in february and the ongoing sale of common stock through a dividend reinvestment program
the stock market showed some scattered losses today, having trouble extending its late-winter rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.46 to 2,063.83 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 604 up, 607 down and 502 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 75.20 million shares at midmorning
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the market's recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its monthly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
koppers co. jumped 6| to 51}. an investment group including the wall street firm of shearson lehman hutton inc. began a $45-a-share offer for the company, and traders quickly concluded that a higher bid or bids might be in the offing
home depot rose 1{ to 24|. the stock was added to standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to track the performance of the 500
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .30 to 150.38. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .67 at 291.59
grain and soybean futures opened slightly lower today on the chicago board of trade in light follow-through selling from wednesday's weaker close, analysts said
the wheat market continued to show nervousness about the agriculture department's new series of surplus wheat auctions, said joel karlin, an analyst for research department inc
the usda sold 10 million bushels of surplus wheat on tuesday, held another auction for 10 million bushels wednesday and has scheduled a third auction for friday, also with a target of 10 million bushels
karlin said wheat traders also were jittery about the dim prospects for new export sales in the near future
soybean futures prices weakened as soybean harvesting got under way in south america. a record soybean yield is expected in brazil
in early trading, wheat was 1 cent to 1} cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $3.05{ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1 cent lower with march at $2.01 a bushel; oats were 1{ cents to 2{ cents lower with march at $1.91 a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent to 3 cents lower with march at $6.28{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .40 cent to 1.07 cent lower with april at 71.05 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .50 cent to .95 cent lower with march at 79.62 cents a pound; hogs were unchanged to .60 cent lower with april at 42.65 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .25 cent lower to .03 cent higher with march at 52.15 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures ended mixed on wednesday
the u.s. auto industry may be trimming back on engineers, but the british auto industry is going out of its way to find more
the problem is the long, steady decline of auto manufacturing in the 1960s and 1970s, when young engineers looking for interesting, better paying jobs entered other fields
now that automaking in britain is on the rebound, the country's society of motor manufacturers &amp; traders has mounted a large-scale effort to restore pride in its car industry, said godfrey messervy, the society's president
messervy, in town for the society of automotive engineers annual convention, said britain is suffering from a shortage of engineers even though it is home to leading-edge innovators such as lotus engineering
there's a tendency for them not to go into the motor industry,'' messervy said
sales have begun to recover along with pay scales, he said, and makers have been improving efficiency and winning back sales in an import-dominated market
car sales in 1987 were a record of more than 2 million in the united kingdom, and the share of the market held by british-built car rose to 48.3 percent from 44 percent in 1986
but the nation doesn't seem aware that it again is growing a strong auto industry and messervy's society wants to change that
targeting schools, it is trying to convince parents and students that the auto industry is a good field for engineers and offering school career counselors 12-week introductions to the industry, sometimes with full pay
the society also is lobbying the government to repeal a 10 percent tax on car sales that doesn't apply to other consumer goods. in a nation with the lowest per-capita car ownership rate in western europe, messervy said repeal of the tax would boost car sales by 200,000 a year
the stock market drifted in a narrow range today, having trouble extending its late-winter rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 5.47 to 2,065.82 by noontime on wall street
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 667 up, 653 down and 491 unchanged
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the market's recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its montly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
koppers co. jumped 6] to 51{. an investment group including the wall street firm of shearson lehman hutton inc. began a $45-a-share offer for the company, and traders quickly concluded that a higher bid or bids might be in the offing
home depot rose 1{ to 24|. the stock was added to standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to track the performance of the 500
airline stocks were broadly higher, aided by signs of easing fare competition. delta air lines gained 1] to 49]; amr 1] to 41]; nwa 1[ to 44}, and allegis { to 76\
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .18 to 150.50. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.01 at 291.93
volume on the big board came to 109.12 million shares at noontime, against 107.45 million at the same point wednesday
an investment group led by beazer plc and shearson lehman hutton inc. launched a tender offer today of nearly $1.3 billion for koppers co. inc., a construction and chemicals company
koppers, which is based in pittsburgh, had no comment on the offer, which was initially disclosed in an advertisement in today's edition of the wall street journal. the offer expires march 30
beazer is a general construction company based in london and shearson is a new york-based investment banking firm
the offer of $45 a share is being made by bns inc., a company that is reportedly 49 percent owned by beazer and 45 percent by shearson. the remainder is held by county natwest international inc., a british investment bank
the bid triggered speculation on wall street that a higher offer might arise. in trading on the new york stock exchange, koppers stock jumped $6.37{ a share to $51.50 by midday
the bid is conditioned on, among other things, tender of a majority of koppers' common shares, approval by the non-managment directors of koppers, approval by beazer's shareholders and the bidding group's satisfaction that certain elements of delaware antitakeover laws are invalid
in a letter released in london, brian c. beazer, chairman and chief executive of beazer plc, told charles r. pullin, koppers' chairman and chief executive, that the proposed transaction ``offers excellent opportunity for people connected with koppers.''
he wrote that koppers would become ``part of a worldwide organization with the extensive resorces, depth of expertise and financial strength.''
beazer said it planned to operate koppers as an independent autonomous business and that there were no plans to move its headquarters from pittsburgh
it said affiliates of bns currently own 2.1 million kopper shares, or about 7.45 percent of koppers' outstanding common stock
robert o'gara, a spokesman for koppers, said the company had no comment on the offer and refused to comment on whether koppers' board planned to meet to discuss it
he said koppers had nearly 28.6 million common shares at the end of 1987, which would make the value of the tender offer about $1.29 billion
koppers' main businesses are construction materials and services, which mainly involve road construction, and chemical and allied products
koppers reported its profit for 1987 fell to $10.2 million, or 36 cents share, from $74.1 million, or $2.59 a share, a year earlier. the results included a charge of $59.4 million in 1987 due to settlement of a lawsuit
revenue for 1987 rose to $1.52 billion from $1.4 billion a year earlier
beazer said it earned $82.8 million on sales of $1.7 billion in its latest fiscal year ended june 30, 1987
beazer already has interests in the united states. it bought gifford-hill &amp; co., a cement-maker based in dallas, in 1986
the u.s. dollar rose thursday against most major currencies in light european trading. gold prices fell
foreign exchange dealers said they expected the dollar would trade within a narrow range until the march 17 release of the latest u.s. merchandise trade figures
one senior u.s. bank dealer in frankfurt said friday would not see much traditional pre-weekend position-squaring because few positions had been taken during the week
in london, the british pound stood at $1.7680, unchanged from late wednesday. it bounced back from a slight morning drop, when the bank of england sold small amounts of sterling for dollars and marks in an effort to keep sterling below 3.0 west german marks
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 129.30 yen, up from wednesday's 128.47 closing. later in london, it fell to 129.15 yen
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with rates late wednesday, were: 1.6955 west german marks, up from 1.6945; 1.4035 swiss francs, up from 1.4005; 5.7355 french francs, up from 5.7345; 1.9025 dutch guilders, up from 1.9013; 1,249.25 italian lire, up from 1,247.00; and 1.2535 canadian dollars, down from 1.2558
gold bullion was lower in london at $427.80 bid a troy ounce, compared with $429.50 late wednesday. in zurich, it also fell to $429.00, from $429.50 bid late wednesday
in hong kong, gold fell to a closing bid of $433.96, down from $434.95 bid late wednesday
silver bullion traded late in london at a bid $6.22 dollars a troy ounce, down from $6.24 dollars bid late wednesday
domestic automakers were scheduled to produce 211,893 cars and trucks this week, down from last week's 215,604, according to ward's automotive reports
automakers produced 254,844 cars and trucks during the same week a year ago, the trade journal said thursday
they were were scheduled to make 127,727 cars this week, compared with 130,744 a week ago and 174,376 in the same week in 1987
truck production for the week was scheduled at 84,166, compared with last week's 84,860 and last year's 80,468
canadian automakers were to build 23,677 cars this week, compared with 19,893 last week and 17,487 in the same week last year. canadian truck production was scheduled at 20,721, compared with 20,045 last week and 18,333 in the same week last year
as a top economist for nikko securities ltd., one of japan's largest brokerage firms, robert a. brusca has had to do more than just showcase his abilities for forecasting u.s. economic growth or the trade gap. for one thing, he's had to develop a taste for green tea
after about the seventh cup in one day i've had just about all the green tea i care to have,'' said the 37-year-old brusca, chief economist in the fixed-income division of nikko securities co. international inc., a nikko subsidiary
since joining nikko about two years ago and becoming the first american to be named a chief economist in that company, brusca has learned that foreign diplomacy and economics often go hand in hand _ and that having a sense of humor helps puts the two in harmony
his job is to keep nikko clients in japan and elsewhere abreast of u.s. economic conditions and to advise them on investments, particularly in the area of government bonds
but trying to predict the ups and downs of interest rates can sometimes be as difficult as learning the proper way to bow in japan; to exchange meishis, or business cards; or to drink green tea, japan's counterpart to coffee
in japan, ``everything is proper. the business meetings are very formal. people are very polite,'' said brusca, an affable man with thin brown hair and glasses. his wife, candace, is an aspiring actress
when you arrive at a meeting, you're introduced formally. you're seated in an office or a meeting room with tea tables and overstuffed chairs
then you exchange business cards. they're always handled with two hands, and once they're exchanged you leave them directly in front of you. each person takes turns to talk. it's considered rude to interrupt.''
despite the formality, the wry humor that has become brusca's trademark in the financial world still manages to find a frequent outlet
i was talking with two japanese executives who had been working together for 15 years,'' he recalled. ``the conversation turned to first names and it came out that those two didn't know each other's first name
i said, `everyone has the same first name (in japan) _ mister.'''
the two stoic men managed to crack a smile, brusca noted with pride
his weekly reports to clients on the state of the world's economy can be equally amusing. one dated jan. 29, for instance, used the comic book characters batman and robin in describing how economic strength in the fourth quarter was likely to give way to weakness through 1988
one of their favorite tricks was to turn their car sharply while moving at high speed so that it would skid backwards while going in the same direction until traction overtook inertia and they were able to reverse direction. the u.s. economy is experiencing a bat turn of sorts ...''
and then there was the report two weeks earlier that focused on west germany's reluctance to stimulate its economy to help improve its trade imbalance with the united states
i want to draw the distinction between being thoughtless and being mindless,'' he wrote. ``thoughtlessness implies an ability ... to be more considerate of the needs of others. mindlessness implies an inability to think clearly about anything ..
from my perch overseas their (west germany's) policies look mindless, but possibly they are merely thoughtless.''
brusca says those offbeat analogies are often deleted when translated from english to japanese
the people who read the japanese (version) have no idea i have a sense of humor,'' he said. ``and sometimes the people who read the english version have no idea i have a sense of humor.''
it's his unflinching wit, though, that helps get the detroit native quoted in business publications and on televised financial news shows. he also writes a regular column in ``financial world'' and is a contributor to nikkei financial daily
when asked nine days after the oct. 19 stock market collapse how wall street planned to commemorate the crash of 1929, he quickly responded, ``with paper hats and paper losses.''
but brusca warns: ``don't mistake that i'm not serious. i'm very serious about what i do. but the use of humor helps. it's a very high-pressure job. you can be ungodly serious or you can stay loose.''
advising investors about how and when to spend their hard-earned money is a tough business, and nikko didn't hire brusca just for his good humor
large japanese securities firms have gone out of their way in the past few years to hire experienced americans to act as teachers of sorts in helping ``westernize'' their foreign employers, brusca said
before nikko, he worked as a money market economist and ``fedwatcher'' at irving trust co. in new york. he also was a senior economist at the federal reserve bank of new york, where he analyzed international banking activity
brusca also holds doctorate and master's degrees from michigan state university
the stock market hovered in a narrow range today, having trouble extending its late-winter rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 5.81 to 2,065.48 by 2 p.m. on wall street
gainers slightly outnumbered losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 738 up, 691 down and 479 unchanged
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the market's recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its monthly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
koppers co. jumped 6| to 51}. an investment group including the wall street firm of shearson lehman hutton inc. began a $45-a-share offer for the company, and traders quickly concluded that a higher bid or bids might be in the offing
takeover rumors and speculation swirled around such other stocks as texas eastern, up 2} at 32, and firestone tire &amp; rubber, up 3[ at 49}
home depot rose 1{ to 24|. the stock was added to standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to track the performance of the 500
airline stocks were broadly higher, aided by signs of easing fare competition. delta air lines gained ~ to 48~; amr 1~ to 41~; nwa 1\ to 44~, and allegis 1[ to 76~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .16 to 150.52. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.01 at 291.93
volume on the big board came to 152.07 million shares with two hours to go
publicity about aids has reduced sales of the diet candy ayds by up to a half, so the manufacturer is looking for a new name to beef up its image, the chairman said thursday
the diet suppressant has been on the market for 47 years and remains a profitable product for the dep corp., but sales have dropped by as much as 50 percent over the past few years because of the name association, company chairman robert berglass said
you cannot specifically blame the disease on our product in any way, shape or form. we think it is a negative association and it would be best not to have it associated in any way,'' berglass said in a telephone interview from dep's headquarters, 15 miles south of downtown los angeles
johnson and johnson does not have a problem with band-aid because it has the name couched within what the product is,'' he said
i am sure that if you want to do a study, there are a lot of names out there with aids in it, band-aid, cur-aid,'' berglass said. ``our problem is that our name is just that one word.''
since january, ayds has been marketed in great britain under the new name aydslim. if sales show signs of recovery, the appetite suppressant candy may be sold in the united states under that name later this year
so far, reaction from retailers has been positive, berglass said. but consumer reaction has yet to be determined, he said
he expects consumer reaction to be available within the next few months. most people go on diets in the spring, as they think about summer swim suits, he explained
until the name question is answered, dep, which also makes lavoris mouthwash and topol smoker's toothpaste, has a ``frustrating marketing problem,'' he said
you cannot use the radio and television media to advertise. you are confined to print in reaching the consumer. people are not going to listen to your message when they hear it on a verbal basis. they have to see it. that's why our campaign for the spring will be in print.''
industry analysts disagree over the value of a name change
i think it's a dumb move,'' said charles e. brymer, president of the new york-based product-naming firm, interbrand usa
they should just walk away from the name ayds and relaunch it under a new name,'' brymer said. ``the whole aids issue has become so large that i would not want to market anything under that name.''
if you change the name, you give up the equity,'' said ira bachrach, president of san francisco-based namelab inc. ``besides, the problem with the name is more in the mind of the media than the consumer.''
federal health officials believe about 40,000 americans have acquired immune deficiency syndrome. by 1991, that figure is expected to top 270,000. presidental ..., with 2 grafs on reax to brady report; picks up 4th graf pvs, david ruder ....</note>
the chicago mercantile exchange has raised the margin requirements on its stock-index futures by 2 percentage points in response to a call for better coordination of the country's financial markets, officials said thursday
the change, approved wednesday by the exchange's board of governors, requires traders of the merc's standard &amp; poor's 500 stock-index futures to post payments equal to 15 percent of the value of the contracts being traded, instead of 13 percent as previously
a presidential commission that investigated the october stock market collapse suggested raising margins on stock-index futures as a way of curbing swings in their prices. the wild swings have been blamed for adding to volatility in the stock market
the presidential commission, headed by new york investment banker nicholas brady, found that professionals in the stock market can invest in stocks on a margin of as little as 20 to 25 percent. it said margins in futures should be ``consistent,'' although not necessarily equal
john f. sandner, chairman of the chicago mercantile exchange's board of governors, said in a statement that ``maintaining stock-index futures margin at the 15 percent level will bring the `consistency' sought by the brady commission.''
david ruder, chairman of the securities and exchange commission, has suggested margins of 20 percent to 25 percent on index futures
but wendy lee gramm, the new head of the commodity futures trading commission, which regulates futures markets, said wednesday she saw no need for higher margins on stock-index futures
the chicago mercantile exchange is the nation's largest market for stock-index futures, accounting for more than 80 percent of all contracts traded
stock-index futures are traded by investors who use them to hedge against losses in the stock market as well as speculators who hope to profit by guessing on the direction of the market
texas instruments inc. said thursday it will sell a computer for artificial-intelligence work based on apple computer inc.'s macintosh ii, a step that should move ``thinking machines'' more into the mainstream of business
texas instruments said the new micro explorer would have all the functions of a standard macintosh ii as well as artificial-intelligence features, such as the ability to manipulate symbols instead of just numbers
most other artificial-intelligence (ai) workstations, including texas instruments' own explorer, cannot be used as general-purpose computers
other ai companies are also moving to insert their technology into existing computers, including texas instruments' biggest rival in the field, symbolics inc. of cambridge, mass
however, cupertino, calif.-based apple said it will have an especially close relationship with dallas-based texas instruments. in a first for both companies, texas instruments and apple will both put their logos on the micro explorer, which will be marketed only by texas instruments
texas instruments and apple said the micro explorer could be used in such varied fields as tax advising, computer-aided design and assigning gates to airplanes at airports
although artificial intelligence encompasses the whole concept of making computers think like people, most products on the market have the more modest goal of augmenting human decision makers by converting knowledge into a set of rules that can be applied by a computer
the price of the micro explorer ranges from about $15,000 to $30,000, compared to $50,000 to $70,000 for the explorer, which is about twice as powerful, texas instruments said. an ai package will also be available for people who already own the mac ii. shipments are scheduled to begin in the april-june period
symbolics, in a response to the texas instruments announcement, said its ivory chip for artificial intelligence is superior to texas instruments' explorer lisp chip. it also said its chip will be plugged into not only the mac ii, but also international business machines corp.'s personal system-2 and pc at, although it could not give a timetable
texas instruments said it had no timetable for putting its artificial-intelligence chip into other personal computers besides the mac ii
royal dutch-shell group of companies reported thursday that its profit rose 14 percent in both the fourth quarter and all of 1987, but the world's largest oil company would have suffered a decrease for the year under accounting rules used in the united states
the anglo-dutch oil giant said after-tax earnings for the final three months of 1987 totaled 858 british pounds, or about $1.5 billion, compared with a profit of 752 pounds a year earlier. it attributed the improvement to gains in exploration, production and chemical businesses that offset lower refinery profits
revenue fell 37.6 percent to 1.34 billion pounds from 2.15 billion pounds, a drop attributed largely to asset sales and movements in net working capital during the year-earlier period, the company said
for the full year, royal dutch-shell said it had an after-tax profit of 2.88 billion pounds, or about $4.74 billion, compared with earnings of 2.54 billion pounds in 1986. revenue decreased 29.3 percent to 5.3 billion pounds from 7.5 billion pounds
royal dutch-shell uses an accounting system that values inventories on a ``first-in, first-out basis,'' as opposed to the ``last-in, first-out'' basis used by most major american oil companies
the company said that if it had used the american accounting system, its full-year results would have shown a 15 percent decline in profit _ dropping to 2.86 billion pounds, or about $4.73 billion, from 3.37 billion pounds
for the fourth-quarter, however, its profit would have been ever better under the american rules, showing a 64 percent rise. its earnings for the quarter totaled 986 million pounds, or about $1.71 billion, compared with a profit of 600 million pounds a year earlier
with headquarters in london and the hague, netherlands, royal dutch-shell is the largest oil company in the world. it is the parent of shell oil co., based in houston
roxane laboratories inc. has recalled six lot numbers of its roxanol 100 pain reliever because of a possibly defective spoon that the company said could result in an overdose of morphine
the recall, announced wednesday, is for lots 860503, 860828, 870289, 870521, 870860 and 871027 of roxanol 100, a liquid form of morphine sulfate prescribed for the relief of severe pain in terminally ill cancer patients
the company said there is no problem with the drug itself and that no injuries have been reported to date. the product is distributed nationwide
a similar product called roxanol, which is dispensed with a dropper, is not involved in the recall, the company said
the company said a defective spoon was discovered in display samples of roxanol 100. the defective spoon has a cylindrical tube, from top to bottom, into which medication is poured for measurement; the correct spoon has a plug in the tube just below the 20mg mark, and the lower third of the tube just below the plug is open on the back side
roxane laboratories estimated the risk of the defective spoon appearing in a package of roxanol 100 at about 1 in 1,000, but requested that hospitals, pharmacies and wholesalers that have the lot numbers in question return the packages to roxane laboratories for inspection. the company said replacement stock is available
the company also urged pharmacists and other health care professionals to consult with patients using roxanol 100 and determine if any defective spoons are in their possession
patients taking the drug should consult with pharmacists or other health professionals, the company said. roxane laboratories said it would supply a replacement spoon in cases where spoons are found to be defective, or that replacements could be supplied by pharmacists or physicians
eds: the address for roxane laboratories is 1809 wilson road, columbus, ohio, 43228
the stock market fluctuated in a narrow range today, unable to extend its late-winter rally
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its monthly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 7.80 to 2,063.49
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 10 to 9 on the new york stock exchange, with 779 up, 701 down and 454 unchanged
big board volume totaled 203.31 million shares, against 199.63 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index edged up .02 at 150.70
hilton hotels corp. said thursday it has been approached by a japanese investor about the possibility of selling its 22-acre hilton hawaiian village on waikiki beach
however, the company's chairman and chief executive, barron hilton, denied a report that the investors had offered $1 billion, noting that price would equate to about $340,000 a room, which is less than other hotels in hawaii have fetched
he also noted that the company has recently spent $100 million refurbishing the 2,524-room complex, which is owned jointly with prudential insurance co. of america
hilton didn't identify the investors, but said that the overtures were unsolicited and that no formal discussions had been held
the hotel is not on the market. we do not feel it is in the best interest of our company to sell the village at this time,'' hilton said
his statement did not address a report in the wall street journal on thursday that the investors also were interested in acquiring the company's waldorf-astoria hotel in new york, and a company spokesman declined to elaborate
hilton is sole owner of the waldorf, which also has recently undergone an expensive refurbishing
the hawaiian village and waldorf have turned in especially strong earnings in recent periods, the company has said
late last year, the company sold the 592-room beverly hilton to entertainer-businessman merv griffin for $100.2 million. the beverly hills property also was jointly owned by hilton and prudential. report are for week ended tuesday. all other figures are for the week ended wednesday.</note>
assets of the nation's 418 money market mutual funds fell $1.15 billion in the latest week, the investment company institute said thursday
the decline, to $278.51 billion in the seven-day period ended wednesday, followed a revised $2.59 billion increase in the funds' assets the previous week, according to the washington-based mutual fund trade group. that rise, in the week ended feb. 24, put the funds' assets at a record high of $280.02 billion
the investment company institute said that in the latest week, assets of 208 general purpose funds rose $230.5 million to $81.67 billion, assets of 97 broker-dealer funds dropped $457.8 million to $115.10 billion, and assets of 113 institutional funds decreased $1.28 billion to $81.74 billion
the seven-day average yield on money market mutual funds fell in the week ended tuesday to 6.10 percent from 6.16 percent the previous week, according to donoghue's money fund report, a trade journal based in holliston, mass
the 30-day average yield fell to 6.17 percent from 6.23 percent, donoghue's said
the average maturity of the portfolios held by money funds was 45 days, up from 43 days, donoghue's said
separately, the newsletter bank rate monitor said its survey of 100 leading commercial banks, savings and loan assocations and savings banks in the nation's 10 largest markets showed the effective annual yield available on money market accounts fell to 5.74 percent as of wednesday from 5.75 percent a week earlier
the north palm beach, fla.-based newsletter said the effective annual yield available on special savings accounts, called super now accounts, were unchanged at 5.17 percent
bank rate monitor said the effective annual yield was 6.85 percent on six-month certificates of deposit, down from 6.88 percent the previous week. yields were 7.16 percent on 1-year cds, down from 7.20 percent; 7.57 percent on 2{-year cds, down from 7.62 percent; and 8.04 percent on 5-year cds, down from 8.08 percent
stock prices went their own very different ways thursday in an inconclusive session marked by intense takeover speculation and some selling of blue chips
the dow jones average of 30 big-name industrials slipped 7.80 to 2,063.49
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 9 to 8 on the new york stock exchange, with 793 up, 707 down and 454 unchanged
big board volume totaled 203.31 million shares, against 199.63 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index edged up .02 at 150.70
analysts said the market faced continuing selling from investors cashing in profits from the recent rally or just feeling skeptical about its chances to go much further
but they also noted that many market participants have been impressed by stocks' ability to absorb that selling without retreating much from the early-1988 highs they reached early this week
optimists who believe the economy can escape a recession despite the market crash last october may get some further support for their hopes when the labor department issues its monthly report friday on the employment situation
some advance estimates call for the figures to show a healthy increase in payroll employment of 150,000 or more for february
koppers co. jumped 6| to 51}. an investment group including the wall street firm of shearson lehman hutton inc. began a $45-a-share offer for the company, and traders quickly concluded that a higher bid or bids might be in the offing
takeover rumors and speculation swirled around such other stocks as texas eastern, up 2} at 32, and firestone tire &amp; rubber, up 2~ at 49{
home depot rose 1\ to 24]. the stock was added to standard &amp; poor's 500-stock composite index, prompting buying by index funds set up to track the performance of the 500
airline stocks were broadly higher, aided by signs of easing fare competition. delta air lines gained ~ to 48~; amr 2[ to 42[; nwa 1[ to 44}, and allegis 1\ to 77. the group has also gotten a lift lately from weakness in oil prices
sears roebuck, which reported a 2.5 percent gain in retail sales for february, dropped 1 to 38}. other losers among the blue chips included international business machines, down } at 116{; philip morris, down 2[ at 93; general electric, down ] at 44}, and merck, down { at 163}
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $2.47 billion, or 0.09 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 233.42 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials dropped .26 to 309.34, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down .10 at 267.88
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market rose 1.63 to 372.01. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 292.51, up 1.59
worldwide demand for oil may drive prices up to nearly twice present levels and increase dependence on persian gulf supplies, according to a study by harvard university released wednesday
the yearlong study, partially funded by a consortium of japanese government and busineses, was conducted by harvard's energy and environmental policy center and entitled ``lower oil prices: mapping the impact.''
it said the improved economies in industrial nations since oil prices dropped in 1986 have discouraged conservation efforts and reduced oil stockpiles
today's low prices sow the seeds for higher prices tomorrow by encouraging use, by improving prospects for economic growth ... and by lulling consumers, industries and government into energy security complacency,'' the report stated
but the study indicated that lower oil prices have also triggered a long-term economic growth rate of 2.5 percent annually in the united states and 3 percent to 4 percent in japan
a harvard study released in september characterized reagan administration energy policies as ``myopic'' for failing to encourage conservation and bolster domestic oil reserves. the earlier study also called for a $5-a-barrel oil import tariff to promote domestic oil production and reduce dependence on persian gulf supplies
the latest report predicts oil prices could rise from recent levels _ between $15 and $20 per 42-gallon barrel _ to more than $30 a barrel by the early 1990s
as demand growth resumes, then higher oil prices cannot be far behind,'' the report stated
the study found that while governments have been increasing oil reserves, including the u.s. strategic petroleum reserve, petroleum companies have reduced stockpiles due to higher demand. the situation weakens the nation's ability to withstand disruptions in oil imports, particularly from the persian gulf
the report was authored by bijan mossavar-rahmani of apache international inc., a denver-based firm studying international oil supplies, and harvard professors william hogan, dale jorgenson and richard cooper
lie detectors, likened by one lawmaker to ``20th century witchcraft,'' would be largely banned from use in job interviews and the private workplace under legislation approved by the senate on thursday
on a 69-27 vote, the senate approved a bill co-written by sens. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., and orrin hatch, r-utah _ normally adversaries on labor-management issues _ outlawing about 85 percent of the current use of polygraph examinations
conservative opponents predicted that president reagan would sign the legislation once a final version of the bill has emerged from a senate-house conference
an estimated 2 million people, most of them jobseekers, are required to take lie detector tests every year and that number is growing exponentially, said kennedy, who chairs the senate's labor and human resources committee
hatch, the committee's ranking republican, said an overwhelming majority of the tests are conducted in brief 15-minute sessions and under conditions that render false results between 15 percent and 50 percent of the time
i'm sick and tired of the way people are using these devices,'' he said. ``some 320,000 honest americans are branded as liars every single year. that's a stigma they have to wear every day the rest of their lives and careers.''
similar but more restrictive legislation was approved by the house 254-158 last november
kennedy said he planned to meet with rep. pat williams, d-mont., chief author of the house version, within the next two weeks to work out a plan for resolving differences between the two versions in a compromise that could win passage in both houses
they ban about 90 percent and we ban about 85 percent,'' he said, predicting the new prohibtion will become law before the end of the year ``with or without the president's support.''
just prior to the vote thursday, after more than two days of debate, senate opponents complained that the administration had softened its opposition after threatening last year to veto any polygraph bill
the administration does not have the backbone at this time to veto this bill,'' complained sen. dan quayle, r-ind. ``they have folded up shop, caving like a house of cards.''
quayle and other opponents said prohibiting the use of lie detectors will prevent businesses such as restaurants, stores and trucking companies subject to large losses from thefts from screening out dishonest workers
in passing this legislation, we are going to increase costs for consumers and the cost of doing business in this country,'' said sen. thad cochran, r-miss
hatch, however, said no one has presented any statistics in states where use of the test already is prohibited to demonstrate a higher incidence of theft or embezzlement
the legislation has been sought for years by civil liberties groups and labor unions, who contend that the devices are used to intimidate workers and weed out union sympathizers among job applicants
we applaud the senate in recognizing that lie detectors can be used in blatant assaults on a worker's right of privacy,'' afl-cio president lane kirkland said after thursday's vote
kennedy said the polygraph has become ``to the 20th century what witchcraft was two centuries ago.''
this is going to diminish a lot of the harrassment that is becoming increasingly evident in workplaces across the country,'' he said. ``these devices are no longer going to scar people in ways that they and their families can never forget.''
the senate measure is less prohibitive than the house version in that it allows companies to use polygraphs in investigating incidents of ``economic loss or injury'' but only under strict regulations to be enforced by the labor department
the house bill bans all uses of lie detectors in private industry, including investigations of specific losses, but exempts private security, armored guard and pharmaceutical companies from coverage
the senate on thursday approved an amendment also exempting security and armored car companies, and kennedy said friday that pharmaceutical houses will likely be exempted in the house-senate compromise
hatch said the senate version allowing continued use of polygraphs to investigate specific incidents of theft or sabotage diminished much of the opposition to the bill from various trade associations. he credited leaders of the 1-million-member united food and commercial workers union for working out the deal
while honest people each year are branded as liars, conversely, it is a regrettable fact that employees steal,'' he said. ``this bill addresses both concerns by barring use of polygraphs where they are most likely to make a false identification but permitting the use of these tests where they are likely to be most accurate.''
before any test, employers would first have to file a police report, insurance claim or report to a regulatory agency _ or sign a statement detailing their reasons for testing a specific worker
the tests would have to be administered under strict guidelines, to be developed by the labor department, requiring at least 90 minutes for each exam. violations could result in fines of up to $10,000
the dollar ended mixed against most key currencies thursday in apathetic trading that money dealers attributed to a lack of influential economic news
gold prices fell. republic national bank of new york quoted gold at $428.20 as of 4 p.m. est, down from $430.25 late wednesday
it was so quiet today,'' said toshihiko masaki, a foreign exchange trader at the new york branch of japan's sanwa bank. ``the market is waiting for the next trade figures.''
the commerce department is scheduled to report the january merchandise trade deficit and the fourth-quarter on march 17. the deficits over the previous two months have shown a decline, easing pressure on the dollar
some traders also are focusing on the department's march 15 release of the 1987 fourth-quarter current account balance, which measures foreign trade in goods and services
in the third quarter, the service portion of that statistic showed a deficit for the first time, and that deficit was expected to increase in the fourth quarter. the amount of increase could put pressure on the dollar
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 129.30 yen, up from 128.47 wednesday. but later in london it retreated to 129.15 yen. by the time trading concluded in new york, the dollar was worth 129.12 yen, lower than 129.40 yen quoted late wednesday
in london, the british pound stood at $1.7680, unchanged from late wednesday. later in new york the pound was quoted at $1.7700, slightly more expensive than $1.7673 late wednesday
other late dollar rates in new york compared with late wednesday levels included: 1.6943 west german marks, down from 1.6978; 1.4050 swiss francs, up from 1.4030; 1.2531 canadian dollars, down from 1.2571; 5.7310 french francs, down from 5.7385; 1,248.00 italian lire, down from 1,248.25
other late dollar rates in europe compared with rates late wednesday included: 1.6955 west german marks, up from 1.6945; 1.4035 swiss francs, up from 1.4005; 5.7355 french francs, up from 5.7345; 1.9025 dutch guilders, up from 1.9013; 1,249.25 italian lire, up from 1,247.00; and 1.2535 canadian dollars, down from 1.2558
gold bullion fell in london to $427.80 a troy ounce vs. $429.50 late wednesday. in zurich, it fell to $429.00 from $429.50 bid late wednesday and in hong kong it fell to $433.96 from $434.95
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery fell $3.10 a troy ounce to $427.70
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.22 a troy ounce, down from $6.24 late wednesday. on the new york comex, silver bullion for current delivery was quoted at $6.264 an ounce, up 4.8 cents
the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply rose in the week ended feb. 22, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the fed said the measure known as m2 rose to a seasonally adjusted $2,952.8 billion from $2,946.4 billion the previous week
an even broader measure, m3, increased to a seasonally adjusted $3,724.2 billion from $3,721.5 billion
the narrowest measure of the money supply, m1, rose to a seasonally adjusted $762.1 billion from $759.9 billion
m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks. m2 is m1 plus accounts like savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
in judging its monetary policy, the fed has indicated it is monitoring the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. it also has shifted its attention from m1 to the two broader money supply measures
for the latest 13 weeks, m2 averaged $2,920.6 billion, a 4.3 percent seasonally adjusted annual rate of gain from the previous 13 weeks. m3 averaged $3,684.3 billion, up 5.2 percent, while m1 rose 2.2 percent to an average of $756.1 billion
the fed said in early 1988 that it would like annual growth for m2 and m3 to be between 4 percent and 8 percent, which is slightly lower than the 1987 target of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent. the fed has not set a specific target range for m1 since early 1987
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks fell $1.07 billion in the week ended feb. 24, compared with a gain of $444 million a week earlier
_the federal reserve said bank borrowings from the federal reserve system averaged $187 million day in the week ended wednesday, up from $132 million
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $272.5 billion in the two-week period ended wednesday, up from $272.1 billion two weeks earlier
some cattle futures prices plunged the 1{-cent limit allowed for daily trading thursday due to slack demand for beef and reports of a packer plant closing, analysts said
on other markets, grain and soybean futures retreated; energy futures were down; precious metals were mixed; and stock-index futures advanced
tight supplies of slaughter-ready cattle have driven up the prices asked by producers, but sales of beef have slowed during the lenten season and packing houses are caught in middle, analysts said
swift independent packing co. said thursday it would close its dumas, texas, slaughter facility next week, at least temporarily, and traders on the chicago mercantile exchange feared other plants also would close, said chuck levitt, an analyst in chicago for shearson lehman hutton inc
a wave of plant closings could lead to a backlog of finished cattle, ultimately forcing cash cattle prices lower, he said
the sell-off was exacerbated by the record-high number of unfilled buy orders for live cattle going into thursday's session, said tom o'hare, an analyst in new york for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
when live cattle for april delivery fell below the key support level of 71.20 cents a pound, traders rushed to offset those open ``long'' positions with sell orders, accelerating the slide, he said
when you have a lot of open interest it has the potential for making the market very volatile,'' o'hare said
a lot of people have gotten in in the last couple of weeks, but the movement of beef carcasses and boxed beef has been insufficient to make people continue to be long.''
hog futures retreated on reports that japanese inspectors had detected residues of sulfamethazine, a possibly carcinogenic feed additive, in shipments of u.s. pork, analysts said
live cattle settled .80 cent to 1.50 cents lower with the contract for delivery in april at 70.62 cents a pound; feeder cattle were 1 cent to 1.50 cents lower with march at 79.07 cents a pound; hogs were .02 cent to .80 cent lower with april at 42.45 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .30 cent lower with march at 52.25 cents a pound
soybean futures prices dropped sharply on the chicago board of trade. grain futures also ended lower
the beginning of the south american soybean harvest, coupled with expectations of increased farmer selling of soybeans, created concern that abundant supplies could depress cash prices, analysts said
the wheat market drifted lower amid nervousness about the agriculture department's new series of surplus wheat auctions, analysts said
the usda sold 10 million bushels of surplus wheat on tuesday. but the agency announced after thursday's close that it had sold just 1.4 million of the 10 million bushels it had offered on wednesday. another auction on friday has the potential of putting another 10 million bushels of surplus wheat onto the open market
corn prices fell only slightly, with support stemming from ideas the soviet union had purchased more u.s. corn than the usda has confirmed, said ted mao, an analyst for shearson
wheat settled 1} cents to 2} cents lower with march at $3.04\ a bushel; corn was \ cent to 1\ cents lower with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were 2 cents to 7{ cents lower with march at $1.86 a bushel; soybeans were 4\ cents to 8 cents lower with march at $6.23 a bushel
oil futures started out strong, then sold off sharply and settled near the day's lows on the new york mercantile exchange
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 5 cents to 17 cents lower with april at $15.50 a barrel; heating oil was .44 cent to 1.04 cents lower with april at 42.89 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .27 cent to .55 cent lower with april at 44.40 cents a gallon
gold futures followed oil prices lower on new york's commodity exchange, while silver futures moved higher due to silver's value as an industrial metal, said bette raptopoulos, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
gold settled $3 to $3.40 lower with april at $429.10 a troy ounce; silver was 4.3 cents to 4.8 cents higher with march at $6.264 a troy ounce
stock-index futures slipped lower on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .10 point higher at 268.45. the underlying spot index lost .09 point, closing at 267.89
workers contemplated other jobs and city officials thought about attracting other employers after general motors corp. said it planned to close the only plant still making pontiacs in pontiac
while company officials blamed market conditions for the demise of the pontiac fiero, workers said engineering innovations and better promotion could have helped
pontiac general manager michael losh blamed the market conditions for sagging fiero sales, from 101,720 in 1984 to 47,156 last year
workers were sent home tuesday after losh announced that the plant will shut down after the 1988 model year, idling 1,109
the fiero plant was one of the first at gm to accept japanese-style team organization of workers and was used as a model for other plants, united auto workers local 653 president harold cox said
but some workers said the teamwork idea evidently did not extend to business decisions
we built the best quality in the corporation for four years,'' said one, dale jorden of clarkston. ``why are we being laid off?''
analysts and others pointed to an overall drop in sales of sporty, two-seater cars like the fiero. toyota mr2 and mazda rx7 sales also have lagged
in addition, the fiero had problems including engine fires so frequent that gm recalled the entire 1984 fiero production run late last year
gm already had closed a foundry, another car assembly plant, a heavy-duty truck plant and a bus plant in pontiac and put more than 1,200 other fiero workers on layoff
the fiero is the last pontiac manufactured in pontiac, though the division will still be based there, noted city council president emmett elliott jr., who is also a local 653 officer
it was a business decision, but from my position, i'd say it was a bad decision,'' elliott said. ``they sell a product all over the country and label it a `pontiac' and now they don't even build it here.''
mayor walter moore estimated the city will lose $200,000 in tax revenue and said he has asked to meet with gm officials to discuss bringing new work to the plant
but council president pro tem peter tenuta said it was not gm the city should talk to. ``we should do everything we can to try to fill those buildings with non-automotive-type jobs,'' he said
cox said he was sorry gm did not do more to promote and market the car, which was labeled revolutionary when introduced nearly five years ago because of its mid-engine design, space-frame and plastic body panels
dick long, uaw local 653 vice president, said delaying engineering changes such as addition of power steering undoubtedly hastened its demise
i think the engineering community let us down,'' long said
the announcement came without warning. only last week gm approved a $15 million special advertising campaign for the fiero. gm's chevrolet-pontiac-canada group called 12 skilled toolmakers back to their jobs last week to work on tooling for a redesigned 1990 fiero
dave d. campbell, a gm vice president and director of operations for the pontiac group, said the decision came at a meeting monday after an intensive review that began only three or four weeks ago
losh would not speculate on whether the fiero plant might reopen to build a new product
campbell said one possible future product would be a plastic-body replacement for the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro that is scheduled for the 1991 model year
a detention hearing for stock speculator john mulheren, accused of threatening a witness in the ivan boesky insider trading probe, has been moved from new jersey to new york
u.s. district judge kevin duffy ordered the hearing moved up from 2 p.m. friday in fort monmouth, n.j. to 10 a.m. in manhattan at the request of defense lawyer otto obermaier
the defense attorney said he wanted the hearing moved up ``to prevent the prosecution from delaying _ and allowing mr. mulheren, ultimately, to be released on bail.''
obermaier claimed federal prosecutors would seek a psychiatric evaluation of mulheren to hold him, in effect, without bail for 30 days
assistant u.s. attorney robert gage, while denying the government wanted to delay bail proceedings for mulheren, conceded: ``it would be irresponsible for us not to get an adequate medical opinion.''
mulheren, 38, the senior partner at the jamie securities co., was arrested on weapons charges feb. 18 by police in rumson, n.j. and a federal criminal complaint filed in manhattan accused him of threatening a witness in the boesky probe, identified only as ``witness x.''
mulheren was released without bond tuesday on the new jersey charges, but was immediately taken into federal custody
the new hearing is scheduled before u.s. magistrate kathleen roberts
bond prices barely budged in lethargic trading thursday as the market looked for more evidence on the strength of the economy
the treasury's bellwether 30-year bond finished unchanged and its yield held steady at 8.31 percent, the same as late wednesday
most traders were said to be keeping a low profile in anticipation of the labor department's unemployment report for february, which is due out friday and could shed some more light on the economy's strength
it's been a dead calm in the bond market for the last several days,'' said harold nathan, senior financial economist for wells fargo &amp; co. in san francisco. he said a new decline in commodity prices, often viewed positively by bond traders concerned about inflation, failed to cheer the markets
he said the market appears to have adjusted to a recent slight relaxation in monetary policy by the federal reserve board, and was looking to the employment report for additional evidence on the economy
we are not dipping into recession, but the question is how fast are we growing,'' he said
prices of short-term governments were unchanged to 1-32 point higher, while intermediate maturities and 20-year issues were unchanged, according to figures provided by telerate inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, rose 0.04 to 114.01. the shearson lehman hutton composite index, which makes a similar measurement, rose 0.19 to 1,192.39
in corporate trading, industrials and utilities were unchanged in light trading, according to the investment firm of salomon brothers inc
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, fell 0.03 to 286.16
yields on three-month treasury bills were unchanged at 5.60 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills rose 4 basis points to 5.86 percent and one-year bills edged up 2 basis points at 6.16 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6 7-16 percent, down from 6{ percent late wednesday
a chicago gynecologist was indicted for perjury and on obstruction of justice charges thursday over his testimony on behalf of the a.h. robins co. concerning its dalkon shield birth control device, the justice department said
dr. louis g. keith, 53, an obstetrician-gynecologist at northwestern university medical school in chicago, testified falsely in a lawsuit about his role in tests regarding the transfer of bacteria by the tail string of the intrauterine shield, a federal grand jury alleged
contrary to his testimony, keith didn't design, direct or conduct the experiments about which he testified, said the nine-count indictment returned in u.s. district court in tampa, fla
keith testified that tests showed the tail string of the dalkon shield didn't transfer fluids or bacteria
keith's testimony came during a trial in tampa on march 15, 1983, in which a woman, linda harre, was seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by the dalkon shield
the maximum penalty for violating the perjury law is five years in prison and a $10,000 fine. the maximum penalty for obstruction of justice is five years in prison and a $5,000 fine
the a.h. robins of richmond, va., sought protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code in august 1985 after thousands of women alleged they were injured by the dalkon shield. some 200,000 claims have been filed by women who said the birth control device caused spontaneous abortions, infections, sterility and other problems
a maker of 12-inch sidewalk bicycles is offering to replace wheels that could shatter if overinflated, the consumer product safety commission said thursday
the replacement program involves about 40,000 model bmx-12 bikes made by rand international of farmingdale, n.y., the agency said. bikes were sold through otasco and other stores in the east, south and southeast prior to january 1987
the 12-inch boys' bikes are blue and can be identified by the rand label on the stem of the front fork
the safety commission said no injuries have been reported, but there is the danger that if the tires are overinflated the rims could shatter, causing a hazard to bystanders
rand is offering free replacement wheels to consumers who write to rand international, 51 executive blvd., farmingdale, n.y., 11735. interested consumers can call rand at 1-516-249-6000 or the safety commission at 1-800-638-2772
media general inc. as expected, rejected a $1.75 billion buyout proposal from television producer burt sugarman on thursday
in a four-sentence letter to sugarman, media general president james s. evans said the founding bryan family, which owns a controlling interest in the company, deemed the offer unacceptable
evans stated the family would vote against the proposal if put to a shareholder vote, and that ``under the circumstances no further action on the part of the board is appropriate
sugarman controls 9.8 percent of media general's 28 million shares of publicly-traded class a common stock and has offered $61.50 per share for the remainder of the company's class a and class b stock, or a total of about $1.75 billion
about 71 percent of media general's privately-held class b shares are owned by chairman d. tennant bryan and vice chairman j. stewart bryan iii. the rest is owned by relatives and others closely associated with the family and media general
the 559,168 class b shares have the power to elect seven of the company's 10 directors. furthermore, any change in control of the company requires approval from two-thirds of the class b holders
after sugarman made his buyout offer on monday, the bryans issued a statement that their stock was not for sale at any price
sugarman was traveling and was unavailable to comment on evans' letter, said spokesman jeffrey taufield in new york
media general class a shares fell $1.25 to $46.12{ a share thursday on the new york stock exchange
media general owns a number of daily newspapers, plus 32 weeklies and several television stations. moved on general news wires.</note>
the senate on wednesday night narrowly approved a resolution by senators from steel-producing states opposing a $400 million world bank loan to help mexico upgrade its steel industry
it doesn't make any sense where we have unemployed steel workers walking up and down the streets of the cities of this country,'' said sen. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, who with sen. john heinz, r-pa., proposed the resolution
the resolution was attached on a 48-45 vote to legislation that would outlaw most uses of lie detector tests by private employers. final action on that bill is scheduled for thursday
heinz complained that the amount of aid in the loan is equivalent to what would be a $4 billion bailout of the u.s. steel industry _ which is 10 times larger than the mexican steel industry _ at a time when american steel employment has dropped by 56 percent over the past 12 years
however, the resolution was opposed by sens. christopher dodd, d-conn.; bill bradley, d-n.j.; ted stevens, r-alaska; john chafee, r-r.i., daniel j. evans, r-wash., and nancy kassebaum, r-kan
bradley said the loan is just the type of aid needed to assure that a non-marxist government will continue to rule in mexico. other opponents of the resolution said the senate should not be interfering in every decision made by the world bank
earlier wednesday, metzenbaum said treasury secretary james a. baker iii has agreed to vote against the loan if he cannot persuade the bank to delay its consideration. the world bank board, which is made up of 22 members representing 151 member countries, is scheduled to take up the loan proposal thursday
baker agreed to the move following a meeting called by senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., metzenbaum said
metzenbaum said he warned baker that support for the world bank in congress could evaporate if the loan were made. the united states provides 20 percent of the world bank's funding
it is absurd for the american government to contribute to a world bank policy that will hurt the american steel industry and american steel workers,'' the senator said
the kind of assistance the world bank plans to give to mexico to make its steel industry more competitive is exactly the kind of assistance this administration has refused to give to our own industry here at home,'' he said
a treasury department spokesman said it is the agency's policy not to comment on a vote until it occurs
