m politician involved and party leader. no pickup</note>
national assembly candidate luis mejia miranda on monday ridiculed reports he was involved in misusing u.s. aid money. ``can you imagine that if i had ... ($2 million) i would still be in this country?,'' he asked
president jose napoleon duarte's son denied he was trying to protect mejia, a fellow christian democrat who was reported under investigation in the case
i deny any tie because i am not protecting him and because i am against corruption,'' said alejandro duarte, candidate for mayor of san salvador in the march 20 elections
the new york times said sunday that mejia is being investigated for allegedly misusing up to $2 million of u.s. aid
it said the money was part of a $10 million program to assist war-ravaged areas and help win the support of salvadorans in the war against leftist rebels
the newspaper quoted unidentified salvadoran and u.s. officials as saying it could be the largest case of theft of u.s. aid money during the administration of president duarte, elected in may 1984 for a five-year term
in an interview with local newspapers, mejia said ``that news (about alleged misuse of funds) surprises me because it is totally false.''
rodolfo castillo claramount, duarte's vice president and secretary-general of the governing christian democratic party, said the article was ``full of vagueness and imprecisions with the political intention of damaging the party.''
he said it was written ``within a strategic conception of the ultra-right of the country.''
he also read a communique saying the party backed alejandro duarte as ``an absolutely honorable, capable and honest man.''
referring to allegations against mejia, the communique said ``we abstain from making a value judgment because we do not know if there is evidence.''
alejandro duarte denied being an associate of mejia and said he had urged mejia to cooperate with any investigation
it is vital that the truth be arrived at,'' he told reporters. ``if he (mejia) is clean, he does not have to be afraid. if he feels he is outside of the accusations, then he should submit himself to any investigation.''
all this is a dirty political game and i feel indignant for having been involved,'' alejandro duarte said
asked about his relationship with mejia, he replied, ``i have no personal friendship with him. i know him like the majority of the members of the party.''
the new york times said mejia resigned three months ago as director of the national commission for the restoration of areas, but president duarte agreed to allow him to become a party candidate for the national assembly on the recommendation of alejandro duarte
a u.s. embassy source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said ``these allegations are being studied.''
at this time the inspector general of aid (the u.s. agency for international development) has made no determination of bad use of funds in this program,'' the source said. ``however, other recent studies have identified certain aspects of financial control and management of conara (the restoration commission) and since january of this year there have been some changes in the method of management.''
castillo claramount said the party asked for an investigation of the alleged theft of funds. if there is evidence it occurred, the party will ask the assembly to remove the immunity merida enjoys as a substitute deputy and will ask the electoral council to revoke his candidacy, he said
two french-cooking schools _ one the oldest, the other the newest _ are giving the world's gastronomic capital yet another culinary lift
cordon bleu, the oldest and most prestigious, has taken on a high-tech image at a new location in a five-story building that once was an infirmary
the luxurious ritz hotel, the newest, is opening its kitchens april 5 to students of haute cuisine
the cachet of the elegant right bank hotel is maintained in the decor of its new basement cooking school, where gleaming white-tiled spaces and hand-painted murals set the tone
the cordon bleu, long situated in cramped quarters in the classy champ de mars district under the eiffel tower, moved in january to the building on an anonymous corner of the 15th arrondissement in southern paris
the school where servants from affluent families long ago watched cooking demonstrations in an amphitheater now offers every high-tech amenity, including video screens
both schools offer all levels of instruction up to professional
despite the new home, tradition at the venerable cordon bleu remains intact. the top diploma at the cordon bleu is awarded to students who pass a nine-month session. the ritz school's top diploma follows a 12-week course
hardly a newcomer to fine food, the ritz has been known for its cuisine since auguste escoffier attracted international gastronomes early in the century. it decided to spread its know-how as part of an overall renovation plan started by mohammed al-fayed, the egyptian entrepreneur who bought the hotel nine years ago
we feel we're offering unique and superior instruction for a private cooking school,'' said gregory usher, an american who left the cordon bleu to take over the ritz school's administration. ``our chefs are tops.''
the courses are to be supervised by three of the ritz's own chefs, all winners of the top professional award, meilleur ouvrier de france. most daily courses will be handled by two chefs with credentials from prestigious french restaurants. one, andre guillut, perfected his english while working at restaurants like l'orangerie and ma cuisine in los angeles
the up-to-date equipment includes permanently cooled pastry marbles, the latest in ovens, freezers and mixers. the hotel's meat smoker will be used for ``charcuterie'' courses, and video outlets are available for taping recipes
pupils can browse in a reference library, taste wine with the ritz's sommelier, and the change and shower after the course in a special area
across the seine at cordon bleu, in the business since 1896, it's a whole new world
spanking clean in light greys and blues, today's big-scale school includes two demonstration rooms, four huge cooking and pastry rooms, and a beautiful winter garden
equipment includes convection ovens, pastry-rising ovens and huge dough-kneaders, plus special machines for a new course on vacuum-packing and cooking _ to be taught by patrick martin, the 1987 winner of the french national cuisine and pastry trophy
we're still emphasizing traditional french cuisine,'' said robin cahill, a cordon bleu graduate and its spokeswoman. ``but in our expanded facilities just about everything is new.''
the basics are still the main point,'' said chef martin, one of seven chefs. ``the students will still learn how to chop, knead, whip and do everything else by hand as well.''
the overwhelming majority of cordon bleu students are from abroad _ about 30 percent american and 20 percent japanese, said ms. cahill
while the ritz plans english translations in all courses, the cordon bleu still teaches its advanced courses in french
financing for the modernization comes from the pages group, headed by andre cointreau, which bought the school in 1981
intermediate students at the ritz may choose a one-to-six week course of practical sessions and demonstrations at cost in french francs of about $800 a week. the ritz's highest-level auguste escoffier course, a 12-week session, costs about $10,000
cordon bleu's main three 12-week courses comprise a cycle of ``basic'' through ``superior'' at a cost of about $4,200 each
to get the coveted cordon bleu grand diplome, pupils now spend nine months, reduced from 12, in intensive cooking and pastry courses preparing for the big exam, at a cost of $19,000
we're also offering new intensive four-day practical and demonstration sessions,'' ranging from charcuterie to regional cuisine and costing about $500, said ms. cahill
both schools conduct wine tasting courses
a visitor to paris who wants to compare the big-school ambience of the cordon bleu with the tonier ritz can attend demonstrations at either one for less than $35 each
rockwell international corp. and two former managers pleaded innocent monday to charges that they overbilled the air force by $450,000 on a sophisticated satellite navigational system
in a brief hearing, u.s. district judge consuelo marshall ordered the company and its former managers to file pretrial motions by april 4 and set a may 3 trial date, rockwell spokesman jeff charney said
he indicated the company plans to make pretrial motions but declined to elaborate
the company and the former managers _ donald carter, materials division director at the its seal beach plant, and robert zavodnick, manager of major subcontracts within the division _ were named in a 25-count federal indictment in january
the indictment alleged that the company and two men double-billed the government for work on the navstar global navigational system that uses radio signals from satellites to pinpoint locations on earth
as a result, the indictment claimed, rockwell received $450,000 in unlawful profits
the company has denied the allegations. ^an ap extra</head>
militant monks in tibet and restive armenians in the soviet union are among the minority nationalities in those countries now testing, sometimes with violence, the limits of their governments' professed policies of openness
moscow calls them ``hooligans.'' to beijing they are ``splittists.'' but to both countries they represent a threat to the reputation and unity of the state
thirty-one people died last week in rioting in the soviet city of sumgait in azerbaijan, where christian armenians are unhappy about being part of mostly moslem azerbaijan. in tibet, up to 23 have died in clashes between chinese police and tibetans in october and over the weekend
in both countries, the communist governments in the past have suppressed their minorities to unite vast tracts of land under the ruling ethnic group, the hans in china and the russians in the soviet union
josef v. stalin purged the ukraine in the 1930s, and mao tse-tung swiftly cracked down on unrest in tibet and moslem west china in the 1950s and 1960s
both countries, with china in the lead, have now declared greater tolerance for different views, exposing both to flashpoints of nationalist sentiment
china blames outside forces for its troubles, saying pro-independence supporters of tibet's exiled religious leader, the dalai lama, were responsible for the first outbreak of violence in the tibetan capital of lhasa last october
moscow is faced with a wider problem of ethnic disputes in armenia, religious identity in kazakhstan and political activism in the baltic republics of estonia and lithuania
foreign journalists in china have had slightly better access to the troubled areas than their moscow-based counterparts. china expelled 14 foreign journalists from lhasa last october, and has since given permission for only a few to return
but lhasa authorities, hungry for tourist spending to help china's poorest province, have not stopped group tours, and some reporters have joined excursion groups to tibet
the soviet union let a few correspondents go to vilnius, lithuania, on a foreign ministry-sponsored trip for a planned demonstration to mark the feb. 16 declaration of independence
but reporters there were followed constantly
no foreign journalist has been allowed lately into armenia or azerbaijan. telephone calls to yerevan sometimes went through, but nagorno-karabakh, the center of the armenian-azeri dispute, cannot be reached at all and sumgait only rarely
reflecting moscow's ``glasnost'' and beijing's similar policy of ``kaifang,'' the official media in both countries have carried limited reports of the disturbances
china's press has stressed that only a small number of tibetans have joined the disturbances, and has sent out a barrage of stories about tibetans criticizing the separatists and saying how much better life is under socialism
the government has stressed that it will continue to respect the local customs and help alleviate poverty in the regions where the nation's 67 million non-han minorities live
moscow, too, has linked the rioting to a small number of ``hooligans.'' soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, however, in a feb. 18 speech stressed the importance of working out a new policy on nationalities and said the cental committee would hold a special plenary session to discuss the matter
an army private who flew his small airplane into prohibited airspace over president reagan's santa barbara county ranch must spend 30 weekends in jail
ralph william myers, 33, of fort lewis, wash., convicted of lying to authorities about the reason he strayed into prohibited airspace on aug. 13, was sentenced monday by u.s. district judge manuel l. real
despite a probation department recommendation of probation, real sentenced myers to three years in jail for each of two counts of making false statements and then suspended all but 60 days of the incarceration. the judge also ordered myers to donate 1,000 hours to charitable service
myers' jail time will begin april 9 and is not to interfere with his military service. myers could have been sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment and a $500,000 fine
outside court, myers said he was made a scapegoat by the federal government because reports that there had been a near-miss caused ``hysteria.''
myers maintains his plane was no closer than 800 feet from the president's helicopter, marine one. reagan's marine pilot, lt. col. michael glynn, says myers' plane passed about 200 feet in front of his helicopter and 150 feet below it
myers' attorney, manuel araujo, said they will appeal the sentence
myers, who has been stripped of his pilot's license, originally told federal agents he strayed into the prohibited airspace while looking for a lost contact lens in the cabin. he later said he had lied about the lens because, ``i was trying to stay out of more trouble.''
myers was demoted from private first class to private for being absent without leave. he still has 18 months left in the army. 10.</note>
a group of men backing panama's new government seized control of the country's disputed consulate in london monday night by smashing through the glass door with a land rover, police reported
the british broadcasting corp. said the seizure took place because the consul in london, eduardo arango, refused to give up his post despite being fired by the new government
control of panama's embassy in washington is also in dispute following the ouster on feb. 26 of president eric arturo delvalle. he was removed from office after he tried to dismiss gen. manuel antonio noriega, the military leader and de facto ruler
the london consulate is about a mile east of the embassy. the bbc said arango was not in the consulate when the raid occurred
police said in a statement that six men _ two representatives of panamanian ambassador guillermo vega and four members of a british security firm _ smashed their way into the consulate
shortly after this, several people left the building, including three women believed to be secretaries, and a number of security staff. one glass-paneled front door was damaged and no one was injured as a result of the incident,'' the statement added
one of the staff members forced out of the consulate, tourism commissioner rolando domingo, 24, said: ``we were just working in there and then suddenly we heard a crash.''
he said the land rover broke through the glass doors and then a group of men burst into the building carrying large hammers. ``they threatened us with hammers and one tried to hit my face. they took my passport and documents. then they pushed me down the stairs and out of the building,'' domingo said
london police sealed off the area around the consulate in tudor street in the city, london's financial district
the united states and many other countries still consider delvalle the president of panama. he was removed from office by the national assembly, which is dominated by noriega supporters
the reagan administration has called for noriega's ouster since he was indicted in florida last month on drug trafficking charges
the bbc reported that arango was in panama at the time of delvalle's ouster and has said he helped smuggle delvalle from his residence to a hiding place in the central american country
the british domestic news agency press association said arango received a phone call at home from the consulate staff about the monday night raid
the agency quoted arango as saying he was prevented from entering the consulate after the attack and that one of the men occupying it had told him they were working for vega and carrying out orders from panama
british government officials said they were told last friday that arango was being fired as consul
arango said he had received letters from panama saying he was dismissed but had ignored them, press association said
as workmen repaired the doors, one of the british security guards who took part in the raid said:
it is an exaggeration to say we smashed in. we nudged the doors with the land rover. the police say they may prosecute us for mounting the pavement (sidewalk) but i don't think they can do anything else. we were authorized to enter the building but i cannot divulge any more.''
the four guards involved work for gb security, a private security company based in south london. they said they would be guarding the building overnight
a spokesman at the british foreign office, who in accordance with british practice declined to be named, said it was too early to say what action, if any, foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe might take over the incident
david r. bradley sr., chairman and chief executive officer of the st. joseph news-press &amp; gazette co., has died at age 70
bradley, who died sunday at a kansas city hospital, was the second generation of a communications family that has published the news-press and gazette for nearly 50 years
he was publisher of the st. joseph newspapers from 1956 to 1981, succeeding his father, henry d. bradley, as president of the company in 1972. the elder bradley died in 1973
bradley was known for keeping the newspapers on the leading edge of technology, switching to all-electronic production more than a decade ago. he also led the company into the tv market
the company's holdings include stations in savannah, ga.; jackson, miss.; hattiesburg, miss.; sioux falls, s.d., and wilmington, n.c., and cable tv systems in st. joseph, savannah and macon, mo
he was active in the associated press and served as a director of the news cooperative from 1970 to 1979. he also was first vice chairman of the ap, serving in that position from 1977-79
dave had a unique combination of common sense, a sharp business mind and a zest for life,'' said louis d. boccardi, president and general manager of the ap. ``you could count on him to help you get to the heart of any problem, but also to remind you that your problem was probably a little less earth-shaking than you thought it was. he was a treasured friend and a wise counsel.''
bradley was born in toledo, ohio, and graduated from the university of wisconsin in 1939
survivors include his wife, shirley wyeth bradley; two daughters; two sons and 11 grandchildren
funeral arrangements were incomplete sunday
wind, cold and snow moved thorugh the central rockies today, producing brisk wind gusts, thunderstorms, hail and snow squalls
the cold front moved into idaho and parts of utah and wyoming on sunday evening. at pocatello, idaho, wind gusted to 41 mph as visibility dropped to a quarter mile in snow squalls
thunderstorms broke out when the cold front passed through northern utah, producing small hail, frequent lightning and scattered power outages. wind gusted to 45 mph in the trenton and logan areas. the storm dumped up to a foot of snow in utah's mountains, and lesser amounts elsewhere in the state
snow and blowing snow was reported late sunday across central and southern wyoming. wind gusted to near 40 mph at rock springs and visibility at laramie dropped to a half mile. up to a foot of snow was expected in the southwest mountains of wyoming
eight to 16 inches of snow was expected in the mountains of colorado. high winds should cause blowing and drifting snow and poor visibility in the state's mountain passes
elsewhere, thunderstorms moved through parts of southeast virginia and eastern north carolina on sunday evening. nickel-size hail was reported at gatesville, n.c., near the virginia-north carolina line
santa ana winds were expected to develop across southern california today. a wind advisory was in effect for the northern mountains of southern california. by tonight, winds may gust faster than 50 mph in some canyon areas of the san bernardino valley
clear skies covered most of the nation this morning, but dense fog advisories were posted for parts of northern and central florida and southwest louisiana
temperatures ahead of the cold front were mild sunday, with a 72-degree reading at st. george, utah. the high for the nation sunday was 88 at yuma, ariz
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 14 at yellowstone, wyo., to 71 at homestead air force base, fla
for today, rain or snow showers were forecast from northern arizona and the central rockies across the northern plains; and scattered rainshowers from northwest kansas to the upper mississippi valley. skies should be mostly sunny over the eastern third of the nation, except for a few snowshowers over northern new england
much of the nation should have highs in the 50s or 60s. highs should be in the 30s and 40s from the northern and central rockies across the northern half of the plains and the great lakes region into new england. temperatures should reach the 70s and low 80s from southern california across the desert southwest, and from the southern plains to the southern atlantic coast
other reports:
_east: atlanta 45 fair; boston 33 fair; buffalo 36 windy; charleston, s.c. 46 foggy; cincinnati 32 foggy; cleveland 36 fair; detroit 33 fair; miami 69 cloudy; new york 34 partly cloudy; philadelphia 34 partly cloudy; pittsburgh 36 foggy; portland, maine 32 cloudy; washington 37 fair
_central: bismarck, n.d. 35 cloudy; chicago 38 fair; dallas-fort worth 51 partly cloudy; denver 41 cloudy; des moines 37 fair; indianapolis 34 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 36 cloudy; nashville 36 foggy; new orleans 54 foggy
_west: albuquerque 44 cloudy; anchorage 31 cloudy; las vegas 54 fair; los angeles 56 hazy; phoenix 62 fair; salt lake city 33 partly cloudy; san diego 57 cloudy; san francisco 51 partly cloudy; seattle 41 cloudy
_canada: montreal 34 partly cloudy; toronto 36 partly cloudy. 6th graf pvs, ``lang said...'' ^by jim abrams</note>
at least one policeman was killed and 28 injured in tibet over the weekend in clashes between police and protesters demanding tibet's independence from china, the people's daily reported today
the newspaper, the voice of the communist party, quoted tibet's top police official in its report on rioting saturday in the tibetan capital of lhasa
the newspaper did not say how many tibetans were injured. unconfirmed reports from western sources in lhasa said three to nine people were killed, including one buddhist monk and two chinese police officers
western sources contacted in lhasa said the city was quiet today and sunday but that the jokhang temple, around which tibetans battled police, was closed. the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said stores were open and marketplace stalls were doing business today
in india, meanwhile, 500 tibetan refugees, chanting ``we shall overcome,'' demonstrated in new delhi today against the chinese crackdown in lhasa
police prevented the demonstrators from going to the chinese embassy. no injuries were reported in sporadic clashes between protesters and police
the demonstration was organized by tibetan freedom movement, an organization of self-exiled tibetans, and the tibetan youth congress
india has allowed 120,000 tibetans and their temporal leader, the dalai lama, to stay in india. the dalai lama fled to india in 1959 after an abortive tibetan uprising against the chinese
the people's daily today quoted the tibetan police official, public security bureau chief lang jie, as saying on tibetan television sunday that the disturbances in lhasa began when ``separatists'' infiltrated a crowd on the final day of a 10-day prayer festival. he said they started shouting ``independence for tibet'' and other ``counter-revolutionary'' slogans
lang said 20 to 30 buddhist monks circled the jokhang temple, shouting slogans and throwing stones and damaging chinese television vans. the official china news service earlier gave the number as 60
they also attacked the tibetan branch of the buddhist association and set fire to a car belonging to the group, controlled by the chinese government
their purpose was to destroy the peace and unity of our country and our region and the peaceful and prosperous life of all nationalities (in tibet),'' he was quoted as saying. the report did not say how many tibetans took part in the riots or if there were any arrests
saturday was the first outbreak of violence since last oct. 1, when 2,000 tibetans, led by buddhist monks, set fire to a police station facing the jokhang temple. police opened fire, and at least 14 people were killed
china, which claims tibet has been an integral part of the nation for centuries, moved troops into the remote mountain region in 1950
many tibetans deeply resent the beijing government because of oppression of tibetan religion and customs and the destruction of temples during the 1966-76 ultra-leftist cultural revolution
although china has tried to redress past wrongs, friction remains between the tibetans and the hans, china's ethnic majority, which continues to hold many senior posts in lhasa
the official xinhua news agency said today that rioters ``stormed, looted and set fire to shops and restaurants and beat up policemen sent to maintain order.''
it said rioters with steel bars and wooden sticks knocked down policemen yuan shisheng and yang yuchen, stabbed them and threw them from a second-floor window. yuan, a 22-year-old tibetan, died later in a hospital and yang was reported in serious condition
the western sources said tibetans set fire to vehicles and lit bonfires over a 12-hour period, and that police fired tear gas during the day to control the violence. gunshots were heard after dark, they said
the lhasa government has turned down almost all requests by foreign journalists to visit lhasa and has restricted tourism to the area since the disturbances last october
the dollar was lower in thin early european trading today and foreign currency dealers said they don't expect it to break out of a narrow trading range before new american trade figures are released next week
gold prices were mixed
the january trade report is due to be released march 17 and one dealer at a u.s. bank in frankfurt, west germany, said the market will be paralyzed until then
we just move along from trade figure to trade figure,'' he said
in tokyo, where trading ends as europe's business day begins, the dollar fell 0.35 yen to a closing 128.87. later, in london, it was quoted at 128.60 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late friday:
_1.6865 west german marks, down from 1.6940
_1.3960 swiss francs, down from 1.4030
_5.7090 french francs, down from 5.7300
_1.8952 dutch guilders, down from 1.9010
_1,243.75 italian lire, down from 1,248.00
_1.2535 canadian dollars, down from 1.2547
in london, one british pound cost $1.7972, more expensive than late friday's $1.7740
traders said the pound was strong throughout europe because of relatively high british interest rates
gold prices were lower in london and higher in zurich
the metal opened in london at a bid price of $437 a troy ounce, compared with late friday's $437.50. at midmorning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $436
one bullion dealer said market participants in london were taking profits following friday's technical rally in new york
it is going to keep falling,'' he said. ``there is a lot of selling around.''
in zurich, the bid price was $434.25, up from $432 late friday
earlier, in hong kong, gold rose 54 cents to close at a bid $438.75
silver was quoted in london today at a bid price of $6.38 a troy ounce, down from friday's $6.41
prince charles thrilled spectators by shaking hands on both sidelines after beating an american polo squad assembled for the royal occasion
i can't believe it. i was so shocked,'' said anabelle mariaca, who shook hands with the prince of wales after the 90-minute match sunday at the palm beach polo and country club. ``i told him i was from bolivia, and he said, `i bet the weather is better there than here.' ''
the prince's windsor park team beat palm beach 6-4 on a soggy field doused by occasional rain. the prince, scheduled to fly home today via new york, scored a goal on a penalty shot, and teammate peter brant said charles saved five or six goals on defense
he played very well,'' brant said. ``he hadn't played in competition since the end of august, but he made some beautiful back shots.''
spectators included king constantine of greece and maj. ronald ferguson, father-in-law of prince andrew, charles' younger brother
charles' wife, princess diana, had other commitments, a buckingham palace spokesman said. andrew and his wife, sarah, finished a 10-day tour of southern california sunday and headed back to london
officials said the prince's visit with spectators afterward was unplanned but not unusual. to the fans, however, it was clearly a surprise
chris zeiser of west palm beach, who shook hands with charles, apologized to him for the weather
well, i'll have to come back again,'' replied the prince, who has visited the club twice before
about 8,500 people attended the match at the 6,200-seat stadium. both the sporting event and a luncheon for about 500 people beforehand benefitted friends of the masai mara, a conservation group for a wildlife habitat in kenya
the founders of the organization, geoffrey and jorie kent, were the prince's hosts and the first to greet the prince and king when they flew in saturday from pittsburgh, where they had attended a fund-raising dinner friday
charles, who has been outspoken recently about architecture, went from the airport to visit developer donald trump's 118-room mansion mar-a-lago in palm beach. charles spent two nights at the kents' ranch west of lake worth
charles was the honored guest at a wildlife demonstration conducted on the polo field by jim fowler of tv's ``wild kingdom,'' who presented a lion cub, aardvark, several birds and a 7-year-old cheetah
when fowler coaxed an eagle to fly to him by holding up scraps of food, the prince asked, ``is that off the luncheon menu?''
the eagle landed on the back of fowler's hand with a message in its claw. charles, who read it to the audience, said, ``all wildlife thanks those gathered here for your interest in wildlife.''
the prince joked, ``i didn't know this eagle could write, though clearly it does.''
cheetah handler cathryn hilker took charles' right hand, and together they petted the cat's face. the prince seemed reluctant, but the animal licked his hand
she loves men's hands because they have hair on them,'' ms. hilker explained
hundreds of roman catholics chanted ``we want religious freedom!'' after thousands crowded into a cathedral for a mass honoring a 13th-century czech princess who renounced royal wealth to serve god
the mass on sunday at st. vitus cathedral, in the castle complex where communist president gustav husak lives, drew about 8,000 people
it was one of the biggest religious services in the capital since the communist takeover in 1948 and an indication of the reviving strength of the nation's roman catholic church
dozens of plainclothes security officers were seen inside and outside the cathedral while mass was held to honor the princess who is to be canonized by the vatican later this year
police arrested 16 dissidents and religious activists under 48-hour detention orders on friday and saturday, apparently to prevent them from attending the mass. a dissident source said five people remained in detention sunday night, but four of them were expected to be freed today
augustin navratil, a roman catholic activist from moravia, was detained friday morning but there was no word he was free late sunday, the source said
navratil was the author of a 31-point church petition for more religious freedom that has gained more than 300,000 signatures, making it the largest such action in the soviet bloc since 1945
five other dissidents were briefly detained when they tried to visit a british diplomat friday, and two others also were briefly held that night
after the mass, about 1,000 people went from the cathedral to the nearby residence of cardinal frantisek tomasek. a few hundred chanted ``we want bishops,'' ``we want religious freedom'' and ``we want the pope.''
the chanting crowd appeared to reflect growing discontent among catholics at the lack of bishops in 10 of the country's 13 sees
the vatican has refused to accept government proposals to appoint as bishops members of the state-sponsored pacem in terris organization, a group of priests not recognized by the holy see
long live the holy father'' was another chant from the crowd outside tomasek's residence, which adjoins the castle where husak lives. the presidential flag was flying, indicating the 75-year-old president was home during the unusual demonstration
there is no official estimate of the number of believers in czechoslovakia, but vatican officials estimate about 60 percent of the 15.5 million citizens are catholic
soldiers turned back reporters and other motorists at a roadblock at the southern end of beersheva, about 10 miles north of the scene
a group of onlookers shouted insults at journalists gathered there and one man threw a rock at a tv crew. ``why don't you go photograph in the west bank. you are the cause of all of this,'' shouted one man
reporters at the checkpoint saw six or seven ambulances rushing to beersheva starting about 10:45 a.m. one army ambulance stopped and reporters could see the bodies of three arabs which a policeman at the scene identified as terrorists
the panamanian people's vocation for peace is less than its vocation for liberty and democracy. many people think panama does not have much capacity for violence, but it does.'' _ roderick esquivel, panama's ousted vice president, who called on panamanians to take up arms against gen. manuel antonio noriega if noriega does not relinquish power
a deaf president is a role model of all deaf people. he is a leader of the whole deaf community.'' _ gallaudet university student sherri lambert, commenting on the uproar caused by the appointment of a new president of the college for the deaf who is not deaf herself and does not understand sign language
many times we're not talking rehabilitation, we're talking `habilitation,' these are new ideas, novel ideas to many, many young people.'' _melvin hollins, superintendent of the monterey (n.y.) shock incarceration facility, commenting on the rules and discipline enforced at the boot-camp-style prison
falling bond interest rates and unexpectedly high tuition increases have forced duquesne university to suspend a trendsetting tuition prepayment plan, according to school officials
the small roman catholic university announced three years ago that alumni could enroll their newborn children for $4,450 as full tuition payment for four years of education. the plan was expanded in 1986 to include non-alumni
the college takes the money and invests it, with the proceeds covering tuition for four years of college when the child is grown
the plan prompted about a dozen other private colleges to follow suit. six states also adopted plans that would enable parents to prepay a fixed amount of the child's college tuition, starting at birth
duquesne spokeswoman ann rago confirmed sunday that the university's board of trustees had voted wednesday to suspend the plan
when we began the program, it was a much different economic climate, but things have changed so we decided to suspend it,'' she said
the college will keep its commitment to 622 families already enrolled in the program, ms. rago said
when the plan was created, according to ms. rago, the university's rate of return on the bonds was 10.8 percent. it has since dropped to 8.52 percent, she said
tuition for 1988-89 recently was raised 8 percent, rather than the originally projected 6 percent
the university found it would be necessary to raise the 1987 tuition prepayment for a newborn to $8,630. that was calculated to cover tuition costs of $102,604 over four years, ending in the year 2005
for a 15-year-old, the one-time investment rose from $12,864 to $24,310
at this time, those numbers don't make the plan feasible,'' ms. rago said. ``the administration will re-examine it if the economic conditions change.'' 
hungarian intellectuals and a member of parliament have called on hungary to allow more ethnic hungarian refugees to emigrate from romania and appealed for international support in monitoring their rights
about 20 people spoke at the all-day forum sunday in a theater in budapest. more than 700 people attended the meeting, participants informed the associated press by telephone from the hungarian capital
the meeting sunday was the second one of the ``democratic forum'' since the group was formed on sept. 27 in southern hungary. the document issued at the september meeting called for ``genuinely effective reform'' to resolve hungary's economic and social problems
the meetings are unusual in communist hungary because authorities, although they have not officially recognized the forum, have not prevented them from taking place, and the results have been discussed in the official press
most of the speakers sunday focused on the ethnic hungarian minority in romania
hungary and romania are warsaw pact allies but have engaged in increasingly sharp rhetoric over the question of the ethnic hungarian minority in transylvania in recent months
transylvania was ruled by hungary before world war i, and both nations claim the area is the cradle of their national cultures and history
hungarian officials say increasing numbers of romania's nearly 2 million ethnic hungarians have sought refuge in hungary
geza szoecs, an ethnic hungarian poet from transylvania who now lives in switzerland, suggested that the hungarian government consider allowing a certain quota of ethnic hungarians from romania emigrate to hungary
he suggested the quota correlate to the number of hungarians who apply for asylum in the west each year, as well as the general decline of the population through the sinking birthrate
however, zoltan kiraly, a member of parliament, warned against establishing a refugee program that would help romanian communist leader nicolae ceausescu get rid of the hungarian minority
ethnic hungarians have said they are increasingly restricted in the use of their language and expression of their culture in romania, which denies the charges and accuses budapest of meddling in its affairs
kiraly told the gathering he and five other parliamentarians drafted a resolution calling on the government to set up a settlement fund for transylvanian hungarians who wish to stay in hungary
he said the draft resolution, which is to be put before parliament when it meets in spring session later this month, also calls on the government to seek the cooperation of the united nations and the international red cross and to mobilize international public opinion
kiraly, one of the most outspoken members of parliament, said many hungarians who enter hungary from romania go on to third countries because the hungarian authorities are not prepared to receive them
he said many of these ethnic hungarians, if given the chance, would opt to stay in hungary because of the cultural affinity. of aids</head>
single women are changing their attitudes about sexual relationships because of the threat of getting aids, according to a poll conducted for people magazine
the national telephone survey, conducted by market facts of new york, asked 500 women ages 18 to 49 about the impact of aids, the magazine reported in this week's issue
the survey found that the threat was on their minds even though the medical community has said very few aids cases have occurred outside of the known risk groups, which include homosexuals and intravenous drugs users, people said
the poll found that 75 percent said they were extremely or very concerned and 40 percent said their sex lives had been directly affected
of those who said their sex lives have changed, 78 percent said they've become more choosy about sex partners and three-fourths said they want to know a new partner's sexual history and insist that he use a condom, the poll said
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer
it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
survivors and those who lost loved ones in a ferry disaster retraced the voyage of the herald free enterprise, casting wreaths and notes over the spot where it capsized a year before
daddy, miss you,'' said one of the more than 100 cards dropped into the water sunday, a cold, bleak day with a fine drizzle _ remarkably similar to the day the herald turned over and 193 of its passengers died
others joined in prayer sunday in this belgian port and across the north sea in the english port of dover to mark the worst peacetime disaster involving a british ship since the sinking of the titanic in 1912
about 270 set out from zeebrugge and stopped just outside the harbor wall where the ferry capsized march 6, 1987, when water rushed in through its open bow doors five minutes after it left port
for 20 minutes they cast flowers onto the choppy seas from the baltic ferry, which the herald's owners p and o pressed into service for the sad pilgrimage
some were led away to be comforted by red cross and social workers. others clung to their families. a few went off by themselves and stood looking into the murky waters
on the upper car deck, which was transformed into a makeshift chapel bedecked with flowers, prayers were said by three clergymen _ an anglican, a roman catholic and a major from the salvation army _ during a half-hour service
this service can mark a new beginning,'' said the rev. peter bowers, vicar of st. peter's and st. paul's church in dover. ``it does not mean we forget those who we have loved. ... in fact, it is from that memory that we build a new future.''
his words were echoed by the bishop of dover, the rt. rev. richard third, who told more than 600 bereaved at the anglican church of st. mary the virgin in dover that it was time to leave their grief behind
it is right to grieve. it is health-giving to express your sorrow _ but you can't go on doing it for a lifetime. there must come a moment when you surrender your grief, when you stop crying.''
at st. donaas roman catholic church across the road from zeebrugge port, the sunday service was turned into a memorial for the ferry victims
the rev. wim catry also offered prayers that the survivors and bereaved would be able to reconstruct their lives. he said in his sermon that a rose garden and plaque would be unveiled in may in front of the church to commemorate the dead
andrew parker, who turned his body into a human bridge so 20 passengers including his wife and daughter could walk across his back to safety, paid his own private tribute
he went out on a belgian tug to the spot where the herald capsized and with his 13-year-old daughter janice dropped 193 flowers into the water, one by one. his wife, eleanor, like several other britons who came here, remained onshore, unable at the last minute to relive their nightmares
said mrs. parker: ``i hate this day _ i just wish i could take it off the calendar.''
an overwrought hockey fan was arrested after he tossed a live chicken in a purple uniform onto the ice during a game, police said
the chicken was the victim of fowl play,'' police lt. robert westlake quipped sunday
craig rodenfels, 30, of el segundo, was booked for investigation of malicious mischief and cruelty to animals saturday night and released on his own recognizance sunday, westlake said
the chicken hit the ice just before the end of the first period of the los angeles kings' game with the montreal canadiens
apparently he wasn't happy with how the kings were playing, which is understandable,'' westlake said
lt. jack frazier said rodenfels smuggled the bird into the forum inside a sack. he said the man wasn't arrested before the chicken hit the ice because ``there's no violation for carrying a chicken around.''
the purple-uniformed kings fell to the canadiens 7-6 in overtime, their 39th loss of the season
the bird, which suffered minor bruises, was being held by county animal control officers, westlake said
the guy actually called us this morning and asked us to release his chicken to him,'' westlake said sunday. ``of course, we declined because the bird is evidence.''
sanford and linda simmons have run afoul of orange county's sign code, but they want their six-foot mechanical chicken to keep on clucking
we've got a lot of money tied up in this chicken, so we're fighting back,'' simmons said
the couple started a ``save our chicken'' petition drive at their stuf'd chicken restaurant and say they have about 500 signatures
the issue involves an ordinance prohibiting free-standing or temporary signs in unincorporated parts of the county, said gary boettcher, the southern california county's enforcement manager
we're trying to improve the visual aspects of sunset beach, and if everybody did this it would promote a garish image,'' boettcher said. the restaurant faces fines or citations if they don't take the chicken down
simmons said the $800 mechanical chicken, which went up two weeks ago, has proved an ideal replacement for reluctant teen-agers he had been paying to stand by the side of the road dressed in chicken outfits
it's hard to find people to be a chicken,'' he said
city councilman hosea williams was charged with carrying a weapon without a license when security officers at hartsfield atlanta international airport found a gun in his briefcase at an airport checkpoint
the .38-caliber revolver was confiscated when williams was charged about 11:30 a.m. sunday, but the councilman and civil rights activist was allowed to continue to his plane, said sgt. charles hyndman of the airport police
williams ``said he had been cleaning his car out and took it out of his car and put it in his briefcase but forgot to leave it in his house,'' hyndman said. police reports did not say whether the gun was loaded
the charge is a misdemeanor, and williams could face up to $1,000 in fines
hyndman declined to give williams' destination, and calls to the councilman's home went unanswered. leader ...,' to update with zia interview. picks up 5th graf, `upon his ...'</note>
u.n.-sponsored afghanistan peace talks resumed today with uncertainty persisting over whether pakistan is ready to sign an agreement with the soviet-backed kabul government which it does not recognize
resumption of talks came after unprecedented consultations between the pakistani government and opposition leaders attended by islamabad's chief negotiator, acting foreign minister zain noorani
sources close to the meetings held during the weekend in pakistan said most of 19 opposition parties urged the government not to stand in the way of the proposed pullout of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops helping kabul to fight moslem insurgents
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said a withdrawal could start in mid-may if a settlement is signed by next week
in an interview published today, pakistani president mohammad zia ul-haq said his country will not budge from its demand for an interim government in kabul as part of a settlement
the gulf news daily reported that zia was optimistic that the proposed peace accord on afghanistan will be signed on schedule
there is no question of the accord not going through. allowing it to be dropped is no option,'' he was quoted as saying
upon his return to geneva sunday night, noorani said the formation of a broad-based transitional government was as important as the troop withdrawl in bringing peace to the region
why should we not insist on an interim government,'' he said in response to a question from a reporter at the airport
last week noorani said pakistan would make up its mind after the islamabad consultations on whether to sign a settlement with the present kabul government of president najib, which pakistan does not recognize
he put up only a cryptic smile when asked again before today's session if islamabad was now prepared to sign
pakistan has insisted that any agreement on the withdrawal soviet troops should be linked to formation of an interim government that is acceptable to all sides in the 9-year-old war
the islamabad government says this is the only way to ensure the safe repatriation of 5 million afghan refugees from pakistan and iran
pakistan has been representing afghan rebels at the u.n.-sponsored talks, which began in 1982
the resistance movements, which say they represent 200,000 guerrillas, have rejected any power-sharing with afghanistan's president najib and have presented a plan of their own for an islamic government
the afghan government says its own policy of national reconciliation envisages a ``coalition government'' open to all political forces including the pakistan-based resistance movements
the soviet union, which sent its troops in december 1979 to help a faltering marxist government suppress a moslem insurrection, no longer demands a transitional government be formed before withdrawal
diego cordovez, the u.n. undersecretary general who has been mediating the afghan talks, said last week all major differences had been resolved in the first three days of the new negotiating round, which began last wednesday
the two sides agreed on a nine-month timetable for the withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan. cordovez said this agreement, following years of stalling on the timetable issue, represented a ``significant step'' toward a final political settlement
the sides also agreed that half of the soviet troops would leave in the first three-month phase, the so-called ``front-end loading'' which had been a major concern of the united states. conform; picks up 14th graf pvs; iran's foreign...</note>
iran and iraq shot missiles into each other's capitals today and both reported dozens of deaths as the ``war of the cities'' persisted between the two persian gulf war foes
iran's official islamic republic news agency said 12 civilians, including women and children, were killed and 30 wounded when an iraqi missile exploded in tehran today. it said a hospital clinic, several houses and 30 vehicles were destroyed in the blast
the missile was one of three iraq said its army shot into tehran early today in the latest round of the bruising offensive that has claimed hundreds of lives in both countries
irna said another 61 civilians were killed and 427 wounded sunday in iraqi air raids on 16 iranian cities and towns
the agency said schools and hospitals were hit in the wave of iraqi raids on the southern city of shiraz and dezful, arak khorramabad and other population centers in the west. eight other people were wounded in missile strikes on tehran on sunday, it said
it said iraqi artillery was shelling the northwestern border town of marivan, but made no mention of casualties or damage
baghdad communiques said iraqi fighter-bombers flew 118 combat missions against ``military and economic targets'' in 12 iranian cities sunday in retaliation for ``criminal attacks on iraqi civilian areas.''
irna reported that revolutionary guards fired four missiles into baghdad today
it said they were aimed at ``military centers.'' baghdad said the first two missiles crashed into residential sections of the capital, killing or wounding ``many civilians, including women and children.''
the agency said iraq retaliated by firing three long-range ``al hussein'' missiles, named after a 7th century shiite moslem saint, into tehran today
ina quoted a military communique as saying: ``iran's rulers must realize their weakness and stop fighting.''
the eight-day missile exchange has been the fiercest since the gulf war began in september 1980 and the first time that tehran has been hit by missiles
iraq says it has fired 41 projectiles into the iranian capital since the eye-for-an-eye missile duel began feb. 29, when iran sent two missiles crashing into baghdad
iran's foreign minister, ali akbar velayati, admitted saturday that ``more than 30'' missiles had hit tehran
the iranians have reported firing 22 missiles in that period, but the iraqis have only acknowledged 18 hits
iran has reported at least 106 civilians killed and more than 200 wounded in the iraqi missile blitz, with more than 100 killed and more than 500 wounded in air raids over the last week
iraq has reported heavy civilian casualties, but has given no numbers
a special education student says no other youths moved to help her when two boys raped her in a classroom, and when the bell rang at the end of the period they left laughing
the magee resident also said two boys charged with the rape at magee high school had harassed her for about two years
me and (he) fight every day,'' the 16-year-old girl said in a weekend interview with the clarion ledger at her parents' rural simpson county home. ``he just picks on me and call my mom and daddy names.''
the girl said she was raped by two male students on feb. 26 while she and other students were in study hall under the supervision of teacher john grantham, who said he had gone to check on a school bus he drives when the attack occurred
the girl, who has a learning disability, and her family agreed to discuss the attack if their identities weren't disclosed, the newspaper said sunday
the girl said the youths, ages 15 and 17, grabbed her around the neck when she and another girl went to sharpen their pencils. they grabbed the other girl, too, but let her go, she said
they carried me in the back of the room. i told them to leave me alone.''
the girl said the youths pulled off her underwear, and each raped her twice, she said
one was holding me,'' she said. ``every time i tried to get up, they hold me down.''
the attack occurred within sight of several other students, she said. all the students in the study hall, except for one of the attackers, were regular students, said betty dickson, simpson county school board chairwoman
one of the boys is educably mentally retarded, according to special education director john hardy
no one stopped the attack, the girl said, even though she told the other girl at the pencil sharpener to alert a principal or teacher
when the bell rang, they walked out the door, laughing,'' she said
the girl's father said he is as upset with school officials as he is the two boys. ``i send them to learn, not to be going down there to get raped,'' he said
the father said he called police and took his daughter to magee general hospital that night to be examined
the two youths were arrested thursday, charged with rape and jailed in lieu of $50,000 bond each. although they will be tried as adults, officials refused to release their names
dickson said school officials are planning counseling for the girl. responsibility, plo denial; picks up 3rd graf, `a special ...' edits to tigten.</note>
arab guerrillas in southern israel hijacked a passenger bus today and held it for three hours before israeli troops stormed it, killing three gunmen. three israeli civilians also were killed and eight were wounded, an army communique said
israel's state-run radio said the terrorists infiltrated from egypt and were armed with fragmentation grenades, assault rifles and a submachine gun
a man claiming to represent the palestine liberation organization's force 17 phoned a western news agency in jerusalem and claimed responsibility for the hijacking
israel radio said a plo spokesman in tunis told cbs news the group was not responsible for the attack. but a survivor from the bus said she heard the arab gunmen say they were from fatah, the plo faction headed by yasser arafat
a special anti-terrorist unit and border police stormed the bus, which was loaded with nuclear plant workers and hijacked near the aroer junction eight miles from the dimona nuclear facility
prime minister yitzhak shamir linked the attack to the rioting in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
these are the same people who incite violence in the (occupied) territories. we shall not tire from fighting them,'' said shamir
he noted today's attack was the second infiltration in two days. three palestinian guerrillas were killed by army soldiers on sunday after they tried to cross the lebanon border
israel radio and officials said the terrorists came across the lightly guarded border from egypt at night near ramat nafha and commandeered an israeli military automobile at about 7 a.m
the arab guerrillas drove the renault-4 towards the beersheva-dimona highway, throwing a hand grenade at an israeli semi-trailer but causing no injuries
the army and witnesses said a volvo bus with the nuclear workers was coming from the opposite direction, and the gunmen fired at the bus and threw grenades until it stopped
most of the passengers and the driver escaped but a man and nine women remained, the radio said
the last bus hijacking inside israel occurred on april 12, 1984, when four bomb-weilding palestinians hijacked an israeli bus near the mediterranean coastal city of ashdod. a soldier was killed on the bus when israeli troops stormed the vehicle and captured the hijackers
officials at soroka hospital in beersheva said eight women were admitted for treatment of gunshot wounds
police forced the bus to stop after the terrorists fired from the bus at passing people and cars. police closed the area, and army officers entered into negotiations with terrorists
the arab gunmen demanded to speak with representatives of the international red cross and also asked for a loudspeaker
maj. gen. yitzhak mordechai, commander of israel's southern region, decided to storm the bus rather than negotiate further after the gunmen opened fire
we made every effort to both relax them and to promise them that negotiations may bring results,'' mordechai told reporters at the scene
(but) they fired at us twice and afterwards they fired and killed one of the hostages and fired at women who were inside the bus,'' he said
in all, he said, the storming operation lasted about a minute
mordechai said the man was killed by arab gunmen during negotiations. he said shots fired by the terrorists when the bus was stormed appeared to have killed the women
the victims were not identified, apparently because of the sensitivity of their jobs
at the hospital, david, a curly-haired man in his late 20s, said he saw armed terrorists block the blue volvo bus, a special commuter vehicle carrying women workers from a plant in dimona
the terrorists blocked the bus and didn't give the driver a chance to turn around and get away,'' he said. ``the driver opened the door and many of the passengers scrambled out. about a half-dozen remained on the bus.''
david said the bus hijacking began about 7:30 a.m. and he watched the hijacking from another bus. he declined to give his last name
rafi hayon, a motorist traveling the beersheva-dimona highway, said the arab gunmen armed with soviet-made automatic rifles shot at his car when he refused to stop for them
i saw only two kalashnikovs in front of my eyes,'' he said in an interview broadcast by israel radio
it was the bloodiest attack by palestinian guerrillas since a hang-glider attack in late november in which a guerrilla landed in northern israel and shot to death six israeli soldiers and wounded eight
the dimona plant is at the center of a secret trial now going on in israel
mordechai vanunu, a former nuclear technician at dimona, revealed israel's atomic secrets to the sunday times of london in an expose published oct. 5, 1986. based on vanunu's information, the newspaper concluded israel possessed the world's sixth largest nuclear arsenal
in the sunday times story, vanunu detailed the route taken by 40 blue and white volvo buses he said transported workers to the nuclear plant each day
vanunu, 33, was tried on charges of treason and espionage for revealing israel's nuclear capability and the three-judge panel in the closed-door trial is currently deliberating its verdict
a 15-year-old boy described as despondent over school problems and upset about the outcome of a college basketball game blasted away with an assortment of rifles and handguns for five hours inside his home, officials said today
no one was injured in the incident, which ended when deputies talked the boy into surrendering early today, said monroe county sheriff's spokesman thomas ryan
the house is a shambles,'' ryan said this morning. ``he shot out the television, the stove, the walls and ceilings, windows, sliding glass doors, a water pipe which ruptured and squirted water everywhere, and even the electrical box in the basement.''
ryan said the boy, whose name was withheld because of his age, had picked up a gun and started shooting sunday night. his mother ran next door to call police
when deputies arrived at the house in the rural area southwest of rochester, they heard bullets whizzing by their heads and evacuated the house next door. deputies then set up a command post in a house down the road, from which negotiators talked to the youth by telephone, ryan said
before the boy surrendered early sunday morning he had fired at least 300 rounds of ammunition had been fired from a variety of weapons, ryan said. the boy's father had four or five rifles and shotguns and four handguns, ryan said
the boy had been suspended from high school last week for disciplinary problems,'' ryan said. ``whether this triggered him, we don't know. the only other thing he mentioned to hostage negotiators was that he was upset that syracuse lost to pittsburgh.''
pittsburgh edged syracuse university 85-84 to take the big east conference college basketball title sunday afternoon
the youth was taken to strong memorial hospital in rochester for a mental examination before being turned over to family court officials, said ryan
the supreme court said today it will try again to decide whether cities may be sued successfully when citizens' rights are violated due to alleged inadequate training of municipal employees
the justices said they will study the issue in an appeal by canton, ohio, officials
the city is seeking to kill a lawsuit by a woman who says police violated her rights by failing to provide her medical attention after she was arrested for speeding
the justices last year backed out of deciding the municipal-liability issue in a case from springfield, mass
by a 5-4 vote, the court declined for procedural reasons to decide whether springfield should be forced to pay damages in the death of a fleeing motorist killed by a policeman's bullet
the ruling left intact a $50,000 damage award the city was ordered to pay to the victim's family
the case acted on today involves geraldine harris, who was granted a retrial of her lawsuit by a lower court
canton officials said alleged inadequate training of police in summoning medical help should not be the basis for a lawsuit against the city
mrs. harris' lawsuit grows out of an april 26, 1978, incident in which she was stopped for speeding while driving her teen-age daughter to school
police said they put mrs. harris into a patrol wagon after the 52-year-old woman became upset and uncooperative. on arrival at the police station, the officers said she was lying on the floor of the vehicle
she repeatedly slumped to the floor during a stay of 30 to 40 minutes at the stationhouse
police officers did not call for medical help. they said they believed mrs. harris was merely excited and would calm down if left alone and permitted to see her family
when family members arrived, they had mrs. harris taken by ambulance to a hospital where she was diagnosed as suffering from stress reaction, anxiety and depression. the symptoms included immobility and difficulty in breathing. she was under psychiatric care for more than a year later
the harris family sued the city in federal court, and a jury awarded $200,000 against the city on grounds mrs. harris unreasonably was denied medical attention
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals threw out the verdict last july, saying it was unclear on what theory the damage award was based
the judge's instructions to the jury could have allowed it to decide erroneously that the city was at fault even if the failure to summon medical attention was not the result of a city policy, the appeals court said
this instruction allows a finding of municipal liability merely because (the city's) supervisory personnel did a bad act, with no need to find that the city was a bad actor through a city policy or custom. this was error,'' the appeals court said
canton officials asked the supreme court to throw out the lawsuit
city officials said the 6th circuit court ruling will allow the city to be found liable for misconduct at the retrial under an unreasonably broad theory
the city may be forced to pay damages if the jury decides that police were not trained adequately to summon medical help in such cases, city officials said
the appeals court ruling will impose ``the novel requirement upon cities that their police forces must provide paramedical officers or other trained medical specialists who exercise some type of professional judgment at the jail,'' city officials said
the supreme court recently has had trouble providing clear guidelines on the issue of inadequate police training as grounds for municipal liability in federal civil rights suits 
in a 7-1 ruling in 1985 the justices threw out a $1.5 million award against oklahoma city in the shooting death of a tavern patron by a police officer
only four justices agreed it was a mistake for the jury to be told it could infer from a single incident that the city was grossly negligent in its police training. three other justices voted to throw out the award for other reasons
the case is canton vs. harris, 86-1088
a white student editor testified before a dartmouth college disciplinary panel that his staff was ``polite'' and did not harass a black professor in an incident that sparked racial turmoil at the ivy league school
but professor william cole told the panel, which met over the weekend, that the four white staff members of the conservative dartmouth review were bigots and said he was harassed by them
the students said they were acting as journalists when they confronted cole on feb. 25, several days after the off-campus newspaper published an article sharply criticizing cole
the disciplinary board will begin deliberating the fate of the four reporters tonight. they face possible expulsion on charges of harassment, disorderly conduct and invasion of privacy for taking cole's picture and recording him without his consent
the committee on standards heard nearly 16 hours of testimony saturday and sunday concerning last former review staffers made up most of the roughly 25 people watching the hearings, looked at each other with expressions of disbelief
i think it had racial overtones, yes,'' said freshman suzanna dotson after the hearing. ``he was saying without directly saying that professor cole, who is of color, comes from a violent background and that the four students, who are white, did not.''
the defendants were baldwin, review photo editor john quilhot, executive editor john sutter, and contributor sean nolan. for chopper attack, new movement of u.s. ships in gulf; picks up 11th graf, `shortly after ...' changes byline.</note>
u.s. navy helicopters dodged heavy machine-gun fire in the persian gulf and iran today claimed responsibility for the attack which came after the helicopters ignored a warning to stay clear of an ``iranian zone.''
the account carried by tehran's official islamic republic news agency evidently referred to the incident saturday night reported earlier by u.s. officials
they said american helicopters took ``evasive action'' when fired on from an oil platform and several small boats in the central gulf about midnight saturday
meanwhile, u.s. officials said there was no connection between the helicopter incident and the movement of six u.s. warships up the gulf today
the ships' appearance off dubai triggered speculation that the united states was planning to retaliate for the shooting saturday
all six, including a missile cruiser, three missile frigates, a combat stores ship and a chartered navy tanker, were part of ``routine movement, not connected with any other recent events in the gulf,'' said lt. col. john head, a spokesman for the u.s. central command
saturday's helicopter incident occurred as the aircraft were scouting ahead of the missile frigate simpson, returning up the gulf after a convoy escort mission
a u.s. statement said the helicopters took evasive action and did not return fire when the iranians shot at them
it did not say what kind of helicopters were involved or how many there were. nor did the statement mention any warning by the iranians before they started shooting
the platform was not identified by name or exact location, although the statement said it was not the rostam platform. rostam was shelled by u.s. destroyers last october in a retaliatory raid after an iranian silkworm missile hit a u.s. flagged kuwaiti tanker, the sea isle city, anchored off kuwait
the iranian account said: ``two u.s. helicopters attempting to approach an iranian zone in the persian gulf early sunday were forced to flee by the anti-aircraft fire of naval forces of the islamic republic of iran.''
it added: ``the navy anti-aircraft (unit) detected the two helicopters on its radar and warned them to stay out of the iranian zone. however, the iranian navy fired warning shots after the u.s. helicopters violated the iranian zone.''
shortly after midnight friday, u.s. officials said the missile frigate john a. moore fired at what were believed to be iranian speedboats seen on the radar screen before they disappeared
also sunday, thousands of iranians marched through central tehran to the soviet embassy, claiming moscow had supplied iraq with long-range missiles, iran's islamic republic news agency said in a report monitored in nicosia
irna said a number of students entered the embassy grounds by scaling a wall, but were thrown out by ``alert policemen.'' iran said it first learned about iraq's new missiles seven months ago and had warned the soviets that any use of the rockets would harm relations between tehran and moscow, irna said
in moscow, the soviet news agency tass said a mob besieged the embassy, pelted it with rocks and tried to set fires, threatening the lives of soviet diplomats and their families. similar ``hostile actions'' were directed sunday at the soviet consulate in isfahan, iran, tass said without elaborating
tass said the soviet leadership ``rejects any allegations about the soviet union's involvement in the missile attacks against tehran.''
in the so-called ``war of the cities,'' iran's official islamic republic news agency said 12 civilians, including women and children, were killed and 30 wounded when an iraqi missile exploded in tehran today. it said a clinic, several houses and 30 vehicles were destroyed in the blast. the missile was one of two iraq said its army lobbed into tehran early today
irna said another 61 civilians were killed and 427 wounded sunday in iraqi air raids on 16 iranian cities and towns
it reported that iranian revolutionary guards fired a missile at a ``military center'' in baghdad around midnight. the official iraqi news agency said the missile exploded in a residential area of the capital, killing and wounding ``a number of civilians, including women and children.''
a utah company that provides helicopters and crews for a third of the nation's civilian air ambulance services has been accused of violating federal aviation regulations, probably unintentionally, a newspaper reports
most of rocky mountain helicopter service's alleged violations involved paperwork and record-keeping deficiencies, the pittsburgh press reported sunday
the federal aviation administration findings stem from a two-month investigation of the company's safety procedures and regulation compliance, said wayne barlow, director of the faa's northwest mountain region, which covers rocky mountain's headquarters in provo, utah
the alleged violations are being reviewed and the final number could be fewer than the 120 now pending, barlow said
it looks like a case where a small company based in one location grew very rapidly to the point where it had aircraft and people operating in dozens of states and no real handle on how to manage them,'' he told the press
rocky mountain helicopter, the industry's largest vendor, supplies aircraft, pilots and mechanics to hospitals in 39 cities, including allegheny general hospital in pittsburgh
barlow said rocky mountain helicopters faces possible fines because the investigation uncovered a number of significant problems. however, he said, the faa believes rocky mountain is now operating in compliance with regulations and the agency had no plans to lift their license to fly
russ spray, the company's vice president of emergency medical services operations, said, ``we don't deny we made some mistakes, but we're fixing them as fast as they're being pointed out.''
the inspection was spawned by congressional pressure on the faa last year after a record medical helicopter accident rate in 1986, but the faa said it also wanted to become more acquainted with the medical helicopter industry
there are more than 235 medical helicopter programs operating at least 500 helicopters in 46 states
what we learn from rocky mountain will help us to manage the whole industry better,'' barlow said
the faa's 143-page report referred to such shortcomings as a lack of documented training in evacuating patients from the aircraft in emergencies, the press reported
other alleged violations ranged from a lack of training for the company's pilots to the failure of the director of operations and chief pilot to have the proper faa licenses for those positions, the newspaper said
on feb. 12, rocky mountain voluntarily grounded 62 of its helicopters until mechanics in each city could confirm all maintenance and accompanying paperwork were up-to-date and accurate
in most cases, this (grounding) just took long enough for a phone call to each city, but three aircraft were grounded for a day or so for repairs,'' spray said
on feb. 17, rocky mountain grounded 24 of its pilots because they did not have the proper paperwork to show they had received required training
within two days, all the pilots were flying legal again,'' spray said. visit</head>
a roman catholic bishops' conference gave the secret service information on an abortion rights group that planned peaceful demonstrations during pope john paul ii's trip to the united states, a newspaper reports
frances kissling, president of washington, d.c.-based catholics for a free choice, said she was surprised by the action
the information on the group was provided by the national conference of catholic bishops, sponsor of the papal visit, which is the religious arm of the civil u.s. catholic conference, the houston chronicle reported sunday
i think it is totally inappropriate for the u.s. catholic conference to be cooperating with government agencies in the collection of data that they know has no relevance to the physical safety of the pope,'' ms. kissling said
there has been within the church anincreasing attempt to silence and punish individuals who exercise their rights to disagree with the bishops on public policy,'' she added. ``i think that represents a kind of mccarthyism in the church.''
ms. kissling said there is no evidence the secret service conducted surveillance on her organization
the chronicle reported sunday it was unclear how or if the secret service, which was in charge of the pope's security during the sept. 10-19 trip, used the information about ms. kissling's group
richard doerflinger, assistant director of the bishops' office for pro-life activities, said his 1985 report about catholics for a free choice was sent to the secret service along with several membership letters and press releases on cfc letterhead that he had obtained
doerflinger said the secret service ``wanted to be sent any materials about groups conducting protests so they would know what to expect.''
the secret service released the material from its files in response to questions from the chronicle under the freedom of information act about monitoring of u.s. organizations in connection with the papal trip
the supreme court today cleared the way for a jury trial in former massachusetts gov. edward j. king's $3.6 million libel lawsuit against the boston globe
the justices, over one dissenting vote, left intact a massachusetts supreme judicial court ruling that a jury should hear king's contention that he was libeled by a nov. 8, 1981, column written by david farrell, who since has left the newspaper
the state court ruled that a jury might conclude that one allegation in the column had been published with ``actual malice'' _ a reckless disregard for the truth
justice william j. brennan in november blocked a libel trial, and the full supreme court later refused to set aside brennan's order
today's action set aside brennan's trial-blocking order. brennan voted to hear arguments in the case but four votes are needed to grant such review
king sued over various globe articles and editorial cartoons published in 1981
the state court threw out most of the ex-governor's claims in pretrial proceedings, but said a jury trial was needed regarding the farrell column. both the globe newspaper co. and farrell were named as defendants
in it, king was criticized for treating legislative and judicial figures as if they were his employees
that condescending attitude never was more evident than in october when king called a judge and demanded that he change a decision he rendered in a gang-rape case,'' the column said
in a much-publicized case, the judge had given a suspended prison sentence to five men who pleaded guilty to rape
king's lawsuit said no such conversation between king and the judge took place
state treasurer robert q. crane, a king political ally, said in pretrial testimony that he was farrell's source about king's telephone call to the judge
but the state's highest court noted that farrell was not told that crane had overheard the conversation, and that farrell did not investigate further
the court said a jury conceivably could conclude that farrell's failure to do so amounted to actual malice
public figures who sue for libel must prove that the allegedly libelous statement is false and was made with actual malice. private citizens have a less stringent burden, and must prove only that the statement is false and was made negligently
in a pretrial deposition, farrell said he had no reason to doubt crane's ``veracity and accuracy.''
in the appeal acted on today, globe lawyers said the massachusetts court ruling ``mutates actual malice into negligence, thus eviscerating'' the free-speech protections the supreme court has built into libel law since 1964
as long as writers are exposed to liability solely for the asserted inadequacies of their investigations, speech protected under the constitution will be chilled,'' the newspaper's lawyers said. ``stories for which reliable sources exist may be self-censored out of existence.''
but lawyers for king urged the court to reject the appeal and allow a jury trial on the libel allegation
farrell had obvious reasons to doubt the accuracy of crane's report,'' they said
the newspaper's appeal was supported in a ``friend-of-the-court'' brief submitted by the american newspaper publishers association, the american society of newspaper editors and other news organizations
the case is globe newspaper co. vs. king, 87-731
the supreme court today agreed to consider reinstating the death sentence of a florida man convicted of killing an 8-year-old girl in 1978
the court is expected to use the case to study death row inmates' right to raise new issues when they turn to the federal courts for help and to decide whether florida juries may be told their life-or-death recommendations are subject to the trial judge's approval
aubrey adams, who once worked as a corrections officer at the marion correctional institution in ocala, was convicted of the jan. 23, 1978, strangulation of trisa gail thornley near ocala
his conviction and death sentence have been upheld three times by the florida supreme court. the nation's highest court refused to review his case twice
in the second federal court appeal, adams in early 1986 challenged statements made to the jury by the judge in his state court sentencing trial
under florida law, a jury recommends life or death for convicted murderers in capital cases. the presiding judge is free to follow or disregard the recommendation
in adams' case, the judge told jurors about that aspect of the state's capital-sentencing law. ``the final decision as to what punishment shall be imposed rests solely upon the judge of this court,'' the jury was told
adams argued that such jury instructions run afoul of a 1985 supreme court decision in which the justices, ruling in a mississippi case, said a death sentence is invalid if a jury is misled about its role in determining whether the defendant actually will die
in the case, a mississippi prosecutor had told jurors they should not view themselves as determining life or death because their sentence would be reviewed automatically by an appeals court
the supreme court said such a statement misled the jury, and rendered the subsequent death sentence ``cruel and unusual punishment.''
a federal judge dismissed adams' 1986 appeal but the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals last nov. 13 threw out his sentence
the appeals court said the judge's instructions to jurors violated the supreme court's 1985 decision, adding that adams was entitled to ``a new sentencing proceeding before an untainted jury.''
in the appeal acted on today, florida prosecutors noted that the florida supreme court previously had rejected an appeal in which adams mounted an identical challenge to the judge's instructions to jurors
they asked the justices to resolve the conflict between the state's highest court and the 11th circuit court
the state's appeal also contended that adams' challenge should not have been allowed because he did not raise it in his first federal court appeal
the case is dugger vs. adams, 87-121. tennessee case</head>
the supreme court today refused to free churches from having to comply with state financial-disclosure laws when waging public referendum campaigns
the court, citing the lack of a ``substantial federal question,'' turned away a challenge by 13 churches from jackson, tenn., to a law they contend violates their freedom of religion and freedom of speech
the tennessee law also affects other non-political organizations that decided to campaign for or against issues that appear on election ballots
the controversy arose during an august 1984 election held in jackson to determine whether establishments within the city would be allowed to sell liquor by the drink
the local option referendum was defeated by a vote of 6,514 to 6,474 _ a 40-vote margin
the 13 area churches, nine of them baptist-affiliated, took varying steps to make public their opposition to allowing on-premise liquor consumption in jackson
the churches spent a total of $5,150, mostly for advertising, in opposition to the referendum. but they failed to register as ``political campaign committees'' as required by the tennessee campaign financial disclosure act of 1980
the law defines such committees as any combination of two or more people ``making expenditures to support or oppose any candidate for public office or measure.'' it requires that the committees designate a political treasurer and file campaign-disclosure statements
the churches sued the state to challenge the law as applied to them
at trial, pastors for the churches testified that the referendum opposition resulted from moral, not political, concerns and that they considered their actions to be part of the churches' religious mission
the pastors also testified that their churches had not, and would not, get involved in partisan political campaigns as a matter of religious conviction
a state trial judge ruled against the churches, finding that all of them are ``political campaign committees'' as defined by the 1980 state law and that the law is constitutional
a state appeals court later overturned the state law as a violation of constitutional free-speech rights
the tennessee supreme court last may 26 ruled that the law does not violate free-speech rights when applied to either partisan elections featuring candidates or non-partisan referendum elections
the recent history of campaign financial abuses as well as the growth and possible dominance of special interest political action committees make the state's disclosure requirements necessary to allow the public to have some gauge by which to assess the sources, content and frequency of campaign publicity and activity,'' the state court ruled
its ruling did not discuss the churches' argument that the law violates their right to exercise freely their religious beliefs
in the appeal acted on today, lawyers for the 13 churches noted that the justices have ``never passed on the validity of disclosure requirements in referendum campaigns.''
the appeal questioned whether any state may justify ``prior registration and disclosure requirements to non-political organizations in general and churches in particular.''
tennessee attorney general w.j. michael cody urged the high court to reject the churches' appeal
the fact that this is a referendum election does not make the state's interest in providing any information to the voters as to how the election is financed any less compelling,'' cody said
the 13 churches who challenged the law are bemis pentecostal, calvary baptist, englewood baptist, first assembly of god, first baptist church of bemis, first baptist church of jackson, malesus baptist, north jackson baptist, northside assembly of god, poplar heights baptist, skyline church of christ, west jackson baptist and woodland baptist
the case is bemis pentecostal vs. tennessee, 87-317
sen. sam nunn, whose support is considered important in the south, says he has cast his absentee ballot for tennessee sen. albert gore jr. in tuesday's democratic presidential primary in georgia
nunn, d-ga., in a statement released sunday by aides as he was leaving for a week-long trip to the soviet union, said he voted for gore because ``his views come closest to my own views as to the steps our nation must take to meet our challenges at home and abroad.''
nunn had refused on friday during a news conference with georgia reporters to disclose how he voted, saying his position as chairman of the democratic leadership council precluded him from taking a public stand between gore and missouri rep. richard gephardt, both members of the dlc
but he said in his statement sunday that since that news conference he had eceived ``a number of inquiries from georgians asking me privately whom i had favored in the march 8 primary election.''
because i have responded frankly to these private inquiries, i feel that it is now more appropriate for me to state publicly what i have stated privately _ i voted for al gore,'' nunn said
the supreme court today let stand a ruling that the public has no right to attend hearings into the alleged tainting or bribing of a criminal trial jury while the trial is underway
the justices, without comment, refused to second-guess the validity of conducting such hearings in secret during the 1986 racketeering trial of louisiana gov. edwin w. edwards
a federal appeals court, in upholding the closed hearings, ruled that the public's constitutional right to attend criminal trials does not extend to ``the midtrial questioning of jurors.''
the appeals court also ruled that transcripts of the closed hearings may be withheld from public disclosure during the trial even if the jury is sequestered, and that the names of the jurors involved may be erased from the transcripts
after a 1985 trial ended in mistrial because a federal jury could not reach a unanimous verdict, then-gov. edwards and four co-defendants stood trial again in 1986 on charges of racketeering and bribery
all were acquitted after a two-month trial
on two occasions during the second trial, u.s. district judge marcel livaudais jr. received reports that the sequestered jury had been tainted
the first report suggested that one juror had told another that jury members in edwards' first trial were paid to vote for acquittal
the second report suggested one juror had told another of a possible bribery attempt by one defendant
in both instances, livaudais conducted proceedings in his chambers and determined that the people involved could continue serving as jurors
courtroom spectators, including news reporters, were given only vague accounts of why the hearings were held. the judge said he would release partial transcripts sometime after the trial was completed, but that those transcripts would not include juror names
three news organizations _ the times-picayune, gannett news service and capital city press _ and several of their reporters challenged the judge's use of closed hearings
the times-picayune is a new orleans newspaper. capital city press publishes the morning advocate and state-times newspapers in baton rouge
the challenge contended that livaudais should have given the reporters a chance to argue in favor of conducting open-court hearings and that he was required to tell why it was necessary to conduct the hearings in secret
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals last july 31 upheld the closed hearings
the appeals court noted that past supreme court rulings have established a public right of access to criminal trials but ruled that under that constitutional right ``no presumption of openness attaches to proceedings involving midtrial questioning of jurors.''
if the questioning of impaneled jurors were held in open court there is a substantial probability that what may have begun as a `tempest in a teapot' will end in a mistrial, a hung jury or a reversal on appeal,'' the 5th circuit court said
the news organizations then sought supreme court review
the case is times-picayune publishing vs. edwards, 87-872
communist rebels ambushed and killed six filipino sailors assigned to subic naval base 10 miles from the u.s.-run installation, the military said today. three civilians also died in the shootout
philippine officials today urged president corazon aquino to develop a unified negotiating strategy before talks on the future of american bases in the philippines
one of the country's best-known rebel priests fled to cebu city from mindanao island after he was wounded by comrades who learned he was planning to surrender, officials said today
the philippine constabulary said the philippine sailors were traveling to manila sunday when rebels opened fire on their land rover near the town of hermosa on the bataan peninsula
three civilians were killed in the cross fire during the 15-minute battle, the military said. there were no reports of rebel casualties
subic, 50 miles west of manila, is one of six installations technically under philippine command but effectively under u.s. control
communist rebels operate near both subic and clark air base, about 50 miles north of manila. in october last year, rebels killed three americans and a filipino of u.s. extraction in coordinated attacks outside clark
cabinet secretaries and members of congress' foreign affairs committee told reporters after a two-hour meeting today with mrs. aquino that they would continue talks to firm up the government position on u.s.-run bases
the united states and the philippines are expected to begin talks in the next few weeks on the future of the u.s.-run installations. under the current agreement, either government can unilaterally close the bases if it serves one-year's notice after sept. 16, 1991
mrs. aquino says she will honor the current bases treaty but has refused to say whether she will agree to extend the agreement. any extension beyond 1991 requires approval by two-thirds of the 23-member philippine senate, where opposition to the bases is strong
sen. leticia shahani said matters to be discussed in the review include the future of filipino employees at the bases and the possibility that nuclear weapons are being stored at the facilities
she said mrs. aquino is ``leaving us the liberty of taking a stand. on the other hand there is a need to coordinate the positions of the executive and the legislative.''
romeo capangpangan, spokesman of the department of social welfare, said the rebel priest, rev. frank navarro, sent word that he was recuperating in a cebu area hideout and wanted to surrender and be granted amnesty
navarro has been identified by the military as a new peoples army commander in eastern mindanao
capangpangan said navarro was apparently suffering from a bullet wound in the shoulder which he received in an ambush by his own followers last week in mindanao's surigao del sur province
welfare department official amelita costas told reporters that her office was willing to meet navarro at the place of his choice and take him to safety without any military escorts
the government amnesty program for communist and moslem rebels expired at the end of february. but defense secretary fidel ramos said rebels who wanted to surrender could receive amnesty on a case-by-case basis. white house</head>
the supreme court today refused to reinstate charges against 36 people arrested outside the white house while protesting reagan administration domestic and foreign policies
the court, without comment, left intact rulings that dismissed the charges on grounds government prosecutors acted vindictively
a demonstration for ``peace, jobs and justice'' occurred april 22, 1985. about 200 participants were arrested
they were charged with violating the terms of their u.s. park police march permit by sitting down on sidewalks outside the white house
most of those arrested agreed to pay a $50 fine for demonstrating without a permit rather than stand trial
but 36 demonstrators chose to stand trial. they were charged _ in addition to demonstrating without a permit _ with obstructing the sidewalks adjacent to the white house
each charge carries a maximum penalty of six months in prison and a $500 fine
u.s. district judge aubrey robinson ordered all charges against the 36 dismissed, ruling that prosecutors acted vindictively by bringing the second charge only for those who chose to stand trial
the u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld robinson's decision last year
the appeals court said there was ample evidence for robinson to conclude that prosecutors added the second charge to punish demonstrators for choosing to stand trial
a large group of defendants threatened to go to trial on what the government considered petty offenses,'' the appeals court said. ``the government had a strong incentive to try to keep clear of this courtroom morass. it wished to avoid the annoyance and expense of prosecuting these minor cases at a potentially drawn-out trial.''
prosecutors showed a `` disturbing willingness to toy with the defendants,'' the appeals court added
it said robinson was justified in throwing out both charges against the 36 demonstrators, not merely the second accusation that they obstructed the sidewalks
if in cases of vindictive prosecution the trial court judge may only dismiss the additional charge, the prosecutor wil have nothing to lose by acting vindictively,'' the appeals court said
the reagan administration said the lower court rulings could ``significantly hamper'' the government's handling off mass demonstrations in the nation's capital
the case is u.s. vs. meyer, 87-730
the supreme court today refused to revive a $3 million lawsuit by author william peter blatty against the new york times for the treatment his 1983 novel ``legion'' received on the newspaper's weekly best seller list
the justices, without comment, let stand a california supreme court ruling that dismissed blatty's lawsuit alleging intentional interference with prospective business advantage
blatty, author of ``the exorcist,'' contended that the times excluded ``legion'' from the weekly list for a period even though the newspaper knew the novel had sold enough copies to qualify
the california supreme court, by a 7-0 vote last dec. 29, said blatty could not pursue the lawsuit
four of the state court's justices based their ruling on the federal constitution's free-speech protections and the even greater protections for speech offered by the california constitution
they said such a lawsuit is barred unless a defendant has made a statement ``of and concerning'' the plaintiff
three of the state court's justices said blatty had failed to suggest that the newspaper intentionally misrepresented the results of its bookstore sales survey to hurt him financially
the case is blatty vs. new york times, 86-1803
the supreme court today cleared the way for a trial in what may become an important test case on the power of cities to control rents and otherwise protect mobile home residents
the court, without comment, rejected an appeal by santa barbara, calif., officials aimed at killing a lawsuit by the owners of a mobile home park who claim they unfairly are being deprived of their property's full value
a santa barbara ordinance adopted in 1984 requires mobile home park operators to offer their tenants leases of unlimited duration. it also permits a maximum yearly rent increase of 3 percent or three-fourths of the increase in the consumer price index, whichever is greater
the ordinance was challenged by william and jean hall, who own the los amigos mobile home estates in santa barbara
they said their property is being ``taken'' without the ``just compensation'' required by the constitution
the halls argued that granting mobile home owners a perpetual lease allows them to sell the lease at a windfall profit. the windfall is due to the new owners' anticipation of continued low land rent at below-market rates, the halls said
a federal judge threw out the suit, but the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals reinstated it in 1986
the appeals court noted that the halls said the price of mobile homes in the park shot up dramatically after the ordinance was enacted, suggesting the guaranteed low rents were worth a premium to buyers
reduced to its essentials,'' the appeals court said, the halls' claim ``is that the santa barbara ordinance has transferred a possessory interest in their land to each of their 71 tenants. this interest consists of the right to occupy the property in perpetuity while paying only a fraction of what it is worth in rent.''
the appeals court acknowledged that the ordinance allows mobile home owners to be removed if they don't pay the rent or if they misbehave. that may ease the economic impact, the appeals court said, but it does not alter the basic right of possession given the home owners
the ordinance ``changes the fundamental relationship between the parties, giving landlord and tenant complementary estates in the same land,'' the appeals court said
the appeals court said a trial is necessary to determine if the halls' allegations about a windfall are accurate
santa barbara county and other cities in california joined in asking the high court to review the case. the cities are berkeley, capitola, carson, cathedral city, fontana, hayward, los altos, los angeles, mountain view, oxnard, palm springs, rancho mirage, rialto, san buenaventura, san jose, san luis obispo, santa monica, vacaville, vallejo, west hollywood and westlake village
the justices on feb. 24 expanded the power of communities to impose rent controls by upholding a san jose, calif., ordinance that allows hardships to tenants to be considered when landlords seek rent increases
the ordinance had been atttacked as a ``robin hood'' law that steals from the rich to pay the poor
the case is santa barbara vs. hall, 87-220
jordan said today it welcomed the u.s. peace initiative but insisted that the plo participate in talks to quell violence in the israeli-occupied territories
information minister hani khasawneh said amman will ``be reporting to the u.s. administration as soon as we finish our consultations'' with other arab countries on the peace plan carried to the middle east last week by secretary of state george p. shultz
we always seek a united arab stand toward any peace process in the area,'' he said
he said there was no deadline for formulating a response to the u.s. initiative. shultz reportedly has asked jordan, syria, egypt and israel to report back by the middle of the month
the american plan calls for an international conference to launch bilateral talks between israel and a palestinian-jordanian delegation
the two sides would start in may to negotiate limited self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians and in december would begin talks on a final settlement of the arab-israeli conflict
israel's coalition government is split along party lines over the american plan
the blueprint outlined by shultz proposed an international peace conference involving jordan, syria and palestinian representatives, but not the palestine liberation organization
both the united states and israel refuse to meet with the plo because they consider it a terrorist organization
the jordanian minister renewed jordan's call for an international peace conference under u.n. auspices and attended by all concerned parties in the conflict, including the plo and the soviet union
asked if jordan was optimistic, he said: ``we can't say so yet, but we hope we'll get fruitful results
we're interested in a peace settlement and that's why we welcome the u.s. movement,'' khasawneh said
the supreme court today refused to hear the appeal of a florida woman who says she was denied custody of her young child because she is a jehovah's witness
the justices, without comment, let stand state court rulings that bar rita mendez from exposing her daughter to any of her religious beliefs
the state courts also awarded primary residential custody of the girl to her father
in the appeal acted on today, mrs. mendez said her freedom-of-religion rights were violated by the custody determination
rita and ignacio mendez were divorced in miami in 1985, after a four-year marriage. their daughter, rebecca, was then 3
marital difficulties arose in 1983 over mrs. mendez's involvement with the jehovah's witnesses religion. her husband is a catholic who, according to court documents, felt his wife had ``betrayed him'' by joining the jehovah's witnesses
at a custody trial, mendez testfieid that it was not in rebecca's best interest to be raised as a jehovah's witness. of the 485 pages in the divorce proceedings transcript devoted to child custody, 249 pages contain references to the subject of religion
two psychologists and one psychiatrist testified that rebecca should live with her mother, whom they called the child's ``prime parent figure.''
but the experts said contact with her mother's jehovah's witness religion was not in rebecca's best interest because she needs ``to adapt herself to the mainstream of culture.''
they testified that a catholic upbringing ``would allow her to adapt to society and have the freedom that catholic children have in the society.''
judge phillip k. knight, in awarding primary custody of rebecca to her father, ruled that mrs. mendez should enjoy ``regular, frequent and liberal visitation, access and contact with the minor child.''
but he also barred mrs. mendez from exposing rebecca to ``any religious practices, attendances, teachings or events which are in any way inconsistent with the religious teachings and practices of the catholic religion.''
a state appeals court upheld the custody award, ruling that ``the record in this case does not support (mrs. mendez's) contention that the trial court made the father the primary residential parent ... solely because the mother is a practicing jehovah's witness.''
in a dissenting vote, one appeals court judge said granting the father primary custody amounted to ``an abuse of discretion.''
the child, exposed to the religious views of both parents for two years, showed no evidence of emotional or psychological harm,'' the judge said, adding that the custody proceedings showed ``the experts' personal biases against the mother's religion.''
their disdain for the mother's religion induced them to speculate as to the possibility of harm to the child in the future even though no evidence of harm existed,'' the dissenting judge said
lawyers for mrs. mendez told the justices, ``this court cannot eliminate religious bigotry in america but it can and should review this decision, which has deprived a parent of her child because of intolerance of her faith.''
the appeal added, ``the trial court's order places rita in the anomalous position of having a constitutionally protected right to speak to total strangers about her religion but not to her own child.''
the case is mendez vs. mendez, 87-1166
gunmen in a speeding car shot and killed a lebanese army officer in south lebanon today, a military communique reported
it identified the victim as 1st lt. talal kanso, 41, a shiite moslem, and said he was ambushed while driving to his headquarters in the southern market town of nabatiyeh at 9:00 a.m
the communique said kanso's driver fired at the assailants' car, killing one of them
the attackers escaped
the communique did not report any motive behind the killing
many lebanese army officers had been assassinated since 1984. most of the victims worked in the army's intelligence service
a co-worker and a relative of an american kidnapped in nicaragua last week by contra rebels say they have been told he is safe, but add that they don't trust the contras
richard boren, of elkin, was among 12 people abducted tuesday from the village of mancotal in northern nicaragua
the main thing that my family wants is for him to be released,'' said carol owens, boren's sister, who lives in carrboro
contras, who oppose nicaragua's leftist sandinista government, claim the group was ``detained,'' not kidnapped
boren, 30, is a long-term volunteer with witness for peace, a u.s.-based grass-roots ecumenical group that works in the war zones of nicaragua trying to change u.s. policy toward the country
he has been in nicaragua since november, assigned to travel from town to town along the honduran border recording witnesses' stories of contra attacks
dennis marker, director of the washington office of witness for peace, said contras kicked down the door of a house in which boren was staying and began shooting, wounding a 13-year-old girl in the leg
boren was taken prisoner at gunpoint while trying to bandage the girl's wound, marker said
six of the abductees have escaped since tuesday, he said, and one has told witness for peace specifics of the incident
the contras still have richard, and he obviously can't go until they let him go,'' marker said. ``i believe if they wanted to, they could release him immediately.''
we're not one bit happy that they're holding him, and we don't trust them, quite frankly,'' marker said
marker said a contra leader confirmed friday only that they had boren and that he was safe
ms. owen, who said she didn't learn of the abduction until thursday night, said state department officials told her saturday that her brother was all right
there were differences in culture and style in a television linkup between soviet and american students and scholars, but the students and 10 panelists agreed that the two countries are making progress in breaking down barriers
the two-hour forum saturday joined 350 undergraduates at tufts university's downtown campus with 200 moscow state university students
not accustomed to the american style of tv answers, the soviets often strayed from the questioning and read prepared speeches detailing minor points in soviet nuclear history
at one juncture, soviet moderator yevgeny p. velikhov said, ``it's a lecture. we have to teach the students something here.''
andrey kokoshin, deputy director of the institute for u.s.a. and canada, told a u.s. questioner the superpowers are moving past cold war tensions to begin ``to clear off layers of mutual fears.''
it seems to me what we are doing now in a first step to disarmament should create a new basis, a new faith to increase trust in each other,'' kokoshin said
the satellite-relayed ``space bridge'' forum was the first of three between tufts and moscow state on the nuclear arms race and cold war politics. the sessions are part of a course devised by tufts professor martin j. sherwin
the panel included two americans who worked on the top-secret manhattan project that developed the first atomic bomb in 1945, and a soviet researcher who helped build that country's first nuclear weapon in 1949
students and scientists frequently interrupted each other with applause, the loudest when sherwin praised soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's efforts to ease nuclear tensions
i think there's not a single person here who thinks he will be able to survive a nuclear bomb,'' said alexei milayev, a soviet physics student. ``we are gathered here in the final analysis to think about what must be done to prevent a nuclear war.''
velikhov, vice president for physics and mathematics for the soviet academy of sciences, noted the forum came 40 years after the u.n. committee on atomic energy abandoned its effort to ban nuclear weapons
today we are at the first stages of a non-nuclear world,'' he said. velikhov said the recent superpower arms reduction treaty signed in december ``is the first encouraging step. we believe, in a new international situation, we will succceed in resolving the question.''
mark anstendig, 21, a tufts junior history major from edgemont, n.y., said afterward the forum went a long way to promoting better understanding
i think there was good rapport on both sides,'' he said. ``it'll promote better feelings. i think it's a good microcosm of what could happen.''
the government announced plans today to amend the constitution to make it easier to extend direct federal rule in troubled state of punjab, where sikh militants have been waging a bloody campaign for independence
p. chidambaram, deputy home minister, told the governing lower house of parliament the amendments would only apply to punjab
he said the amendments would allow the government to extend direct federal rule for more than the one year presently allowed by the constitution
punjab's state government was dismissed in may 1987 for failing to curb sikh terrorism, and the state was placed under federal rule for six months. the duration was extended for another six months
on sunday the federal government went a step further and dissolved the state assembly, paving the way for fresh elections
chidambaram said articles of the constitution dealing with emergency rule will be amended to enable the government to impose a state of emergency on one state at a time
under the current rules, a state of emergency can be imposed on the whole country but not on individual states
at least 391 people have been killed in punjab this year in attacks blamed on sikh extremists. more than 1,000 people were killed last year
the minister, citing a government report on punjab, said the state assembly was dissolved because of the ``interference from members of the legislative assembly in the effective and efficient working of the police.''
there were numerous reports, he said, when legislators ``not only attempted to interfere, influence and prevent the police action but also threatening police officers of dire consequences if they failed to obey their commands,'' chidambaram said
he claimed the imposition of direct federal rule had brought about a ``distinct'' improvement in the situation in punjab
the formal bill proposing the amendments is likely to come at the end of the month. it is expected to pass easily since the congress party of prime minister rajiv gandhi has a majority in the lower house
the supreme court today left intact a $1.13 million jury award to an idaho boy paralyzed from the waist down after he was given a vaccination for three diseases
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the vaccine manufacturer that such verdicts could force drug companies to abandon the production of essential vaccines
lederle laboratories, which makes the vaccine, said the case is a test of how far juries should be allowed to go in compensating people who suffer injuries after taking vaccines designed to protect them from life-threatening deiseases
at stake are billions of dollars because of the ``unprecedented explosion of vaccine liability litigation,'' said lawyers for lederle, a division of american cyanamid co
lederle manufactures tri-immunol, a vaccine to immunize children against diptheria, tetanus and pertussis. the company noted that the vaccine is licensed by the food and drug administration, and that only one other company markets a similar vaccine in the united states
kevin toner of burley, idaho, was given the vaccine in 1979 when he was three months old. he subsequently contracted a rare condition of the spine known as transverse myelitis, which permanently paralyzed him from the waist down
a federal jury found that lederle's vaccine caused the boy's paralysis, and decided that the drug company was negligent for failing to develop an alternative vaccine that would have been safer
lederle contended that the judge's instructions to the jury were indadequate because the jurors were not told that certain drugs are unavoidably unsafe and that such vaccines may be sold despite the risks
the company also said the verdict was impermissibly inconsistent with the jury's rejection of other claims against lederle
the company said the jury, in rejecting the other claims, decided that tri-immunol was not defective and that there are unavoidable risks in taking the vaccine
the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals last september upheld the jury award
in rejecting the company's argument on inconsistency, the appeals court said, ``it is not beyond peradventure that the jury thought that tri-immunol was fit for the purposes for which it was to be used but that lederle was negligent in failing to replace it with a better product.''
the appeals court added, ``were we charged with deciding whether jury verdicts are the most sensible way of allocating risks and costs regarding vaccines that have been proved beneficial, we might well design a different method.''
but it said the jury verdict did not violate idaho law, adding that any ``comprehensive reform'' in the area must be left to state legislatures
the appeals court opinion was written by anthony m. kennedy, who became a supreme court justice in february
the court's brief order today did not say that kennedy disqualified himself from considering the appeal. his participation under the circumstances would be highly unusual
the case is lederle laboratories vs. toner, 87-1151. minnesota case</head>
the supreme court today refused to allow an indian tribe to withhold from federal officials confidential records of a tribal court proceeding
the justices, without comment, let stand a ruling that gave the government custody of court records of the red lake band of chippewa indians in minnesota
the tribe in 1985 declared that records of proceedings before its court of indian offenses are confidential and not the federal government's property
the chippewas were concerned that if the documents were given to the interior department's bureau of indian affairs, the agency would be forced to surrender the material to a newspaper that sought the records under the freedom of information act (foia)
indian tribes are not covered by the foia and may not be forced directly to reveal confidential information to the news media
the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last august that the bureau of indian affairs is entitled to the material
the appeals court rejected arguments by the red lake band that only congress could grant the government access to the records, and ruled that the government has sovereignty over tribal courts despite the absence of specific congressional authorization
the considerable independence given tribes to govern themselves does not mean they have the power automatically to withhold information from the government, the appeals court said
the red lake band court of indian offenses was established in 1884 under authority granted to the tribe by federal officials
the 8th circuit court said that if the chippewa court had been created under a later federal statute, the indian reorganization act of 1934, the confidential records might be exempt from federal control
the case is red lake band vs. u.s., 87-950
the supreme court today refused to reinstate a pennsylvania law forcing state police officers to retire at age 60
the court, without comment, let stand a ruling that the state law violates federal restrictions against discrimination based on age
the 3rd u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last june that pennsylvania violated the federal age discrimination in employment act
the appeals court said it is illegal to presume that officers over 60 are physically unfit for their work when officials have failed to adopt minimum fitness standards for all workers
until minimum standards are developed, implemented and enforced, the pennsylvania state police cannot justify its mandatory retirement law by relying on good health and physical conditioning as ... reasonably necessary to pennsylvania state police business,'' the appeals court said
the appeals court noted that new jersey, a neighboring state of pennsylvania, has a mandatory retirement age of 55 for state troopers that has been upheld in the courts
but the appeals court said, ``all members of the new jersey state police are subject to mandatory fitness requirements and are sanctioned for non-compliance.''
the federal law against age bias generally permits employers to force workers to retire before 70 only if it can be shown that being under 70 is a bona fide occupational qualification or if employers can prove it is highly impractical to test workers individually to assure they are still fit
the supreme court, in a pair of 1985 rulings that reinforced the employment rights of older workers, struck down efforts to force city firefighters to retire at age 55 and flight engineers at age 60
the 3rd circuit court cited those cases in invalidating pennsylvania's mandatory retirement age for state police officers
pennsylvania officials said the appeals court ruling places a heavy financial burden on the state
the state said it could be forced to pay $4 million in back pay and benefits to officers who have been forced to retire
officials also said that testing state police officers for fitness would be a costly process. they said it would cost some $2.4 million to determine whether the force's 4,000 members are healthy and fit
the state said its retirement-age policy is reasonable because of statistics that show a sharp decline in average fitness and health for older people
for example, the state said the decrease in aerobic capacity for an average group of men aged 26 and an average group of men age 58 is 57 percent. relative strength declines by about 35 percent between the ages of 29 and 50 and muscular endurance slips by 30 percent between ages 30 and 60, the officials said
pennsylvania's retirement law was challenged by the federal equal employment opportunity commission and otto j. binker, a lieutenant on the state police force who was near age 60 in 1983 when the suit was filed
the case is pennsylvania vs. equal employment opportunity commission, 87-958
a crowd of 200 eastern airlines passengers who had been bumped from new york-bound flights angrily confronted ticket agents, and one man was arrested for assaulting police officers, authorities said
several similar scuffles have occurred at miami international airport in recent months when eastern flights to the northeast were cancelled
the latest incident took place at the airport sunday when members of the crowd pressed against a ticket stand demanding to know if they could board the last flight to new york
one passenger went behind the stand and punched an eastern employee in the chest, said metro-dade police lt. robert otero
three officers struggled with the man, and one policeman fell to the ground after hitting his leg on a trash can, said otero
police arrested jack lemonik, 36, of new york city, on charges of simple battery, aggravated battery and resisting arrest with violence, said metro-dade police spokesman james wright
passengers shouted angrily at police during the struggle with lemonik, said curt arnel, 30, an attorney from merrick, n.y
eastern spokesman bob carson said 226 passengers were bumped from a 3:15 p.m. eastern flight to la guardia. some passengers were then bumped repeatedly from later flights
carson had no immediate explanation why so many people were bumped from one flight. one previous incident occurred when numerous passengers were bumped after a large jet was replaced by a small one
many of the bumped passengers were unable to board the last flight and were put up for the night in hotels, said eastern spokeswoman karen ceremsak
the widow of former cia director william j. casey testified today before the special federal grand jury that is investigating the iran-contra affair
sophia casey likely was questioned about what her husband might have told her before his death last year about the sale of u.s. arms to iran to obtain the release of american hostages and whether he mentioned anything about the diversion of proceeds to the contras
casey, who died of pneumonia on may 6, 1987, after suffering from brain cancer, was cia director when u.s. arm were sold to iran in 1985 and 1986
the agency provided logistical support to covert operations to help the contras. those operations were coordinated by former national security council aide lt. col. oliver l. north
north told congress that he was acting with casey's approval and that the former cia director recommended that he recruit retired air force maj. gen. richard v. secord to set up the private supply network because secord had experience in special operations
secord, who set up secret swiss bank accounts to funnel private donations to the contras, also helped broker the sale of u.s. arms to iran with his partner, albert hakim
north told congress last summer that casey saw the diversion as part of an effort to create a ``stand-alone'' or ``off-the-shelf'' enterprise that could engage in covert activities outside congressional review
mrs. casey's testimony comes as the grand jury appears to be preparing to return criminal indictments against the targets of the investigation, including north, secord, hakim and former national security adviser john m. poindexter
mrs. casey, who lives in roslyn harbor, n.y., last fall disputed a published account by journalist bob woodward that casey knew about the diversion to the contra rebels
in his book ``veil: the secret wars of the cia,'' woodward said that during an interview in the hospital casey acknowledged knowing about the diversion
in a sept. 28, 1987, interview, mrs. casey said her husband never told her of the diversion and expressed doubt that he knew about it
she termed ``absolute blasphemy'' woodward's account that casey had criticized president reagan as ``lazy and distracted.''
he's lying about that,'' mrs. casey told the associated press
she described her husband as ``a team player'' and a ``great patriot who would never do anything to harm his president.''
mrs. casey also expressed outrage at woodward's report that casey was ``struck by the overall passivity of the president.''
bill would never say that about the president,'' she said. ``bill loved reagan and they were very close. it's been very hurtful.'' case</head>
the supreme court today agreed to decide whether states may use anti-racketeering laws to close down adult bookstores
the court said it will review a pair of free-speech challenges to such an indiana law
under indiana's racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law, patterned after the much-used federal rico act, law enforcement officials are authorized to seize any property used in a racketeering enterprise
the law was invoked in march 1984 against three fort wayne bookstores selling sexually explicit materials, each accused of at least two violations of the state's obscenity laws
law enforcement officials padlocked the stores and seized their nventories
a short time later, similar legal action was taken against three adult bookstores in indianapolis
the three fort wayne bookstores were allowed to reopen in april 1985 but only one, fort wayne books, remains in business. it filed the appeal acted on today
the three indianapolis bookstores also have gone out of business
later, two bookstores in howard county, ind., were prosecuted under the state law
an indiana appeals court ruled in 1985 that applying the state rico law to those whose only offenses are alleged obscenity law violations impermissibly hinders constitutionally protected freedom of speech
the appeals court said the padlocking of the bookstores represented an impermissible ``prior restraint'' of materials not yet ruled obscene
the indiana supreme court last year reversed the appeals court, ruling that applying the rico law in such a way is valid because the legislature did not pass it to promote censorship
the seizure order does not constitute a prior restraint or in any other manner impinge upon'' fort wayne books' free-speech rights, the state court said in a 3-2 ruling
in other action, the court:
_ agreed to consider reinstating the death sentence of a florida man convicted of killing an 8-year-old girl in 1978
the court is expected to use the case to study death row inmates' right to raise new issues when they turn to the federal courts for help and to decide whether florida juries may be told their life-or-death recommendations are subject to the trial judge's approval
_ left intact a $1.13 million jury award to an idaho boy paralyzed from the waist down after he was given a vaccination for three diseases
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the vaccine manufacturer that such verdicts could force drug companies to abandon the production of essential vaccines
_ ruled unanimously that financially troubled farmers may not avoid foreclosure under federal bankruptcy law by promising to use their labor, experience and expertise in continuing to operate their farm
by an 8-0 vote, the court said a secured creditor's right to ``adequate protection'' under bankruptcy law cannot be satisfied by such a promise
_ refused to free churches from having to comply with state financial-disclosure laws when waging public referendum campaigns
the court, citing the lack of a ``substantial federal question,'' turned away a challenge by 13 churches from jackson, tenn., to a law they contend violates their freedom of religion and freedom of speech
_ let stand a ruling that the public has no right to attend hearings into the alleged tainting or bribing of a criminal trial jury while the trial is underway
the justices, without comment, refused to second-guess the validity of conducting such hearings in secret during the 1986 racketeering trial of louisiana gov. edwin w. edwards
_ cleared the way for a jury trial in former massachusetts gov. edward j. king's $3.6 million libel lawsuit against the boston globe
the justices, over one dissenting vote, left intact a massachusetts supreme judicial court ruling that a jury should hear king's contention that he was libeled by a nov. 8, 1981, column
_ cleared the way for a trial in what may become an important test case on the power of cities to control rents and otherwise protect mobile home residents
the court, without comment, rejected an appeal by santa barbara, calif., officials aimed at killing a lawsuit by owners of a mobile home park who claim they unfairly are being deprived of their property's full value
in seeking help from the nation's highest court in the adult bookstore case, lawyers for fort wayne books argued that ``neither interim nor permanent restraints of the type involved in this case may constitutionally be enforced prior to final judidical resolution'' unless the law guarantees speedy appellate review
the appeal noted that as yet no trial has been held to determine whether any of the materials seized from fort wayne books were obscene and therefore not constitutionally protected
the justices were told that ``a growing number of states are adopting similar rico laws, and there is a conflict among the states as to their constitutionality.''
the adult bookstore cases are fort wayne books vs. indiana, 87-470; and sappenfield vs. indiana, 87-614
fighting warm temperatures and wet snow, the leaders in the iditarod trail sled dog race were out of finger lake and on their way to rainy pass early today
thirteen teams left the finger lake checkpoint, 193 miles from the 1,158-mile race's starting line, in one hour late sunday. twenty-three other teams had arrived at the checkpoint
lavon barve of wasilla and jerry austin of st. michael pulled out at 7:39 p.m. they were followed by deedee jonrowe of bethel, 1987 champion susan butcher of manley, four-time champion rick swenson of two rivers and tim moerlein of kasilof
barve and swenson had declared their 24-hour layovers, then canceled the layover. all mushers are required to halt for one full 24 hour period during the race to rest themselves and their dogs
temperatures in the rainy pass area were in the high 20s early today, the national weather service reported. temperatures that hovered around 32 degrees on saturday took a toll on many of the sled dogs, which are accustomed to running in much colder weather
herbie nayokpuk was 18th into skwentna, a checkpoint 148 miles from anchorage, and notified officials he would take the race's mandatory 24-hour layover in skwentna
i've got to save some of my dogs,'' he said. ``i almost burned them up. i'll have to rest them a little bit.''
when the lead mushers reach puntilla lake in rainy pass, they will have covered 223 miles of the 1,158-mile race
fifty-two teams started the race early saturday. defending champion butcher finished last year's race in a record 11 days, two hours
the race is inspired by a 1925 dog sled relay that rushed diphtheria serum to nome during an outbreak of the disease. the top 20 mushers will split a purse of $150,000. the winner will get $30,000
u.s. mushers from outside alaska, and their positions: frank teasley of jackson, wyo., was 15th; terry adkins of mikado, mich., was 21st; robin jacobson of minnetonka, minn., was 27th; dan maceachen of snowmass village, colo., was 29th; john patten of grand marais, minn., was 35st; and stan ferguson of philadelphia was 41th. checks, halting traffic; canal operating normally; no pickup</note>
hundreds of irate retirees rallied in the streets today as local banks remained shuttered, and panama's ousted vice president urged his countrymen to take up arms against gen. manuel antonio noriega if the military leader didn't step down
meanwhile, a spokeswoman for the panama canal commission said ships were passing normally through the waterway despite reports that the nation's crisis was holding up passage of ships through the canal
about 300 retirees, chanting ``justice,'' were joined by scores of younger supporters who cut off traffic on the city's main avenida espana in front of the towering national bank of panama building
we little old people don't have that much strength, but we'll hold out here as long as we can,'' said violeta sanchez, 63, a retired secretary
at least 200 more retirees gathered in front of the treasury ministry to demonstrate
noriega's regime, under increasing pressure from the united states, tried to assure the country's 60,000 retirees over the weekend that they would be able to cash their pension checks for the first two weeks of march. but it did not say how or where, and the pensioners were indignant
rafael arosemena, president of the national bank, came out of the building to try to placate the retirees, and was surrounded by an antagonistic crowd. he told them they should go to another branch, but they refused to do so
later in the morning, the government radio station said the national bank would set up two payment booths in the afternoon to cash retirement checks
banks fearing a run because of political instability closed last week
the government blames the closures on lack of funds resulting from the freezing of panamanian government money deposited in five u.s. banks
panama's official currency is the u.s. dollar, and the government periodically receives shipments of tender from the u.s. banks where it keeps an estimated $50 million on deposit
a request for such a shipment last week was rejected because of legal action taken on behalf of eric arturo delvalle, who was ousted from the presidency on feb. 26
panama canal commission spokesman willie friar said the rumors that ship traffic through the canal was being disrupted began with unconfirmed reports that panamanian port authorities _ which have been independent from the canal commission since 1979 _ were accepting payment only in cash
she said other forms of payment were being accepted for port services such as bunkering _ taking on fuel or water
she also said the great majority of the three dozen vessels that make the passage on an average day do not use the port facilities
she said all 38 vessels scheduled to make the passage sunday did so, and that the 39 scheduled to pass through today were proceeding normally without delay
on sunday, roderick esquivel, panama's ousted vice president, said from hiding that if noriega does not relinquish power, panamanians should take up arms against him
in an interview with the associated press from a house where he was staying, esquivel warned sunday:
if peaceful means and the economic measures are not sufficient to achieve democracy, then i am the first to say that democracy must be obtained by fighting for it.''
esquivel was ousted from office in a military-orchestrated coup on feb. 26 along with delvalle, who also remains in hiding. the two men were removed from their posts a day after delvalle tried to fire noriega
many people think panama does not have much capacity for violence, but it does,'' he said
the education ministry postponed the start of public school classes until further notice. teachers were to have returned to school from vacation today for a week of preparation, with students beginning classes march 14. the ministry said in a statement the postponement was due to the climate of crisis
panama's 12 local banks have been shuttered since last tuesday. branches of international institutions closed their doors on friday
the national bank of panama said it could not supply its member banks with tender and instructed them on friday to remain closed until further notice
people have not been able to cash checks since feb. 29, and stores have stopped accepting checks and credit cards
the entire population is prepared to suffer economic hardship,'' esquivel said of mounting economic pressure from washington. ``and in a second phase, they are ready to sacrifice their lives.''
potential liability problems surrounding a tree house that extends two feet over public property have prompted city officials to give the structure the ax
it's accessible to the public, and there is the possibility it could entirely or partially fall on somebody passing by or damage property,'' said chief building inspector louis kidwell
the 8-by-6-foot tree house was built by teresa macdonald's father, a contractor, a few months ago as a christmas present for her sons, james, 6, and joey, 4
it features wall-to-wall carpeting, a shingled roof and sliding plexiglass windows and is a popular place for neighborhood children to play
if i didn't have school, i'd spend every single day up there,'' said james macdonald
my dad said, `whatever happened to the days of huckleberry finn and tom sawyer?''' said teresa macdonald
she said she understands the city's concern but added that few people use the sidewalk on their dead-end street
i've been up there on the windiest days and nothing has happened,'' she said. ``we'd have to have an earthquake or a nuclear war.''
the macdonalds have until march 21 to remove the tree house. if the city doesn't change its mind, they will build a foundation for it in their back yard and place it there
the supreme court, in an important victory for investors, today placed a heavy burden of proof on companies that are sued for denying they are holding merger negotiations after such preliminary talks are underway
by a 4-2 vote, the court said if companies withhold important information affecting stock prices, it must be presumed that investors who bought and sold the securities were relying on that information
an investor who buys or sells stock at the price set by the market does so in reliance on the integrity of that price,'' said justice harry a. blackmun for the court. ``because most publicly available information is reflected in market price, an investor's reliance on any public material misrepresentations, therefore, may be presumed.''
the absence of a five-vote majority in the case raises the possibility the issue could be reconsidered by the justices in another case with a different result. but, for now at least, today's decision is likely to have important repercussions on wall street
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last month, did not take part in considering the case. chief justice william h. rehnquist and justice antonin scalia disqualified themselves from participating without explanation
the court ordered further hearings in a dispute involving basic inc. of cleveland
the company merged with cebas inc., a subsidiary of combustion engineering based in connecticut, in december 1978
stockholders said basic executives falsely denied for 14 months prior to the merger that at least preliminary talks were underway between the two companies
as a result, many investors said they sold their stock at far less than its value
combustion engineering is a conglomerate that makes alumina or acid-based refractories _ non-metallic ceramic substances used as structural materials. both basic and combustion engineering were traded on the new york stock exchange
the stock of basic was selling at well under $20 a share when merger rumors began surfacing in late 1977. there was a dramatic increase in the volume of activity in the stock accompanied by a sharp run-up in price. the eventual merger price of the stock was $46 a share
company officials repeatedly said they could not account for the activity and denied merger negotiations were underway
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in 1986 that public statements by basic management during the period leading up to the merger were misleading or untrue, even if the company's denials of negotiations might be correct technically
the supreme court today rejected the appellate court's reasoning that the company's denial of the preliminary talks by itself created grounds for the investors to win their suit
information about a company that is otherwise insignificant does not become important _ or material to the stock's value _ solely because the company denied existence of the development, blackmun said
materiality is something to be determined on the basis of the particular facts of each case,'' blackmun said. ``materiality depends on the significance the reasonable investor would place on the withheld or misrepresented information.''
using that standard, the court ordered further lower court hearings in the suit by investors in basic who said they lost money because facts were withheld from them
blackmun said the presumption at the new hearings must be that the investors would have relied on those facts, unless the management of basic can prove otherwise
where materially misleading statements have been disseminated into an impersonal, well-developed market for securities, the reliance of individual plaintiffs on the integrity of the market price may be presumed,'' blackmun said
he was joined by justices william j. brennan, thurgood marshall and john paul stevens
justice byron r. white, in an opinion joined by justice sandra day o'connor, said the ruling ``may have many adverse, unintended effects as it is applied and interpreted in the years to come.''
for example, white said many investors in basic who are now suing may have doubted the company's denials that preliminary merger talks were underway
such investors, the savviest of the savvy, will be able to recover under the court's opinion,'' white said
the case is basic inc. vs. levinson, 86-279. picks up 4th graf, `british news ...'</note>
british soldiers and police shot and killed three unarmed irish republican army members and foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe told the house of commons today a ``dreadful terrorist act has been averted.''
news reports said two men and a woman were killed sunday after they planted a car bomb and set it to go off tuesday during a military parade in this british colony
but howe denied the news reports and said no bomb had been planted
he said a second car linked to the guerrillas and parked in spanish territory near border with gibraltar, a british colony, contained three false passports and equipment, including an alarm clock, insulating tape, gloves and wire
there is no doubt whatever that as a result of yesterday's events a dreadful terrorist act has been averted,'' said howe, speaking to the house of commons in london
the three people killed were actively involved in the planning and attempted excecution of that act.'' he did not elaborate
british news reports said the two men and a woman were killed after authorities uncovered a plot to set off the car bomb. the reports quoted unidentified security sources
the reports said bomb-disposal experts defused 440 pounds of explosives in a spanish-registered car parked near gov. sir peter terry's official residence in gibraltar, on the southern tip of spain
british armed forces minister ian stewart said ``an intelligence tip-off'' led to information about the three members of the irish republican army, which is fighting a guerrilla war to drive the british out of northern ireland
ronald sindon, a spokesman for the governor, said local police coordinated the effort
the operation was under the control of the gibraltar police commissioner, and british forces acted in support of gibraltar police,'' he said
in an interview in london today on the british broadcasting corporation's radio 4 program, stewart said the gibraltar government of chief minister adolfo canepa asked britain for military assistance ``under the standard arrangements because of the involvement of suspected terrorists.''
stewart said the two men and a woman were unarmed when they were shot and killed by members of the british armed forces
asked whether gibraltar police participated in the shooting, sindon said: ``i am not in a position to comment on operational procedures.''
in madrid, spanish state security spokesman augustin valladolid said today spanish police had tipped off british authorities more than a month ago about the presence of the suspected ira members on spain's southern costa del sol
valladolid said british officials asked spanish police to keep the three under surveillance but not to intervene
in a statement released sunday in belfast, the ira said the three were attached to ``active service units'' of its general headquarters in belfast. it extended ``deepest sympathy to the families of the volunteers.''
independent television in britain today identified the three as mairead farrell, 31; don mccann, 30; and sean savage, 24. the report said they were driving to the airport when they were stopped by the police
it said miss farrell served part of a 14-year prison sentence in connection with a hotel bombing in belfast in 1976
efe, spain's national news agency, said the car carrying the three ira members was stopped by police on a road leading to the spanish border
british newspapers today quoted witnesses as saying plainclothes police officers jumped out of a vehicle and shot without warning at the three. they said one man and the woman fell on the spot and the other man had run 300 yards toward the town center before he was gunned down
the press association, the british domestic news agency, quoted officials as saying the purported bomb may have been timed to go off tuesday when soldiers of the royal anglian regiment are to take part in the changing of the guard ceremony
the regiment has just completed a tour in northern ireland
the guardian, a london newspaper, said today police were carrying out house-to-house searches in the spanish border town of la linea on sunday night for other members
the mainly roman catholic ira is fighting to unite northern ireland, a british province where protestants outnumber catholics 3-2, with the predominantly catholic republic of ireland in a socialist state. inserting 4 grafs after 2nd graf pvs, in washington; edits to tighten</note>
republican presidential contenders bob dole and jack kemp invoked president reagan's name today trying to stem a george bush tide on super tuesday, as the democrats focused on texas the day beore the most delegate-rich showdown in political history
in washington, a federal judge dismissed gop candidate pat robertson's $35 million libel suit against a former congressman who questioned his korean war record
gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, the leader in polls of texas and florida democrats, met with senior citizens at a north miami beach condominium development
on sunday he campaigned in spanish as he appealed to hispanic voters in texas and then flew to georgia where he met with former president carter
robertson was in texas and told an audience in abilene, ``the frontier that beckons us today is the energy frontier.''
the former television evangelist got the endorsement of diane denman, vice chairman of the texas republican party, who said she knows all the candidates ``but without a doubt, i've got more confidence that it is pat robertson who will provide the unswerving commitment to the conservative beliefs that are needed to see america into the 1990s.''
dole told a news conference in atlanta that ``polls do demonstrate that i beat all the democrats. he (bush) doesn't beat any of them. ... we're trying to continue to reaganize the republican party, to let it grow.''
kemp, struggling to survive after finishing no better than third in any contest so far, told an audience at louisiana state university, ``i think the republican party wants a reagan republican progressive conservative to be nominated and frankly, george bush, bob dole and pat robertson don't qualify.''
we are in the race,'' insisted kemp, brushing aside questions of how well he had to do on tuesday to survive
while dukakis met with carter, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee picked up backing from another influential georgian, sen. sam nunn. as the georgia senator left for a week-long trip to the soviet union, his office released a statement saying he had cast his absentee ballot for gore because ``his views come closest to my own views as to the steps our nation must take to meet our challenges at home and abroad.''
four of dukakis' rivals _ jesse jackson, gary hart, rep. richard gephardt of missouri and gore _ were in texas today, as was robertson. bush was ending his campaign day in his hometown of houston
texas, which votes with 19 other states on tuesday, offers a trove of 183 democratic delegates and 111 on the republican side
in washington, u.s. district judge joyce hens green signed a brief order dismissing robertson's libel suit ``with prejudice,'' which means that former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif. is legally the victor in the dispute
robertson accepted the condition the judge imposed on friday in a one-sentence letter from his attorney douglas v. rigler that was delivered to the judge's chambers by messenger
under terms of the dismissal, robertson must pay court fees, printing costs and court reporters' fees, but not mccloskey's attorney's fees, which he has said total about $400,000
this is a confirmation of my integrity,'' mccloskey said today in a telephone interview from his home in san francisco. ``i don't like at the age of 60 to be called a pathological liar all over the united states. he is admitting that he is the one who is the liar.''
dole conceded sunday he was involved in ``a long, hard fight'' for the gop nomination and he had little cause for optimism about his prospects on tuesday when 17 states hold republican primaries and 20 hold democratic contests
there are 712 republican and 1,307 democratic delegates at stake, including the four to be selected from american samoa
southern and border states dominate the day and william brock, dole's campaign manager, said bush held a ``2-1 or a 3-1 lead in virtually every southern state.''
the vice president demonstrated his strength in the region on saturday when he overwhelmed his rivals in the south carolina primary and swept the state's 37 delegates
on the democratic side, dukakis looked strongest with leads in surveys in texas and florida, the two biggest super tuesday states, and a lock on his home state of massachusetts, which also votes on tuesday
it could be he'll come out of super tuesday the front-runner,'' said a gephardt aide of dukakis
but carter, during his meeting sunday evening with dukakis, predicted no clear winner on tuesday
jackson's support in the black community gives him the biggest southern base of any candidate. interviewed sunday on the abc program, ``this week with david brinkley,'' he said, ``i'm running strong in the south,'' but he refused to predict how many delegates he might win in the region
gore appeared on the same program and conceded he needs to win more than his home state of tennessee on tuesday. he predicted he would carry ``several other'' states, but refused to say which ones
robertson was interviewed on the nbc show ``meet the press'' and said that if he doesn't get 200 to 300 delegates on tuesday ``it will be difficult.''
the vast super tuesday landscape was too much for any candidate to cover in person. millions of dollars was being spent to reach voters through television and radio commercials, with many of the candidates trying to sell themselves by attacking their rivals
gephardt commercials accused dukakis of dirty tricks against other democratic contenders, while the massachusetts governor was running an ad showing an acrobat doing flips, a pointed reference to gephardt shifts on issues
dole continued to run commercials attacking bush for his role in the iran-contra affair, while the vice president was portraying the kansas senator as straddling on taxes. authors say</head> 4th graf pvs, ``excerpts from...''</note>
two noted sex experts who criticized health authorities for failing to stress the extent of the aids epidemic said today that their own estimates of the spread of aids were based on beliefs and estimates, not scientific evidence
we did not project our own database on to the general population,'' said robert kolodny, co-author with william masters and virginia johnson of ``crisis: heterosexual behavior in the age of aids.''
kolodny said at a press conference this morning that the authors' assertion that aids is ``now running rampant in the heterosexual community'' was an estimate based on analysis of existing studies that have appeared in scientific journals. it was not based on original research by the authors, he said
masters, asked for his justification of the claim, said, ``i simply believe it.''
the authors criticized health authorities for failing to stress the threat of aids to heterosexuals, and they have themselves been criticized by an aids expert for making recommendations that might alarm the public
but in their book masters, johnson and kolodny say that medical experts have played down their findings rather than present worst-case scenarios ``in the understandable wish to avoid mass panic.''
the book calls for widespread mandatory testing for acquired immune deficiency syndrome infection by pregnant women, couples seeking marriage licenses and hospital patients between ages 15 and 60
excerpts from the book are appearing in this week's issue of newsweek magazine. the authors run the masters and johnson institute in st. louis and wrote a best-seller, ``human sexual response.''
but some aids experts questioned their conclusions on the spread of the deadly disease
masters and johnson may have expertise in sexuality but they have no credentials to justify their recommendations concerning aids public health policy _ recommendations that will surely alarm the public,'' said mathilde krim, founding chairwoman of the american foundation for aids research
from everything we know today, such mandatory testing schemes will not help protect the public,'' she said saturday
masters and johnson's book suggests that to guard against infection, potential sexual partners undergo tests and remain monogamous
dr. beny j. primm, a member of president reagan's aids commission, said he agreed that recent optimistic reports about heterosexuals could ``lull people into a state of complacency.''
he said as a result many ``don't use condoms, still are promiscuous and still participate in group sex or other dangerous activities.''
the book disputed estimates that there are now about 1.5 million people infected with the virus in the united states
it is quite likely that there are now 3 million or more carriers of the aids virus in the united states, most of whom are otherwise healthy and unaware of their infected, contagious state,'' it said
experts generally are gravely underestimating the degree to which the aids virus has spread into the heterosexual community,'' it said
the authors said they based their findings on their own study of 800 sexually active heterosexual adults between the ages of 21 and 40 who met three criteria: no blood transfusions received since 1977; no use of illicit drugs by injection; no homosexual or bisexual contact since 1977
the study, however, did not appear to follow the usual scientific process and the authors conceded that their sample was not obtained by random sampling methods and did not closely match the general u.s. population
they said they found that among a subgroup of subjects who average more than 12 partners annually and generally failed to take precautions, 14 percent of the women had been infected with the aids virus and 12 percent of the men
the findings were an indication, the researchers said, that ''public health authorities have failed to impress the general public with the message that aids has broken out.''
the supreme court, in an important victory for investors, today placed a heavy burden of proof on companies that are sued for denying they are holding merger negotiations after such preliminary talks are underway
by a 4-2 vote, the court said if companies withhold important information affecting stock prices, it must be presumed that investors who bought and sold the securities were relying on that information
an investor who buys or sells stock at the price set by the market does so in reliance on the integrity of that price,'' said justice harry a. blackmun for the court. ``because most publicly available information is reflected in market price, an investor's reliance on any public material misrepresentations, therefore, may be presumed.''
the absence of a five-vote majority in the case raises the possibility the issue could be reconsidered by the justices in another case with a different result. but, for now at least, today's decision is likely to have important repercussions on wall street
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last month, did not take part in considering the case. chief justice william h. rehnquist and justice antonin scalia disqualified themselves from participating without explanation
the court ordered further hearings in a dispute involving basic inc. of cleveland
the company merged with cebas inc., a subsidiary of combustion engineering based in connecticut, in december 1978
stockholders said basic executives falsely denied for 14 months prior to the merger that at least preliminary talks were underway between the two companies
as a result, many investors said they sold their stock at far less than its value
combustion engineering is a conglomerate that makes alumina or acid-based refractories _ non-metallic ceramic substances used as structural materials. both basic and combustion engineering were traded on the new york stock exchange
the stock of basic was selling at well under $20 a share when merger rumors began surfacing in late 1977. there was a dramatic increase in the volume of activity in the stock accompanied by a sharp run-up in price. the eventual merger price of the stock was $46 a share
company officials repeatedly said they could not account for the activity and denied merger negotiations were underway
the 6th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in 1986 that public statements by basic management during the period leading up to the merger were misleading or untrue, even if the company's denials of negotiations might be correct technically
the supreme court today rejected the appellate court's reasoning that the company's denial of the preliminary talks by itself created grounds for the investors to win their suit
information about a company that is otherwise insignificant does not become important _ or material to the stock's value _ solely because the company denied existence of the development, blackmun said
materiality is something to be determined on the basis of the particular facts of each case,'' blackmun said. ``materiality depends on the significance the reasonable investor would place on the withheld or misrepresented information.''
using that standard, the court ordered further lower court hearings in the suit by investors in basic who said they lost money because facts were withheld from them
blackmun said the presumption at the new hearings must be that the investors would have relied on those facts, unless the management of basic can prove otherwise
where materially misleading statements have been disseminated into an impersonal, well-developed market for securities, the reliance of individual plaintiffs on the integrity of the market price may be presumed,'' blackmun said
he was joined by justices william j. brennan, thurgood marshall and john paul stevens
justice byron r. white, in an opinion joined by justice sandra day o'connor, said the ruling ``may have many adverse, unintended effects as it is applied and interpreted in the years to come.''
for example, white said many investors in basic who are now suing may have doubted the company's denials that preliminary merger talks were underway
such investors, the savviest of the savvy, will be able to recover under the court's opinion,'' white said
the case is basic inc. vs. levinson, 86-279
people who hunt vampires, live in caves or slide down buildings in pink elephant costumes aren't crazy. they're just eccentric, and more creative than everybody else, says a researcher who spent three years studying them
dr. david weeks, principal clinical psychologist at the royal edinburgh hospital in scotland, interviewed 130 eccentrics and said he found only one insane person in the crowd
he has turned his findings into a book called ``eccentrics: the scientific investigation,'' to be published in may by stirling university press
it was the first scientific study of its kind in the world,'' weeks said in a telephone interview monday. his study exploded a few myths _ among them that britons are more eccentric than americans
britain has more of a reputation'' for eccentricity, said weeks, an american from garwood, n.j., who has lived in britain since 1975
but both the united states and britain seem to have more eccentrics than other countries, possibly because they have the strongest traditions of free speech, according to weeks
it's also a myth that british eccentrics are mainly aristocrats
they're mostly in the upper middle class _ professional people,'' the psychologist said, and they tend to be outspoken loners
weeks cites prince charles as an eccentric, given his interest in unconventional medicine, his habit of talking to plants, his solitary trips to meditate and his peevish outbursts against modern architecture
he'd probably be a lot more eccentric if he weren't royalty,'' the psychologist said. ``that probably restricts him.''
weeks reckons one person in 10,000 is an eccentric. they tend to be highly creative and have vivid imaginations and graphic dreams
they have lots of good ideas,'' weeks said. ``however, they can be inflexible. if they get a good idea, they stick with it.''
the eccentrics weeks met included a man who has lived in a cave for eight years
another eccentric scales office buildings in a pink elephant costume and has built a ``helimobile,'' a contraption with wheels, wings, flashing lights and an engine
it moves, but it doesn't fly,'' weeks said
then there was a teacher from long island, n.y., who set up a vampire investigation bureau, which is open at night. the teacher travels the world hunting the bloodthirsty creatures
and a scottish lady offered herself as a virgin sacrifice in a mock ritual atop a extinct volcano in the middle of edinburgh
only one turned out to be insane, weeks said. he thought he was a secret agent and demonstrated a throat-cutting technique on week' research assistant, kate ward, with a set of keys
weeks and ms. ward found eccentrics by word of mouth and publicity about their work. people who thought they qualified as eccentrics were given mental and personality tests
eccentrics tend to be happier than most people because they don't take themselves too seriously, weeks said. ``they just have this good sense of humor,'' he said
hundreds of students today shut down gallaudet university, the nation's only university for the deaf, out of anger over the selection of a president who is not hearing impaired
the school was closed early this morning after an estimated 600 students blocked campus entrances, said thomasina wilson, a spokeswoman for the school's security force
joining the students, who were supported by faculty members and alumni, was at least one high-ranking administrator, dean of student life frank r. turk, who told a reporter, ``i have never felt so defeated.''
at issue is the selection of elisabeth a. zinser, now vice chancellor of the university of north carolina at greensboro. gallaudet, chartered by congress in 1864 as the only liberal arts college for the deaf, has never had a deaf president
wilson said students blocked campus entrances with their cars about 6 a.m. james barnes, the school's vice president for business, closed the university a short time later
it's totally impossible for employees to get in,'' wilson said
the board said it would meet with the protesting students, but only if they allowed traffic on and off the campus. the students refused
besides a deaf president, the students were demanding the resignation of board chairman jane bassett spilman and a change in the make-up of the 20-member board to increase the number of deaf members from four to more than half
a city police officer, capt. m.j. johnson, said he expected no arrests as long as the demonstration remained peaceful
turk, walking with students outside the school, said the board was the problem
i've been on the gallaudet payroll for 35 years,'' said turk, who is deaf. ``i have never felt so defeated. i do not think i will ever experience a more frustrating feeling in my life. obviously, we need to overhaul our board of trustees completely. ... they must go _ now.''
after zinser's selection was announced late sunday night, students marched 60 blocks from the campus in northeast washington to the downtown hotel where the university's board was meeting, and back again
on the way back, the marchers passed the white house, then sat at the foot of the capitol grounds, where they were faced for half an hour by a line of 25 city police officers
earlier sunday, throngs of students, faculty and alumni had gathered at the school's gates and waved signs urging ``deaf president now.''
it's important for us,'' student sherri lambert said. ``a deaf president is a role model of all deaf people. he is a leader of the whole deaf community.''
students, faculty and alumni had been urging the appointment of one of the deaf candidates for several weeks. in picking zinser, the school's trustes bypassed two deaf candidates
the deaf candidates for the job were harvey j. corson, 44, superintendent of the louisiana school for the deaf in baton rouge and a gallaudet board member; and i. king jordan, 45, dean of gallaudet's college of arts and sciences. both are gallaudet graduates
the cause of a deaf president has had strong support in congress. republican presidential candidates robert dole and george bush have urged the board to name the school's first deaf president
in 124 years we didn't give them a chance,'' residence hall supervisor tina jo breindel wrote on note paper. ``like eating italian food in chinese restaurant _ strange.''
zinser, who has been vice chancellor at greensboro since 1983, said she plans to take the new job despite the protests. ``very soon i hope to have the opportunity to be a real person to them,'' she said
zinser said the most important step for her now is to develop skills to communicate with the deaf community. she does not know sign language, but is taking classes in it
spilman said zinser had been chosen ``because neither of the other two candidates had the breadth of her experience.''
the vote was 10-4 for zinser. of the four deaf board members, three voted against zinser; one could not vote because he was a candidate for the job
we are aware that it is inevitable that there will be a period where intense disappointment will take over,'' spilman said. ``we know that it will not be easily or quickly erased. we are convinced that, given a chance, both students and the deaf community at large will respond.''
zinser received her doctorate in educational psychology from the university of california, berkeley in 1972. she also has a bachelor's degree in nursing from stanford university and a master's degree in management from the massachusetts institute of technology
the previous president, jerry c. lee, left in january to become a vice president of bassett furniture co., run by the board chairman's family
gallaudet has an enrollment of 2,200 university students, 400 high school students and 200 elementary school students. nearly all the undergraduates are deaf
school spokesman kelly voyet said life at gallaudet is similar to that at other colleges except for the ways in which people communicate
students are ``taught in the total communication method, which is signed english and voice,'' said voyet, ``so that no matter what method the student uses to communicate, it's available to him. a lot of students in their schools learned how to lip read as well as sign.''
the students use tty machines, which have typewriters with screens, to talk on the telephone; strobe lilghts replace fire alarms
otherwise, its basically the same'' as other universities,'' voyet said. ``you just don't hear a lot of voices. other than signing, there's nothing different. they live in dorms, play sports, have homecoming. it's a university with the normal university things. the communication method is a little different in some respect, but that's it.''
election campaigning is causing some beer lovers in kenya to run short of their favorite brew as politicians try to woo voters with free rounds, an official of kenya breweries limited said monday
the result, according to bar and restaurant owners across the country, is that they aren't getting enough beer to satisfy customer demand
many politicians vying for parliamentary seats and civic posts in the march 21 election have been buying beer for would-be supporters
peter burugu, transport and sales director for the privately-owned kenya breweries, said the company saturday released 500,000 crates of beer for distribution throughout the country. each crate holds 24 bottles
normally this is enough but it proved inadequate during this period of the year and the 1988 political campaigns,'' he said
a bank had to tell the fire department to ignore its earlier message about ignoring fire alarms when fire broke out during a test that used smoke to check for leaks
we had to call ... and say this is the real thing,'' bob brown, a spokesman for commercial national bank, said sunday
the bank had told the fire department earlier to ignore alarms set off by the smoke pumped into pipes sunday morning to look for leaks
the fire was out in less than 30 minutes
an avalanche hit a small village in this eastern province near the iranian border, killing 19 people and injuring eight others, the anatolia news agency said monday
the dispatch said eight homes were buried under the avalanche in ikiyaka village in the township of yuksekova on sunday. a 7-month-old baby was among the victims
anatolia said governor arif akbulut and a health team flew to the village by a helicopter on monday as roads were cut off because of heavy snow in the area
two blacks described by police as ``trained terrorists'' were killed, and six policemen were slightly injured in a shootout at a house in queenstown, police said monday
police, acting on a tip, surrounded a house in the southern city on friday afternoon and ordered the inhabitants to leave. when the occupants refused, police threw ``stun grenades'' into the house, police said in a statement
a stun grenade contains no shrapnel and is considered non-lethal
a shootout ensued, and two black men inside the house were killed. the six officers suffered minor injuries, the statement said
police did not say how they knew the men were ``trained terrorists.''
also monday, police said they expelled seven police reservists because they were members of the extreme right-wing afrikaner resistance movement
the paramilitary group seeks a whites-only homeland within south africa and has been taking an increasingly confrontational stance recently against the white-led government
several thousand members marched on government buildings on feb. 27 to present a petition calling for an all-white state
the government said last week it would dismiss policemen holding membership in the organization. the seven reservists, from northern transvaal province, were the first policemen expelled under the government's new policy
a two-headed shrimp a fisherman found in his bait bucket appears to be the first such specimen on record, experts say
we're dealing with a first occurrence here, i guess, to the best of our knowledge,'' said neal baxter, chief of the national marine fisheries service ecology division in galveston
the shrimp has been sent to the smithsonian institution in washington
howard fraley, 37 and his wife, c.j., were fishing near galveston last may when fraley dipped into his bait bucket and came out with the oddity
i said: `why, this thing's got two heads!''' he said
the couple photographed the shrimp, then took it home and put it in their freezer
mrs. fraley mentioned it to baxter, who told austin b. williams, a curator of invertebrates at the smithsonian's national museum of natural history
it was as curious to me as it was to the folks who found it,'' williams said
williams dissected the shrimp and said both heads appeared normal in many ways. he has searched scientific literature to the late 1800s, but has found no mention of a similar case
fraley feels lucky to have found the creature
i was excited,'' he said. ``and to think i nearly tore the head off.''
corruption is so rampant in the soviet republic of turkmenia that a powerful underworld has developed, complete with hit men, protection rackets, police payoffs and powerful mob chieftains, pravda said monday
the communist party newspaper even noted that the funeral of an underworld crime boss drew 400 mourners
pravda said many police officers not only looked the other way at crime in the central asian republic, but masterminded some of the schemes. it said 12 are now are on trial for extortion
they extorted money mostly from those who wouldn't appeal to the police, like a certain gavrush sarkisya, a former shop foreman, who confessed to the police later that he owed the criminals ($150,000),'' pravda said. ``and they threatened him with a firing squad should he fail to pay up.''
other central asian republics also have been blasted by the soviet media for large-scale corruption. in recent months, the media have exposed millions of dollars in graft in uzbekistan, turkmenia's neighbor to the north
on jan. 20, the weekly literaturnaya gazeta disclosed that the head of an agricultural complex in uzbekistan built his own mob empire, complete with his own courts and an underground prison constructed by 1,000 workers
the expose was striking in its recitation of abuses
pravda's account on turkmenia, while not as dramatic, was the strongest criticism yet of the soviet union's southernmost republic, which has 3.27 million people, mostly moslems
official media criticism of turkmenia usually has centered around moslem customs judged by the central government to be abhorent, such as reports of young women being killed for insufficient marriage dowries
the republic suffers a difficult situation, created over years of bureaucratic rule,'' pravda said. referring to the swelling bureacracy, it added: ``every sixth person in the republic is a hack official
many highly placed police officials, and policemen of lesser ranks, were involved in all kinds of crimes and often acted as their skilled masterminds,'' the newspaper reported
pravda said the crackdown in the region began with the recent appointment of alexander f. udalov as the republic's police chief. pravda said he was threatened shortly after taking office by ilyas a. sarkiev, one of those now on trial
just leave me alone. quit this case. several hundred thousand rubles will go your way,'' sarkiev was quoted as telling udalov. ``also keep in mind. i know the city your daughter lives in. i have nothing to lose, you know. you won't be able to get all my people.''
the newspaper said that sarkiev was arrested three days after making the threat
pravda also described a threat against a. allaverdov, the manager of a footwear shop in ashkabad. he reported that when he had a falling out with sarkiev, violence began
allaverdov told authorities his new car was stolen and found burned the next morning in the center of the city. the windows of his apartment were shot out, he said, and he received a threat that his son would be kidnapped
pravda said the recent crackdown has routed several ``criminals'' from official posts in turkmenia, but it noted that a recent funeral illustrated continuing problems
a well-known underworld figure died in a traffic accident. four hundred criminals came to his funeral from different cities, which goes to show the atmosphere in ashkhabad quite well,'' pravda said
seven passengers were killed and 24 were critically injured when a bus overturned on a winding mountain road in zimbabwe's eastern highlands, police said monday
the bus was apparently trying to overtake another vehicle near the village of chimanimani, near the mozambique border, when it ran off the road and flipped over, police said
the bus was carrying about 70 people when it crashed sunday morning. police said they had no further details
the supreme court ruled unanimously today that financially troubled farmers may not avoid foreclosure under federal bankruptcy law by promising to use their labor, experience and expertise in continuing to operate their farm
by an 8-0 vote, the court said a secured creditor's right to ``adequate protection'' under bankruptcy law cannot be satisified by such a promise
the ruling is a key setback for many farmers who suffered financial difficulty in the early 1980s. one such couple was james and mary ahlers, grain and livestock farmers who farm about 840 acres of land in nobles county, minn
the ahlers have outstanding loans with two minnesota banks, norwest bank worthington and the federal land bank of st. paul
today's decision, overturning a ruling by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals, is a victory for the two banks
between 1965 and 1982 the ahlers obtained four loans from the federal land bank of st. paul, securing each of the loans with a separate parcel of land they owned
between 1982 and 1984 they obtained additional loans from norwest bank worthington, securing them with a second mortgage on the land used to secure the federal land bank loans and a first mortgage on their farm's machinery, equipment, crops and livestock
the ahlers defaulted on the loans _ over $500,000 to the federal land bank and about $450,000 to norwest. just after norwest went to court in an attempt to take control of the ahlers' assets, the couple filed for reorganization under federal bankruptcy law
that move automatically froze norwest's collection efforts in a state court
the two banks, claiming they were undersecured creditors, sought the bankruptcy judge's help in seizing control of the ahlers' assets. the banks said the ahlers could not protect their secured interest in the outstanding loans
the bankruptcy judge and a federal trial judge cleared the way for foreclosure on the ahlers' farm but the 8th circuit court reversed those rulings in 1986
the appeals court ruled that the banks' right to adequate protection could be satisified by the ahlers' promise to continue to work their farm with the experience and expertise they bring to the job
the banks then successfully sought supreme court review, joined by the reagan administration in urging a reversal of the appeals court ruling
writing for the court today, justice byron r. white said the appeals court ruling wrongly carved out an exception to the ``absolute priority rule'' of bankruptcy law
that rule bars people who file for bankruptcy from getting anything out of a reorganization plan unless all creditors are paid off in full
we find no support in the (bankruptcy) code or our previous decisions for the court of appeals' application of the absolute rule in this case,'' white said. ``we conclude that the rule applies here, and (the ahlers') promise of future labor warrants no exception to its operation.''
justice anthony m. kennedy did not participate in the decision
the case is norwest bank worthington vs. ahler, 86-958
guilt drove a man to turn himself in and confess after more than two years on the run since he bludgeoned and strangled his sister in a dispute over money, police say
i think the police are looking for me,'' officials quoted henry zalewski as saying when he walked into a police station saturday evening
zalewski, 54, was charged sunday with second-degree murder in the killing of his sister, genevieve zalewski, 62, in the apartment they shared on sept. 30, 1985
he did it in a fit of anger ... and because of a financial situation he was in,'' said detective joseph stabile
zalewski also was charged with attempted murder for the beating of a neighbor, alice turel, now 50, on the same day
detectives said that during his confession zalewski said he turned himself in because the guilt was driving him toward suicide
stabile said that at the time of the slaying zalewski was penniless and in debt to a loanshark for $8,400
on the morning of the slaying, zalewski made his sister breakfast. while she was in the kitchen, he struck her on the head with a piece of pipe, dragged her into a bedroom and strangled her with rope, stabile said
while fleeing he encountered turel and beat her over the head with a pair of pliers before kicking her down a flight of stairs, stabile said. turel needed 67 stitches in the head
he disappeared after the attack but police watched the apartment for three months because a hit list of neighbors was discovered inside, officer hugh barry said
zalewski said he took $40 from the house and began wandering up and down the east coast. he got a social security number under a phony name and alternated between getting welfare and temporary work
stabile said zalewski started drinking a quart of vodka a day to try to dull the memory of killing his sister
three weeks ago, he phoned st. stanislaus church to find out where his sister was buried
a homemade bomb exploded near the saudi arabian airline office here monday and blew off the finger of a man, police said
aaron abraham, deputy superintendent of police, told reporters that a man saw a bag on the sidewalk in front of the building housing the saudian arabian airline office
as mohamed fauzir baharuddin, 33, opened the bag, the bomb exploded, blowing off a finger and injuring him on the face, neck and chest, abraham said
a police bomb disposal unit searched the area but found no other bomb
police said they didn't know the motive for the bombing or who was responsible for it. they said an investigation was under way. ireland</head>
mayor raymond l. flynn says he may skip boston's st. patrick's day parade because he and his wife have been invited to dublin by irish prime minister charles haughey
missing the parade in south boston would mean flynn would not face jeers similar to those he faced at a recent hearing on his plan to desegregate housing projects in that neighborhood
flynn was invited to dublin to help celebrate that city's millenium
police said flynn's integration proposal has made him a target of increasing death threats
we've gotten threats periodically since he came into office, but they've increased over the past few weeks,'' said sgt. detective edward wallace. ``we're treating it as a serious matter.''
flynn's wife, cathy, said she was preparing to go to church sunday when police told her someone had threatened to bomb the house. wallace said a search failed to turn up any explosive device
i took a position that i believe in and i'm going to see that it's implemented,'' the mayor said saturday about his housing plan. ``i can't just worry about the political consequences of everything i do. people in southie have more respect for somebody who takes a position rather than someone who ducks and hides behind someone else.''
city councilor james kelly, of south boston, said he believed flynn was skipping the parade to avoid potential embarrassment
i think the mayor feels he would not be that well-received,'' said kelly, a vocal flynn critic. ``obviously that would not be good for his image. after all, this is his neighborhood.''
u.s. officials are monitoring polish and east german cooperation with efforts to close down an arms trading office affiliated with the abu nidal terrorist group
according to a cia report, abu nidal kept an apartment in warsaw and his associates ran a trade operation from an office tower there after he was forced to leave iraq in 1983
last summer, u.s. diplomats began pressuring the polish government privately, and in august the poles promised to close the operation, s.a.s.-international commerce and investments, and order its staff to leave the country. a similar operation was closed in east germany
the front offices have been shut down in poland and east germany,'' a state department official said. ``they have told us and we believe that they have been shut down.''
this doesn't necessarily mean that these governments have ended all their contacts with abu nidal's associates for good. we'd like to think so. it is something that remains to be seen,'' said the source, who like others interviewed over the past week spoke on condition of anonymity
polish officials insisted that the government ``had no idea'' what s.a.s. was
but u.s. officials say polish security agencies must have known that abu nidal had overall control over s.a.s., and that the organization was selling soviet-bloc arms in the middle east
there are factions in these governments, and top political leaders and places like the foreign ministries might not have known what was going on,'' one u.s. government terrorism expert said
abu nidal, nom de guerre of palestinian-born sabri al-banna, is now believed to live in tunis, according to soviet-bloc and administration sources
abu nidal's group is blamed for numerous terrorist incidents, including attacks in the rome and vienna airports on dec. 27, 1985, in which 18 people were killed
the head of s.a.s., samir hasan najmeddin, was forced to leave poland on jan. 14, several days after the departure of his top deputy, according to polish officials
the poles delayed the expulsions for nearly a month past a promised december deadline, upsetting some u.s. counterterrorism officials who pushed for release of an unclassified version of the cia report
u.s. diplomats dealing with europe, meanwhile, sought to keep the affair under wraps, administration sources said
some details of the report were published in the new york times, however, angering polish leader wojciech jaruzelski, who complained about the leak during a january meeting in warsaw with deputy secretary of state john c. whitehead, the no. 2 official in the department, sources said. whitehead expressed ``regret'' about the disclosure, the sources said
the cia report, which was discussed by administration officials but not shown to the ap, said najmeddin settled in warsaw in 1973 at no. 3 bagno st., apt. 24, and founded s.a.s. 10 years later to sell arms and other goods abroad, mainly in the middle east. s.a.s. maintained offices on the 25th floor of the intraco building in warsaw
poland earned badly needed foreign currency from the enterprise, and abu nidal's group kept most of the profit as well as weapons
s.a.s. was the most important link in a chain of legitimate business enterprises affiliated with abu nidal in europe, the u.s. report said
the east germans allowed an abu nidal affiliate called zibado consultant and international commerce to keep an office on friedrichstrasse in east berlin in 1983-86, but now have closed it, and bulgarian officials also have curtailed their ties with terrorist organizations, according to a senior administration source
polish government spokesman jerzy urban announced the closure of the s.a.s. office in january and said authorities did not know whether abu nidal had ever been in poland
i am saying this cautiously, because the authorities cannot exclude'' that abu nidal entered the country under another name, urban told reporters
according to the cia, abu nidal presided over at least four meetings in warsaw, two in december 1983, again in september 1984 and most recently in june 1987
in poland, s.a.s. dealt with the etat cenzin co. and paid its representative, andrzej marchewska, $600 a month to facilitate visas for palestinian operatives and obtain customs clearances for shipments of pistols, rifles and hand-held anti-tank and anti-aircraft weapons
the cia report said many of these weapons went to terrorists linked to abu nidal
in the summer of 1984, the report said, s.a.s sold libya 4,000 soviet-designed kalashnikov assault rifles made in east germany for about $500,000
the next year, s.a.s. was agent for the sale of rifles and pistols in the middle east
in 1986, the report said, the company obtained 115 british enfield anti-riot weapons, keeping 15 and giving 100 to east german authorities
additionally, the report said, s.a.s. sponsored scholarships for palestinians to study in poland, and some of them were recruited into abu nidal's terrorist organization. accidental</head>
the death of a 12-year-old boy whose nude body was found in his family's portable dishwasher has been ruled accidental, authorities said monday
brown county coroner genie williams has not officially ruled on a cause of death, but cmdr. david zasada said initial indications are that michael conard ``very probably died of a lack of oxygen prior to the hot water'' beginning to circulate in the machine a week ago
the boy, who was 4-foot-10 and weighed about 90 pounds, apparently used the soap dispenser inside the door to pull the door shut, zasada said. there is no release mechanism inside the machine, he said
the boy took off his clothes and watch before climbing in machine, apparently to see how it worked, zasada said
suicide was ruled out because there was no note and friends, family and teachers indicated the boy was well-adjusted and happy, zasada said
the first california condor egg produced by a captive breeding pair is fertile, and a chick should emerge from the shell in less than two months, san diego wild animal park officials said today
fertility of the egg, laid last thursday, was confirmed this morning when condor keepers briefly held it up to a high intensity lamp and detected a preliminary stage of development, park spokesman tom hanscom said
the egg was returned to an incubator, where it will be kept until the expected hatching between april 28 and may 3
all of the 27 living california condors are in captivity, 14 at the wild animal park and 13 at the los angeles zoo. of the 27, 13 were hatched in captivity as part of an effort to build a breeding flock to save the rare birds from extinction
meanwhile, the parents of the condor egg were said to be doing well. keepers removed the egg from its nest at the park's ``condorminium'' to stimulate more breeding activity by the pair, and that's what's happening
that's real positive,'' hanscom said. ``that would lead us to hope for the production of a second egg, which could come as early as 30 days after the first egg.''
the parents are doing fine, the egg is doing fine, the keepers are doing fine,'' hanscom added
h. ross perot, the self-made texas billionaire businessman and philanthropist, will be the speaker at this year's associated press annual meeting luncheon, ap chairman william j. keating announced monday
keating, chief executive of the detroit newspaper agency, said the luncheon will be held at the hilton hawaiian village hotel in honolulu april 25, immediately following the news cooperative's annual meeting of newspaper members
perot, whose achievements include organizing the rescue of two of his employees from an iranian jail in 1979, is an outspoken champion of american entrepreneurial spirit, public causes and family values. electronic data systems corp., which he founded in 1962 with $1,000 of his own money, grew into a multibillion-dollar company and was acquired by general motors corp. in 1984
the ap meeting is held on the first day of the american newspaper publishers association annual convention, scheduled this year for april 25-27 in honolulu
mozambique rebels said monday they killed 43 mozambican and 13 zimbabwean soldiers when they captured the town of sena in central zambezia province
a lisbon-based spokesman for the mozambican national resistance said one zimbabwean and two mozambican army battalions were chased off during the attack sunday
the spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity, claimed the rebels also seized large quantities of military supplies. there was no independent confirmation of the claims
the rebels have been fighting since 1977 to topple the marxist mozambican government. troops from neighboring zimbabwe, tanzania and malawi fight alongside the mozambican army against the guerrillas
a palestinian convicted of trying to plant a bomb on an israeli airliner lost his bid to appeal his 45-year sentence monday after a judge declared the prison term was ``not a day too long.''
nezar hindawi was jailed in october 1986 for duping his pregnant fiancee into carrying a bomb aboard an el al jumbo jet at london's heathrow airport the previous april. israeli guards found the bomb before it reached the plane
allegations that the jordan-born palestinian was in league with the syrian embassy in london led britain to sever diplomatic ties with damascus. hindawi claimed the israelis framed him
hindawi's sentence was ``not a day too long'' for ``as foul and as horrible a crime as can possibly be imagined,'' ruled lord chief justice geoffrey lane, presiding over the three-judge appeals court
hindawi's attorney, michael massih, argued that hindawi's actions had not caused loss of life. but lane said, ``it is no thanks to him that he did not succeed in destroying 36o to 37o lives in an effort to promote one side of a political dispute by terrorism.''
pleading for hindawi to be permitted to appeal his sentence, massih argued that it was harsh compared with the 35-year sentence imposed on patrick magee, convicted of planting an irish republican army bomb in a hotel where prime minister margaret thatcher was staying. that bomb killed five people
lane pointed out that unlike magee, hindawi could get one-third off for good conduct and serve only 30 years
hindawi, 33, was not in court
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken monday by the supreme court

adult bookstores

the court agreed to decide whether states may use anti-racketeering laws to close down adult bookstores
the justices said they will review a pair of free-speech challenges to such an indiana law
the cases are fort wayne books vs. indiana, 87-470; and sappenfield vs. indiana, 87-614

death penalty

the court agreed to consider reinstating the death sentence of a florida man convicted of killing an 8-year-old girl in 1978
the court is expected to use the case to study death row inmates' right to raise new issues when they turn to the federal courts for help and to decide whether florida juries may be told their life-or-death recommendations are subject to the trial judge's approval
the case is dugger vs. adams, 87-121

vaccine

the court left intact a $1.13 million jury award to an idaho boy paralyzed from the waist down after he was given a vaccination for three diseases
the court, without comment, rejected arguments by the vaccine manufacturer that such verdicts could force drug companies to abandon the production of essential vaccines
the case is lederle laboratories vs. toner, 87-1151

farm bankruptcy

the court ruled unanimously that financially troubled farmers may not avoid foreclosure under federal bankruptcy law by promising to use their labor, experience and expertise in continuing to operate their farm
by an 8-0 vote, the court said a secured creditor's right to ``adequate protection'' under bankruptcy law cannot be satisfied by such a promise
the case is norwest bank worthington vs. ahler, 86-958

churches

the court refused to free churches from having to comply with state financial-disclosure laws when waging public referendum campaigns
the court, citing the lack of a ``substantial federal question,'' turned away a challenge by 13 churches from jackson, tenn., to a law they contend violates their freedom of religion and freedom of speech
the case is bemis pentacostal vs. tennessee, 87-317

secret hearings

the court let stand a ruling that the public has no right to attend hearings into the alleged tainting or bribing of a criminal trial jury while the trial is underway
the justices, without comment, refused to second-guess the validity of conducting such hearings in secret during the 1986 racketeering trial of louisiana gov. edwin w. edwards
the case is times-picayune publishing vs. edwards, 87-872

globe libel

the court cleared the way for a jury trial in former massachusetts gov. edward j. king's $3.6 million libel lawsuit against the boston globe
the justices, over one dissenting vote, left intact a massachusetts supreme judicial court ruling that a jury should hear king's contention that he was libeled by a nov. 8, 1981, column
the case is globe newspaper co. vs. king, 87-731

mobile homes

the court cleared the way for a trial in what may become an important test case on the power of cities to control rents and otherwise protect mobile home residents
the court, without comment, rejected an appeal by santa barbara, calif., officials aimed at killing a lawsuit by owners of a mobile home park who claim they unfairly are being deprived of their property's full value
the case is santa barbara vs. hall, 87-220

jehovah's witness

the court refused to hear the appeal of a florida woman who says she was denied custody of her young child because she is a jehovah's witness
the justices, without comment, let stand state court rulings that bar rita mendez from exposing her daughter to any of her religious beliefs
the case is mendez vs. mendez, 87-1166

cities

the court said it will try again to decide whether cities may be sued successfully when citizens' rights are violated due to alleged inadequate training of municipal employees
the justices said they will study the issue in an appeal by canton, ohio officials
the case is canton vs. harris, 86-1088
members of this city's influential construction unions threw rocks and eggs and shouted pro-union slogans today outside the annual convention of the associated builders and contractors, officials said
police in helmets were called in to keep traffic flowing outside moscone center, where about 2,000 demonstrators from the building trade councils of three san francisco bay area counties stood five-deep blocking buses carrying convention guests and their families, officers reported
the association will seek a court injunction against the demonstrators, said terry maenza, spokesman for the association
we have met this morning with unruly and irresponsible behavior that has jeopardized the safety of our members and their families,'' said mike perkins, national president of associated builders and contractors
the association is a fast-growing organization of 19,000 employers who hire mostly non-union workers
although 2,000 association members were expected at the meeting, only 400 had arrived when it opened
union members claim the contractors' organization is seeking to break union control of construction projects
about 10,000 workers are employed on construction sites throughout the city, said tom thompson, director of one of the union contractor's associations. graf pvs: on friday ...; deletes outdated 11th graf pvs: department of ...; retransmits a0628 to fix category code to a</note>
arizona's top police officer testified today at gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial that he was ``surprised and shocked'' when the governor told him not to cooperate in an investigation of an alleged death threat
department of public safety director ralph milstead told the senate today that mecham told him last nov. 15 the alleged threat ``was a family spat.''
impeachment charges against the 63-year-old mecham, first-term republican, included a charge that he tried to thwart an investigation of the alleged threat
milstead quoted mecham as saying, ``the attorney general is out to hang me and i'm not going to help him in any way ... don't tell the attorney general anything.''
he said, `never, don't give them any help,''' milstead said. ``this whole situation surprised and shocked me... i just cannot cover up, even if the governor is the one telling me to do that.''
the senate decided earlier this morning not to grant immunity to the man accused of making the threat, former state official lee watkins
attorney general bob corbin told lawmakers that granting immunity to watkins, former head of state prison construction, could wind up protecting him from prosecution for alleged crimes ``you have no way of knowing about today.''
senators were considering whether to grant ``use immunity'' to watkins to force him to say whether he threatened the life of donna carlson last november, which would have meant his testimony could not be used against him in criminal court
on friday, watkins invoked the fifth amendment right against self-incrimination in refusing to testify before the senate. watkins said today that if the state grand jury probe were over he would have no problem with testifying
these are the people (the attorney general's office) that are out to get the governor,'' watkins said. ``anybody that gets in the middle is going to get hurt.''
shortly after the senate's voice vote, watkins admitted he hadn't expected to get immunity
a grant of immunity should be made only if the testimony sought is central to the case, if lawmakers think watkins will tell the truth and if the immunity will not compromise a criminal investigation, corbin said
a state grand jury investigation of watkins is continuing, corbin said
mecham's defense lawyer, jerris leonard, accused prosecutors of trying to harm watkins' reputation in testimony last week and of ``splattering the mud broadly enough so that it splatters on the respondent (mecham).''
department of public safety director ralph milstead also was scheduled to take the stand today. mecham is accused of ordering milstead not to cooperate with corbin's investigation of the alleged threat
mecham was impeached nov. 5 by the house, which also accused him of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
watkins has been investigated by the state grand jury in connection with the alleged threat but has not been charged. attorneys said last week the inquiry was continuing
last friday, peggy griffith, head of the governor's office of women's services, testified that watkins told her nov. 12 that ms. carlson, a former special gubernatorial assistant who was about to testify before the grand jury on the $350,000 loan, was a ``bad girl.'' she told the trial that if ms. carlson kept talking ``she is going to take a long boat ride.''
watkins has denied making a threat, and prosecutor william french asked him friday if he had taken six lie-dectector tests in an effort to prove he hadn't made the threat. watkins refused to answer the question
mrs. griffith also testified that when she described the alleged threat to max hawkins, then watkins' boss, he shrugged it off as ``just a bunch of hot air.''
mecham, in testimony before a house impeachment committee in january, acknowledged that he may have told milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general's probe. however, mecham also contended he was not fully informed about the seriousness of the situation before his conversation with milstead
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, did not attend the first five days of testimony last week
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham and remove him from office. mecham also faces a may 17 recall election and a march 22 criminal trial in connection with the $350,000 campaign loan
canadian prime minister brian mulroney will make an official visit to washington and meet with president reagan on april 27, the white house said monday
it will be the fifth meeting between the two leaders, and mulroney's third visit to washington
the supreme court today agreed to study the appeal of a convicted chicago murderer sentenced to 50 to 100 years in prison for his crime
the justices said they will use warren lee harris' case to give federal courts some further guidance in how to handle the appeals of defendants convicted in state courts
harris was convicted of the july 19, 1977, murder in chicago of earnest howard
after his conviction was upheld by the illinois courts on direct appeal, harris filed a so-called habeas corpus appeal in state courts. in it, he contended for the first time that he was denied adequate legal help at his trial
state courts ruled that harris could not raise that issue because he had failed to raise it on direct appeal, but it then rejected the merits of harris' ineffective-assistance argument
harris then sought help from the federal courts, in a habeas corpus petition raising the same issue
a federal trial judge ruled that harris' procedural default, which usually would preclude federal court review of his claim, had been waived by the state courts
but the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals last june 12 ruled that the procedural default blocks federal court review of the ineffective-assistance argument
the case is harris vs. reed, 87-5677
six u.s. navy ships assembled in the southern persian gulf on monday, prompting rumors of retaliation for an iranian attack on american helicopters, but the navy called the ship movements routine
iran said monday its anti-aircraft batteries fired on two helicopters over the weekend, forcing them to withdraw, because the choppers ignored a warning to stay clear of an ``iranian zone'' in the gulf. the united states issued a similar account earlier
rumors of navy action spread through shipping circles in the gulf, where iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980, when six u.s. vessels were spotted off dubai. they included a chartered tanker and combat stores ship
the navy denied the rumors. ``we wouldn't be planning an attack with a supply ship,'' lt. cmdr. mark van dyke said. ``these movements were scheduled long before the helicopter incident.''
tehran's official islamic republic news agency said the helicopters were ``forced to flee'' by anti-aircraft fire at about midnight saturday
u.s. officials had said american helicopters took ``evasive action'' after machine guns were fired from an oil platform and several small boats during a scouting mission ahead of the u.s. missile frigate simpson. they did not say how many choppers were involved
neither report gave the location of the oil platform or named it, but the american versian said it was not the rostam platform, which four u.s. destroyers shelled oct. 19
rostam has been reported under repair since the raid, described by u.s. officials as a ``measured response'' to an attack in which an iranian silkworm missile damaged a u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tanker anchored at kuwait's main oil terminal
at the time, the u.s. officials said more severe reprisals could be expected if iran attacked other american ships or aircraft
since last july, u.s. warships have protected kuwaiti tankers sailing under the american flag. eleven of the sheikdom's tankers have been given u.s. registration
the rostam precedent combined with the sighting of the six ships to encourage the rumors of u.s. plans for retaliation
navy officers said two of the ships, the guided missile frigates copeland and gary, were learning the ropes as new members of the gulf-based fleet, the middle east force
they were escorting the 18,000-ton stores ship san jose and the 39,000-ton oiler l.h. gianella, both on resupply missions, van dyke said
he said it was ``just coincidental'' that the four ships were spotted near the missile cruiser wainwright and missile frigate john a. moore, which have been in the gulf for weeks and were on ``routine escort duty'' off dubai
in the navy's gulf operation, which has been cut from 17 to 16 ships, the copeland and gary are expected to replace sister frigates mcclusky and reuben james, the next vessels slated to depart under navy policy that limits duty tours to six months, port-to-port
iran's account of the helicopter incident said: ``two u.s. helicopters attempting to approach an iranian zone in the persian gulf early sunday were forced to flee by the anti-aircraft fire of naval forces of the islamic republic of iran
the navy anti-aircraft detected the two helicopters on its radar and warned them to stay out of the iranian zone. however, the iranian navy fired warning shots after the u.s. helicopters violated the iranian zone.''
nothing was said in the u.s. version about a warning before the shooting started
it was the second time in a month that iran claimed to have driven off american helicopters with anti-aircraft fire. u.s. officials denied the first iranian report, of a similar incident feb. 12 at sirri island in the south central gulf
iran uses some oil platforms and small islands in the gulf as bases for armed speedboats that attack commercial shipping
there have been no such attacks since feb. 11, and no iraqi air raids on iran's own oil shipping since feb. 12 _ one of the longest lulls in the ``tanker war'' since it began in february 1984
iran and iraq have been attacking each other's capitals and other cities since feb. 29, in a new round of the ``war of the cities'' that has cost thousands of lives during the 7{-year-old war. pvs, any user.</note>
the reagan administration said today it has protested poor maintenance of some panama canal facilities, but said the problem was not linked to the recent political turmoil there
there are some facilities that are maintained by panama that we have protested in a sense of not being adequately maintained,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater
he said the complaint was registered ``sometime previously'' and was not intended to justify an abrogation of the panama canal treaty
meanwhile, a newspaper reported that political appointees installed by the panamanian government are mismanaging operations of the canal that have been turned over by the united states
any user of those facilities will tell you there are difficulties now that simply did not exist 10 years ago,'' an unidentified panamanian economist told the new york times
among the facilities suffering from mismanagement are ports, marine bunkering installations, a railroad, a bridge and air traffic control, according to the times, which interviewed canal employees and shipping experts
this government has put a political aspect to an equation that has no room for politics,'' said a panamanian engineer who has worked at the canal for more than a decade. ``as soon as you start to mix panamanian politics with the running of the canal, that is the end of things.''
the country's political situation has been particularly troubled in recent weeks. gen. manuel antonio noriega, the military leader who is panama's de facto leader, engineered the ouster of president eric arturo delvalle after delvalle tried to fire him
the united states still recognizes delvalle, who is in hiding, as panama's rightful president and has brought economic pressure to bear to oust noriega. noriega is also under indictment in the united states for alleged drug trafficking
panama is scheduled to take control of the waterway in the year 2000, according to the 1977 treaties. but some of the 7,000 canal employees, 83 percent of whom are panamanians, fear that domestic political interference could hinder their ability to run the canal professionally, the times said
as the year 2000 approaches, it is going to be necessary for laws to keep this organization a bit apart from the normal government structure, so there is no interference by other ministries or the implantation of political but unskilled people in the upper echelons,'' said dennis p. mcauliffe, an american and chief administrator of the canal
a panamanian civil engineer told the newspaper that derailments on the railroad have increased because of lack of maintenance and that rail yards ``are in a state of disrepair.''
shipping lines complain that lights and gangways don't work and that fenders along docks are not maintained
the panama defense forces have taken some of the best office buildings for their own use as warehouses or as prisons, the times reported, forcing some canal operations to move elsewhere
president reagan lashed out today at congressional opponents to contra aid, accusing them of a lack of courage in the battle against communism in central america
in a speech to the veterans of foreign wars convention, reagan talked about the votes last week in congress that left the rebels battling the leftist government of nicragua without u.s. funding
the 216-208 vote defeated a democratic plan to provide $30.8 million in food, clothing and medical aid to the rebels. the vote was scheduled by the democratic leadership so the house could not vote on an aid plan favored by the republicans
courage hasn't exactly been the watchword of some opponents of contra aid,'' reagan said. ``... last week, aid opponents tried to pass the buck of responsibility for abandoning in the field the young men and women of the democratic resistance, and that ploy failed as it should have.''
administration officials have expressed the hope congress could come up with an alternative plan to keep the rebels alive as a fighting force
after reagan's speech, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater acknowledged that a ``real problem'' exists for the administration because a new contra aid package might not be considered for some time
it's just a matter of time,'' he said. ``we will produce a package,'' he vowed at another point
in his speech, reagan recalled that nicaraguan president daniel ortega dismissed cardinal obando y bravo as the mediator in peace talks with the rebels
you know where ortega stands. isn't it time for congress to have the courage to show where it stands?'' reagan asked rhetorically
now it's time for congress to show that it knows you can't have real peace negotiations when one side has helicopter gunships and the other has bandages,'' he said
reagan said the defeat of the contras would mean a ``grave strategic defeat for the united states.''
the communists in central america understand this, the soviets understand this _ it's time that congress understood it, too,'' reagan said, adding, ``a soviet base on the american mainland is a pistol pointed at the heart of the americas.''
reagan contended that the ``real issue'' before the congress is not the contras, ``it is communisim in central america.''
the president, who was warmly greeted by the audience of older veterans, told them of his recent trip to brussels, belgium, where he met with nato leaders. he asked their support for the ratification of the recently signed u.s.-soviet treaty banning medium-range nuclear missles from europe
reagan also called on congress to reject further cuts in the nation's defense budget and allow for a strong alliance defense
this is not the time to drop our guard,'' reagan said. ``it's just this simple. if we put americans in harm's way, we owe them the best weapons money can buy.''
we'll need to keep up our strength if we're to succeed, and that's why the congress must not further reduce the defense budget,'' reagan said
offering a report on the brussels meeting in his saturday radio address, reagan declared that ``arms reduction is not enough'' in dealing with the soviets and demanded they abandon the ``offensive strategy'' displayed against the western alliance on the european continent
reagan said there was a ``lesson learned'' at the meeting, which was the first full-scale summit for the leaders of the north atlantic treaty organization in six years
one must always negotiate with the soviets from a position of strength,'' reagan said
following the nato summit, a white house advance team traveled to moscow to scout out possible sites for the fourth meeting between reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, planned for late may or early june
in his radio speech, reagan pointed out that while the allies praised the new u.s.-soviet agreement to remove all medium-range nuclear missiles from europe, they reaffirmed the need to remain united and keep their guard up
that's why continued modernization of nato forces _ nuclear and conventional _ is essential,'' reagan said
the u.s. government is seeking the dismissal of a lawsuit that would end federal aid to religious schools abroad, primarily jewish schools in israel, a prosecutor said monday
bernard bell, an assistant u.s. attorney in new york's southern district, said he filed papers in federal court friday arguing that the case ought to be dropped because the american civil liberties union does not have ``standing,'' a legal term which means the right to bring the lawsuit
but c. edwin baker, a staff attorney the aclu in new york, said the civil liberties group maintains that it can pursue the lawsuit because the aclu represents american taxpayers whose money is used for the schools. the aclu has until march 24 to respond
the lawsuit stemmed from reports last december that sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, had persuaded his colleagues to allocate $8 million to build schools in france for north african jews
the program provoked a firestorm of criticism, prompting inouye to ask congress to rescind the money. lawmakers agreed to inouye's wish
after president reagan signed the bill killing the $8 million program last month, the aclu amended its complaint to cover jewish and catholic schools that receive money under the american schools and hospitals abroad program, which is administered by the agency for international development
baker said lawyers learned about the program in the course of their research into the inouye-supported item
the lawsuit, filed in u.s. district court in new york, claims that providing money to ``pervasively sectarian schools'' or for construction of sectarian schools is a violation of the constitution's first amendment calling for separation of church and state. the aclu asks the court to block further spending on the schools
under the schools and hospitals program _ a favorite in congress _ grants are awarded to a non-profit american organization that sponsors an institution overseas. the program is designed to promote american educational methods abroad and train foreigners in medicine and promote american educational values
aid, which has regulations governing the program, awards the grants on a competitive basis. congress is notified before the money is spent
the budget figures indicate how fond congress is of the program. in fiscal year 1988, aid asked for $10 million; congress increased the budget to $40 million. the previous fiscal year the program received $35 million
the aclu is not challenging grants given to hospitals or non-sectarian schools abroad, baker said. but the group wants to end support for schools that have as a stated goal the teaching of principles and doctrines of roman catholicism and orthodox judaism
aid documents for the four years ending in 1986 show that institutions in lebanon were given the most money, a total of $24.8 million. the lion's share _ $24 million _ went to the american university of beirut
institutions in israel snagged the second largest amount of money, a total of $20.2 million. project hope, which operates schools worldwide, received $14.3 million
all of the religious schools named in the lawsuit are in israel
among the institutions which teach judaism and have received money since fiscal 1983 are: the american college of belz, jerusalem, $500,000; beth rivka comprehensive school, kfar chabad, $750,000; beth yaacov avat, ashdod, $100,000; boys town, jerusalem, $1.2 million; emunah women of america community college, jerusalem, $650,000; gan yavne youth village, gan yavne, $150,000; machaniam high school, kiryat gat, $400,000; ohr somayach school, jerusalem, $2 million' sha'alvim teachers' college, d.n. agalon, $400,000
the lawsuit does not name any catholic schools for which it wants to eliminate money. twentieth century fox studios.; picks up 8th graf pvs: ``edward adler ...; subs 12th graf pvs, ``the median ..., to conform rhoden reference</note>
script writers struck movie and television producers today and the union predicted viewers of talk shows, game shows and daytime soaps would quickly notice a difference in programming
hundreds of writers grabbed ``the writers guild strikes'' placards depicting a quill and lightning bolt as mid-morning picket lines snaked in front of twentieth century fox studios
the writers guild of america rejected a final offer presented sunday by the alliance of motion picture and television producers and called a walkout for 9,000 of its 9,600 members. the 600 wga news writers are exempt from this action
the strike began here and in new york city at 9 a.m. pst today. the contract expired at midnight feb. 29
marty waldman, a wga spokesman in new york, said there would be no picketing in the east today
the longer the strike goes on, the more reruns the public will see,'' said brian walton, wga west executive director and chief negotiator. ``it's a very tight ratings race and unfortunately for the networks it will impact them.''
picket captain stanley ralph ross said selection of fox's west los angeles studio ``was fairly arbitrary,'' adding its size and location had a lot to do with it
we usually pick a major studio, and there's parking around here,'' ross said
grandview u.s.a.'' writer ken hixon, who marched with his 2-year old son, sam, said writers were much more unified for this strike than in their last walkout in 1985
there was nearly a civil war last time between screen writers and television writers. but this time there's real solidarity,'' hixon said
viewers will begin seeing the effects on those programs relying on scripts on a daily basis. talk shows, game shows and the soaps will see a difference right away,'' said guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden
the strike slows down the production process and if prolonged, ``it finally comes to a halt,'' she said. a three-month strike delayed the fall television season three years ago
walton said the network that would be hardest hit would be first-place nbc, whose ``the tonight show starring johnny carson,'' ``saturday night live'' and ``late night with david letterman,'' would be affected immediately
edward adler, president of wga east, said nine soap operas on the east coast and five in california also would be affected immediately, as would prime time miniseries, television movies and features in development or in production
but herb steinberg, a spokesman for the alliance, which represents 200 producers and studios, said a strike was anticipated and scripts have been stockpiled
shows like carson's show will go into reruns. but we will continue business,'' he said
producers had sought to scale back residual payments for some one-hour shows syndicated in the united states and said they couldn't pay writers more for reruns in foreign markets
the median annual income for writers is $40,000 a year, but about half of the guild's members are unemployed at any given time, said rhoden. the writers sought the first change in 17 years in how they are compensated when programs are aired in foreign markets. they now receive a single lump sum that varies depending on what is negotiated between the writer and producer
the writers also demanded more artistic control on the final product
we had all kinds of creative guarantees in there short of giving them total control,'' steinberg said. ``the director is the captain of that creative team. we couldn't bargain away rights that belonged to other guilds and unions.''
the producers had offered a $50 million package over a three-year period, including improvements in pension and health plans, steinberg said
in union ballots last week in los angeles and new york, 96 percent approved a walkout if no agreement was reached
the last script writers strike was in 1985 and lasted two weeks. since the wga won its first contract in 1947, script writers conducted strikes five times, more than any other entertainment industry union
separately, the screen actors guild and american federation of television and radio artists bargained through the weekend with makers of tv and radio commercials over daily pay rates and rerun payments for 100,000 actors
members of those unions approved a strike by a 93 percent margin in recent votes, said sag spokesman mark locher
president reagan's spokesman said today the administration welcomes ``the support and advice'' of 30 senators who argued in a letter to secretary of state george shultz that israel should be willing to give up control of occupied land in return for middle east peace
we are in the midst of an ongoing processs. the views of these senators are helpful to us and probably instructive to other parties in the region,'' marlin fitzwater told reporters
the 23 democrats and seven republicans, including several strong supporters of the jewish state, also expressed support for shultz's plan to bring israel, jordan, syria and palestinian arabs to a peace conference by may 1 in an effort to stop violence in israeli-occupied territory that has claimed some 80 arab lives in three months
the senators noted that israel has in the past supported the idea of ``land for peace'' by returning the sinai peninsula to egypt. but they cited a statement by israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir that ``this expression of territory for peace is not accepted by me.''
we hope that the prime minister's statement did not indicate that israel is abandoning a policy that offers the best hope for long-term peace,'' the letter said
the administration welcomes the support and advice from this group. they are senators of considerable stature and interest and involvment in middle east affairs,'' the spokesman said
at the state department, spokesman charles e. redman said shultz would respond to the letter. he declined to address the matter further, except to say that the administration prefers ``to maintain a certain discreet distance'' in the mideast peace process
but redman, in a comment that seemed to be directed at shamir, said the state department hopes for an ``early response'' from mideast governments to the u.s. plan to set up negotiations on palestinian self-rule by may 1
we believe all the parties understand and appreciate the reason that we've asked for these kind of responses,'' redman told reporters
shamir on sunday blocked a decision by the israeli cabinet. he said he would permit a vote on the american initiative after he returns from talks here next week with reagan and shultz
israeli foreign minister shimon peres had demanded a cabinet decision before shamir went to washington
at the white house, fitzwater said shultz was to brief reagan later today on his middle east trips and he noted that shamir is to visit with the president on march 16
at the moment, we proceed on a pace that's fairly well structured and has been laid out by secretary shultz and his shuttle diplomacy of the last several days,'' fitzwater said
the spokesman said the administration was involved in a process ``that involves a blend of some new ideas and new beliefs,'' but he refused to comment further, saying, ``in the middle east, it's more important not to say anything that prohibits the process or acts as a stoppage than to say anything that might stimulate activity.''
shultz, upon returning saturday from the middle east, expressed no criticism of shamir's position, saying the prime minister and israeli foreign minister shimon peres agreed that israel's annexation of territory could be a topic for negotiations. peres and his labor party have openly endorsed shultz's proposals, while shamir and his likud party have not
strong supporters of israel signing the letter included senators alan cranston, d-calif.; edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y.; howard m. metzenbaum, d-ohio; frank r. lautenberg, d-n.j.; carl levin, d-mich., and rudy boschwitz, r-minn
others whose names were on the letter included senators daniel inouye, d-hawaii; lowell p. weicker jr., r-conn.; george j. mitchell, d-maine; brock adams, d-wash.; thomas a. daschle, d-s.d.; j. bennett johnston, d-la.; donald w. riegle jr., d-mich.; tom harkin, d-iowa; warren b. rudman, r-n.h.; bob kasten, r-wis.; j. james exon, d-neb.; patrick j. leahy, d-vt.; john kerry, d-mass.; mitch mcconnell, r-ky; william s. cohen, r-maine; alan k. simpson, r-wyo.; christopher j. dodd, d-conn.; dennis deconcini, d-ariz.; kent conrad, d-n.d.; john glenn, d-ohio; timothy e. wirth, d-colo.; wendell h. ford, d-ky., and bob graham, d-fla. expressing concern about violence in tibet.</note>
the reagan administration expressed deep concern today about violence in tibet as chinese foreign minister wu xueqian opened talks with secretary of state george p. shultz
we remain deeply concerned about the state of human rights in tibet and the recurring incidents of violence,'' said charles e. redman, the state department spokesman. ``we urge all concerned to exercise restraint in order to avoid further bloodshed.''
at the same time, redman said tibet is considered an integral part of china. ``nothing has changed on that,'' he said
redman said he expected shultz would take up the situation with wu during their talks
the state department and congress have accused china of harsh measures in putting down unrest in tibet
reports that reached beijing on sunday said thousands of rioting tibetans had set bonfires in lhasa's streets and several people were killed during more than 12 hours of clashes with police. the protesters were demanding tibet's independence from china
police fired bullets and tear gas at protesters saturday and three to nine people were killed, according to the unconfirmed reports from western sources in lhasa
the administration, meanwhile, is dangling high-technology sales as an inducement for china to give firm assurances it will halt delivery of silkworm missiles to iran
the tradeoff _ and at least chinese neutrality in a u.s. drive to impose an international arms embargo against iran _ looms as the potential highlight of the talks wu opened today
it is his first visit in four years, and the agenda is substantial. for instance, shultz will solicit china's support for his proposal for arab-israeli peace talks
shultz is trying to structure a peace conference in which the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france would serve as sponsors, but without the power to impose terms of a settlement
that calls for some delicate diplomacy. shultz is walking a tightrope between jordan and israel on the subject
king hussein refuses to negotiate unless he has big power support. but israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir refuses to allow china or the soviets, who usually support arab positions, to take an active role
wu arrived sunday, had dinner with shultz and sees him and defense secretary frank c. carlucci separately today. on tuesday, the chinese foreign minister calls on president reagan at the white house and meets with shultz again
the shipping war in the persian gulf is uppermost in u.s. minds
china may be iran's largest arms supplier. sales last year were worth an estimated $1 billion
the most dangerous of the weapons are silkworm missiles _ short-range rockets that even in unskilled hands can wreak havoc on merchant ships. iran has used them effectively
despite u.s. appeals, china persisted in delivering installments of the silkworms to iran last year _ and denied what carlucci and other u.s. officials said it was doing
frustrated, the united states retaliated in october by suspending a decade-old process of liberalizing the types of high technology american companies could sell to china
since then, china has said it has stopped selling silkworms to iran. a u.s. official, speaking friday on condition of anonymity, said ``our information is that they've been living up to that.''
still, before resuming liberalization of the high-technology trade, ``we want to be sure we're in sync with the chinese on what we're talking about,'' the official said. ``we want to be sure that this responsiveness will continue.''
on an arms embargo, meanwhile, shultz would like a commitment from wu that china would not veto a resolution in the u.n. security council to impose a worldwide arms embargo against iran
the sanctions would enforce a cease-fire resolution adopted last july that iraq accepted but iran scorned
state department experts believe china would at least remain neutral if the soviet union agreed not to veto the resolution. the united states has been after moscow since july for support, but is not sure it has it yet
commerce secretary william verity will lead a u.s. delegation to the soviet union in april for a conference on trade and economic cooperation, the commerce department said monday
the meeting, of the joint u.s.-u.s.s.r commercial commission, is being held as a follow-up to the december summit meeting between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev
the two leaders, in a joint statement at the end of the summit in washington, instructed the commission to develop proposals to expand the two nations' trade and economic ties
it will be the 10th meeting of the commission, which last met december 1986 in washington
while in moscow, during the week of april 11, verity will meet with gorbachev and address the u.s.-u.s.s.r. trade and economic council, an organization of u.s. companies and soviet firms
verity will be accompanied by representatives of the agriculture, treasury and state departments, the national security council and the office of the u.s. trade representative
a 77-year-old farmer on monday pleaded innocent by reason of mental deficiency to charges he fatally shot his ailing wife
oscar carlson entered pleas of innocent and innocent by reason of mental deficiency to charges of first- and second-degree murder in douglas county district court
carlson is charged with the shooting death last week of his wife of 47 years. he reportedly told authorities he shot the 71-year-old woman to end her suffering from alzheimer's disease
michael dolan, an attorney for carlson, said he asked the court to reduce carlson's $100,000 bail, and allow the man to post his home and five acres as assurance against flight. douglas county judge donald gray took the matter under advisement
meanwhile, carlson remained at the douglas county jail, dolan said
the reagan administration is considering economic and trade sanctions against panama, including withholding monthly payments for the panama canal, but has not made any decisions yet, a white house spokesman said today
spokesman marlin fitzwater said meetings will be held later this week to discuss options on how the united states can apply pressure to force the ouster of panama's military strongman, manuel antonio noriega
on march 15, the united states is due to pay $6.5 million to the panama canal commission, a monthly payment toward the $75 million to $80 million the united states makes each year under the panama canal treaty
one of the options under consideration, fitzwater said, is to put the money into an escrow account instead of paying it to panama
earlier in the day, sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said the united states was right to put economic pressure on noriega's government, which d'amato predicted would fall within 10 days
we are grinding him down to a halt, and we should,'' d'amato said on nbc-tv's ``today'' show
i think we could have moved much faster,'' added d'amato, who is sponsoring a senate resolution calling for a total trade embargo against panama
we begin to see the incredible effects that we do have economically,'' the new york republican said
panama's 12 local banks have been closed since tuesday; branches of international institutions closed their doors friday
the administration last week backed legal efforts to freeze panamanian government deposits in u.s. banks, and authorities in panama were prevented from drawing on those accounts to keep the nation supplied with u.s. dollars, the official currency of panama
calling the panamanian strongman a terrorist and ``petty tyrant,'' d'amato asked:
if we can't take noriega on with the power that we have in the area economically, militarily, ... how are we going to deal with the drug lords of mexico and colombia and bolivia and when are we really going to take on that war?''
this is an opportunity and time for us to strike a blow for democracy and to go after one of the drug lords in this hemisphere,'' he said
questioned as to when he thinks noriega will be forced from power, d'amato replied, ``i would say within 10 days.''
appearing with d'amato, juan b. sosa, the ambassador of panama's deposed president, eric arturo delvalle, agreed with that prediction
israeli soldiers shot and wounded at least 12 palestinians on monday, and the army said arab rioters hurled a grenade for the first time since violence began in the occupied territories three months ago
defense minister yitzhak rabin defended the behavior of soldiers in the occupied west bank and gaza strip. he told parliament it was the first time in israel's 40-year history ``in which face-to-face, close, they see the ... hate of the rioters.''
strikes and job boycotts extended to the administration of the territories. palestinian employees of the gaza tax department were summoned to military headquarters monday after 38 of the 40 workers said they were resigning
inside israel, palestinian guerrillas captured a commuter bus near beersheba and soldiers stormed the vehicle. three israelis and three guerrillas were killed
according to the army spokesman's office, soldiers shot and wounded seven palestinians at idna after attackers threw a grenade at troopers who raided the west bank village to arrest ``rioters and inciters of rioting.'' the arab-run palestine press service put the number of wounded at eight
it was the first use of a grenade since arab riots began dec. 8
the first army report of arab gunfire in a demonstration occurred sunday in the askar refugee camp near nablus. no soldiers were injured
israeli surveillance and restrictions make it difficult for arabs to get firearms, and the palestine liberation organization has ordered protesters to avoid using guns
international sympathy has been created by images of well-armed soldiers shooting and beating youths armed only with rocks and homemade gasoline bombs in what arabs call ``the uprising.'' according to u.n. figures, 83 palestinians have been killed
at al-ittihad hospital in nablus, dr. hamdallah kazlak said two palestinians were treated for gunshot wounds suffered in clashes with troops at the nearby balata refugee camp
he said 20-25 others from balata and the askar camp were treated for injuries caused by clubs, rubber bullets or tear gas, including a 4-year-old girl hit in the head by a rubber bullet
a 33-year-old arab from askar, salah eddin abdul-raouf, was dead on arrival at the hospital and kazlak said his relatives attributed the death to tear gas. he said the cause of death was unclear, however, and noted the man suffered from heart disease
army officials said they were investigating reports of the protests
hospital officials in the gaza strip said soldiers shot and wounded three arabs during protests on the anniversary of israel's withdrawal from the strip soon after invading it in 1956. israel captured gaza from egypt, and the west bank from jordan, in the 1967 middle east war
army spokesmen said soldiers opened fire when rubber bullets and tear gas did not disperse ``a violent demonstration in the shati camp,'' wounding three palestinians
the hospital officials, speaking anonymously, said more than 100 people were treated for beatings and injuries caused by tear gas and rubber bullets, most suffered at shati
military authorities summoned employees of the gaza tax department to discuss a sunday letter signed by 38 of the 40 workers saying they were resigning in response to a call by underground palestinian leaders
a senior official said the israelis explained the financial difficulties workers would face if they quit and ``the general situation in terms of public services that will be damaged.'' he said the workers had not yet resigned officially
israeli officials claim arab government workers in the territories have been threatened by palestinian nationalists and islamic militants
the united states has been embarassed in space research since the challenger disaster, and risks forfeiting its edge in high technology and other fields unless it expands space-based scientific missions, a nasa official and researchers told a congressional hearing monday
further delays in projects already backed up three years plus a lack of funding for new space experiments will allow the soviet union, japan and european nations to cement the lead they have taken over the united states since the challenger explosion, said lennard a. fisk, associate administrator of the national aeronautics and space administration
a lead that we had was allowed to erode and now we have to ask ourselves where we are going,'' said fisk, who outlined the science-related portion of nasa's proposed fiscal 1989 budget to the senate subcommittee on science, technology and space
fisk said 20 major science-related payloads are scheduled to be carried into space in the next four years, half of them aboard space shuttles and half on expendable rockets
the projects include probes to venus and jupiter and the launching of an x-ray telescope, space telescope and gamma ray observatory designed to work in tandem to study a number of phenomena, including a supernova that occurred last year
the new x-ray telescope, the advanced x-ray astrophysics facility, should also help researchers determine what the universe looked like up to 20 billion years ago and produce dramatic improvements in pharmaceuticals and computer chips, said dr. harvey tananbaum of the harvard-smithsonian center for astrophysics
resumption of the shuttle program and approval of nasa's science-related budget is vital to getting the 20 projects launched by 1993 and to prove to commercial businesses which pay to have satellites and experiments carried into space that the unites states will re-establish itself as a dominant force in space, fisk said
he also urged researchers to develop new space-based experiments and technology so that nasa can begin planning missions past 1993, when it is scheduled to complete current projects
we have a hiatus in space science launches today because of the challenger tragedy,'' fisk said. ``let us not create another hiatus in the mid-1990s by failing to start major flight projects now.''
sen. john kerry, d-mass., a subcommittee member who presided over the hearing, said a revitalized space program also was vital to massachusetts businesses and universities, which received 846 contracts totaling $413 million in 1987 and have to date in 1988 been awarded 710 contracts totaling $388 million
fisk and the academicians told the subcommittee that nasa should not be pressured to curtail manned missions with civilian researchers because of the january 1986 challenger explosion that killed seven astronauts, including new hampshire teacher christa mcauliffe
david l. akin, associate director of the massachusetts institute of technology space systems laboratory, said that while computers and robots can greatly contribute to space research, their advancement should not be used to support calls for an end to manned space flights
exploration is one of the last jobs which should be turned over to robots, as the curiosity for thirst and knowledge underlying the urge to explore is one of the finest attributes of being human,'' akin said. ``let us instead spend our efforts getting humans out of mine shafts and off high steel construction sites. robots should totally replace man in the worst of jobs, not the best.''
the dalai lama, god-king of tibetans, held a prayer service monday in northern india to mourn weekend violence in lhasa, capital of tibet
in new delhi, hundreds of tibetan refugees chanted ``we shall overcome'' in a demonstration solidarity with people in tibet. police prevented the crowd from marching on the chinese embassy
a statement from the dalai lama's new delhi office said the trouble in lhasa ``is yet another indication of the depth of tibetan people's resentment and opposition to chinese rule.''
hundreds of tibetans attended the service in dharmsala, the dalai lama's exile headquarters in northern himachal pradesh state, the statement said. it declared that the tibetan issue ``cannot be solved by use of force'' and called on china ``to seriously negotiate for a solution.''
in a statement from dharmsala, the dalai lama urged the chinese to ``work toward a settlement which will benefit both the tibetan and the chinese peoples.'' he asked that tibetans ``in the meantime ... refrain from violence in spite of repressive measures that the chinese may take.''
official reports in china said one policeman was killed and 28 were injured in the lhasa clash saturday. unconfirmed reports from western sources put the toll at three to nine dead, including a buddhist monk and two chinese policemen
the dalai lama fled to india with about 100,000 of his followers in 1959, after an abortive tibetan uprising. china, which claims tibet has been an integral part of it for centuries, moved troops into the remote mountain region in 1950
saturday's violence was the first in lhasa since oct. 1, when 2,000 tibetans led by buddhist monks set fire to a police station facing the jokhang temple. police opened fire and at least 14 people were reported killed
many tibetans resent the government in beijing because of oppression of tibetan religion and customs and destruction of temples during the 1966-76 radical cultural revolution
although china has tried to redress past wrongs, friction remains between tibetans and chinese who continue to hold many senior posts in lhasa
the tibetan government has refused nearly all requests by foreign journalists to visit lhasa and has restricted tourism since the disturbances last october
a prisoner handcuffed to a hospital bed broke the bed rail monday and overpowered his police guard, then took the officer's gun and held two people hostage before giving up about six hours later
the prisoner freed the hostages, both hospital engineers, but continued to hold police off while threatening to shoot himself or fire into potentially explosive tanks of acetylene and oxygen in a subbasement of north general hospital in harlem
he was rational but very upset,'' said detective frank gallagher, the chief negotiator. ``he had fits of depression and at one point put the gun to his head and at another point to his mouth.''
the prisoner, identified as yusuf harris, 27, freed himself around 4:25 a.m. in his seventh-floor room at the hospital, where he had been taken for treatment of exposure after being arrested on kidnap charges early saturday, officials said
authorities were investigating how he broke his bed rail without alerting the guard, officer timothy austin, in a hallway outside, said chief of patrol john p. mccabe said
after getting austin's gun, the barefoot harris, wearing only a hospital gown and dragging a wedge-shaped section of aluminum-pipe bed rail from his wrist, made his way to the second floor, where he got the drop on a security guard, according to patients who saw the incident
harris allegedly took the guard's wallet, with $7, then forced him to break open a window leading onto a setback
around this time harris fired austin's .38-caliber service revolver, chief robert johnston said, but it was not known whether the discharge was accidental or harris had tried to hit someone. no one was shot
harris made his way to the subbasement, where he burned his buttocks while clambering over a boiler, said johnston
he took his hostages, ray cadmus, 50, of nesconset, and kemail bajramoski, 35, of manhattan, at the engineers' office, said police. one of the captives freed harris from the bed rail by chiseling the handcuff chain
cadmus was freed at 7:20 a.m. after police sent in some coffee and doughnuts, said johnston. bajramoski was let go about an hour later when gallagher agreed to stay with harris in place of the hostage
he said he wanted to blow himself up but he didn't want to go alone,'' said gallagher
later, the officer saw the prisoner turn the gun on himself
he said to me, `you want to see me do it? i'll do it right now,''' gallagher related
gallagher quoted harris as saying he had tried to escape because he feared going back into the criminal justice system
the prisoner was calmed by talking on the telephone to his father and sister and to an assistant district attorney, steven nuzzi, who were brought to the hospital
finally, he threw the gun out ``and walked out and took my hand,'' said gallagher
still barefoot, but with a red plaid shirt and a sheet over his gown, harris was brought out at 10:45 a.m
mccabe said he would be charged with robbery, reckless endangerment and weapon possession
austin, 28, who was treated for cuts and bruises, had arrested harris originally early saturday after harris allegedly used a starter's pistol to force a cabbie to drive him from the bronx to manhattan
harris fled the cab and jumped into the east river when the driver got the attention of police in eastern harlem, authorities said. harbor police fished him out and austin arrested him on charges of kidnap, menacing and gun and marijuana possession, police said
he had been taken to the hospital for treatment and observation. proceedings</head>
a palestinian convicted in a terrorist attack on an israeli jetliner lost out monday in his bid to block the canadian government's attempt to deport him
federal court justice james jerome dismissed an application from mahmoud mohammad issa's lawyers, who argued that the scheduled march 15 deportation hearing would violate canada's charter of rights and freedoms
the attorneys said that mohammad, 45, will not get a fair hearing because immigration minister benoit bouchard has already told parliament that ``the government will not rest before he (mohammad) is out of the country.''
the judge said bouchard's comments could have been more temperate. but he said the process ``also involves a sense of fairness to canada'' and is necessary to assess ``who should come in and who should not.''
lorne waldman, one of mohammad's lawyers, said he was filing an immediate appeal of the decision and a request for a stay in deportation proceedings until the appeal is heard
in 1970, a greek court convicted mohammad of manslaughter for his part in a 1968 attack on an el al airliner at athens airport that left one israeli passenger dead. he served three months of his 17-year sentence and was released in a hostage exchange
he came to canada with his wife and three children a year ago and established a comfortable suburban life in brantford, ontario
when reporters discovered his presence in the country in january, mohammad acknowledged having lied about his criminal record to gain entry to canada. but he said he renounced terrorism and avowed to live here peacefully
some left-wing groups and newspaper columnists have been sympathetic to his case
however, his claim to have renounced palestinian terrorism long ago has been challenged by the israeli airline pilots association, which claims mohammad was involved in a 1986 plot to attack a jewish settlement in morocco
in addition, the montreal newspaper, le devoir, has reported the existence of an autobiographical book about mohammad which depicts him as an active terrorist in 1975
mohammad has denied both allegations
mohammad tried to leave canada quietly last month through a secret royal canadian mounted police operation. the plan called for him to fly to london's heathrow airport and change planes for algiers, possibly continuing on to morocco
authorities have not clarified exactly what went wrong. mohammad flew to london but was put on a plane back to toronto
an heiress who was awarded $6 million from a church she said exploited her won the bible speaks' 65-acre headquarters monday with a $3.23 million bid at an auction in u.s. bankruptcy court
it was the second time that elizabeth dovydenas, 35, of lenox, had outbid others for the church's now-abandoned property, which includes 23 buildings. judge james f. queenan jr. had rejected her november bid of $1.8 million as too low
i'd be happy either way,'' said mrs. dovydenas' husband, jonas, after learning the couple's bid was the highest of the four sealed bids at the court hearing
the money mrs. dovydenas bid for the estate will go toward repaying the $6.6 million claim she won in federal bankruptcy court last april against the bible speaks
she had sued the church for donations she made as a parishioner from 1982 to 1986, contending that she was lied to and that her unquestioning trust was exploited by church founder and leader rev. carl h. stevens jr
queenan agreed in his ruling, calling the case ``an astonishing saga of clerical deceit, avarice and subjugation on the part of the church's founder.''
the ruling was upheld in january in u.s. district court in springfield, but the church's lawyers have announced they intend to file an appeal
the dispute landed in federal bankrupcy court after the church obtained chapter 11 protection, arguing that mrs. dovydenas' case could forced it into insolvency
the claim by mrs. dovydenas, an heir to the dayton hudson department store fortune, is by far the largest of the 250 creditors who are owed a total of $7 million by the church
her lawyer, gordon walker, said he doubted she will ever receive all the money she won, although another piece of church property in maine recently sold for $1.1 million and a florida condominium and a mission ship are also up for sale by a court-appointed trustee
i hope we even get $4 million,'' the attorney said. ``the question is, where did all that money go? we're going to look into that question.''
the bible speaks had claimed 1,200 members worldwide until the ministry disbanded last summer, saying it would never operate under the control of a court-appointed trustee. the trustee, david ferrari, had been apppointed by the bankrutpcy court to manage the estate until mrs. dovydenas' claim could be paid
most of the church's 20 pastors followed stevens to baltimore, although a few remained behind to set up another church in lenox
the church's lenox estate had been valued at $6 million, but investors said town zoning restrictions made it difficult to develop the land
dovydenas said monday he and his wife planned to sell some of the church property to developers and turn some of it into a school and a community center for the wealthy town, the summer home of the boston symphony orchestra
here is the current breakdown of all the votes cast in the primaries on march 8. for each candidate, the total is calculated by adding together the votes the candidate received in each of the primaries

11,203 of 42,301 precincts reporting - 26 percent

babbitt, 234,567 - 12 percent
dukakis, 234,567 - 12 percent
gephardt, 234,567 - 12 percent
gore, 234,567 - 12 percent
hart, 234,567 - 12 percent
jackson, 234,567 - 12 percent
simon, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
others, 234,567 - 12 percent

total states with primaries on march 8: 16

8,982 of 33,987 precincts reporting - 26 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
others, 234,567 - 12 percent
total states with primaries on march 8: 16
a federal judge on monday dismissed gop presidential candidate pat robertson's $35 million libel suit against a former congressman, who said the court's action unmasked robertson ``as the fraud he is.''
robertson, complaining he could not campaign and pursue the suit at the same time, had asked for the dismissal. he called monday's action ``a real victory.''
u.s. district judge joyce hens green formally ended the suit against former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif., who had questioned robertson's korean war record, after robertson agreed to pay court costs
green signed a brief order dismissing the case ``with prejudice,'' which means that mccloskey is legally the victor in the dispute
this is a confirmation of my integrity,'' mccloskey said in a telephone interview from his home in san francisco. ``i don't like at the age of 60 to be called a pathological liar all over the united states. he is admitting that he is the one who is the liar.''
robertson accepted the court-costs condition in a one-sentence letter from his attorney, douglas v. rigler, that was delivered to the judge's chambers by messenger
mccloskey said, ``the court's service was to unmask this man as the fraud he is.''
but robertson, in a campaign appearance in wichita falls, texas, said the judge ``gave me what i consider a real victory.''
she denied him any court costs _ any damages, i should say. he asked for $400,000. and i have the privilege of suing him once the primary is over,'' he said
however, in an opinion issued last week, green quoted _ and underlined _ a passage from a 1985 federal appeals court opinion that stated: ``dismissal of an action with prejudice is a complete adjudication of the issues presented by the pleadings and is a bar to further action between the parties.''
mccloskey's attorney george lehner said he understood that this citation means his client cannot be sued again over any statements he makes about robertson's war record
it's an absolute dead letter,'' lehner said. ``i assume he can bring suit if pete says something else, but not about this whole korean business.''
under terms of the dismissal, robertson must pay court fees, printing costs and court reporters' fees, but not mccloskey's attorney's fees, estimated at $400,000
the judge gave mccloskey's lawyers 20 days to file an itemized list of court costs to be assessed against robertson. those costs could range between $5,000 and $20,000, depending on conflicting estimates given by lawyers for both sides
if robertson had rejected green's dismissal, he would have had to go to court on tuesday to begin the trial, which was expected to last about three weeks
the judge gave me an impossible dilemma,'' robertson said on sunday, ``the choice of either defending my honor on tuesday or being president and running for president.''
the suit stems from mccloskey's allegation that robertson used the political influence of his late father, sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., to avoid combat in the korean war
the former television evangelist filed the lawsuit in 1986. several former marines later came forward to support mccloskey's allegation
mccloskey said monday he is setting up a legal defense fund hoping to raise money to pay for the attorneys' fees. founder, of aim.</note>
dennis banks, a former leader of the american indian movement, was sentenced today to five years' probation for illegally possessing dynamite
banks, 50, of south dakota's pine ridge indian reservation, pleaded guilty to the charge in exchange for dismissal of all other charges remaining against him and three other defendants in the 12-year-old case
trial had been scheduled to begin here next month, following years of legal sparring that included numerous appeals to the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals and the u.s. supreme court
banks, his wife kamook, russ james redner and kenneth moses loud hawk, all american indians, were charged with possessing eight guns with obliterated serial numbers and 350 pounds of unregistered dynamite
the weapons and explosives allegedly were found when oregon state police stopped a motor home and a station wagon near ontario, just west of the oregon-idaho border, on nov. 14, 1975
kamook banks, redner and loud hawk were arrested at the scene. authorities said banks and another man, leonard peltier, escaped on foot. prosecutors said banks' fingerprints were found in the motor home, which was owned by actor marlon brando
peltier later was convicted in the june 1975 gunshot slayings of two fbi agents on the pine ridge reservation. he is serving two life sentences in a federal prison at leavenworth, kan
a gun belonging to one of the slain fbi agents was found in the vehicles that were stopped in oregon, authorities said. they said the vehicles were en route from the puget sound area of washington to the pine ridge reservation
banks was a leader of the american indian movement, formed in the 1960s to support indian rights. in 1973, he and other aim members staged a 10-week siege at wounded knee, s.d., to protest treatment of indians in the united states
the new president of gallaudet university said monday she empathizes with students and faculty at the all-deaf university who are protesting her appointment because she hears
i do feel very deeply a sense of compassion and empathy,'' elizabeth zinser said monday in a telephone interview. ``i know it's hurting them because they very much wanted their seventh president to be deaf
but i think that what the students are expressing in general is their deep concern and care for the university. i hope that they and i ... as soon things quiet down can begin to focus on the work of gallaudet university.''
hundreds of students shut down gallaudet, the nation's only university for the deaf, out of anger monday over the selection of a president who is not hearing-impaired
zinser said she would probably begin her new job this summer. meanwhile, she will begin an intensive program to learn sign language and hopes to volunteer with agencies that work with the deaf, she said
zinser, vice chancellor of academic affairs at the university of north carolina at greensboro since 1983, was named gallaudet president sunday by the school's board of trustees
zinser said she was concerned about the student protests but not about what impact it might have on her presidency
i think it would be inhuman on my part not to be concerned,'' she said. ``but my concern is for the pain that i know some individuals are feeling. i do, however, believe that the board has made its decision.''
the university belongs to a large and varied constitutency of which the president is a symbol,'' she said. ``i am not, perhaps to some, the best symbol
i know that i cannot fully understand the experience of deafness without being deaf. ... but i will become as knowledgable and as understanding and as empathetic as anyone can who's a hearing person.''
zinser holds a doctorate in educational psychology from the university of california at berkeley. before coming to north carolina in 1983, she was a professor, dean of the school of nursing and senior academic officer at the university of north dakota at grand forks. ^with am-iran-iraq, bjt</head>
the soviet ambassador to the united nations on monday urged iran and iraq to stop bombarding each other's capitals and said the escalating ``war of the cities'' was a major development in the war
we think that the war between cities adds some new dimension to the protracted military conflict between the two neighboring countries,'' soviet ambassador aleksander belonogov said
belonogov made his statements in an unusual news conference outside the u.n. security council, which later met behind closed doors on the iran-iraq conflict
last july, the security council demanded an immediate cease-fire in the 7{-year-old war. the united states is now pushing for an arms embargo against iran for rebuffing the resolution, but the soviets have balked at an embargo
belonogov said he met monday with secretary-general javier perez de cuellar and with the president of the security council this month, yugoslav ambassador dragoslav pejic, and urged them ``in the most energetic terms'' to try to persuade iran and iraq to stop the missile attacks
it is difficult to say what political and psychological consequences the war of the cities may result in,'' belonogov said
the position of my country is clear. we are for the soonest possible political resolution of the conflict between iran and iraq and for the speediest possible implementation of the'' cease-fire resolution
belonogov was also asked whether his country believes iran now accepts the cease-fire resolution, as it seemed to claim in an ambiguous unsigned note to the council last week
we don't think that it would be right just to disregard the new developments in the situation,'' he said, refusing to elaborate
the unsigned note from iran claimed that a feb. 28 letter from its foreign minister constituted acceptance of the resolution. the letter, however, did not say that iran endorsed the resolution
british ambassador sir crispin tickell on monday called the letter ``an undated, unsigned scrap of paper.''
where does that leave us?'' he said. ``it does not constitute a clear acceptance.''
state department spokesman charles redman said in washington monday that the united states doesn't accept the unsigned note either and will keep pushing for an arms embargo on iran
each of the five permanent members of the security council _ the soviet union, china, france, britain and the united states _ has the power to veto an embargo resolution
the soviets are close allies of iraq but have also been trying to improve relations with neighboring iran. both iran and iraq are believed to be using soviet-made missiles in the ``war of the cities.''
belonogov denied that what he called ``the defensive weapons now used against tehran and other cities'' are soviet-made
hundreds of experts from around the globe gather in antebellum charleston this week to seek ways to make the world's cities better places to live
the 4th international conference on making cities liveable, which opens wednesday, is being held in the united states for the first time
the quality of life in our cities has become increasingly a national concern,'' mayor joseph p. riley jr. said monday
riley said charleston boasts many ``important national, if not international, examples of the liveability of cities,'' from its preservation efforts to its innovative programs of low-income housing to the acclaimed spoleto arts festival
but we have so much to learn,'' he said
it's a conference for people who are concerned about the quality of life in the city'' but isn't a professional conference, said suzanne lennard, one of the organizers and a founder of the center for urban well-being
it brings together many different kinds of people. it brings together city planners and architects, city council presidents and mayors and citizens who are simply concerned about making their cities more liveable,'' she said
more than 300 people are expected to attend and more than 100 people are scheduled to speak. among the topics of discussion will be the design of public spaces, festivals, the role of markets in the city and a number of case studies
the center for urban well-being, based in southhampton, n.y., is a partnership that conducts research, publishes and works with cities on urban issues
the first three international conferences were held in venice. ``we wanted to bring it to america to make it more accessible for americans,'' mrs. lennard said
one of the topics of discussion will be public art _ sculptures and other art in public places such as parks
sculptor bonifatius stirnberg, who has crafted numerous, whimsical, human-sized sculptures for parks and fountains throughout europe, will talk about his craft
usually crafted of bronze, his works are often designed for a particular town and tell something about its history or folklore. they include a sculpture of carnival characters on a barge that's part of a fountain and a long bronze sea serpent whose tail serves as a park bench
stirnberg, of aachen, west germany, said through an interpreter, ``the goal of my work is to make sculpture that is loved by the people _ that people can move and touch.''
in contrast, riley said, ``in america we see so much public art that is not of a human scale.''
riley said ``the power of a meeting like this is in the learning, teaching and sharing. it has the potential of improving the quality of life in cities all over america and beyond.''
a 15-year-old girl who was acting out a scene from the movie ``stand by me'' was struck and killed when she misjudged the speed of an oncoming train and stepped into its path, authorities said monday
the accident sunday in suburban fairport occurred behind the american national can co., said fairport police chief joseph d. picciotti
kimberly anne strassner and three friends were singing the movie's title song and recreating the scenes in which four boys artfully dodge trains, picciotti said
they actually heard the engineer (whistle) and felt the rumble of the track,'' said picciotti, who interviewed one of the friends monday. ``the victim for some unknown reason challenged the train and lost.''
the 105-car conrail train was heading east when the conductor spotted the youths and blew a caution whistle, monroe county sheriff's deputies said
miss strassner and her girlfriend were standing between two sets of tracks as the train approached. at the last moment, she leaped into the train's path and was struck and thrown 50 feet, picciotti said
miss strassner's mother, patricia sampson, said ``stand by me'' was her daughter's favorite movie
she watched it over and over again. and she had a crush on the actor. she bought the video and she went to any friend who had a vcr and watched it,'' her mother said
no order is too tall for richlee shoes, which specializes in elevator shoes
it even sells elevator bedroom slippers
if you're going to be taller at the office and the company picnic, why wouldn't you want to be taller at home? won't the neighbors notice if you run out to get the paper that you're shorter?'' said bob martin, who operates the company with his sister and three brothers
ninety styles, priced $40 to $120, are displayed in 100,000 square feet of warehouse space just south of frederick. it sells direct and through mail order
we don't feel we've even scratched the surface'' of the number of men who want to appear taller, said martin. ``depending on the style, our shoes can make a man two inches taller. i've had people call me up ... they say `the difference in my height has made a difference in my social life.'''
elevator shoes have come a long way from the days when the company's celebrity spokesman, mickey rooney, sported oxfords with chunky heels that didn't hide their purpose. today's elevator shoes look like normal shoes but have a built-up insole
martin said he even has one regular customer who stands 6-foot-5
i asked him why,'' he said. ``he said he was a basketball player in college and all his friends were 6-feet-7 or 8.''
a self-cleaning bathtub and salt dyed red so that people can know how much they use. sunglasses with pockets and a life-preserver for horses
those are inventions by kids involved in a program called invent america, which seeks to boost the level of creativity and innovation in this country
at dommerich elementary school in this orlando suburb, fifth-graders are brainstorming their way to new ideas to resolve problems, such as locating a dog at night or taking out the garbage
the invent america class is taught by gil rowe one day a week to each of five classes of gifted students in different grades. he came from ocoee elementary school, which won four of invent america's nine state awards, the most of any school in the country
we've just kind of forgotten to teach the children the old american ingenuity,'' says rowe, 44. the program was started by the privately funded u.s. patent model foundation in washington
besides opening up the innovative process, rowe says, the program enhances students' self-esteem. one ocoee second-grader who was emotionally and mentally disturbed and had no friends invented a device that earned him his classmates' admiration
suddenly he became a famous inventor. he just became a totally different individual,'' rowe said
the problem of finding a dog at night was addressed by 11-year-old seth swanson, who plans to develop a dog collar with a light attached before the class ends with a school fair in april
ten-year-old robbie cadle hates carrying the garbage cans out so much that he concentrated all his efforts on that one issue
his solution? motorized garbage cans that can be driven from the house to the street, and back. aids</head>
the sex experts dr. william masters and virginia johnson said monday they could not provide scientific evidence to support their widely publicized claim that aids is ``running rampant'' among heterosexuals
when masters was asked at a contentious news conference how he could justify such a claim, he said, ``i simply believe this.'' johnson, asked the same question, said ``i'm not sure we chose the word `rampant' ourselves.''
on page seven of their new book, they write: ``the aids virus is now running rampant in the heterosexual community.''
the book, ``crisis: heterosexual behavior in the age of aids,'' was made available to reporters monday morning. the first reports of its contents appeared in connection with an excerpt from the book published in this week's newsweek magazine
we don't see an explosion into the heterosexual community,'' said dr. peter fischinger, aids coordinator for the public health service. ``this does not mean we can be complacent about it.'' he noted that nationwide screening of blood donors has found that only about one in 40,000 has the potential of being infected with the aids virus
the public health service has been working very hard to try to get the best sense of prevalence of hiv infection in the united states,'' fischinger said. hiv, or human immunodeficiency virus, is the virus that causes aids
dr. stephen joseph, new york city's health commissioner, said of the masters and johnson study, ``all in all, i think it's greatly overblown.'' he criticized them for not submitting their data to a scientific journal where it could be reviewed in detail by other researchers, and he said their data did not support the sweeping claims they made
i think everyone would agree there is a serious danger in heterosexual transmission,'' he said. but ``contrary to what they say, i think the public health service people have been saying that for a long time.''
masters and johnson and dr. robert kolodny, their co-author and a director of the masters &amp; johnson institute in st. louis, studied 800 men and women in atlanta, st. louis, new york and los angeles
the study, the centerpiece of their book, included only people who said they did not use illicit intravenous drugs and said they had had no homosexual or bisexual contact and no blood transfusions since 1977
masters, johnson and kolodny chose four hundred men and women who said they had had at least six sexual partners each year for the preceding five years, and another 400 who said they had been monogamous
the researchers found that 5 percent of the sexually active men and 7 percent of the sexually active women had antibodies to the aids virus, meaning they had been exposed to it
the researchers said, however, that these findings could not be used to project how many people in the united states might be infected with the aids virus. ``this is not meant to be _ it was not constructed as _ a broad representative sample of the population,'' said kolodny
kolodny said the claim that aids is rampant among heterosexuals comes from studies by other researchers. but other studies have diverged widely on the question of how rapidly aids is entering the non-drug-using heterosexual community
in october, for example, dr. thomas quinn of johns hopkins university in baltimore studied men and women visiting a sexually transmitted-diseases clinic in baltimore and found that one-third of the men infected with the aids virus and almost half of the women got the infection through heterosexual contact
that was one of the highest reported rates of spread among heterosexuals. at the same scientific meeting, however, researchers from new york city and the u.s. centers for disease control reported that only one in 205 men coming to a sexually transmitted-diseases clinic in new york city was infected with aids in the absence of drug use, homosexuality or other high-risk behavior
vice president george bush, anticipating a super tuesday windfall of republican convention delegates, is targeting illinois, the biggest state in bob dole's midwest base, as the battleground that could end the kansas senator's hope of a comeback in the gop race
i don't know what dole does if he doesn't win illinois,'' said bush campaign manager lee atwater
i can't wait to hear their new theory if they lose illinois,'' he said. ``everyone comes up with a theory on how they can still win it.''
a dole campaign source agreed the kansas senator must win illinois and said they would spend about $500,000 on television advertising, their largest budget for any state
rich bond, bush's deputy campaign manager, refused to cite a specific figure for the campaign's advertising budget but said they would spent ``whatever it takes.''
traveling with bush in missouri on monday, atwater said he expected the vice president to win 12 or 13 of the 17 gop events on tuesday
asked he was hoping for a clean sweep, bush said, ``you always wish for that, but i certainly would never predict that. it's too much for anyone to expect.''
while bush aides speculate about a possible super tuesday sweep that could net the vice president up to 600 gop convention delegates, the dole camp talks about surviving the south and getting back to the midwest, where the kansas senator has whipped bush in iowa, minnesota and south dakota
dole is undefeated in the midwest and illinois is in the midwest,'' said dole campaign aide larry mccarthy
the key is how well we do in the midwestern tier of states, starting with illinois,'' said richard wirthlin, dole's pollster
but bond disputed the dole homeground advantage in illinois
the votes aren't in bob dole's backyard,'' he said. ``the votes are in chicago and the collar counties (the chicago suburbs) and it's hardly a typical farm state.''
with 82 gop delegates at stake, the illinois primary is march 15, one week after super tuesday
dole has already started his television campaign in illinois with a biographical ad that emphasizes his humble upbringing, war service, and leadership role in congress
dole turned ronald reagan's vision into an action plan for america,'' said the ad, which concluded with the narrator saying, ``bob dole is a strong man _ with a record of solving tough problems.''
dole has a strong organization in the state, headed by illinois house minority leader lee daniels and augmented by former gov. richard ogilvie
backing bush was gov. james thompson, as well as 93 of the state's 102 republican county chairmen
while the dole campaign cited illinois as the staging ground for a comeback, bush aides called the state important but not essential
if for some reason george bush can't win illinois, i still suspect he's going to be the nominee of the republican party,'' said atwater
the bush campaign aide cited the key role the state has played in past presidential nomination races
in my mind, ronald reagan was going to be the nominee when we won illinois in 1980,'' he said. ``in my mind when mondale won illinois in 1984, he was going to be the nominee.''
atwater and bond contended that the election calendar also is a problem for dole
they cited the fact that among the key states that follow illinois are connecticut, where bush has a big advantage, and new york, where the vice president is the only candidate to have delegate slates filed in every congressional district
we get 45 delegates just for showing up,'' said bond
even winning a state or two,'' added bond, ``i don't see how he (dole) gets the upper hand. ... can he win a state or two? sure. can he stop bush? i don't think so.''
tunisian foreign minister mahmoud mestiri will visit washington later this month to discuss the u.s. mideast peace initiative as well as bilateral issues, the state department announced monday
mestiri will meet with secretary of state george p. shultz and other officials, as well as with congressional representatives, on march 28 and 29, the announcement said
president reagan renewed his call monday for weapons for the rebels fighting nicaragua's leftist government, but house speaker jim wright gave the request an icy reception
in a speech to a veterans of foreign wars convention, reagan said his congressional opponents on the issue of aid to the contra rebels lack courage to fight communism, and said efforts to renew ``humanitarian'' aid for the rebels are insufficient
now it's time for congress to show that it knows you can't have real peace negotiations when one side has helicopter gunships and the other has bandages,'' reagan told the group
reagan's spokesman, marlin fitzwater, said later that the administration still hopes wright will come up with a new contra aid proposal and that the white house will be encouraging efforts in the senate to write an aid bill
fitzwater acknowledged that ``time is a problem. ... we don't know how long (the contras) can last.'' u.s. aid to the rebels ended a week ago
but on capitol hill, where the house last week narrowly defeated an effort to send food and clothing to the contras, wright said it is time to turn to other issues
there is a weariness with the contra issue'' among house members, said wright, d-texas. he added that he plans to begin mapping out a program of other legislation to bring to the floor, including issues like welfare reform and a health-care bill
wright also signaled that a group of senators trying to revive some kind of contra aid bill could run into procedural roadblocks, reminding reporters obliquely that the house traditionally reserves the right to originate any legislation to appropriate money
i'm not looking for problems'' with a senate-originated bill, he said, but added: ``those who draft the legislation ought to be mindful of that.''
wright said last week's defeat of the democratic $30.8 million contra aid package means that the united states is left with little more than moral suasion as a tool to influence central american peace efforts
it just throws it into the hands of the central americans entirely, and sort of withdraws the united states for the moment from having any direct influence,'' he said
wright said he has sent telegrams to both sides in the conflict, urging them to pursue a cease-fire agreement when they meet this week for the first time without a mediator and inside nicaragua
he said he urged the sandinista side to permit a role for nicaraguan cardinal miguel obando y bravo, whom nicaraguan president daniel ortega has rejected as a mediator after several fruitless sessions. and he asked the rebels to go forward with the talks, noting that they had been granted the high-level direct talks they have been seeking
in his speech, reagan said the defeat of the contras would mean a ``grave strategic defeat for the united states.''
the communists in central america understand this, the soviets understand this _ it's time that congress understood it too,'' reagan said. ``a soviet base on the american mainland is a pistol pointed at the heart of the americas.''
reagan contended that the ``real issue'' before the congress is not the contras, ``it is communism in central america.''
referring to last week's 216-to-208 vote, reagan said: ``courage hasn't exactly been the watchword of some opponents of contra aid. ... last week, aid opponents tried to pass the buck of responsibility for abandoning in the field the young men and women of the democratic resistance, and that ploy failed as it should have.''
the supreme court said monday it will decide whether a criminal defendant's right to a jury selected from a cross-section of the community is violated when prosecutors disqualify potential jurors because they are black
the court will review the case of frank d. teague, sentenced to 30 years in prison for the armed robbery of a chicago supermarket and for the attempted murder of police officers shot at after the robbery
the justices in 1986 ruled in a case called batson vs. kentucky that prosecutors never may disqualify potential jurors based on their race. the court said such tactics violate equal-protection rights
but a subsequent decision strictly limited the retroactive effect of the batson ruling
the court said the batson decision does not apply to convicted criminals who, like teague, had exhausted direct appeals in state courts prior to april 30, 1986, when batson was announced
if the justices were to rule that the prosecutorial tactics used at teague's trial violated his sixth amendment right to cross-sectional jury selection, he would be entitled to a new trial even though the batson ruling came too late to help him
presumably, such a ruling would affect other prison inmates' convictions as well
the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled last may that past supreme court decisions make clear that ``the fair cross-section requirement of the sixth amendment does not apply to the jury itself'' but only to the pool of potential jurors from which juries are chosen
lawyers for teague, who is black, contend that his fair-trial rights were violated when prosecutors used all 10 of their so-called peremptory challenges to exclude blacks from the jury
the court's decision is not expected until sometime in 1989
the american society of composers, authors and publishers announced monday that it will produce a memorial tribute to composer frederick loewe in a broadway theater on march 28
confirmed to perform and-or speak are julie andrews, richard harris, louis jordan, robert goulet, agnes de mille, kitty carlisle hart and herman levin, who produced loewe's most famous musical, ``my fair lady.''
ken sunshine of ascap said the theater will be announced later. the tribute will be free and open to the public
loewe and lyricist alan jay lerner also wrote the songs for ``brigadoon,'' ``paint your wagon,'' ``camelot'' and the movie ``gigi.'' loewe died feb. 15; he was 86. illinois</head>
presidential candidates sent out their last wave of commercials in super tuesday states on monday, and republican bob dole was already appealing to tv viewers in the next battleground
dole was running ads in 11 states, including illinois, which holds its primary next tuesday
in illinois, the kansas senator started running a spot called ``strong man'' that stresses the poverty and war wounds dole overcame in rising to his present post of senate gop leader. the ad says dole ``turned ronald reagan's vision into an action plan for america. tax cuts, aid for the contras, fighting wasteful spending.''
dole was running a mix of ads _ including an attack on vice president george bush's iran-contra role _ in illinois, alabama, maryland, gorgia, louisiana, washington, oklahoma, north carolina, missouri, arkansas and florida
bush was expected to trounce dole in the super tuesday arena and planned ``the heaviest media buy we'll place anywhere in this campaign'' in illinois, according to aide rich bond
bush has been endorsed by illinois gov. jim thompson and most of the state's county republican chairmen
sen. albert gore jr, d-tenn., was running a mix of seven tv spots in 13 southern and border states. four of the ads were head-on criticism of rival democrats while the other three stressed populist, anti-establishment themes
gore planned to split his time between illinois and south carolina until the saturday primary in south carolina, and then return to illinois until next tuesday's primary there
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., has been endorsed by powerful rep. dan rostenkowski of chicago and expects to spend parts of thursday and friday in illinois. spokeswoman lisa cutter said gephardt was not advertising in illinois as of monday
the congressman was running a mix of five television spots in eight super tuesday states: texas, oklahoma, louisiana, arkansas, alabama, mississippi, florida and georgia. among them were endorsements by rep. claude pepper, d-fla., and marvin leath, d-texas, his famous trade ad about the $48,000 k-car, and two attacks on michael dukakis
two democratic native sons, jesse jackson and sen. paul simon, planned no television advertising in their home state of illinois
we're planning to run a barnstorming campaign around the state'' counting on news coverage, said simon press secretary terry michael
simon skipped super tuesday, saying he couldn't afford it and it would be inconclusive. jackson ran a modest, upbeat tv campaign to augment a full schedule of personal appearances
the united states would welcome participation by north korean athletes in the seoul olympics, a senior u.s. diplomat said monday
the olympics would be better off if north korea chooses to participate,'' said assistant secretary of state edward derwinski. ``but time is running out.''
he added that ``we have nothing but a positive attitude'' toward participation by pyongyang
derwinski said the united states will have ``some additional naval units'' in the region at the time of the september olympic games. speaking at the u.s. information agency's foreign press center, he said the additional naval presence was ``a very timely, practical coincidence.''
other u.s. officials have said the additional presence will probably consist of one or two aircraft carriers
derwinski warned that any attempt by the north koreans to disrupt the games ``would make them a total pariah.'' north korea is one of only a handful of countries, including cuba, which is boycotting the games
derwinski indicated that the united states would ask visiting chinese foreign minister wu xueqian to use his country's leverage with north korea to prevent any disruption of the olympics
this is the logical, diplomatic way to proceed'' with the pyongyang government, he said. ``we have no leverage with them, and any suggestion on our part would be counterproductive.''
americans took out $5.42 billion more in installment debt than they paid off in january, the biggest monthly increase in four months and the second strong month in a row, the government said monday
the federal reserve said consumer credit grew at a seasonally adjusted rate of 10.6 percent in january, following an increase of $3.98 billion in december, which translated to an annual rate of 7.9 percent
growth in both months was greater than the 5.9 percent rate for all of 1987, which represents a considerable slowdown compared with recent years. the rate was 10.5 percent in 1986
the relatively strong january report is both a reflection of job growth _ unemployment hit a nine-year low of 5.7 percent in february _ and a sign that the rebound in consumer confidence after the october stock market crash is continuing, according to david cross, an economist with the futures group, a washington consulting firm
what we're seeing right now ... is a sort of soft landing for consumer spending,'' said cross, whose firm is predicting growth between 6.5 percent and 7 percent this year. ``we're not really looking for a recession to occur, if anything just a bit of slowness in the first half of the year.''
the january increase was the biggest advance since debt rose by $6.43 billion in september. the gains in both months were strongly influenced by an upturn in car sales
auto loans rose by $1.54 billion in january, an annual rate of 7.1 percent, and followed a stronger gain of 10.7 percent in december
credit card and revolving loans grew by $2.0 billion in january, a 16.5 percent annual rate, following an increase of 19.3 percent a month earlier
the debt category which includes bank and credit union loans not secured by real estate grew by $1.73 billion, an 11.6 percent growth rate, following a decline of 3.5 percent in december
loans for mobile homes increased $142 million after falling $122 million in december
the various changes left total consumer debt at $617.5 billion in january
rescuers using trained dogs found the body of a cross-country skier buried in an avalanche in mount rainer national park, a park spokesman said monday
pamela benton lee, 28, of olympia, was buried sunday afternoon in the plummer peak area, 5,000 to 6,000 feet in elevation, spokesman dave uberuaga said
her companion, sean mehan of olympia, told rangers he probed unsuccessfully in the snow for about an hour before skiing out and notifying park rangers, uberuaga said
mehan, with two rangers and two climbers, tried to get to the site late sunday, but had to turn back because of darkness and avalanche hazard, uberuaga said
on monday, a team of 11 park staff, 10 members of the area mountain-rescue council and three dog units began probing the avalanche, uberuaga said. an initial shoulder-to-shoulder sweep of the avalanche failed to fine ms. lee, he said
a dog that sensed a ``hot spot'' found the body buried near the base of the avalanche, uberuaga said. rescuers used probes to pinpoint the body and dig it out. ms. lee had been missing about 20 hours
the avalanche, about 60 feet wide and 120 feet long, ranged in depth from 2 feet to 10 feet, uberuaga said
a high avalanche hazard was posted all day sunday, after paradise received 10 inches of snow saturday, bringing the total there to 130 inches. avalanche hazard was still considered high on monday
the soviet union has bought an additional 300,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department said monday
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 300,000 tons of corn would be about 11.8 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.85 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $22 million
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 3.17 million tons of corn, plus almost 6.9 million tons of wheat; 813,300 tons of soybeans, and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal
rep. richard gephardt emphasized his support for an oil-import fee on monday, one day before four oil-producing states vote on super tuesday, then went to the alamo to call himself the democratic candidate for economic independence
we're standing today in front of the alamo, a place where there was a fight for independence,'' gephardt said. ``this election in 1988 is a fight again for the independence of america, the fight for us to regain control of our economic destiny.''
gephardt spoke to about 400 supporters and tourists in this city, generally considered a stronghold for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, after speaking at a struggling dallas plant that makes equipment for the oil industry
dukakis was at the alamo sunday. many of the democrats here are hispanic, and dukakis spoke to them in fluent spanish
but rep. albert bustamante, d-texas, supporting gephardt, told the rally on monday that no one suffers more from the oil industry's downturn than south texas hispanics
if you want somebody who speaks spanish, i do a little of that and i can interpret for dick,'' bustamante said, noting that gephardt has begun studying spanish. san antonio mayor henry cisneros has stayed neutral, although his wife has endorsed dukakis
gephardt recalled he trained for the missouri air national guard at lackland air force base near here. he then attacked dukakis for wanting to cut the defense budget
he's going to leave us in jeopardy and vulnerable,'' gephardt said
he continued to criticize his foes for opposing an oil-import fee
anyone like al gore or michael dukakis who tells you that they're for making america energy independent is simply trying to deceive you in a shameful way,'' gephardt said after touring dresser industries, a dallas plant that gephardt said shows the need for long-term domestic energy policy because of its nearly 50 percent cutbacks in operation
gephardt has concentrated on gore and dukakis in his texas swing. polls indicate he and gore are battling for third behind dukakis and civil rights leader jesse jackson. but gephardt said his chances for winning texas were good. africa</head>
a security council draft resolution circulated monday calls for mandatory economic sanctions, including an oil embargo, against south africa to force the government to abolish apartheid within a year
the draft resolution, to be discussed when the council meets tuesday, expresses outrage at the banning of anti-apartheid activities and concern for the ``worsening of the human suffering resulting from the apartheid system'' of racial segregation
the resolution says south africa's intransigence ``compels the international community to impose, as a first step, selective mandatory sanctions.''
under south africa's system of apartheid, the 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs and the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools and districts
the resolution, circulated after three days of debate, calls for a halt to export and sale of oil to south africa; an end to further investment and loans; a ban on imports of iron and steel; a halt of all trade promotion and support for trade; prohibition of sale of kruggerands and all coins minted in south africa; and cessation of all forms of military, policy or intelligence cooperation, especially the sale of computer equipment
south african u.n. ambassador leslie manley told the security council on thursday, ``we will not bow to your threats or demands and we reject your accusations with contempt and invite you to do your damnedest.''
the resolution calls for all u.n. members to back the sanctions and report progress to the secretary-general. it establishes a security council committee to monitor implementation
security council resolutions can be vetoed by any one of its permanent members _ the united states, great britain, china, france and the soviet union. the council and the u.n. general assembly have condemned south africa in the past, but the united states and other countries have opposed sanctions
the resolution says the sanctions would remain in force for one year, after which the council again will meet to determine if south africa has abolished apartheid
the proposed measures also require south africa to lift the ban on anti-apartheid political activities, release all political prisoners, allow the free and safe return of exiles and commence dialogue with leaders of the majority black population
the draft resolution was submitted by algeria, argentina, nepal, senegal, yugoslavia and zambia
the supreme court on monday set the stage for an important ruling on sex discrimination, agreeing to study a case in which ``unconscious stereotyping'' allegedly played a key role in denying a woman an accounting firm partnership
the justices said they will review a ruling that places a heavy burden on employers to disprove sex bias
arguments in the case will be heard in the fall during the court's next term and a decision is not likely to be announced until 1989
price waterhouse, one of the nation's largest accounting firms, is accused of discriminating unlawfully against ann hopkins. she quit the firm's office here after she was denied promotion to partnership, a move that would have made her a part owner
ms. hopkins joined the firm in 1978 and was nominated for partnership in 1982, the only woman among 88 candidates for partnership that year
she had been very successful in getting business for the company, winning government contracts worth an estimated $34 million to $44 million
of the 88 candidates, 47 were invited to become partners; 21 were rejected outright; and 20 including ms. hopkins were placed on hold
the following year she was told she would not become a partner, and she resigned in 1984 to set up her own consulting firm
both her critics and supporters at price waterhouse said she sometimes was overly aggressive, too harsh, impatient with her staff and very demanding
one critic suggested she needed to take a ``course at charm school.''
a partner in the firm who urged her promotion told her she would stand a better chance of becoming a partner if she would ``walk more femininely, talk more femininely, dress more femininely, wear make-up, have her hair styled and wear jewelry.''
others said her use of profanity was a black mark against her
ms. hopkins then sued price waterhouse, accusing the company of violating title vii of the 1964 civil rights act prohibiting on-the-job sex disscrimination. she said that sex stereotyping, unconscious or otherwise, barred her from being named partner
the supreme court ruled in 1984, in the case of a woman denied partnership in a law firm, that professional partnerships are covered by the 1964 law
a federal judge ruled price waterhouse must prove ``by clear and convincing evidence'' it would not have made her a partner regardless of whether sexual stereotyping played a part in its decision
price waterhouse said it was unable to provide such proof
the u.s. circuit court of appeals here last august said there is ``competent evidence that ... the partnership selection process at price waterhouse was impermissibly infected by stereotypical attitudes toward female candidates.''
the appeals court said even if there is evidence that ms. hopkins' personality played a part in her denial of partnership, price waterhouse is unable to prove ``impermissible bias was not the determinative factor.''
the appeals court ordered further hearings to determine what back pay and other remedies the company must provide
the case is price waterhouse vs. hopkins, 87-1167
president zia ul-haq of pakistan was quoted monday as saying he's certain of signing an afghan peace accord soon, even though his representative continued to press for an interim government to oversee withdrawal of soviet troops
pakistan's chief representative in the peace talks, acting foreign minister zain noorani, said islamabad was still hoping for soviet cooperation, even though his country wants an interim government to replace the present moscow-backed regime
it is in their interest, too, to see that there is peace and calm after they leave,'' said noorani after talks resumed monday morning following a weekend recess
however, zia was quoted as telling the gulf news, a united arab emirates newspaper, that ``there is no question of the accord not going through.'' ``allowing it to be dropped is no option,'' he said
the talks adjourned so pakistani government and opposition leaders could discuss whether they're ready to sign an accord with the soviet-backed afghan government of president najib
pakistan represents afghan rebels in the talks and does not recognize the kabul government
noorani declined to say what pakistan had decided over the weekend
no afternoon session was scheduled following the morning meetings conducted separately by u.n. mediator diego cordovez with the afghan and pakistani delegations. asked whether there was any progress, afghan foreign minister abdul wakil said only, ``ask mr. cordovez.''
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has named march 15 as the deadline for signing a settlement if the pullout of 115,000 soviet troops is to begin in mid-may, before a u.s.-soviet summit
agreement was reached thursday on a withdrawal over nine months in which half of the troops would leave within 90 days
a spokesman for the largest group in the seven-party afghan rebel alliance said monday that progress was being made in setting up an islamic government with headquarters possibly in afghanistan. professor abdul kadir kariab, in charge of political affairs of the fundamentalist hezb-i-islami party, said a u.s-educated engineer, ahmed shah, had already been unanimously elected head of state
kariab also told reporters in geneva that the alliance was already in contact with pakistan, iran and other countries regarding possible recognition of the future government
the alliance claims to represent 200,000 rebels and to control 80 percent of the afghan territory
kariab also repeated charges raised by the chairman of his party, gulbaddin hekmatyar, that the united states and the soviet union had struck a ``secret deal'' to prevent formation of such a government. he said a ``jewish lobby'' was part of such ``conspiracy'' because it feared islamic fundamentalism
he said that if pakistan were pressed to sign ``a settlement in the present shape, (it) will be historic treason to the afghan people.'' protester</head> 3rd graf, `jim condon...' subs last graf with additional quote on incident.</note>
a south african diplomat was cited for assault monday after his car struck a protester and a police officer outside a radio station where he had been interviewed, police said
south african vice consul duke kent brown was arrested about a quarter-mile away after allegedly fleeing the scene, police chief john race said
brown was charged with simple assault, released on his own recognizance and ordered to appear in court in april. the charge carries up to a year in prison and a fine of $1,000, race said
brown left the burlington area following his release, police said, and he failed to make three other scheduled appearances with the media
jim condon, news director at radio station wjoy-wqcr and a witness, said the protester who was struck suffered minor bruises
race identified the injured officer as todd shepard, said he had suffered leg bruises and was being examined at a hospital
it was unclear whether brown would be covered by diplomatic immunity. race said police had called the u.s. state department for guidance
a spokesman in the south african embassy in washington, third secretary heyn van rooyen, said brown is connected with the consulate in new york
there are different degrees of diplomatic immunity,'' said van rooyen, adding he was not sure what would apply to brown
condon said about 30 members of the vermont committee on southern africa had gathered outside the station to protest brown's participation in a talk show
he said brown left the station under police escort and made his way to a car in a parking lot. brown got in and a few protesters sat on the hood, condon said
police were in the process of removing protesters from the hood when brown ``hit the accelerator,'' condon said. target</head>
metropolitan area residents exceeded the goals set by the better air campaign in reducing traffic volume and wood smoke on high pollution days and met the oxygenated fuel program's goals, officials announced monday
gov. roy romer and denver mayor federico pena reported the results of the 90-day better air campaign and the two-month oxygenated fuels program at a news conference
the people of this area are to be congratulated,'' romer said. ``by reducing their driving between november and january and by restricting wood burning on high-pollution days, they have reduced carbon monoxide pollution in the metro area by up to 17 percent.''
the campaign's purpose was to reduce traffic volume and wood-smoke pollution on days when temperature inversions caused denver's carbon-monoxide levels to soar
the project achieved a 9 percent reduction in traffic on high-pollution days, equivalent to three million miles daily, and a 10 percent reduction in carbon monoxide vehicle emissions, said anne grady, spokeswoman for the colorado department of health's air pollution control division. she said the program's goal was an 8 percent traffic reduction and a 9 percent reduction in carbon monoxide
carbon monoxide emissions from wood-burning fell 7 percent on high-pollution days during the most recent better air campaign, said grady, and the goal was a 6 percent reduction
pena said the 7 percent carbon monoxide reduction attributable to observance of wood-burning bans was more than double last year's results
the better air campaign ran from early november until the end of january. in its previous three years, it ran for just 60 days
the oxygenated fuels program, which was launched for the first time in january and lasted two months, required all service stations along the 130-mile corridor along the front range between colorado springs and fort collins to sell only oxygenated fuels, or fuels containing at least 1.5 percent oxygen
the program's purpose was to provide a gasoline that would burn cleaner in car engines and thus contribute less carbon monoxide pollution, officials said. motorists were offered the choice of an ether-gasoline blend, or gasohol, which contains ethyl alcohol
grady said the oxy fuels program was right on target in its goal of reducing ambient carbon-monoxide levels by 8 percent to 10 percent. the reduction was in the 8 percent to 9.5 percent range, she said
a medical student whose nickname and appearance were similar to another student's may have been tortured and murdered by mistake by killers hired to hit his classmate, investigators said
both students were cuban-americans from florida, both were studying medicine at the universidad central del este in the dominican republic, but they did not know each other
the body of ignacio pereda, 26, of miami, dumped near a sugar cane field two days after he was kidnapped, had been beaten so badly that only a birthmark on the back of one hand permitted his identification, the miami herald reported monday, quoting the victim's family
his abduction came just three weeks before he was scheduled to graduate from the caribbean medical school on feb. 12
police, stumped for a motive, began looking into an earlier incident involving another cuban-american student at the university
shortly before the killing, student jorge sotolongo had a run-in with a jealous husband, who fired his gun but hit no one, the herald reported
the two young men resembled each other and pereda, from miami, was known by a nickname similar to sotolongo _ bobolongo
we believe the murder could have been a mistake,'' said first lt. jose antonio torres of san pedro de macoris, a town about 40 miles east of the capital of santo domingo, where the body was found
sotolongo has returned to his home in st. petersburg
i don't think he is in any danger, he is here with me,'' sotolongo's father told the herald. ``he is sorry for the other boy. he doesn't know if they killed him by mistake or if they wanted to kill him.''
pereda's murder devastated his parents, who have no other children, and friends
he didn't smoke, or drink or fool around. he was very educated, an old-fashioned person,'' said his classmate and girlfriend, virginia garcia. ``no drugs, no alcohol, no women. there are very few men like him nowadays.''
one aunt, aida rodriguez, said she wants to go to the dominican republic
we want answers,'' she said
the united states would welcome participation by north korean athletes in the seoul olympics, a senior u.s. diplomat said monday
the olympics would be better off if north korea chooses to participate,'' said assistant secretary of state edward derwinski. ``but time is running out.''
he added that ``we have nothing but a positive attitude'' toward participation by pyongyang
derwinski said the united states will have ``some additional naval units'' in the region at the time of the september olympic games. speaking at the u.s. information agency's foreign press center, he said the additional naval presence was ``a very timely, practical coincidence.''
other u.s. officials have said the additional presence will probably consist of one or two aircraft carriers
derwinski warned that any attempt by the north koreans to disrupt the games ``would make them a total pariah.'' north korea is one of only a handful of countries, including cuba, which is boycotting the games
derwinski indicated that the united states would ask visiting chinese foreign minister wu xueqian to use his country's leverage with north korea to prevent any disruption of the olympics
this is the logical, diplomatic way to proceed'' with the pyongyang government, he said. ``we have no leverage with them, and any suggestion on our part would be counterproductive.''
the first california condor egg produced by captive breeding is fertile and contains the makings of a chick, san diego wild animal park officials said monday
you can't actually see an embryo yet, but what you can see is the beginnings of circulatory development, which appears as a dark dime-sized dot toward the top of the yolk,'' park spokesman tom hanscom said
the egg was laid thursday, the product of a male condor known as ac-4 and a female condor called un-1. it was removed immediately from its nest in the park's ``condorminium'' and placed in an incubator
keepers peeked inside the egg by holding it up to a high-intensity lamp in a process known as ``candling.'' the egg then was returned to its incubator, where it will be kept until the hatching expected between april 28 and may 3, hanscom said
now, we incubate the egg according to the parameters that have worked so well in the past and hope ... we can hatch a healthy condor chick,'' he said
all 27 living california condors are in captivity. fourteen are kept at the wild animal park and 13 at the los angeles zoo
thirteen of the 27 birds were hatched in captivity in an effort to build a breeding flock to save the rare birds from extinction. each of those eggs were taken from nests in the wild
the breeding program has been conducted at the san diego zoo and its affiliate, the wild animal park, since 1983 in cooperation with state and federal wildlife officials
the last known wild condor was captured in april 1987 by government biologists after it was determined the carrion-eating birds' existence was threatened by lead poisoning in their food supply and human encroachment upon their central california habitat
our success or failure has pivoted on the captive production of a fertile egg and that's what we've got,'' hanscom said of the 4-day-old egg
meanwhile, the parents of the egg were said to be doing well. keepers removed the shell from its nest soon after it was laid to stimulate more breeding activity by the pair, which hanscom said has begun
that's real positive,'' he said. ``that would lead us to hope for the production of a second egg, which could come as early as 30 days after the first egg
the parents are doing fine, the egg is doing fine and the keepers are doing fine.''
more than 1 million serious crimes were reported in florida last year, a record number blamed in part on the spread of ``crack'' cocaine and other drugs, authorities announced monday
the number of reported homicides, rapes, robberies, assaults, burglaries, larcenies and motor vehicle thefts rose 6.3 percent to go over the 1 million mark for the first time, to 1,021,283, said robert dempsey, commissioner of the florida department of law enforcement
as you know, the crime rate is driven to a large extent by the drug problem. there is no question about that,'' dempsey said
he urged gov. bob martinez and the legislature to consider increasing spending for criminal justice. presently, he said, 6 percent of an $18.5 billion budget is devoted to the criminal justice system, which includes law enforcement and the courts, he said
it's intolerable. we need to do something about addressing credibility in the criminal justice area,'' dempsey said. ``we need to address the career criminals, the jail situation and some of the weaknesses in the so-called criminal justice system, which as many of you know is no system at all.''
dempsey also said citizens need to start a grassroots campaign to help prevent violence and property thefts. increases in property crime, particularly in some of the more rural counties, can be directly attributed to the increase of the powerful crack form of cocaine, the commissioner said
anybody who tells you the drug problem is leveling off is in fairyland. they don't know what's happening,'' he said
the florida figures released monday were preliminary. a complete report was expected to be issued later this year
the commissioner said florida continues to lead other states in crime rates, or the number of crimes reported per 100,000 population. he compared florida's 1987 figures with figures reported by other states in 1986
we have the highest crime rate in the nation,'' said dempsey
department spokesman john joyce said florida's per-capita crime rate, which increased by 2.9 percent in 1987, has been significantly higher in past years than the figures reported by other states. since florida is one of the first to release its figures, new data was unavailable in other states
in 1986, florida had 8,238 serious crimes reported per 100,000 population, compared with 7,408 in texas, 7,322 in arizona, 7,081 in oregon, 7,032 in colorado, 6,880 in washington, 6,763 in california, 6,626 in new mexico, 6,491.5 in michigan and 6,290 in nevada
the district of columbia actually had the highest of all with 8,339 per 100,000 population
in florida, the total arrests for cocaine last year were up 32.8 percent over 1986, while property crimes increased 6.7 percent over 1986. the number of motor vehicle thefts rose by 16.4 percent, and aggravated assaults showed a 3.1 percent increase
the number of reported murders and rapes was slightly down. homicides declined from 1,371 to 1,368 and rapes declined from 6,153 to 6,017
more police officers were assaulted and killed in 1987 than the previous year, 10 compared with six. assaults on police officers rose from 7,289 in 1986 to 7,833 in 1987
dempsey acknowledged that the overall crime increase was not as high as had been reported in recent years. from 1985 to 1986, his department reported a 7.9 percent increase. the increase was 11.4 percent from 1984 to 1985
it's true the rate of increase is dropping but it is still an increase,'' dempsey said
u.s. sen. howard metzenbaum opened his bid for a third, six-year term on monday, describing himself as a fighter and warning backers to brace for negative ads and gutter politics from opponents
this battle that i'm about to embark upon today will be the toughest battle that i've ever experienced in my lifetime. i cannot tell you all the details of all the stuff, and nonsense, and sleaze that they're pouring into ohio,'' metzenbaum, d-ohio, told an airport rally
i'm asking ohioans to judge this campaign not on nasty, negative ads nor gutter politics. you'll see plenty of both thrown our way, and it's already started,'' said metzenbaum, who is being challenged by cleveland mayor george voinovich, a republican, in the nov. 8 election
there are some powerful forces who want to see me out of the senate. for them no price is too high, no tactic is too low,'' metzenbaum said
the rally, which drew a crowd of about 100 that included officeholders and union members, was one of four as metzenbaum barnstormed the state in a plane piloted by u.s. sen. john glenn, d-ohio, his campaign chairman. other stops were in cincinnati, dayton and cleveland. 1 graf after 8th graf previous, `the other...' with conditions on release.</note>
a 31-month pretrial detention ended monday for a defendant in the wells fargo robbery case after a judge approved arrangements for his $1 million bond
juan segarra palmer was released after u.s. district judge peter dorsey signed the papers. segarra palmer and another wells fargo defendant, filiberto ojeda rios, had been held without bond longer than any other defendants in federal judicial history
segarra palmer's father, enrique segarra, testified before a u.s. magistrate earlier monday that his son would be disgraced ``personally and politically'' if he failed to appear for trial on charges in the 1983 robbery of $7 million from a wells fargo depot in west hartford
he is a person of great character,'' enrique segarra said. ``if he said he will be here, he will be here.''
i'm happy, but i have to say the real issue is not my freedom,'' harvard-educated segarra palmer, 38, said as he walked out of court. ``the real issue is the freedom of puerto rico and preventive detention.''
segarra palmer, who was arrested in august 1985 in puerto rico, was held without bond until last month, when u.s. district judge t. emmet clarie set bond at $1 million
clarie has, however, refused to do the same for ojeda rios, saying the defendant could flee to avoid prosecution
segarra palmer's bond is secured partly by $500,000 in property owned by 11 people in the town of naranjito, puerto rico, the hometown of his wife, luz berrios berrios, another wells fargo defendant who has been free on bond for some time
the other $500,000 is unsecured, but his parents and three siblings signed agreements to pay the money should segarra palmer not appear for trial
under terms of his bond, segarra palmer cannot leave hartford, must be home by 10 p.m. each night and agreed that the government has the right to try him in absentia should he flee. the government also plans to require him to wear an electronic bracelet to monitor his movements, but none of the devices are available in hartford, said his attorney, leonard weinglass
sixteen people are awaiting trial in the wells fargo robbery, which the government contends was masterminded by los matcheros, a radical, sometimes violent group advocating puerto rican independence
victor gerena of hartford, the wells fargo guard authorities allege carried out the robbery, hasn't been captured. prosecutors say they think he is in cuba
pretrial hearings in the case began 14 months ago and are expected to last several more months
an eastern airlines passenger was free on bond monday after allegedly battling police and ticket agents when he and 200 irate passengers were bumped off new york-bound flights
it was the latest of several incidents in recent months that have plagued eastern in the wake of canceled flights and bumpings
the confrontation sunday began when 226 passengers were bumped from a 3:15 p.m. flight to la guardia, said eastern spokesman bob carson. some were later bumped repeatedly from other flights, and were demanding to get on the final flight of the night about 9:30 p.m
the angry passengers pushed up against the ticket counter when the flight was called, and jack lemonik, 26, of great neck, n.y, allegedly went behind the counter, said metro-dade police lt. robert otero
lemonik allegedly punched one ticket agent in the chest and pushed another with his rucksack before police moved in
three officers grabbed lemonik, otero said. one hit his leg on a trash can and fell to the ground, and was later treated for a knee injury, otero said
passengers shouted angrily at police as they struggled with lemonik, said curt arnel, 30, of merrick, n.y
lemonik was charged with two counts of simple battery, aggravated battery and resisting arrest with violence, said metro-dade police spokeswoman lizette williams. he was released on $5,500 bond monday, police said
passengers who could not be booked back to new york on sunday were put up in hotels and were to be put on flights monday, said eastern spokeswoman karen ceremsak. the pack</head>
republican presidential rivals searched monday for a way to stop george bush from a clean sweep on super tuesday, while democrats scoured the south for the votes that could propel one of them out of the tightly bunched pack on the biggest primary day in u.s. history
vice president bush said a sweep of the 17 gop primaries was ``too much for anyone to expect.'' but he was leading polls in virtually every super tuesday state except missouri, where sen. bob dole of kansas had a narrow edge
even dole conceded in oklahoma city ``it's fair to say george bush has a good margin,'' but said the race is tight in oklahoma, missouri and north carolina
earlier, the kansas senator said in birmingham, ala., ``my philosophy in the south ought to sell like hotcakes, but so far it isn't happening. bush is getting a lot of ruboff from ronald reagan.''
dole claimed polls show ``that i beat all the democrats. (bush) doesn't beat any of them .... we ought to nominate a winner instead of a loser.''
gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, hoping to emerge from the super tuesday contests in his home state and 20 others with a delegate lead, campaigned at a retirees' condominium development in north miami beach and picked up the backing of annie ackerman, 74, a onetime chicago ward organizer now known for her prowess in turning retirees out to vote. she called him ``a person of integrity who gets things done'' and ``a mensch,'' using the yiddish word for good man
asked if super tuesday was a flop in bringing moderate and conservative democrats back to the party's fold, the governor replied, ``it's not been a flop for mike dukakis.''
four of his rivals _ jesse jackson, richard gephardt, albert gore jr. and gary hart _ were in texas monday
jackson, hoping the allegiance of black voters throughout the south will give him his finest hour in two runs for the presidency, visited an aids clinic in dallas and journeyed to brownsville, texas, where he pledged to fight efforts to make english the official language of the united states
we are a great nation. we can speak more than one language,'' said jackson
gephardt, the missouri congressman who has staked his campaign on a tough stance against countries with unfair trade practices, made a pitch in dallas for an oil import fee and campaigned in san antonio in front of a landmark
we're standing today in front of the alamo, a place where there was a fight for independence,'' gephardt said. ``this election in 1988 is a fight again for the independence of america, the fight for us to regain control of our economic destiny.''
in dallas, outside a plant that has cut its production of oil field equipment nearly in half, gephardt said, ``anyone like al gore or michael dukakis who tells you that they're for making america energy-independent without being for an oil import fee is simply trying to deceive you in a shameful way.''
something's happening out there,'' gore said, insisting the undecided vote was breaking his way. he said the democrats would have a two-man race after tuesday, and he would be one of the two
gore got a boost from sen. sam nunn of georgia, who left word after he departed on a trip to the soviet union that he had cast an absentee ballot for the tennessee senator
pat robertson raised again his claim that there are soviet missiles in cuba, telling a satellite radio audience in 18 states, ``i don't think the missiles ever got taken out in '62. and i am somewhat convinced that more missiles have been introduced.''
a federal judge in washington dismissed robertson's $35 million libel suit against former rep. pete mccloskey, who questioned his korean war record. the judge said mccloskey was the prevailing party in the acrimonious lawsuit. robertson agreed to pay court costs but not mccloskey's legal fees
super tuesday, the biggest primary day in history, saw gop voters go the primary polls in 17 states and democrats choose candidates in 20 states. there are 712 republican and 1,307 democratic delegates at stake
dukakis was hoping for a strong harvest of delegates from texas, florida and maryland, as well as massachusetts, rhode island and washington state
bush, talking with reporters on air force ii en route to columbia, mo., was asked about the possibility of a sweep. ``you always wish for that, but i certainly would never predict that. it's took much for anyone to expect,'' he replied
bush, who clobbered dole, robertson and jack kemp in south carolina's primary on saturday, admitted he was tired
it's been a difficult effort leading up to super tuesday,'' he said, adding that on tuesday itself ``we've got a pretty relaxing day _ except for the tension factor.''
pat robertson renewed his contention that there are soviet missiles in cuba on monday and also said the federal reserve board was unconstitutional
earlier, in wichita falls, texas, the republican presidential candidate said he was satisfied with a federal judge's dismissal of his libel suit against a former congressman who had questioned robertson's war record
in texas, the biggest super tuesday prize with 111 gop delegates, robertson talked about military needs and about his contentions concerning missiles
in new england, they thought it was a gaffe when i said there were missiles in cuba, but those cubans (in florida) don't believe it's a gaffe. they believe there's russian missiles in cuba,'' he said
later, in a call-in show on shreveport's kflo radio, he said, ``everybody in the miami area _ almost without exception _ certainly 95 percent of those cuban-americans know in their hearts that there are missiles in cuba. i don't think the missiles ever got taken out in '62. and i am somewhat convinced that more missiles have been introduced.''
to support his contention, he said cuban leader fidel has denied the missiles are there and has criticized robertson for saying they are
on other subjects raised on the call-in show, robertson said:
_``there has been filed, by a united states senator from montana, a suit in the federal court alleging that the federal reserve board is unconstitutional. i think it's true.''
_the supreme court needs people like (justices) antonin scalia, william rehnquist (and defeated nominee) robert bork, people like that, who honor the constitution as it was written.''
_``not one of the trading partners of america truly is dealing fairly with us. they're either restricting imports into their country on the one hand, or they are subsidizing unfairly exports from their country to us.''
_``i believe, in my heart, and from some indication from some people who i've talked to, that there are american servicemen still in laos. they aren't in vietnam, they're in laos. ... i believe we could put a throttle-hold around some of those southeast asian nations, to make them insist those missing-in-action people come out of there.''
_raising the possibility of an alternative to the united nations, ``i think if we had an alternate organization of free nations, democratic nations, who did not commit terrorism and did not torture and abuse their own citizens, we could have the power of the world. and we could exclude from that agency the soviet union, the east bloc countries and these other dictators that are practicing slavery and what have you against their people.''
in washington, a u.s. district court judge dismissed robertson's $35 million suit against former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., who had accused robertson of ducking combat duty during the korean war
the judge gave me what i consider a real victory,'' robertson said during a news conference at wichita falls' municipal airport
however, mccloskey said, ``this is a confirmation of my integrity.'' robertson, in asking that the suit be dropped, ``is admitting that he is the one who is the liar,'' mccloskey said. ``the court's service was to unmask this man as the fraud he is.''
robertson had said he had to ask that the suit be dismissed since he couldn't pursue the presidency and go through the trial that was to start on tuesday
mikhail s. gorbachev has told factory workers not to be discouraged by slow improvements in their standard of living and to have faith in his overhaul of the economy
he visited the enormous first state ball bearing plant in moscow, his first meeting with rank-and-file workers since a sweeping law took effect jan. 1 giving factories more financial independence from central ministries
gorbachev said he was particularly sensitive to complaints about poor housing and food and said they were top priorities for improvement
the 57-year-old soviet leader visited the factory friday but media did not report on the trip until monday. why the reports were delayed was not clear
of course we have a sufficient number of problems,'' gorbachev told the workers. ``part of them are left from the past, others were born today, in the course of restructuring, in the process of realizing economic reforms. that's natural. but i have the impression that you haven't panicked, and i would say are optimistically looking to the future and confidently going forward.''
gorbachev has visited factories several times since becoming communist party general secretary three years ago, highlighting the importance he attaches to workers' roles in reviving the sluggish soviet economy
the ball bearing plant employs 20,000 factory and office workers. gorbachev said he wanted to get a first-hand look at how the government's new economic reforms are being implemented
for politics, the most important thing is to know the mood of the people, to feel the pulse of life,'' gorbachev said in remarks carried by the official news agency tass
he explained to the workers why some of his economic policies may be hard to swallow, because they mean harder work and in some cases less pay. salaries, he said, must be adjusted according to the productivity and quality of labor
how can you pay someone a full ruble if he hasn't earned it? what will he buy with this money?'' he said
he said the reason desired goods have not been available in stores is that workers were guaranteed salaries whether or not they did their jobs properly
under the new law, managers at factories responsible for 60 percent of the country's industrial output can bargain with suppliers and wholesale customers for some products. enterprises are free to keep some of their profits, but those that are unsuccessful are liable to be declared bankrupt. the factories set workers' salaries according to the quality of their work
gorbachev critcized plant managers who try to find an easy way out of improving output by buying foreign equipment
obviously you must buy some things, but only that which is absolutely necessary, and you should rely on your own domestic machine-building, on the achievements of our engineering.''
he assured the workers socialism will not be threatened by the country's growing private enterprises, known as cooperatives
it's understood that we need industrious and honest initiative, but not of the kind of some cooperatives which exploit a deficit and engage in outright money-grabbing,'' gorbachev said
limited private enterprise has been allowed to supplement state-run enterprises since may 1987. prices of the goods and services produced by cooperatives are generally much higher, but gorbachev told the workers the government plans to get its fair share of profits, through a progressive tax
routine strip searches of children awaiting deportation are unconstitutional, a federal judge ruled monday, saying immigration agents must first have a reasonable suspicion that drugs or weapons have been hidden
u.s. district judge robert kelleher rejected an immigration and naturalization service argument that the body-cavity searches are needed because adults will use children as couriers if agents cannot search them
children confined by the ins are not charged with any criminal offense, let alone an offense that might indicate a propensity to conceal weapons or contraband on their persons,'' kelleher ruled
in 1987, of 84,000 aliens searched, there were 20 discoveries of contraband or weapons, only four of which were related to juveniles, kelleher noted
his ruling came in a class-action suit filed in 1985 by a coalition of immigrants' rights groups that challenged what they described as routine strip-searches of children upon admission to ins detention facilities and following all visits with anyone other than attorneys
children are particularly susceptible to trauma from strip searches, kelleher said. he rejected an argument by assistant u.s. attorney ian fan that children from central america have no expectation of privacy when arrested here
many carry the expectation of liberty, opportunity and a better life, the embodiment of which is our constitution,'' kelleher wrote
only children are affected by the ruling. john hagar, an american civil liberties union lawyer involved in the suit, said the ruling covers all nine states in the ins' western region
s
washington (ap) _ the justice department's nazi-hunting unit has identified 9,800 people as former concentration camp guards and said monday it will have them placed on the immigration watch list of individuals to be barred from the united states
the office of special investigations compiled the names with the assistance of a sophisticated new computer database
names of suspected criminals and nazi persecutors are systematically checked against immigration records to determine if they are in the united states
the names of individuals not found to be in this country are included in the watch list to prevent them from entering
osi has listed thousands of such people in the past few years. but the 9,800 now to be placed on the watch list of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service ``for serving as concentration and death camp guards is probably the greatest number'' to be added at one time, said the office's chief, neal sher
the watch list includes people who are prohibited from entering the united states under a federal law barring individuals who assisted or otherwise participated in nazi-sponsored persecution
the provision, known as the holtzman amendment, was invoked when austrian president kurt waldheim was placed on the watch list last year following a decision by attorney general edwin meese iii
the justice department cited evidence that waldheim had participated in activities amounting to persecution of jews and others in greece and yugoslavia in world war ii when he was a german army intelligence officer
the immigration watch list contains some 40,000 names. in addition to those participating in nazi-directed persecution, the list contains the names of criminals, known terrorists, communists or people who have been deported from the united states
duke austin, an ins spokesman, said names submitted by the office of special investigations are routinely added to the watch list
the reagan administration renewed its request on monday for an ``early response'' from israel to a u.s. middle east peace initiative
it also said it welcomed the ``the support and advice'' of 30 senators who contend israel should be willing to give up control of occupied land in return for middle east peace
at the state department, spokesman charles redman said the administration is looking for a reply to secretary of state george p. shultz's plan to set up negotiations on palestinian self-rule by may 1
redman's comment appeared to be directed to israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who is due in washington next week for meetings with president reagan and shultz
we believe all the parties understand and appreciate the reason that we've asked for these kind of responses,'' redman said
shultz just returned from a middle east trip during which he promoted a plan to bring israel, jordan, syria and palestinian arabs to a peace conference by may 1. one goal is to stop violence in the israeli-occupied gaza strip and west bank regions that has claimed some 80 arab lives in three months
shultz briefed regan on monday on his travels
on sunday, shamir blocked a decision by the israeli cabinet on the u.s. initiative. he said he would permit a vote after he returns from his talks in washington, but israeli foreign minister shimon peres had demanded a cabinet decision before shamir departed
redman avoided a direct reaction to shamir's move, but he went on to call for an ``early response'' from israel and the three arab governments _ jordan, egypt and syria _ to whom shultz submitted his plan
shultz said during his middle east travels last week that he hoped for a reply within about 10 days. he said he believed in deadlines as a way of accelerating action
at the white house, spokesman marlin fitzwater was asked about the letter from the 23 democrats and seven republicans, a group that included several strong supporters of the jewish state
the senators noted that israel has in the past supported the idea of ``land for peace'' by returning the sinai peninsula to egypt. but they cited a statement by shamir that ``this expression of territory for peace is not accepted by me.''
we hope that the prime minister's statement did not indicate that israel is abandoning a policy that offers the best hope for long-term peace,'' said the letter, dated march 3
the administration welcomes the support and advice from this group. they are senators of considerable stature and interest and involvment in middle east affairs,'' fitzwater told reporters
we are in the midst of an ongoing processs. the views of these senators are helpful to us and probably instructive to other parties in the region,'' he added
the spokesman said the administration was involved in a process ``that involves a blend of some new ideas and new beliefs,'' but he refused to comment further
at the state department, redman said shultz would respond to the letter. he declined to address the matter further, except to say the administration prefers ``to maintain a certain discreet distance'' in the mideast peace process
when he returned saturday from the middle east, shultz expressed no criticism of shamir's position. he said the prime minister and peres agreed that israel's annexation of territory could be a topic for negotiations
peres and his labor party have openly endorsed shultz's proposals, while shamir and his likud party have not
strong supporters of israel signing the letter included senators alan cranston, d-calif.; edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y.; howard m. metzenbaum, d-ohio; frank r. lautenberg, d-n.j.; carl levin, d-mich.; and rudy boschwitz, r-minn
others whose names were on the letter included senators daniel inouye, d-hawaii; lowell p. weicker jr., r-conn.; george j. mitchell, d-maine; brock adams, d-wash.; thomas a. daschle, d-s.d.; j. bennett johnston, d-la.; donald w. riegle jr., d-mich.; tom harkin, d-iowa; warren b. rudman, r-n.h.; bob kasten, r-wis.; j. james exon, d-neb.; patrick j. leahy, d-vt.; john kerry, d-mass.; mitch mcconnell, r-ky; william s. cohen, r-maine; alan k. simpson, r-wyo.; christopher j. dodd, d-conn.; dennis deconcini, d-ariz.; kent conrad, d-n.d.; john glenn, d-ohio; timothy e. wirth, d-colo.; wendell h. ford, d-ky., and bob graham, d-fla
sen. albert gore jr. said monday that two leaders would emerge from the democratic presidential field after super tuesday balloting and he would be one of them
something's happening out there,'' gore said, wrapping up his texas campaign with an airport appearance in houston, his fifth visit to the city in the past three weeks
the undecided vote is still large but it is breaking our way. we are getting reports from all over the super tuesday area and all indicate exactly the same thing. our campaign has the momentum.''
the tennessee senator said his polls throughout the south show him surpassing massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and missouri rep. richard gephardt and trailing only jesse jackson
we have gained more in the last 24 hours than any other candidate,'' he said. ``if our people get to the polls, we are going to pull off a major surprise to those people who were beginning to think it was a two-person race. it's going to be a two-person race all right, but they're going to have a different two candidates in mind.''
gore refused to identify the candidate he saw as also emerging as a front-runner after tuesday's elections
i'm not going to pick the field,'' he said. ``you'll be able to see the pattern develop.''
asked what would happen if he finished fourth, he replied: ``i refuse to accept that. that's not going to happen. write it down and check it twice. we're going to come out with a very surprising victory.''
gore said he picked up the endorsements monday of georgia gov. joe frank harris and sen. bennett johnston, d-la. sen. sam nunn of georgia announced his endorsement of gore on sunday. question was about cutting money for both midgetman and mobile mx.</note>
the air force's top officer says he never dreamed the reagan administration's military build-up would be derailed so quickly, but he intends to maintain readiness even as his service shrinks
gen. larry d. welch also said monday the air force couldn't afford to develop the new midgetman nuclear missile favored by many congressional leaders; said he would press for salary bonuses for pilots and make it easier for young pilots to stay in the cockpit; and would shut down at least three air force bases if congress let him
the four-star general added the public shouldn't be too concerned by press reports of delays in flight testing the new ``stealth'' bomber, and said he intends to repair strained relations with congress with a new openness about the onset of contracting problems
welch was interviewed by the associated press on the eve of congressional hearings on the air force's fiscal 1989 budget. that budget blueprint, designed to comply with a deficit-reduction plan, cuts air force spending authority by $10 billion compared with what the service wanted and eliminates more than 23,000 active-duty job slots
the 53-year-old welch said it already was clear when he took over the air force in july 1986 that military spending was going to be slashed
but we thought at the worst, we would level (off),'' welch added. ``we never expected a real decline. we were certainly not expecting that from 1985 through 1989, there would be a 13 percent overall decline in real buying power.''
the only way to cope with such cuts, welch continued, is to reduce the size of the force. otherwise, too little money is spread too thinly to maintain combat readiness, he said
to keep a ready force, we'll have to have a somewhat smaller force,'' the general said. ``and we will be deferring some things, delaying some things.''
among the programs taking a large cut is the midgetman missile, a one-warhead nuclear missile that would be deployed on a truck-like launcher to make it more survivable. the air force would like to kill the program outright, but requested enough money to keep research going until a new administration makes a final decision
welch said he knew that congressional democrats favored the project. but the midgetman is so expensive it makes more sense to develop a mobile rail launcher for the existing 10-warhead mx missile, he said
deploying the midgetman would cost $36 billion ``and the only place we can find to take another $36 billion is out of conventional forces,'' welch said
that's too high of a pricetag ``for an incremental contribution to deterrence,'' he added
asked what would happen if congress refused money for both the midgetman or a rail-mobile mx, welch replied: ``i think that would be absolutely irresponsible.''
turning to other topics, welch said:
_air force relations with congress are strained because of a perception the service tried to cover up problems with the b-1b bomber. that is ``an absolutely false charge,'' welch said, because in truth the air force itself ``was badly surprised by the lag in the development'' of b-1b radar-jamming gear
nonetheless, ``we are (now) going to great pains to keep the congress thoroughly informed on anything that looks like a problem.''
_there's no reason for concern at this point about a delay in flight testing the radar-evading stealth, or b-2, bomber. sources have said the first flight test was pushed back four months to august because of technical problems
i think we've been very realistic about (the b-2),'' welch said. ``unlike some other programs, we didn't say five years in advance that we're going to fly that airplane on the 23rd of may. we knew better
_the air force is asking for money to pay its pilots a salary bonus because re-enlistment rates have fallen to unacceptable levels. retention rates are running about 48 percent compared with the target 60 percent, and for the first time in years, the air force expects to end fiscal 1989 with an overall shortage of pilots _ 22,312 on duty compared with 22,556 needed
_the air force also will try to keep its pilots happy by changing promotion policies to make it clear to young lieutenants and captains they should concentrate on flying, and not worry about finding staff jobs to make them more promotable
_and if he had his druthers, he would try to save money by closing unneeded bases. welch declined to identify his candidates, but said three bases could probably be closed quickly
federal testing of the nation's pork supply is being stepped up immediately as part of a crackdown on illegally high traces of a suspected cancer-causing drug used widely by hog producers, the agriculture department said monday
officials said the department's food safety and inspection service will initiate random sampling of hog carcasses in 100 of the nation's largest swine slaughter plants for laboratory tests to determine levels of sulfamethazine
usda officials on feb. 4 had announced their goal was ``to eliminate violative levels of the drug sulfamethazine'' in hogs marketed in the united states
two hog carcasses will be tested at each plant during the initial phase of the program. if one or both hogs are found to contain drug traces at or above the permitted level of 0.1 part per million, the plant will be subjected to more intensive testing
hog carcasses found to be within the drug's permitted level will be released for consumption. those with higher residues will be condemned
a new ``sulfa-on-site'' (sos) procedure for making quick screening tests in the plants without sending samples to laboratories for more detailed, time-consuming tests also is being incorporated into the program, said lester m. crawford, fsis administrator
sulfamethazine is used in swine to treat or prevent a number of diseases and also is used in subtherapeutic dosages in feed to promote faster growth and to improve weight gains. illegally high traces of the drug have been a problem in an average of about 5 percent of the hogs going to slaughter
a study by the food and drug administration's national center for toxicological research in arkansas tentatively determined that sulfamethazine causes tumors in the thyroid glands of mice, crawford said last month when the new regulatory effort was announced. lithuanian-american</head>
the state department has confirmed that the soviet union is not allowing lithuanian-american povilas peciulaitis to emigrate despite a statement last december that he would be free to leave, rep. edward feighan said monday
feighan, d-ohio, urged secretary of state george p. shultz to quickly intervene and requested a meeting with soviet ambassador yuri dubinin. he also sent a letter to soviet leader mikhail gorbachev asking that the matter be resolved quickly
they have the audacity to tell us now that it was a mistake,'' feighan said of the soviets. ``if the soviets think i'm going to stand by and meekly accept this broken promise, they had better think again.''
peciulaitis, 64, was born in lithuania, but his parents were naturalized american citizens
feighan said he fears for peciulaitis' personal safety, adding that verbal attacks against the man have recently appeared in newspapers and on television in lithuania
if the soviets can renege on a promise, we can't be sure that they won't try to harm mr. peciulaitis,'' feighan said
peciulaitis, who was exiled to siberia for 22 years, is being sponsored by his brother, who lives in suburban cleveland
a sharp cold front brought a renewal of winter weather whistling across the central rockies and the western plains on monday
a winter storm warning was posted through the night into tuesday for the mountains of southern colorado. snowfall totals of 8 to 16 inches were possible, along with gusty wind causing considerable blowing and drifting, the national weather service said
advisories for snow and blowing snow were posted into the night the southeastern colorado plains and adjacent foothills and for the san luis valley
a mixture of rain, sleet and snow extended from north dakota to western nebraska and temperatures were in the 20s and 30s
an advisory for snow and blowing snow was issued for western south dakota, where wind accompanying the snow gusted to 59 mph at the rapid city airport
strong southerly wind ahead of the cold front drove temperatures up into the 70s across much of texas, and into the 60s as far north as eastern kansas and southern missouri
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 22 degrees at laramie, wyo., to 82 at fort myers, fla. the low for the day was 3 degrees above zero at yellowstone national park in wyoming
for tuesday, showers and thunderstorms were forecast from northern texas and the central gulf coast into the middle mississippi valley and the lower ohio valley, with showers in southern sections of the upper great lakes. snow was forecast in the upper mississippi valley and northern sections of the upper great lakes. widely scattered showers were forecast from northwestern texas across much of kansas and eastern colorado
highs in the 30s and 40s were predicted across a wide area from northwestern texas and western oklahoma, much of the rocky mountain region, the northern plains, the upper mississippi valley across to new england; above 60 from oregon to california and from the rio grande valley of texas to the southern and mid-atlantic coast; in the 70s from central california to southern arizona, from south-central texas to tennessee and alabama, and from west virginia to northern florida; in the 80s in southern florida and the lower rio grande valley of texas; and in the 50s elsewhere
it's too soon to consider bailing out the federal insurance fund for savings institutions or merging it with the healthier funds for commercial banks and credit unions, the nation's top regulator of s&amp;ls said monday
i think that's vastly premature,'' said m. danny wall, chairman of the federal home loan bank board
wall, speaking to the national association of federal credit unions, said the federal savings and loan insurance corp., which backs s&amp;l deposits up to $100,000, has about $20 billion to work with over the next three years
president reagan in august signed legislation recapitalizing fslic, which was technically insolvent and unable to deal with failed s&amp;ls. the legislation provides $10.8 billion over three years from the sale of bonds, to be paid off by a special assessment on profitable institutions
wall said it's too soon to determine whether that will be enough to handle the industry's problems, particularly in the southwest where s&amp;ls have been hard hit by the faltering energy industry and the consequent moribund real estate market
there's no way of knowing what the (regional) economies will be or will have been in three years. ... (a rebound) could occur in texas. it could occur in other areas of the country. it could blow all of our problems completely out of the water in a positive way,'' wall said
his comments came less than a week after two thrift industry lobby groups began discussing the future of the insurance fund
a committee of the u.s. league of savings institutions, the largest s&amp;l trade association, discussed a plan that would require billions of taxpayer dollars to bail out the ailing thrift industry
according to mark clark, a vice president of the league, the committee talked about a number of possible scenarios, including one that envisioned the issue of government notes to s&amp;ls. the notes would be traded for bad loans owned by s&amp;ls and would be guaranteed by the u.s. treasury
clark said the committee meeting was simply a ``brain-storming session'' and the plan ``is by no stretch of the imagination a proposal.''
the u.s. league discussion, as well as a proposal to merge insurance funds, are particularly controversial because the thrift industry, seeking a smaller burden on healthy s&amp;ls, argued for a smaller recapitalization of fslic
the national council of savings institutions, another trade association, is proposing, as a contingency plan, a merger of fslic with the federal deposit insurance fund, which had $18.3 billion at the end of 1987
the plan is unpopular with banks, which pay a premium for deposit insurance that is less than half the premium paid by savings institutions. a merger with the national credit union share insurance fund, which has about $1.3 billion, is equally unpopular with that industry
john t. morgan, chairman of the council, said last week that fslic likely won't have enough money to take care of all insolvent s&amp;ls. wall talked of resolving the cases of 50 insolvent s&amp;ls this year in addition to about 100 cases in texas. losses for the industry as a whole are expected to surpass $4 billion for 1987
morgan argues that there's a limit to how much more healthy s&amp;ls can contribute and that congress will not want to earmark tax money without first tapping into the other insurance funds
rep. gerald kleckza, d-wis., has introduced legislation that would merge the three insurance funds, as well as the federal agencies that regulate the three segments of the financial system. the council, however, would keep the regulatory agencies separate
wall said he saw little prospect, at least in the near term, that congress would approve a merger of the funds or of the regulatory apparatus and he argued that they were better left apart
the supreme court on monday postponed until later in the year a ruling in a multibillion-dollar battle over so-called ``gray market'' goods, the growing business that allows consumers to purchase costly imports at steep discounts
the justices announced they again will hear arguments in the case in april with a decision expected by july
the case will be re-argued with justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last month, taking part in the deliberations. kennedy's participation in the case will give the court six members, a quorum, to consider the underlying dispute
kennedy did not take part as the court ruled, 5-3, on monday that the court of international trade does not have exclusive authority over the dispute. the majority said that a federal judge properly considered the case
the three justices who dissented did so on a procedural issue. they said the federal courts lacked jurisdiction, a decision that would in effect disqualify them from considering the merits of the case
the dispute is over interpretation of the federal tariff act of 1930. the u.s. customs service says the law allows gray market goods into the country without approval from trademark owners
two leading discount distributors, k mart corp. and 47th street photo inc. of new york city, also are defending the customs service regulations
typically, the discount companies buy trademarked products in the united states more cheaply than do the owners of the u.s. trademarks
some 60 major companies that own trademarks banded together to form the coalition to preserve the integrity of american trademarks and challenge the customs service regulations
a federal judge upheld the customs service regulations. but the u.s. circuit court of appeals here ruled last year that the rules are invalid under the 1930 tariff act
the statute prohibits unauthorized imports of ``any merchandise of foreign manufacture if such merchandise ... bears a trademark owned by a citizen of, or by a corporation or association created or organized within, the united states.''
the customs service says the law protects only american companies that purchase trademarks from independent foreign manufacturers and does not protect american subsidiaries, affiliates or parent companies of foreign manufacturers
justice william j. brennan wrote monday's opinion upholding the authority of the federal courts to rule in the dispute. he was joined by justices byron r. white, thurgood marshall, harry a. blackmun and john paul stevens
dissenting on the jurisdictional issue were chief justice william h. rehnquist and justices antonin scalia and sandra day o'connor
a television expose showing city workers goofing off has added fuel to a campaign to recall mayor federico pena, the mayor's opponents said monday
a top public works official and two street workers lost their jobs and pena suspended four others following the kusa-tv report last week about city street crews
the mayor, who announced the action over the weekend, said he will continue his investigation of the allegations and within the next week expects to discipline several mid-level supervisors in the public works department, the city's largest agency with 1,770 employees
meanwhile, marge doty, chairwoman of the metropolitan action committee, which is pushing the pena recall, said the revelations have ``added impetus to our movement, absolutely.''
the campaign has half the petition signatures needed to force an election to replace pena, who was re-elected to a second three-year term last year. ms. doty said she has not counted how many signatures have been gathered on the 1,200 petitions being circulated
a kusa reporter and cameraman, using an unmarked car, followed six city street crews around for several days to see what they accomplished. only two crews were shown working without excessive breaks. in one case, a pothole repair crew did no work at all during an eight-hour period, spending the time visiting several food stores and loafing near parks
lee ramirez, deputy manager of the public works department, resigned following the reports, and pena then fired two workers and suspended four others
pena told a news conference that ramirez was ``a hard-working and dedicated employee'' who had ``the fortitude ... to tender his resignation in the best interest of the city. and i agree with that conclusion.''
steve newman, executive director of the colorado chapter of the american federation of state, county and municipal employees, said two of the disciplined public works employees are innocent and their punishments would be appealed
he also blamed the department's problems, which include a $1 million budget deficit, on poor management, nepotism, cronyism and missing equipment
i will be meeting with the mayor this week, probably on thursday, and i will have a long list of documented problems and incidents we've brought to their attention,'' he said. ``hopefully, this time he'll deal with it.''
the movement to recall pena began after citizens complained of unplowed, impassable streets following a christmas weekend snowstorm
the metropolitan action committee has until mid-april to collect 40,000 petition signatures
gov. roy romer and three other democratic leaders on saturday announced their opposition to the recall drive
properly filling potholes'' is an issue worth debating, but not serious enough to merit a recall election, the governor said
sen. tim wirth, d-colo., said pena ``is the person who has finally broken loose the airport and has made the convention center come closer to being a reality. those are the issues it seems to me that we ought to be talking about.''
denver is close to reaching agreement to build a new, $4 billion airport in neighboring adams county to replace stapleton international airport, and it will begin construction soon on a $115 million convention center
the opening talks on a new long-term grain agreement between the united states and the soviet union will get under way here on march 19 instead of in vienna, austria, on march 11 as previously announced, a senior trade official said monday
deputy u.s. trade representative alan f. holmer said in a one-paragraph statement issued by the agriculture department that the change was ``due to scheduling conflicts'' but did not elaborate
the current five-year pact will expire on sept. 30. it calls for annual purchases of grain from the united states
officials announced on march 4 that the negotiations on a new agreement would begin march 11 in vienna
fifty-two members of the senate are urging south african president p.w. botha to release a prominent south african journalist jailed without charges for the last 14 months
in a letter made public monday, the senators asked botha to work for the immediate release of zwalakhe sisulu, 38, an award-winning journalist and editor of the the new nation, a newspaper sponsored by the catholic church. sisulu was a nieman fellow at harvard university during the 1984-85 academic year
the letter was made public by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., who hailed sisulu as ``the best that journalism has to offer'' and a reporter and editor who is ``passionate in his commitment to non-violence and to building a truly non-racial society in south africa.''
his arrest and incarceration were unconscionable,'' kennedy said. ``his continued detention _ without bail, without charges and without trial _ is indefensible.''
the letter said that sisulu's imprisonment ``strengthens the cause of those who pursue a racial agenda and who seek a violent solution to south africa's problems.''
the government monday presented 25 photogravures seized from a now-imprisoned drug dealer to the national museum of american art
the work by photographer edward sheriff curtis, part of the artist's 20-volume work on north american indians, was turned over to museum director charles c. eldredge by attorney general edwin meese iii
the photographs printed from specially etched plates in a process yielding great sensitivity of tone were among the items confiscated from ronald francis perry of san francisco under a federal law allowing the federal government to seize the assets of drug traffickers
the photogravures were forfeited to the government after san francisco police investigating perry discovered two pounds of cocaine, a $30,000 art collection and $14,500 hidden in a secret panel in a closet and took the case to the drug enforcement administration
perry pleaded guilty to drug and tax charges in 1987 and is serving a sentence in federal prison in allenwood, pa
the government is selling perry's home and the remainder of his property, which includes 75 cases of fine wine, eight rare persian carpets, several handguns, a porsche and a mercedes. said they...</note>
communist guerrillas ambushed a vehicle near subic bay, killing three civilians and six filipino sailors assigned to the u.s.-run naval base, the military said monday
the sailors, and three civilians who had hitched a ride, were traveling from subic to manila on sunday when rebels of the new people's army fired on their land-rover near hermosa, on the bataan peninsula 40 miles west of the capital, the philippine constabulary reported
there were no reports of rebel casualties in the 15-minute battle
subic, about 50 miles west of manila, is one of six military facilities operated by the united states under an executive agreement that expires in 1991
communist rebels operate near both subic bay and clark air base, 50 miles north of manila. last october, guerrillas killed three americans and a filipino in coordinated attacks outside clark
in a related development monday, two philippine constabulary troopers held hostage by communist rebels for more than a month said they killed nine guerrillas in an escape the day before
noel de leon and roberto nabua said they were captured feb. 3 at a rebel checkpoint outside san francisco, a town near catanauan, 110 miles southeast of manila in quezon province. they spoke to filipino reporters in catanauan
they said they were tied up for 32 days and were moved from place to place. de leon and nabua also said a foreigner they did not identify took videotape pictures of them
on sunday, the two said, they loosened their bindings and grabbed the m-16 rifles of their two guards, who were cooking a meal in a house at buenavista, about 10 miles north of catanauan. they said they killed both guards and seven other rebels
in another report monday, officials said one of the best-known rebel priests had fled southern mindanao island after being shot by comrades who learned he was planning to surrender
romeo capangpangan, spokesman in cebu city for the social welfare department, said the rev. frank navarro was reported shot in the shoulder last week by his own followers in mindanao's surigao del sur province
he said navarro had sent word that he was recuperating at a hideout in the area and wanted to surrender in return for amnesty. cebu city is 360 miles southeast of manila
the government amnesty program for communist and moslem rebels expired feb. 29, but defense secretary fidel ramos said rebels still could receive amnesty on a case-by-case basis
according to the military, navarro is a new people's army leader in eastern mindanao. the army issued two reports last year that he had been killed. from iraq. no pickup.</note>
iraq and iran fired missiles into each other's largest cities monday and sent aircraft to bomb towns in the second week of a long-range duel that has killed hundreds of civilians
the official iraqi news agency said iraq fired three missiles into tehran, a city of 6 million
iran's islamic republic news agency said revolutionary guards fired five missiles at ``military centers'' in baghdad in retaliation for ``these inhuman acts,'' and hit the northern city of mosul with a missile for the first time
both sides reported their border towns pounded by sustained artillery fire and air raids that killed scores of people
it was the eighth day of missile exchanges between the persian gulf neighbors, which have been at war since september 1980
iraq confirmed that two missiles fell on residential sections of baghdad, whose population is 5 million, killing or wounding ``many civilians, including women and children.''
it said a missile hit a residential district of mosul, killing or wounding civilians and damaging several houses, shops and cars. mosul also was reported bombed
irna, the iranian agency, said 30 civilians were killed and more than 100 wounded in tehran, most of them women and children. it said one missile demolished a clinic, a school and several homes
iraq says it has fired 41 missiles into the iranian capital since the exchanges began feb. 29. the iranians have reported firing 23 missiles on baghdad in that period, but the have acknowledged only 18 hits
in baghdad, labor minister baker mahmoud rasoul said iran began the latest round in the ``war of the cities to pave the way for its new (ground) offensive.''
vice president taha muhieddin maarouf, also addressing the gathering of arab labor ministers, said ``our armed forces are fully ready to rout any iranian offensive.''
they apparently referred to threats saturday by hashemi rafsanjani, speaker of the iranian parliament, to answer the iraqi missile barrage with action along the 730-mile border war front
asian diplomats in baghdad said khalid mahmoud, an emissary of pakistan's foreign ministry, delivered a letter from president mohammad zia ul-haq for president saddam hussein of iraq as part of a diplomatic effort to stop the aerial war. its contents were not disclosed
the missile exchange is the fiercest of the war. it is the first time surface-to-surface missiles have hit tehran, which is 290 miles from the iraqi border. iran periodically has launched missiles at baghdad, which is only 80 miles from the frontier
iran has reported at least 122 civilians killed and more than 300 wounded by missiles, and more than 100 killed and 500 wounded in air raids during the past week. iraq has reported heavy civilian casualties, but not exact figures
on monday, iran's news agency said 61 civilians were killed and 427 wounded by iraqi air raids on shiraz in the south and dezful, khorramabad, arak and a dozen other cities in the west
iraq said its planes attacked the cities of hamadan, arak and kermanshah in western iran
tehran radio confirmed a raid on arak, but there was no immediate word on casualties or damage. it said iranian warplanes raided basra, the southern iraqi port near the border, and as-sadiq and mosul in the southwest
according to the iraqi news agency, ``many civilians'' were killed or wounded in the raids
the iranians said their artillery hammered military and economic targets in amarah, qurna and aziz, north of basra, through the night and morning. they said iraqi gunners shelled marivan in northwest iran, killing one person and wounding several
rep. jack kemp said monday he would press on with his republican presidential campaign regardless of the outcome of the super tuesday contests
kemp told a news conference at the state capitol that his disappointing showing in the race so far had not caused him to consider dropping out
i'm running for ideas, for a cause, to keep the reagan revolution alive,'' he said
he said he did not know how he would do on super tuesday, but thought the race would remain open. and he said he planned to press his campaign in next week's illinois primary
kemp said he saw himself as ``a bridge candidate,'' whom followers of vice president george bush, kansas sen. bob dole and former television evangelist pat robertson all could turn to if the race is not wrapped up by the time of the republican national convention
i think ultimately that the republican party is going to want a conservative to follow ronald reagan,'' he said
he repeated his assertion that he is not interested in the vice presidential nomination
i don't expect it. i don't think it will be offered. i don't want it. and besides, i'm a quarterback and not a lineman,'' said the former professional football player
kemp conceded that the oil and agriculture industries had not shared fully in the economic successes of the reagan administration. but he said he did not favor an oil import fee, calling that ``a quick fix.'' he said lower interest rates would help the energy industry more in the long run
he also advocated repealing the windfall profits tax and called for further deregulation of natural gas
in a speech to the oklahoma legislature prior to the news conference, kemp drew applause when he denounced panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega and called for continued support of the contras in nicaragua
he said it would be ``a big mistake'' for the united states to accept a communist base in nicaragua. he said that would pose a threat to the panama canal and nicaragua's neighbors and ``ultimately to mexico.''
a court convicted 16 people in belgium's biggest child sex case monday, including the former head of the u.n. children's fund for belgium
they were given prison terms of up to 10 years, but some lesser terms were suspended. two defendants were acquitted
most were arrested soon after the case came to light early last year and spent several months in jail before the trial. the trial revealed the existence of belgian and international child sex rings
several adults who lent their children to adults for sex were among the defendants. the husband of one of the two mothers acquitted is to be tried later
jean-claude weber, a 40-year-old film producer now jailed in france on similar charges, got the longest sentence, 10 years
philippe carpentier, 46, got nine years. he heads an association whose public purpose was to help pedophiles overcome their compulsion but actually supplied them with children
michel felu, 47, a member of the unicef belgian staff who used the children's fund offices and equipment to make pornographic pictures for use in special international magazines, was sentenced to eight years
jozef verbeeck, 63, former head of unicef-belgium, was given a two-year suspended sentence. one mother got three years suspended and another a 30-month suspended sentence
unicef was awarded symbolic damages of one franc for the harm it suffered. ...'' to update with comment on shultz talks with wu.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz met monday with chinese foreign minister wu xueqian and said the united states is prepared to increase high technology exports to china
during toasts following their state department luncheon, the two leaders hailed the progress in bilateral relations and made almost no reference to issues which divide them
chief among them is china's reported sales of military weaponry to iran in defiance of u.s. efforts at the united nations to win support for a worldwide arms embargo against iran. the administration has been seeking assurances from china that it will not veto an embargo resolution
the reagan administration has generally refrained from public condemnations of the chinese sales, and shultz on monday alluded only to press reports in both countries of u.s.-chinese ``differences'' on the persian gulf war
administration officials have indicated a willingness to increase high technology exports to china in exchange for a chinese commitment to halt delivery of weapons to iran
although shultz made no direct link between the two issues, he indicated u.s. interest in increasing sales of sophisticated technology to china
over the last five years, the united states has significantly liberalized its controls over technology exports to china, and we are prepared to do more to ensure u.s. exporters remain competitive in the china market,'' he said
last october, the united states retaliated against china for selling silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran by suspending the process under which china had been given increasing access to u.s. products with advanced technology
since then, china has said it has stopped selling silkworms to iran. a u.s. official, speaking friday on condition of anonymity, said ``our information is that they've been living up to that.''
still, before resuming liberalization of the high technology trade, ``we want to be sure we're in sync with the chinese on what we're talking about.'' the official said. ``we believe the chinese position has been responsive to our concerns, but we want to be sure that this responsiveness will continue.''
although no details of their private talks were disclosed, shultz also was expected to discuss with wu the u.s. proposal for direct arab-israeli peace talks
u.s. officials, who asked not to be identified, said shultz's talks with wu were cordial and covered a range of international issues
they said discussions later in the week will focus on human rights and the persian gulf situation
shultz is trying to structure a peace conference in which the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france would serve as sponsors _ but without the power to impose the terms of a settlement
shultz made no reference in his remarks to recent anti-chinese rioting in tibet. state department spokesman charles redman said between three and nine people are believed to have been killed, and he expressed deep concern over the human rights situation in tibet
he also reiterated the u.s. view that tibet is an integral part of china
shultz, discussing shared interests of the two countries, said both have opposed the soviet occupation of afghanistan and the vietnamese military intervention in cambodia
the united states is convinced that a secure china is in the interest not only of china but of the u.s. and the states of the east asian region,'' shultz said
wu, in turn, said there is great potential for continued development of u.s.-chinese relations, ``yet there are also obstacles and difficulties
therefore, our two sides have no reason to rest content with the present status,'' he said
wu also met with defense secretary frank c. carlucci on monday. he will meet with president reagan on tuesday
the soviet union on monday sought an urgent security council meeting to demand an end to the iran-iraq ``war of the cities,'' and the united states insisted anew on an arms embargo against iran
soviet ambassador alexander m. belonogov told reporters he expected a meeting of the 15-member council by wednesday. he said the soviets will introduce a resolution demanding an end to the devastating missile bombardment of both capitals
moscow, however, has been reluctant to push for a punitive arms embargo against iran for delay in complying with a cease-fire as demanded by the council last july 20. the soviets have been improving relations with tehran
belonogov said his government favors more time for diplomacy before imposing a weapons ban against iran or iraq
in washington, state department spokesman charles redman on monday urged the council to act quickly on an arms embargo resolution
iran meanwhile demanded that the council condemn iraq for starting the deadly war of the cities now in its second week
both sides claim the strikes on tehran and baghdad are defensive and retaliatory. both are believed to be using soviet-made missiles in the missile attacks, the most intense in the 7{-year-old war
as the council met behind closed doors to discuss the missile strikes, iran's attempt to stave off an embargo with an ambiguous note to the council appeared to have failed
the ``undated, unsigned scrap of paper'' does not ``constitute a clear acceptance'' of security council resolution 598, british ambassador sir crispin tickell said monday. ``if they accept, they should say so _ loudly, clearly and unequivocally.''
redman said the united states sees nothing new in the ``non-paper'' and ``very much doubts that anyone else does either.''
he told reporters that in pursuing the arms embargo, ``we are continuing active consultations with other council members to achieve consensus on this resolution, which we are convinced would help bring the gulf war to an end.'' the unsigned note handed by iran's u.n. envoy to the security council president last week claims a feb. 28 letter from iranian foreign minister ali albar velayati constituted acceptance of the council's cease-fire resolution
the letter, however, did not say iran endorsed the resolution
we also note that several iranian spokesmen have issued statements over the past few days disavowing the non-paper released in new york,'' redman noted
the agreement of all five permanent council members _ the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france _ is needed to pass an arms embargo resolution. each has a veto. washington has said the stumbling block is the soviet union
redman said secretary of state george shultz would probably raise the issue in talks with foreign minister wu xueqian of china this week
the soviets are close allies of iraq but have also been trying to improve relations with neighboring iran
crowds in tehran, angered at being the target of soviet-made missiles, tried to storm the soviet embassy over the weekend. belonogov denied that ``the defensive weapons now used against tehran and other cities'' are soviet-made
he also urged iran and iraq to stop the attacks and described the escalation in the war of the cities as a major development in the gulf conflict
we consider this as just not another espisode in the war ... we think that the war between cities adds some new dimension to the protracted military conflict between the two neighboring countries,'' he said
belonogov said he met monday with secretary-general javier perez de cuellar and with the president of the security council this month, yugoslav ambassador dragoslav pejic, and urged them ``in the most energetic terms'' to try to persuade iran and iraq to stop the missile attacks
the position of my country is clear. we are for the soonest possible political resolution of the war conflict between iran and iraq and for the speediest possible implementation of the security council resolution 598.'' and last name of sen. mikulski in 11th graf.</note>
a group of u.s. representatives sent a scathing letter to president p.w. botha to express ``outrage and dismay'' over the slaying of a black activist
seven u.s. senators signed a similar letter to piet koornhof, south africa's ambassador to the united states, that also protested the jan. 24 slaying of godfry sicelo dhlomo, 18
dhlomo, an anti-apartheid activist, was killed four days after police questioned him about his appearance in foreign television documentaries, including a cbs documentary, ``children of apartheid.''
we the undersigned members of the u.s. congress are writing to express our outrage and dismay at the assassination of godfrey sicelo dhlomo,'' said the letter, signed by 31 house members and obtained by the associated press on monday
he is one of more than two dozen anti-apartheid activists killed in mysterious circumstances since 1980,'' it said. ``none of these killings have been solved by the police, lending allegations of official involvement greater credibility
physical evidence attests to the fact that mr. dhlomo was beaten and tortured, and it is common knowledge that intimidation and threats are everyday tools of the south african security police
a south africa in flames will be the inevitable result of your government's failure to reform security police tactics and work toward a democratic society. we strongly urge a prompt and thorough investigation into mr. dhlomo's death and other apartheid-related crimes.''
some of the house members who signed the feb. 11 letter will participate in hearings on south africa beginning march 15. the letter to botha was initiated by cardiss collins, d-ill
police arrested dhlomo during a raid on the johannesburg offices of a civil rights organization on jan. 20 and questioned him about his statements in several foreign news films
after his body was found near his parents' home in soweto, several anti-apartheid groups said they suspected police involvement. the police have denied involvement and have offered a $2,500 reward for the arrest of the killer or killers
the letter signed by the senate members, written by sen. barbara a. mikulski, d-md., said: ``we have a very strong interest in sicelo and require your government to allow an independent body to investigate the circumstances under which he was murdered.''
the house letter addressed botha as prime minister, a post he has not held since 1984 when he became president under a new constitution
britain began a 25-day military exercise monday to test its ability to protect the falkland islands from invasion, the defense ministry reported. argentina said its forces would be on ``defensive alert.''
at this stage, it's very much a paper exercise,'' a ministry spokesman said. ``the exercise will start with intelligence reports that an enemy is raising the threat level. they will play out a scenario.''
an infantry batallion of 600-1,000 soldiers based in britain will fly to the south atlantic archipelago march 17-18, the spokesman said on condition of anonymity
argentina claims the islands off its coast, which it calls the malvinas, and invaded them in april 1982. britain sent a naval task force and won a 74-day war that killed 712 argentines and 258 britons
britain says the exercise, called fire focus, is purely defensive. one of its functions will be to test a new $690 million airport built since the war
ian stewart, the armed forces minister, said criticism of the exercise from argentina and other latin american nations resulted from misunderstanding of its size
i do not see how something which is purely a defensive exercise can be seen as provocative,'' he said
we have to defend the falklands. we had a very unfortunate experience six years ago. we not only have a right to have a defensive garrison in the falklands, we have a responsibility to do so.''
the exercise, scheduled to end march 31, is the largest since the war and the first with reinforcements flown from britain. military units could not be airlifted in 1982 because the airport was inadequate, and the naval force took weeks to reach the islands
argentina says the islands are part of its inheritance from spanish colonial rule and claims britain stole them in 1833
britain has refused to discuss sovereignty, declaring that the 1,900 falkland islanders prefer to remain british, but stewart said: ``in other respects we would like to have more normal relations with argentina.''
navy chief jose toribio merino said monday the nation's military commanders will select in june or july the candidate for a yes-or-no presidential vote later this year
it was the first time a time frame has been set for the nomination of the presidential candidate. no date has been set for the election
president augusto pinochet, the general who has ruled chile since the 1973 coup that ousted the elected government of marxist president salvador allende, has given every indication he will seek the nomination
as the powerful army commander, the 72-year-old pinochet will be among the four military chieftains selecting the candidate for an eight-year term
merino spoke with reporters after a meeting of the law-making, four-member junta that he heads
he said the presidential election ``has to take place during the second half'' of this year
according to the 1980 constitution drafted by the armed forces, chile's president for the 1989-97 term will be chosen in a yes-or-no plebiscite on a single candidate
the candidate will be named by the commanders of the army, navy, air force and national police
if the military-picked candidate is rejected by the voters, an open presidential election must be called in 1990 with pinochet remaining in power until then, according to the constitution. gephardt likely to be biggest loser</note>
democrats richard gephardt and albert gore jr. are in a battle of their own in tuesday's southern primaries, competing for the same voters and harboring hopes of knocking each other out of the presidential race
with jesse jackson poised to collect the south's considerable black vote, and michael dukakis scoring with southern liberals, gephardt and gore are both vying for what's left: the moderate and conservative, blue-collar and middle-income white voters
acknowledging dukakis may do very well tuesday, each would like to emerge as the white alternative to the massachusetts governor. and each would like to move on to the next round of contests without the other, trying to draw a bead on dukakis
both gore and gephardt have scaled back southern expectations as their initial strategies have not been fulfilled
gephardt concentrated on the early iowa contest, hoping it would propel him. but his victory there hasn't provided momentum in the south. gore played on regional appeal, but that hasn't been enough in a field fractured by so many candidates
the result: each needs to beat the other to continue
there are two gs in this race and only one g is going north,'' said one source close to gore's campaign, insisting on anonymity
gephardt's tough foreign trade-retaliation message and the powerful television commercials that helped him in south dakota and iowa have been overwhelmed by the enormity of campaigning in the 20 states of super tuesday
he has spent about $1.2 million on television _ and has been outspent three-to-one by both gore and dukakis
gore has been pummeling gephardt in tough negative television commercials that the gephardt campaign acknowledges has been effective against their candidate. gore has branded gephardt a ``phony flip-flopper.''
dukakis also has slammed gephardt with television ads that depict him as a flip-flopper on issues
we have been pinned down in a very tough negative crossfire between dukakis and gore,'' said gephardt polltaker ed reilly. ``they have gone to any areas we have strengths, especially gore, and just beat the ... out of us. that's effective ... but i think the net effect is going to be to drive (voter) turnout down, very very low.''
gore has run ads attacking dukakis and jackson, too, but the main focus of the television attack has been on gephardt
ideally for the gore campaign, we would like to _ and we expect to _ narrow the field by eliminating dick gephardt, thereby creating a situation where senator gore can focus clearly on michael dukakis and jesse jackson,'' said gore spokesman arlie schardt
an abc news poll of the south released monday night said that ``the biggest loser on super tuesday will probably be richard gephardt, who is leading only in his home state of missouri and could drop below the 15 percent threshold for delegates'' in 12 of 16 states polled
both gore and gephardt are focusing on the delegate count coming out of super tuesday rather than the number of states won. neither predicts an outright win in the biggest states of florida and texas, but they hope to collect a big share of delegates there
gore forces believe if they can push gephardt into a fourth-place finish in delegates, and hold him to winning little more than his home state of missouri, he will be staggered and unable to continue. gephardt forces scoff at that notion
they're not going to knock us out,'' said reilly. ``no way ... it's absurd.''
but both gephardt and gore face the prospect of leaving the south impoverished and facing, in dukakis if he wins florida and texas, a candidate who has demonstrated national appeal
gore took out a $1 million line of credit to saturate southern television. gephardt faced a financial squeeze going into the south that limited his ability to run the ads that proved effective elsewhere, including his vow that unless south korea opened its markets he'd put so many taxes on their products a hyundai automobile would cost $48,000
noting that ad, dukakis spokesman leslie dach said: ``the hyundai may very well run out of gas on tuesday night.'' protest at capitol and corrects spelling of student leader jerry covell</note>
gallaudet university students vowed monday to keep their campus closed indefinitely after the school's board of trustees reaffirmed its selection of a hearing presdent to head the nation's only liberal arts university for the deaf
we're going to keep the school closed,'' said student leader jerry covell. ``we will stop when we get a deaf president.''
covell and around 1,800 of the school's 2,200 students protested at the capitol after board of trustees chairman jane basset spilman told the students the board would not reconsider its decision to hire elizabeth ann zinser as gallaudet's next president
the selection of zinser, an administrator at the university of north carolina at greensboro, was the product of a ``careful, reasoned'' search process, spilman said
a lawful, proper and final decision was made,'' she said
as spilman made her announcement in the school's field house, students listening there spilled out into the street and began a one-mile walk to the capitol
spilman and several other board members listened for about 30 minutes to complaints from the 100 or so students, then left without speaking to reporters
gallaudet, the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf, was created by an act of congress in 1864, and relies on federal funding for most of its operating budget. in fiscal year 1988, gallaudet received $62 million from congress
we're trying to put some pressure on congress, to get them to put some pressure on our board,'' said covell, a 23-year-old frederick, md., resident. ``after this, we'll march to the white house.''
monday's protest capped a week of demonstrations in which students tried to convince the board of trustees to hire a deaf person as the school's seventh president
after spilman announced sunday that zinser had won out over two deaf finalists, students walked to the hotel where the board was meeting, then continued their protest at the capitol. monday, students gathered before dawn and blocked all entrances to the campus, forcing officials to cancel classes for the day
a committee of 10 students, two faculty members and two staff members told the trustees that they wanted zinser replaced with a deaf president, the resignation of spilman, and assurances that deaf people would constitute a majority of the school's 20-member board within three years
the student group and the trustees met for around three hours on the northeast washington campus before spilman announced that the decision made the day before would stand
i do not think i will ever experience a more frustrating feeling in my life,'' said frank r. turk, the school's dean of student life, who is deaf. ``i have been on the gallaudet payroll for 35 years, and i have never felt so defeated.''
spilman said zinser was selected because she is a ``top caliber academician'' who also has the administrative and fund-raising skills the school was looking for
deaf students claim that only a deaf person can truly understand their educational needs
zinser said she understood the students' frustration
i feel considerable empathy and compassion for the students,'' zinser said by telephone from her greensboro office. ``i hope to speak with them soon, but given the intensity of this situation, it's only right for me to maintain some distance.''
students had expressed outrage that zinser does not speak sign language, but the incoming president vowed to accelerate immediately her study of the language
i have a facility for learning it, and now that i have been hired, i plan to have an intensive training program.''
spilman said that zinser was selected bu a 10-4 margin, with the three deaf members and one hearing member of the trustees' selection committee voting for one of the two deaf candidates
philip w. bravin, a deaf trustee who headed the search committee, said he and the committee's other deaf members lobbied to no avail for a deaf president
your expressions outline exactly what we put on the table,'' bravin, an ibm executive, told the students who remained on campus after spilman's announcement. ``we did the best we could do.''
bravin asserted that the two other finalists for the post _ i. king jordan, gallaudet's dean of the college of arts and sciences, and harvey j. corson, superintendent of the louisiana school for the deaf, in baton rouge, la. _ both were qualified to be gallaudet's next president
no candidate has the perfect criteria, and they both were qualified. i think the committee's decision speaks for itself.''
jury selection began monday in a trial of a taiwanese gangster accused of killing a chinese-american journalist openly critical of the taiwanese government
tung kuei-sen has pleaded innocent in the 1984 shooting of henry liu at the writer's daly city home
the plea puzzled his attorney, since the 35-year-old tung testified two years ago in a new york drug trial that he and a fellow member of taiwan's largest criminal syndicate, the united bamboo gang, gunned down liu on government orders relayed by gang chief chen chi-li
i suspect he just wants to tell the jury and everyone else his story,'' said defense attorney douglas gray. ``he thought he was doing his government's bidding ... and he was left twisting slowly, slowly in the wind.''
prosecutor robert bishop said he expects the trial before san mateo county superior court judge margaret kemp to last two weeks and he will call up to 18 witnesses. gray said he was unsure how he would present his case
tung faces one count of murder and one special allegation that he used a gun in the oct. 15, 1984, slaying. if convicted, he could face 27 years to life in prison
tung was convicted of heroin smuggling after a federal trial in new york in 1986 and was sentenced to 20 years in prison
liu, a long-term critic of the taiwanese government, was a columnist for a chinese-language newspaper in san francisco and had just published a book that attacked the island nation's ruling party when he was killed
the u.s. congress and the state department condemned liu's murder and house hearings were held to look into the murky circumstances surrounding it
chen has blamed the killing on taiwan's former chief of military intelligence, vice admiral wang shi-ling, who said he only directed that liu be taught ``a lesson.''
both chen and wang are serving life sentences in taiwan after being convicted in the killing in a taiwanese military court. two intelligence officials who served under wang are serving lesser terms
wu tun, 35, the second gunman, is serving a life term for the killing in a taiwan prison
a 300-pound bear that mauled a 2-year-old boy in a shopping mall was under quarantine monday, as federal investigators began a probe into the animal's keepers, authorities said
kevin e. kuhn of galion was listed in fair condition at children's hospital with deep cuts to his scalp and face that required more than 100 stitches, officials said
he was attacked saturday while posing with the himalayan bear, named fluffy, after a children's performance at a shopping mall in mansfield, about 60 miles north of columbus
the bear was held at an undisclosed location, said joe evans, director of environmental health services for the richland county health department. the bear's owners had not sought return of the animal, and evans indicated the county would resist any efforts to return the bear
we will fight that, if necessary,'' he said. ``we have had some contact with the owners and indicated our intent ... to take over custody of the animal until we can find a more permanent disposition.''
the county might seek to destroy the animal, but that has not been determined, he said
u.s. department of agriculture investigators arrived in mansfield on monday to look into the attack, police capt. john arcudi said. owners of exotic animals must register with the agriculture department
at this time, i don't know what criminal charges could be filed,'' arcudi said. ``it's more civil than criminal.''
fluffy is one of four bears featured in the ``goldilocks and her bears'' shopping-center attraction. a bear named fluffy in the same troupe clawed a jacksonville, fla., 4-year-old during a show last month, police said
that child required at least six stiches, police said, and the bear was quarantined five days before being released to its owner, walter naghtin sr., 54, of tampa, fla
it was unclear whether the same bear was involved in both attacks, authorities said
in the jacksonville case, naghtin and his son, walter naghtin jr., were charged for allowing wild animals to perform without a permit, police said. they pleaded guilty and were fined and sentenced to six months' probation
permits were obtained for the mansfield performance, police said
efforts to reach the naghtins monday were unsuccessful. ruth naghtin of northbrook, ill., who identified herself as the mother of the elder naghtin, said she did not know where they were. convictions</head> earlier movie.</note>
the man whose attempted murder conviction led to the book and television movie ``deadly intentions'' was sentenced to 15 years in prison monday on federal marijuana and weapons charges
the sentence was handed down after a prosecutor alleged that the defendant, former doctor patrick henry, planned to use blood serum containing the aids virus in a revenge scheme and planned to kill a former federal prosecutor
u.s. district judge emmett cox imposed the sentence and ordered henry sent to a prison where he could receive psychiatric treatment
in an appeal for mercy, henry, 40, said he ``got discouraged'' in prison after his 1979 conviction and ``picked up some bad attitudes.'' while in prison, henry wrote ``the outlaw's bible,'' under the pen name e.x. boozhie. prosecutors said the book instructs readers on how to avoid arrest
henry served 6{ years of a 15-year sentence in an arizona prison for the attempted murder of his first wife, christine. he moved to mobile in an attempt to regain his medical license
judge, i don't know if you believe a man can change,'' henry said. ``i'm going to do my best.''
his current wife, nancy, turned to authorities when she discovered an ammunition box concealed in their home that contained an assortment of materials, including manuals on explosives and false identities
henry was convicted jan. 21 of possessing a pistol after being convicted of a felony, and scheming to distribute marijuana to prisoners in arizona where he had served time
u.s. attorney jeff sessions told the judge monday that henry planned to use the pistol and a bomb to ``blow up the u.s. attorney's office'' in tucson. neither the pistol nor the bomb were introduced as evidence in the trial
sessions said the ammunition box also contained two vials of blood serum containing the aids virus. he said the virus was confirmed by testing at the department of defense laboratory in washington
fbi spokesman gene eason said authorities could only surmise how henry planned to use the aids virus. he said the serum apparently was collected while henry worked at a mobile doctor's office while attempting to recover his professional license as a dermatologist
my view is simply this, the evidence indicates very strongly this defendant would like to pose a danger to the witnesses in this trial and the trial 10 years ago,'' sessions said
defense attorney jim byrd told the judge the government had pursued henry because of a ``spiteful, neurotic suicidal wife'' who lied during his trial
pat's life has been dissected by the fbi and agents of the u.s. government,'' byrd said. he said henry had a constitutional right to possess books on bombs, marijuana growing, scorpions, and identity manuals
there was never any threat of blowing up the u.s. attorney's office or any other target,'' byrd said. ``pat is an electronics hobbyist. none of these materials pertained to a detonating device.''
byrd said sessions' version of the case was ``fantasies of a suspicious mind.''
sessions argued that henry planned to return to arizona and kill former u.s. attorney randy stevens, who co-wrote the book ``deadly intentions.''
the movie starred michael biehn as a promising young physician who terrorized his wife after his violent, schizophrenic personality emerged. he was arrested for plotting to kill his wife after she divorced him
a photograph of stevens also was in henry's ammo box, sessions said
an army private who was piloting an airplane that came close to president reagan's helicopter last year over southern california was ordered to spend 30 weekends in jail monday for making false statements about the incident
ralph william myers, 33, of fort lewis, wash., was convicted of lying to authorities about the reason he strayed into prohibited airspace in his rented plane aug. 13, 1987, at the same time the president was heading to his hilltop ranch north of santa barbara
despite a probation department recommendation of probation, u.s. district judge manuel l. real sentenced myers to three years in jail for each of two counts of making false statements. real then suspended all but 60 days of the jail time
in addition to the suspended sentence and five years' probation, the judge ordered myers to donate 1,000 hours to charitable service
myers' jail time will begin april 9 and is not to interfere with his military service, the judge said. the maximum sentence myers could have received was 10 years in jail and a $500,000 fine
myers told the judge he ``cannot justify or condone statements i made last august. i apologize to the government agencies involved.''
outside the courtroom, myers said he was a scapegoat for federal government mishandling of his aircraft. ``i haven't gotten a fair trial since day one because of the hysteria surrounding the near miss of marine one,'' he said. ``there was not a near miss.''
according to the president's marine pilot, lt. col. michael glynn, myers' plane came passed about 200 feet in front of the helicopter and 150 feet below it. myers maintains his plane was no closer than 800 to 1,000 feet from marine one
his attorney, manuel araujo, said they will appeal the sentence
myers was demoted a private's pay grade for being awol. he still has 18 months left to serve in the u.s. army
myers, and a passenger, oregon businessman harlan lee jones, were arrested at john wayne airport in orange county. marine helicopters, which had been escorting the president's marine one, chased the piper cherokee to the airport, but authorities said myers seemed unaware that he was being followed
myers told secret service and federal aviation administration agents he was looking for a lost contact lens in the airplane's cabin when he strayed into the prohibited airspace. he also claimed he was unaware the airspace was restricted
a day later, he admitted he had lied about the lens
myers, who had been absent without leave from the army since aug. 3, 1987, said he lied because he was confused about the entire situation. ``i was trying to stay out of more trouble,'' he explained in court documents
the breast of chicken was cooked to perfection and the trappings in the state department's elegant eighth-floor dining room reflected painstaking effort
all seemed in order monday when secretary of state george p. shultz hosted a luncheon for chinese foreign minister wu xueqian except for one apparent gaffe in protocol _ the silverware was from taiwan
there was no indication that wu or any member of his delegation noted the word ``taiwan'' etched on the bottom of the utensils
the claim of the taiwanese government to be the official representative of the chinese people has been a sore point with the mainland for almost four decades
the lapse evoked memories a similar mishap in 1975 when president gerald r. ford, on a visit to beijing, hosted a dinner for chinese officials at the u.s. diplomatic mission in china
the chop sticks were from taiwan
raymond and michele l'esperance took three of their quintuplet babies home from the hospital monday, saying they were eager to begin family life with the in-vitro infants
raymond jr., danielle and erica l'esperance and their parents rode away from william beaumont hospital in a white limousine decorated with silver balloons as a crowd of doctors, nurses, hospital administrators and reporters watched
the babies, born jan. 11, were the first quintuplets born in the united states after being conceived through in-vitro fertilization, which involves fertilizing ovum in the laboratory and implanting the embryos in the womb
the other two babies, veronica and alexandria, who were placed on respirators at birth, remain in the hospital. they are off the respirators now and are expected to be released in a few weeks, said dr. daniel batton, director of newborn medicine at beaumont
they still require special attention and monitoring,'' batton said. ``but we expect those problems will resolve in the next couple of weeks, and we don't anticipate any problems.''
looking ahead to the task of raising five babies at one time, the couple said they are ready to take the infants to their new house in clarkston and let them join their three other children as a family
we are pleased and overjoyed to have three of our babies going home,'' said l'esperance, a corrections officer with the macomb county sheriff's department
we can't wait to have the other two home. we'll just start getting down to being a family.''
the babies that left the hospital have gained about 3 pounds each in the eight weeks since their birth. raymond left beaumont weighing 4 pounds, 9 ounces; danielle weighed 6 pounds, 6 ounces; and erica weighed 5 pounds, 14 ounces, said pamela wells, nursing director in the in-vitro fertilization program at beaumont. transmissions</head> continues to forbid publishing of yellow pages, but not white pages directories.</note>
a federal judge on monday cleared the way for the regional bell telephone companies to offer certain new computerized information services, including voice storage and electronic mail
but u.s. district judge harold greene, in a 66-page decision, refused to retreat from an earlier decision in which he said phone companies could transmit information but could not generate or manipulate the content of the information
it is the court's expectation that this easing of the information services restriction will avoid anticompetitive effects, and that it will at the same time bring this nation closer to the enjoyment of the full benefits of the information age,'' greene said in his decision
though greene's decision lifts the legal barrier to the bell companies' offering of the new services, the companies still would need state and federal regulatory approval before they could integrate them into their networks
industry experts and bell company officials say the computer software for these services has been developed and could be offered to consumers in some parts of the country within one to two years
voice storage and retrieval services would allow consumers to rely on the phone network for storing and retrieving messages, functions now performed by telephone answering machines. electronic mail, a service now available in many private phone systems, allows the computer-to-computer transfer of messages
in addition, greene said the bell companies can perform certain computerized ``gateway'' services such as data transmission, billing management and services that enable different computers to ``speak'' to each other
bellsouth and bell atlantic said the decision was an important step toward making a wide range of information services available to american consumers. but both said the judge did not go far enough, and bell atlantic said it will appeal the decision
we view this as a start, but only a start. we still are not allowed to provide content for information services,'' a bellsouth statement said
bell atlantic chairman thomas e. bolger said the company is ``particularly concerned'' that greene is continuing to forbid the bell companies from electronic publishing of yellow page phone directories. greene's september ruling allowed electronic white pages, but bolger said the court's restrictions do not allow ``a sufficiently flexible and comprehensive'' electronic service for white pages directory
he also said greene's decision to continue to forbid the bell companies from getting into the content side of information services will delay the delivery of more sophisticated services _ like home banking and shopping _ to most american consumers
joel gross, a telephone analyst with donaldson, lufkin &amp; jenrette, said the decision was a ``major breakthrough'' for the regional phone companies. he said that in the long term, ``it will be a tremendous boon to the industry,'' though in the short-term will have little effect on the companies' earninings
services like this, since they are software-based, should be high-profit services and voice storage and retrieval will create new (traffic) volumes for the phone networks,'' he said
gene kimmelman, a spokesman for the consumer federation of america, said the decision means regulation of the industry will become more important ``to prevent the bell companies from overpricing local phone service to finance these new services.''
greene, who oversees the antitrust decree that broke up the american telephone &amp; telegraph co. four years ago, has been reluctant to allow at&amp;t's offspring, the bell companies, to compete in areas where their control of the local phone networks would put them at an advantage over competitors
last september, he refused to lift prohibitions on the baby bells that prevent them from making phone equipment or offering long-distance services. in considering the restrictions on information services, however, he opened the door slightly. monday's ruling details the information-services options now open to the bell companies. pledged</note>
jesse jackson said monday he's going into the super tuesday elections as an underdog, but thinks he'll do very well nonetheless
i don't have a crystal ball,'' he said when asked how many delegates he might pick up in the day's balloting
jackson pointed to the ``high-tech, well-financed operation'' of democratic presidential rival michael dukakis
he has money; i have the message and the grass-roots approach. it will be interesting to see how these concepts play out,'' he said
jackson made the comments in an interviw aboard his campaign plane flying from an airport rally in laredo to a rally at the university of houston
as he campaigned on the eve of super tuesday, jackson said texas has shaped up to a fight between himself and dukakis. he also contended his message has become part of the political mainstream
when one takes a serious look at my positions, they are very central to the broad-based american point of view,'' he said
earlier, jackson visited an aids clinic in dallas and told a rally in brownsville: ``i'll be your friend in washington.''
jackson pledged to fight against proposals to make english the official language of the united states
we are a great nation. we can speak more than one language. ... two-thirds of the hemisphere speaks spanish. we should grow and speak more languages, have broader culture,'' he said
jackson donned a sombrero and the popular latin-style shirt called a guayaberra as he addressed the mixed-race outdoor gathering where several people waved red united farm worker flags
jackson recalled his visit to brownsville of several weeks ago when he went into the broccoli fields where there are no portable lavatories for the field workers
ufw organizer juanita valdez said that jackson should get a lot of farm worker support because ``he came to help us.''
after jackson's visit, she said, the state health director called a meeting to find out why the sanitary laws were not being enforced in the field
you need a friend in the white house,'' jackson said. ``i'm your friend in brownsville. i'll be your friend in washington.''
jackson was accompanied by former new mexico gov. toney anaya, who addressed the gathering in spanish, texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower, prominent feminist leader sissy farenthold and tennessee politician john j. hooker
one man in the crowd, carlos martinez, said he was supporting jackson because jackson cares about the mexican-american problems and the poor people. martinez said the once-bustling port of brownsville ``is dead'' and that he had been laid off a few years back from both marathon and pyramid oil companies
we're just about forgotten about down here and the economy is really bad. we're looking for a change,'' he said
hightower said the southern region is the second-most depressed part of texas after laredo, where jackson headed later in the day
earlier he visited with dying men in an aids clinic in dallas
several onlookers said that jackson and democratic rival michael dukakis will likely split the democratic vote in this area. dukakis, who speaks fluent spanish, has been pushing hard for the hispanic vote and visited neighboring harlingen a week ago
but county commissioner candidate gilberto villarreal, a jackson supporter, said, ``speaking spanish or marrying a hispanic does not give you the heart of a hispanic.'' he said that while dukakis has done ``tremendous work in massachusetts,'' jackson has the heart of a hispanic. ``he came up from the grass roots. he has not forgotten what it is to be poor,'' he said. with later testimony. picks up 13th graf, `milstead, the...'. should stand for ams.</note>
arizona's top police official testified at gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial monday that he realized almost immediately mecham had committed a crime in ordering the official to not cooperate in an investigation of an alleged death threat
i was in shock over what he was saying, taken aback, speechless,'' said col. ralph milstead, director of the state department of public safety
milstead quoted mecham as angrily telling him: ``i don't want you to help the attorney general hang me. don't tell him anything.''
milstead said he had phoned the governor nov. 15 to discuss a report that lee watkins, then a mecham administration official, had threatened to send a former mecham aide on ``a long boat ride'' if she didn't stop testifying before a grand jury investigating mecham campaign finances
watkins has denied threatening the aide, donna carlson. and milstead has said he cooperated with the attorney general's office
milstead, whose testimony is crucial to the obstruction of justice charge against the governor, blurted out his statement regarding a crime during cross-examination by mecham's attorney, fred craft
craft asked why milstead, in his report on the incident, quoted the governor's words but not milstead's own part of the conversation
because i'm not committing a crime,'' said milstead. ``... i'm not obstructing justice.''
when did you conclude that the governor's words constituted a crime?'' asked craft
as i'm hearing them and reflecting on them,'' said milstead, adding it took him ``about two seconds'' after hanging up the phone
craft asked milstead why he did not write down his conclusion that a crime had been committed
i didn't think it was necessary,'' said milstead. ``anyone with a legal background could read it and see this was an obstruction of an investigation.''
craft kept milstead on cross-examination for most of the day and said he would continue quizzing him tuesday. senate democratic minority leader alan stephens told reporters the senators were growing restless and had requested that craft be asked to conclude
it's difficult for us to listen to what many of us consider repetitious quetions,'' he said. ``if that's what they do in a court of law, i'm glad i'm not a lawyer.''
at one point, craft asked if milstead was surprised that his staff didn't tell him the governor had assigned a member of his cabinet, max hawkins, to investigate the death threat allegation
no, it didn't surprise me,'' said milstead. ``max hawkins is not a law enforcement officer. he's not competent to investigate it. lee watkins works for him, and max hawkins wouldn't be taken seriously anywhere on earth that i know of.''
hawkins, former head of the department of administration, was fired last week by acting gov. rose mofford, who said he had publicly attacked government officials
milstead, the trial's seventh witness, took the stand at the start of the second week of testimony. mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, has not attended the proceedings yet
mecham, 63, a first-term republican, is accused in the impeachment proceedings of obstructing the attorney general's investigation of the alleged death threat through his orders to milstead
mecham, in testimony before a house impeachment committee in january, acknowledged that he may have told milstead not to cooperate with the investigation. however, mecham contended he was not fully informed about the seriousness of the situation before his conversation with milstead
the governor also is accused in 23 articles of impeachment of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 in a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
mecham also faces a recall election may 17 and a criminal trial march 22 on felony charges accusing him of concealing the $350,000 loan
milstead described a tense, angry, fearful mecham trying to minimize the alleged threat
he said this was a family spat and there's nothing to it,'' milstead testified
milstead said he had called the governor as a courtesy to tell him he was taking the matter to the attorney general and was surprised by mecham's anger
his reaction was, `well, if you want my permission to talk to the attorney general, you can't have it. the answer is no.'''
at one point, milstead said he was ``kind of pleading'' and told mecham: ``we always cooperate with the attorney general.''
he said, `never. don't give them any help.'''
earlier in the day, attorney general robert corbin advised the senate not to grant immunity to watkins, who invoked fifth amendment protection against self-incrimination friday and refused to testify
corbin confirmed that watkins is the target of a grand jury investigation and said it would be inappropriate to immunize him from possible future prosecution
impeachment trial prosecutor william french said: ``we would be against giving the likes of mr. watkins a bath for all the sins he has committed
the senators were unanimous in their rejection of immunity
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham. the senators then could take another vote and bar him from holding state office again
jury selection began monday in the wedtech corp. racketeering case involving rep. mario biaggi, with 48 candidates being excused and 58 others asked to return
last week, 94 potential jurors were excused for hardship reasons, leaving 106 who had filled out a 63-item questionnaire about their feelings and who they might know involved in the case
on monday, u.s. district court judge constance baker motley excused 48 candidates based upon their answers while 58 were asked to return tuesday, either to be requestioned or to appear for the first time
the jurors will have to decide the fate of biaggi, his eldest son, former bronx borough president stanley simon and four co-defendants, who are accused of turning the wedtech corp. into a ``vehicle for making illegal payments to public officials.''
the seven are charged with participating in a racketeering enterprise that allegedly looted millions of dollars in stock and cash from wedtech, a bronx defense contractor now in bankruptcy proceedings
all are charged with racketeering and conspiracy, each carrying a maximum 20-year penalty upon conviction. biaggi also is accused of extortion, bribe-receiving, wire fraud, perjury and filing false tax returns, and the other defendants also face various other charges
wedtech was a small, bronx machine shop that grew into a multimillion- dollar-a-year defense contractor. it rose through a small business administration program that allowed minority-owned firms to obtain government contracts without competitive bidding
a number of federal, state and local inquiries are looking into allegations of bribery, influence peddling and other wrongdoing
asked about one of his responses to the questionnaire, a potential juror, joseph c. siragusi, told mrs. motley he had problems with the concept of programs set up especially to help minorities and women
when mrs. motley further explained the concept to him, siragusi said: ``under that circumstance, i wouldn't consider it unfair.''
when there were no objections from defense and government attorneys, mrs. motley ruled there was no reason to excuse siragusi. he will be reinterviewed tuesday
raymond joseph sullivan, another jury candidate from the bronx, was asked if he had stated on the questionnaire that he opposed programs helping minorities
sure did,'' sullivan said. ``i have four children. i wouldn't want to see them denied a job.''
sullivan was asked to return when court resumes at 9:30 a.m. tuesday
cardinal miguel obando y bravo and the secretary-general of the organization of american states agreed to be witnesses at talks between the government and contra rebels, a presidential communique said monday
the agreement by joao baena soares, the oas official, and obando y bravo, roman catholic archbishop of managua, appeared to ease the way for truce negotiations starting wednesday in sapoa, on the border with costa rica about 90 miles from managua
president daniel ortega last week said the cardinal was no longer needed as a mediator in talks with the u.s.-backed rebels. obando y bravo had served as a go-between since last november at government request
the contras insisted the cardinal be a witness, and the talks had appeared to be in jeopardy
ortega sent letters this week to obando y bravo and baena soares asking them to serve as witnesses, the government's voice of nicaragua radio said monday
no one answered the telephone at the headquarters of the washington-based oas
contra leader adolfo calero earlier monday accused the government of ``preparing a unilateral show'' rather than planning for the talks
in a telephone interview from miami, calero complained that the leftist sandinistas had not responded to a contra demand that obando y bravo be present ``as witness, moderator and guarantor of the talks.''
ortega said last week that the three days of talks would be headed by his brother, humberto ortega, the defense minister and one of nine members on the ruling national directorate. acceding to a contra demand, he said the talks would be held in nicaragua and suggested the sapoa site
the contras accepted and named calero to head their delegation, but said the cardinal must attend
calero said the contras received no word from the government about security arrangements or the agenda
the government says the talks should center on laying down arms as outlined in the regional peace plan signed last august by the presidents of nicaragua, el salvador, guatemala, costa rica and honduras
the rebels want a proposal outlined by the cardinal last month to be included
his agenda called for the government to grant total amnesty to political prisoners, review a mandatory military draft law, allow full press freedom and renew a dialogue with its internal opposition. in return, contras were to accept a 30-day cease-fire
we haven't received any response to our position of last thursday ... which included these items,'' calero said
we said clearly then that we accept the high-level meeting to discuss the cardinal's agenda and that we had agreed with the preliminary details of the meeting, but we haven't had a response from the sandinista government,'' he said. inadequate''</head> cost was $7.735 million, but annuities may pay more over time. inserts 2 grafs after 18th graf pvs bgng: the government, to add justice department comment. picks up 19th graf pvs bgng: judy resnick's ...</note>
an attorney experienced at representing the families of deceased astronauts said the settlement negotiated by the government for four challenger families was ``woefully inadequate.''
ronald d. krist, a houston attorney who represented astronauts' survivors from the apollo fire in 1967 as well as three families from the 1986 space shuttle disaster, said the four challenger families should have received more money and would have if they had had formal legal representation
the families, according to documents released monday, are dividing the proceeds from annuities and lump sums that cost a total of $7.735 million. payments from the annuities will be extended over years and may amount to much more than the actual cost. the settlement was negotiated for the families by the department of justice. morton thiokol inc., manufacturer of the rocket blamed for the challenger accident, paid 60 percent of the settlement and the u.s. government paid the rest
if they're happy, i'm happy for them,'' krist said of the four families that settled without filing lawsuits. ``but i would never have put my stamp of approval for a settlement at the level that they received
they would have netted more money if they had been adequately represented,'' krist added
challenger exploded on jan. 28, 1986, just 73 seconds after it was launched from the kennedy space center in florida. seven astronauts, including new hampshire school teacher christa mcauliffe, died in the accident
mcauliffe's husband, along with the wives of challenger commander dick scobee, mission specialist ellison onizuka and engineer bruce jarvis all settled through the justice department negotiations
however, the widow of mission specialist ron mcnair, the father of jarvis, and the mother of mission specialist judy resnik all hired krist to file separate suits only against thiokol. the suits were settled out of court, but krist said he was under court order to not discuss how much was paid
but he was blunt about the government-negotiated settlement
that settlement is woefully inadequate,'' he said. ``i'm suggesting that if i was representing them, i would not have allowed any of them to settle for the amount they received of less than $2 million a piece (per family).''
however, betty grissom, whose husband gus died in an apollo spacecraft fire in 1967, said, ``it sounds like they did ok.''
mrs. grissom said she received only $350,000, and she had to sue on her own for that. the government, she said, ``didn't care'' and never attempted to help her or the widows of two other astronauts who died in the apollo fire
i never heard from the justice department,'' she said. ``i thought we got an injustice done to us. i feel like we got taken. they act like they care now, but they didn't back then
it kinda hurts,'' she added. ``it stings that ... we never got treated like that. it hurts when i think that they're getting that much money.''
michael d. oldak, a washington lawyer and ex-husband of astronaut judith a. resnik, said the documents confirm for him that resnik family was treated unfairly by the government in settlement negotiations
resnik's father, marvin, and her estate were initially involved in settlement negotiations with the government, said oldak, who represented the resniks
he said the government made two offers, but neither were accepted. oldak said that because resnik was single and childless, and because the government's compensation formula was weighted heavily toward surviving spouses and children, the offer to resnik's survivors was ``a quarter to a half of what they were offering the other families.''
the government has declined to contribute anything to any of the families outside the four it negotiated settlements with
justice spokeswoman amy brown said the government had made settlement offers to attorneys for the resniks, smiths and mcnairs based on the same formula used for the other families. these were rejected, she said
after the rejections, the families either negotiated directly with morton thiokol, or filed suits or claims against the company or the government. miss brown said the government would not negotiate further with the three non-settling families because it would not enter a settlement separate from one with morton thiokol or which exceeded the guidelines used in the other settlements
judy resnik's father and her estate recently settled privately with morton thiokol for a sum that marvin resnik said it was between $2 million and $3.5 million
oldak declined to confirm the amount, but he said, ``in hindsight, it was a good decision not to be part of the (government-negotiated) settlement.''
one lawsuit, filed by jane smith, widow of challenger pilot michael smith, remains to be settled. mrs. smith did not participate in the government-negotiated settlement and a court ruled she could not sue the government. but she is suing thiokol
mrs. smith declined to come to the telephone when her houston home was called on monday
the judicial misconduct hearing of a former vermont supreme court justice began with a delay monday as attorneys for a key figure in the case argued she should not have to testify
attorneys for former chittenden county assistant judge jane wheel told the judicial conduct board that her criminal case would be damaged if she testified in the separate case of her friend and former co-worker, justice william hill
hill was one of three supreme court justices accused of allowing their personal relationships with wheel to interfere with their judicial duties
the charges filed in january 1987 by the state judicial conduct board named hill, thomas hayes and ernest gibson iii. hill has retired since the charges were filed. hayes has died and the charges against gibson were dropped and he remains on the court
the scandal threw the state's highest court into turmoil. the justices refused gov. madeleine kunin's request that they step aside, but they did disqualify themselves from all cases involving people connected with the case
the complaint alleged that the three used their clout to help wheel, whether it was in minor matters, like writing memos endorsing suggestions she made, or major matters, like advising her while she was under criminal investigation by the state attorney general's office for allegedly padding her paycheck
wheel was convicted on three counts of false swearing during a jury trial last month. she was accused of lying during an inquest into allegations that she submitted false pay vouchers
wheel appeared in court briefly monday. but she left after she and her attorneys were given one day to submit memoranda on why she shouldn't have to testify
hill's attorney, michael marks, had said he and his client welcomed the misconduct hearing, calling it hill's opportunity to defend himself publicly
but most of the first day's testimony centered on wheel and her activities as an assistant judge
in hill's written responses to the board's original charges, he said his relationship with wheel was strictly professional and did not go beyond ``the amicable relationship expected of judges who work together.''
but the state on monday attempted to depict a much closer relationship between the two
court reporter joan giard described a gathering she attended at the holiday inn in waterbury. wheel arrived with hill on one arm and hayes on the other
she danced with justice hill that evening,'' giard said. ``i remember looking over.''
marks objected to much of the testimony about wheel and her criminal case, but was overruled by harvey otterman, the chairman of the three-member hearing panel
the retirement of hill, 60, from the high court leaves few options for punishment if he is found guilty of judicial misconduct. he could be reprimanded or perhaps restricted from serving on the court under a law that allows retired justices to sit on certain cases
don't let them tell you this is a television campaign,'' massachusetts gov. michael s. dukakis said monday as he raced through a final day of pre-super tuesday campaigning
still, dukakis packed 21 television interviews into his final day of stumping before tuesday's primaries and caucuses in 20 states _ including 14 southern and border states
he campaigned in person monday in miami and the tampa area, then traveled to an evening rally in the raleigh-durham area of north carolina before a scheduled flight back to boston
if we can emerge from super tuesday with the lead in terms of delegates, we'll be on our way to the nomination,'' he said
dukakis kicked off the day of campaigning in miami, perhaps his most solid base of support in the south
at a senior citizens rally, dukakis picked up the valued endorsement of 74-year-old annie ackerman, who has a reputation in miami for being able to get out the vote
you have come out to listen to the man who will be the next president of the united states,'' ackerman said. she spoke of dukakis' immigrant roots, something he had in common with many of those at the rally
my mother would have said he's a mensch,'' she said, referring to the yiddish word for good man. ``he's a person of integrity who gets things done.''
ackerman, a former ward organizer for the late chicago mayor richard daley, met with several of the presidential candidates but decided on dukakis after a straw poll of the residents of her condominium complex
dukakis traveled from miami to plant city to attend a strawberry festival and also marched in a parade with florida attorney general robert butterworth at his side on monday
he planned to vote in his hometown of brookline, mass., tuesday morning, spend the day at his statehouse office and then fly to chicago to begin campaigning for the illinois primary
throughout his southern campaign swing, nearly all of dukakis' stops have come in areas where he is expected to win. the strategy seems to be to reinforce areas of strength rather than seek new support
there are only so many hours in a day _ you can't go everywhere,'' the massachusetts governor has repeatedly said
asked whether the super tuesday primaries were a flop in attracting moderate and conservative democrats, dukakis said, ``it's not been a flop for mike dukakis. i don't understand what the labels mean.''
dukakis has not talked much about his opponents. he has continued to criticize missouri rep. richard gephardt, seen by many as his principal rival, but such comments have only come with prompting from reporters
he said he is worried that the negative campaigning between him and gephardt is hurting the chances for the democratic party in november. in response to a barb from gephardt criticizing the dukakis attacks, he said, ``no, i don't think i've impugned his integrity.''
meanwhile, in boston, 20 protesters were arrested outside dukakis' statehouse office on trespassing charges as they staged a sit-in to demand an immediate increase in welfare benefits
most of the protesters went limp when told to leave the building, so police had to lift them into nearby elevators
while he's out stumping, our kids are starving,'' one protester shouted
stanlake samkange, an author and politician who fought for independence for zimbabwe, died in harare of heart and lung ailments after a long illness, his widow said monday. he was 65
tommie-marie samkange said her husband died sunday
samkange was the first black college graduate in the province of mashonaland in 1947 when zimbabwe was the white-ruled british colony of rhodesia. he received a bachelor's degree with honors in history
as a black nationalist, he held top posts in the next three decades in several political parties including joshua nkomo's zimbabwe african people's union and bishop abel muzorewa's united african national council
samkange retired from politics in 1979, the year when a british-sponsored accord provided for independence for zimbabwe and rule by the black majority
robert mugabe's zimbabwe african national union won the march 1980 elections and mugabe became prime minister. mugabe and nkomo had led rebel armies in guerrilla warfare against white domination
samkange also worked as a free-lance journalist and wrote three books on politics in africa. he received a master of science degree from syracuse university in new york
after retiring he opened a publishing house
his wife said burial will be saturday at the family farm at msengezi near harare and a memorial service will be held friday in harare
a jobless streetsweeper who set himself afire near prime minister margaret thatcher's residence was buried monday at a service attended by relatives, friends and about 100 unemployed britons
derek bainbridge, 41, burned to death in his car parked 40 yards from mrs. thatcher's downing street residence on feb. 16
he had been unemployed for 18 months and left a suicide note saying, ``too young to retire, too old to live.''
his family invited unemployed people to attend the funeral in bainbridge's hometown of worksop in central england 180 miles from london
steven brown said he came to the burial with other jobless people ``because i can understand what derek bainbridge went through. people can't understand how you feel having to pay for rent, gas and electricity when you don't have a job.''
the rev. brian hunt, who presided at the service, said prayers for the unemployed and ``for those who are going through depression, frustration and anger.''
britain's unemployment has doubled from 1.3 million in 1979, when mrs. thatcher won her first of three terms in office, to 2.6 million in december. the government has said that was a seasonably adjusted 9.4 percent of the work force. called off, picking up 4th graf pvs, `when police...'.</note>
a woman told authorities monday that she threw her housemate's missing 7-month-old daughter into the delaware river, but police said they didn't know whether to believe the retarded woman
divers aided by tracking dogs searched the chilly river for the blue-eyed infant, who disappeared sunday from a row house near trenton state prison. at dusk monday, the search was suspended indefinitely
the 30-year-old woman was in police custody monday but had not been charged, said police sgt. robert orlowski
when police first questioned her sunday, the woman said a man had knocked her down, kidnapped the toddler and driven off, orlowski said. then she said the man tossed the baby into the river. after further questioning, she said the baby fell off her lap into the river, orlowski said
she admitted this morning that she threw the baby in the river yesterday,'' orlowski said
they don't know really whether to believe her or not because of her diminished mental capacity. she has the capacity of a 4- or 5-year-old. her story has changed so many times since she reported it, they really don't know what to believe,'' orlowski said
the detective who has been with her all day yesterday and today feels pretty certain this is what happened,'' orlowski said
according to police, the woman asked the baby's mother, rebecca mcguinn, for permission to play with the baby sunday morning
ms. mcguinn gave her approval, but said the woman had to remain in the living room. however, the woman apparently took the child from the house while the mother was asleep, orlowski said
vice president george bush said monday ``the person that clearly wins super tuesday is going to be the nominee of the party'' as he coasted on polls that gave him a big lead in most of the 17 gop contests
bush stopped short of forecasting a sweep on tuesday
you always wish for that but i certainly would never predict that. it's too much for anyone to expect,'' he said earlier in the day
at his last public appearance of the day, in rogers, ark., the vice president said he was ``optimistic but not overconfident.''
asked what he'd do if he didn't win super tuesday, he replied: ``i'll have to do what i did when i got kicked in iowa _ get up off the canvas, go out and fight hard.'' after his third-place finish in iowa, bush went on to a solid win in the new hampshire primary eight days later
in a two-hour stop at tulsa international airport, he told a rally that super tuesday constitutes ``the most historic political event in modern political history.''
it's critical,'' he said. ``the person that clearly wins super tuesday is going to be the nominee of the party and i think the next president.''
bush, introduced by gov. henry bellmon at the rally, later toured the american airlines maintenance and engineering facility at the airport and took a moment to turn a wrench on an engine
bush appeared tired at a 15-minute news conference following a brisk walking tour of the sprawling facility
the vice president dismissed the possibility of a brokered convention
we're talking about victory and he's talking about brokering something,'' he said. ``i don't see it happening. i think there are so many events that i think the republican nominee will be determined before the convention.''
bush was asked about negative ads that he called ``comparative'' spots criticizing dole's record in the senate
when attacked, you'll see some retaliation,'' bush said. ``but when you look at the totality and how it all came about, i think people understand that a person has a right to, in a laser-like fashion, go after them. i think actually the factual back-up of those ads is pretty irrefutable.''
bush, a former oilman, said he feels ``compatible with the base of this state.'' but he said he cannot support a tax on imported oil as a means of shoring up the ailing domestic energy business
i was in the oil business, and i remember what it was like to have government controls, allocations of markets and regulation. and who hated it the worst? the oil industry,'' bush said
that also has an artificial, inflationary built-in premise to it. everybody's costs go up. it's like any other tax. and i'm opposed to raising taxes. the industry is split on the oil import fee. i don't happen to be in favor of it. i think what i propose, including a tax credit for exploration ... is the way to go.''
the federal government insisted monday that west germany had had no serious disagreements with its nato allies about disarmament at an alliance summit last week
attempts ... to fabricate disagreements on basic questions between the federal republic and its allies ... find a basis neither in the proceedings nor in the results of the summit,'' said a communique
it said chancellor helmut kohl determined at the north atlantic treaty organization summit in brussels, belgium, that the alliance will ``concentrate on working out a comprehensive (disarmament) concept.''
kohl assumed from the talks that ``work within the alliance will proceed smoothly, and be finished at the latest within a year,'' said the statement read to reporters by government spokesman friedhelm ost
it also said there should not be attempts to ``artifically create pressures'' on nato to make a quick decision on the modernization of short-range nuclear weapons
that remark appeared to be aimed at prime minister margaret thatcher of britain, who told the summit that the alliance would soon have to think seriously about modernizing its aging short-range nuclear weapons
kohl had resisted demands at the summit for a stronger nato position on the modernization of short-range nuclear weapons, which have a range of up to 300 miles
kohl wants nato to postpone the scheduled modernization of those weapons and to begin negotiations with the soviet-led warsaw pact alliance on reducing short-range nuclear arsenals
monday's statement repeated kohl's position that he does not favor total removal of nuclear weapons from europe, but wants a reduction and parity in conventional and nuclear arms by both nato and the warsaw pact
bonn officials have said west germany would be the main battleground in a european war because it borders east germany and czechoslovakia
prosecutors monday sought a one-month delay in gov. evan mecham's criminal trial for allegedly concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, while defense lawyers said the charges should be dismissed
maricopa county superior court judge michael ryan said he would rule on the delay motion, which was opposed by the defense, wednesday or thursday. he did not say when he would rule on a series of defense motions brought monday
delays in pretrial procedures sought by the defense have left too little time for prosecutors to prepare, said assistant attorney general barnett lotstein. he sought to change the trial starting date from march 22 to april 21
the governor's political agenda has no place in this courtroom,'' lotstein told ryan. ``he wants a speedy trial. we want a trial after the rules have been complied with.''
defense attorney michael scott argued against a delay in the trial, adding, ``we want to resolve this matter and put it behind us.''
in an indictment handed up jan. 8, the governor was charged with six felony counts of fraud, perjury and filing false documents in his failure to disclose a $350,000 campaign loan. his brother and 1986 campaign manager, willard mecham, faces three similar counts
mecham's senate impeachment trial went into its second week monday, and he also faces a may 17 recall election
defense attorneys filed a series of motions monday seeking:
_ dismissal or a new determination of the charges' validity, on several grounds including a claim that people who had a definite stance on the mecham recall movement were unfairly excluded from the grand jury
the motion said the indictments should be dismissed ``because both those who favored the recall and those who opposed the recall were blanketly excluded from the grand jury without any regard'' to their ability to make a fair decision
_ dismissal of the charges on grounds the mechams were victims of selective prosecution
the motion claimed that other public figures, including state lawmakers such as former house majority leader burton barr and current house minority leader art hamilton, were not prosecuted when it was found that they had omitted items from their financial disclosure statements
not only was governor mecham not given a written opportunity to file an amended return, his protestations of oversight and avowals of no criminal intent fell upon deaf ears,'' the motion said. ``why? because the political turmoil surrounding his nine months in office threatened to destroy the power and influence the republican party had spent more than 20 years nurturing and cultivating.''
_ a change of venue because of massive pretrial publicity, and separate questioning of prospective jurors in an effort to see that they are not biased
_ separate trials for evan and willard mecham, who now are scheduled to be tried together
ryan also took under advisement a defense motion to dismiss two of the counts against willard mecham and four of the counts against the governor. the defense claimed the grand jury did not have jurisdiction to bring those charges
a homeless man who gained national recognition for his refusal to abandon his makeshift camp on state-owned land was found dead in his hut monday by his children, police said. bill britt was 52
britt's badly decomposed body was found by his son and daughter in his hut about 30 feet from the fence surrounding the evergreen cemetery in boston's brighton district, spokesman scott gillis said
britt, born britton william boughner in the affluent neighborhood near the state-owned land, had lived at the reservoir near boston college since 1969
in his case, he felt that this was where he wanted to live, this was his estate,'' said clyde raymond, a friend of britt's. ``he died free, so to speak. he had his own drummer and he stuck with it.''
britt, who was known as the ``hermit of chestnut hill,'' had been dead for several months and his body, dressed in multiple layers of clothing, was almost reduced to skeletal, gillis said
an autopsy was performed on britt in an attempt to determine the cause of death, but results weren't expected until tuesday, gillis said
in 1985, officials started trying to move britt from the metropolitan district commission land in the chestnut hill district on the boston-brookline border
britt, who was legally blind, lived on money he earned redeeming can and bottle deposits. he refused welfare and several attempts to relocate him to public or subsidized housing
in may, britt's plastic and wood wigwam was destroyed in a fire while he was in new york city to appear on the ``late night with david letterman'' television show. he rebuilt it, despite deteriorating health. doctors said britt, who was nearly toothless, had ulcers and needed a corneal transplant
a judge monday refused to dismiss an indictment or delay the murder trial of a former state trooper accused of killing a fellow officer in her patrol car
circuit judge j.c. norton rejected the defense motions as jury selection opened in the trial of joseph cecil duncan, 33, who is charged with shooting elizabeth cobb, 31, three times in the head at close range
miss cobb's body was found oct. 12 in her patrol car near a rural dallas county church. the fbi has said miss cobb was the first female state trooper in the nation to be slain on duty. duncan attended her funeral and was charged in the case later
authorities say duncan was the beneficiary of a $250,000 insurance policy on the victim's life. duncan has pleaded innocent and says he and miss cobb planned to marry
jury selection was expedited monday when the judge declined to grant a defense motion to question potential jurors individually rather than have members of the jury pool answer general questions put to all
the defense had argued that the state destroyed evidence that might have been significant to the defense. the evidence in question was the bullets from a .22-caliber pistol found in a black trans-am
at one point after miss cobb disappeared on patrol, officers issued a bulletin for a black trans am that reportedly had been chased by miss cobb's patrol car in dallas county
defense attorney henry pitts said a texas drifter named charlie shoemaker is being held on drug charges in okaloosa county, fla., and is the man who was driving the black trans-am
but assistant attorney general william wasden said monday that prosecution witnesses will show shoemaker is not involved in the shooting
the leftist sandinista government withheld nearly $20,000 belonging to the u.s. embassy and its employees when they turned in their money in a currency exchange, an embassy source said monday
the source, who spoke on condition he not be further identified, said the embassy turned 208 million old cordobas in to the government in exchange for new ones in accordance with last month's economic measures
the total, which included private money and embassy funds, was worth about $20,800
the government last month created a new cordoba worth 1,000 times more than the old one and pegged it at 10 to the u.s. dollar
the government set an exchange limit of 10 million in cordobas per person or institution, or the equivalent of $1,000. the u.s. embassy was given $1,000, and the rest was withheld
according to the new law, the remainder should be put in a bank account, where it is converted to the new currency but frozen. an embassy spokesman said monday the embassy had no information whether that occurred
a central bank spokeswoman said she had no information on the u.s. embassy account, but confirmed that the money should have been put in an account
the embassy source said the sandinistas asked for proof that the cordobas turned over by the americans were obtained legally in nicaragua. exchange houses issue receipts for dollars turned into cordobas. the government did not require such receipts from individuals changing their currency
i don't know if we have receipts for everybody,'' the embassy source said. ``i know i always throw mine out.''
embassy spokesman lou falino said: ``we have no comment.''
developer peter kalikow took ownership of the new york post from rupert murdoch on monday, calling it a historic moment and pledging to make the money-losing tabloid ``a winner financially and editorially.''
the papers transferring ownership were signed monday afternoon, according to post spokesman howard rubenstein. last month, after marathon bargaining, the post's 10 unions agreed to concessions required by the new owner, and the last of the unions officially ratified the concessions sunday
the rescue of the post is nothing less than an historic moment,'' kalikow said in a statement, thanking the unions and employees ``for their heroic efforts.''
union leaders will sign formal papers tuesday and meet with kalikow on thursday to ``get to know each other,'' said george mcdonald, president of the allied printing trades council, which represents eight of the 10 unions
we're delighted, really delighted, glad it's all over,'' mcdonald said
kalikow bought the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper for $37.6 million from murdoch, who sold the paper to comply with federal communications commission regulations barring ownership of two media outlets in the same city. murdoch owns wnyw-tv in new york
the sale was contingent upon the union concessions, which totaled $22 million and eliminated 130 jobs
murdoch, who was in london on monday, has said he was losing $100,000 a day with the post and had lost $150 million in the 12 years he owned it
kalikow said he intended to stop the post's losses and added: ``i am committed to expanding its readership base through millions of dollars in promotion, adding features to the paper, greatly expanding its investigative reporting and strengthening its advertising revenues to make the paper profitable on a long-term basis.''
the paper will be a winner financially and editorially,'' he said
an israeli businessman with reported links to israeli politicians and army officers went on trial monday accused of being a spy for the soviet union, his lawyer said
shabtai kalmanovich, 46, who emigrated to israel from the soviet union in 1971, denied the charges, according to defense attorney amnon zichroni
he said the tel aviv district court hearing the case barred him from further comment. the trial is being held behind closed doors and zichroni said it is expected to last about seven months
kalmanovich has been in custody since his arrest dec. 23
israel television has described kalmanovich as an international businessman with interests in africa who ``employed hundreds of people throughout the world, among them former israeli (cabinet) ministers and reserve officers.''
the jan. 10 report said, ``among his friends were members of the knesset (parliament), high-ranking politicians and senior army reserve officers.'' it did not give any names
kalmanovich was born in lithuania and after his arrival in israel he served in the army and then worked briefly as an aide to former israeli legislator shmuel flatto-sharon
the television report said kalmanovich had connections with people involved in east-west spy swaps in the 1970s. it said that in august 1977, kalmanovich traveled to east germany and met with wolfgang vogel, an east german lawyer who mediated such exchanges
in april 1978, kalmanovich helped bring about the release of an israeli prisoner from a jail in mozambique, according to the television account. it said that in the same month, east germany released an american student and the united states freed robert g. thompson who had been convicted of passing secrets to the soviets. with children,' on fox network sted syndicated; subs 11th graf, `milstead played...', to delete reference to `trouble in mind' being only other non-transvestite role.</note>
harris glenn milstead, known to moviegoers as divine, the campy, 300-pound transvestite star of such films as ``pink flamingos'' and ``hairspray,'' died in his sleep in a hotel room, the coroner's office said monday. he was 42
los angeles county coroner spokesman steve stewart said investigators went to the regency plaza hotel on hollywood boulevard, where milstead was a guest when he died during the night. ``the cause of death is under investigation,'' stewart said
milstead apparently died of asphyxiation, said spokesman john west of pmk public relations
he was finally getting respect within the industry,'' said milstead's manager, bernard jay. ``he was getting the legitimate screen and television offers that showed the industry had finally accepted him as the very good character actor he always knew he was.''
milstead got a medical checkup last friday and was declared in excellent health, other than his weight, ``which has been a constant problem throughout his life,'' said jay
west said milstead, star of the latest john waters-directed movie ``hairspray,'' was in los angeles to appear in an episode of the fox network television series ``married ... with children.''
milstead was to have appeared in that role dressed as a man, but he was best known to movie fans as the bizarre female impersonating star of such cult classic films as ``pink flamingos,'' ``lust in the dust,'' ``polyester'' and ``female trouble.''
the divine character was garishly made up and outrageously chesty, as well as loud, raucous and foul-mouthed. milstead's appearance made the first waters films a favorite for after-midnight showings at arty cinema houses
but with each film, both milstead and waters found a wider audience, and ``hairspray'' has enjoyed a good following as well as flattering reviews, coming in no. 16 this weekend in the box office with $577,258 at 79 theaters for a $7,307 per screen average
in the film, set in the early 1960s, he plays the mother of a chubby teen-age girl who becomes a teen television dance star and pioneer integrationist. dressed as a man, he also plays a segregationist television station manager
in another non-transvestite role, milstead played a sydney greenstreet-type character in the 1985 film ``trouble in mind.''
milstead said in a 1985 interview that he grew up fat and taunted by classmates in lutherville, a suburb of baltimore. the only son of a businessman and his wife, milstead told an interviewer he had a fantasy life revolving around female movie stars and dreams of becoming a celebrity
one of his few friends from high school was waters, whose obsession with trashy movies nearly matched milstead's fantasies of celebrity. waters began casting his friend in bizarre roles
in the 1972 ``pink flamingos,'' divine was introduced as ``the filthiest person alive.''
the character is a real person,'' milstead once said of divine. ``sometimes she's just too bold, but she has socially redeeming qualities, no matter what she does. she's her own person and a lot of people like that
the camp element is something out of the ordinary, this big man playing a sexy woman.''
besides film roles, milstead also used the divine persona in a nightclub act
he is survived by his mother and father, frances and harris milstead, who now live in florida, west said. don't</note>
kansas sen. bob dole, on a last-ditch campaign swing through missouri monday, all but conceded super tuesday to vice president george bush _ but said he wasn't giving up the fight for the republican presidential nomination
we know that we won't be the front-runner after super tuesday, but it's not over after super tuesday,'' he told a crowd of about 80 supporters during a brief rally at the springfield regional airport. ``we're going to win in november.''
earlier, in oklahoma city, he said bush appears strong in the south but ``there may be some surprises'' and republicans should nominate someone who will win the general election
we don't want to lose the white house by nominating the wrong person,'' dole said
the senator from kansas said his race against bush for republican votes in the big round of balloting tuesday was tight in oklahoma, missouri and north carolina
we're moving very quick in georgia. washington state looks pretty good,'' dole said at a news conference at will rogers world airport. ``there are some opportunities in rhode island and massachusetts
the other states? no, i think it's fair to say george bush has a good margin. but again, there may be some surprises
the final analysis is what happens in november,'' dole said. ``electability's going to be a big, big factor. we don't want to lose the white house by nominating the wrong person.''
dole displayed a copy of monday's birmingham (ala.) post-herald, which published a survey saying that while bush is the strongest candidate among gop primary voters, dole is stronger among voters of all parties
i attract a lot of democrats and independents,'' dole said in commenting on the newspaper's poll, which surveyed 1,131 voters in 14 southern states. ``i don't think i scare anybody off. i think i attract a lot of people.''
the senator took a verbal shot at bush when asked whether the super tuesday series of primaries and caucuses, with gop events in 17 states and democratic events in 20 states and american samoa, was too big
i think what the democrats did was try to design a system where they would in effect select the democratic nominee. i'm not sure that's going to work,'' he said
but what could happen is that they might select the weakest republican, so they might get a consolation prize that way.''
on the gop side, he said that ``this is a race between bob dole and george bush.''
i would invite friends and supporters of (new york rep.) jack kemp and pat robertson to take a look at our candidacy and maybe join us tuesday night at polling places around the state,'' dole said
dole was joined at the news conference by oklahoma republican sen. don nickles and several gop members of the state legislature who are backing dole. nickles said dole is the best-qualified candidate to deal with the energy and agriculture industries vital to oklahoma, and predicted a victory on tuesday
you've been to this state many times and have been warmly received. i hope and expect you'll be warmly received on tuesday night as well,'' nickles said
dole, saying kansas football teams don't have much success in oklahoma, said: ``it's about time you give kansas a break, and give america a break by voting for bob dole tomorrow.''
a federal appeals court monday halted work on the navy's plans to relocate the aircraft carrier nimitz to everett, wash., a project that has been opposed by environmental groups
in a 3-0 decision, the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals ordered the navy to stop preliminary work on the $272 million project until an appeals board reviews a state permit, chiefly on the issue of how to dispose of contaminated sediment from harbor dredging
the washington shorelines hearing board began a final week of hearings monday on water quality and development permits for the project. a decision is scheduled in may or june. four votes are needed on the six-member board to reject the state permit
we fully expect that when the project receives full review ... there will be significant modifications,'' said victor sher, a lawyer for six environmental groups that oppose the dredging
the ruling means ``the navy must comply with state environmental laws, just like everybody else,'' he said
also opposing the project is the tulalip indian tribe, whose fishing grounds include everett bay
lt. cmdr. joe march, a spokesman for the home-port project, said he would study the ruling to see what options the navy has
the navy plans to relocate the nimitz and 12 support ships in everett harbor on puget sound, hoping to have the first ships arrive in 1992
the principal dispute is over the navy's plan to dredge about 3.4 million cubic yards of sediment from the harbor and dispose of it in port gardner bay near crab beds at depths of 310 to 430 feet. about a third of the sediment is contaminated with heavy metals and organic compounds, the court said
the navy plans to ``cap'' the contaminated dredging with a lawyer of clean sediment. but the court said the technique is experimental and has been criticized by the u.s. fish and wildlife service, which said the method had failed both times it had been tested at comparable depths. northern... pickup 5th graf pvs: the two men... subs 10th graf `he said' with 3 to include quote on threatening movements and reference to fourth person; pick up 11th: gasoline pumps at...</note>
british soldiers shot three ira members dead and britain said monday the killings averted a ``dreadful terrorist act'' in its fortress colony on the southern coast of spain
foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe said in london the soldiers opened fire sunday after the unarmed ira guerrillas parked a white renault-5 with spanish license plates near the convent, the official residence of the governor. he said the soldiers acted on a tip from spanish police
police said they were searching gibraltar and adjacent spanish territory for a car believed connected with a bomb attack the irish republican army allegedly planned at the governor's residence during the ceremonial changing of the guard, which hundreds of spectators attend
members of the royal anglian regiment, just transferred from duty in northern ireland, were scheduled to participate in the ceremony tuesday. the ira is fighting a guerrilla war to drive the british from northern ireland
in belfast, northern ireland, gangs of youths charged into the streets monday afternoon, throwing firebombs at buses, vans and trucks in violence that continued into the evening, police reported
bus service in roman catholic areas was halted after several buses were set afire
a police spokesman, speaking anonymously in keeping with british practice, said he did not know if the attacks were a reaction to the reports from gibraltar
the two men and a woman were shot by men described by witnesses as wearing jeans and speaking with british accents
the british soldiers were believed to be members of the special air services, or sas, an elite undercover unit that has been involved in previous actions against the ira
sgt. george field of the 220-man gibraltar police force said officers were looking for a ford automobile but did not believe it contained explosives
the independent spanish news agency europa press quoted police in madrid, however, as saying the car might contain explosives intended for an attack tuesday
howe acknowledged in his remarks to parliament that the three ira members were on foot and unarmed when they were killed sunday afternoon while heading for the spanish frontier
he said they were challenged and ``made movements which led security personnel to believe their lives were in danger.''
there is no doubt whatever that as a result of yesterday's events a dreadful terrorist act has been averted,'' howe said. ``the three people killed were actively involved in the planning and attempted execution of that act.''
the foreign secretary also said a fourth ira guerilla ``recently crossed into gibraltar and is thought to have carried out a reconnaissance for an act of terrorism.''
gasoline pumps at the shell service station where two were shot down bore several bullet holes police had marked with blue arrows. about 100 hundred yards up the avenue, where the third fell, white marks on a large tree indicated more bullet holes
howe said the soldiers found keys to a second car on the body of one of the men. that car, a red ford fiesta registered in spain, was found parked in la linea de la concepcion on the spanish side of the gate separating this 2.25-square-mile limestone rock from the spanish mainland
in the ford, police found three false passports, an alarm clock, insulating tape, gloves, wire and a set of keys to the third car, which police are searching for, howe said
he said reports that the renault contained several hundred pounds of explosives were unfounded
europa press said spanish police speculated that the ira members left the renault near the convent to make sure there would be space for the third car, which they planned to park on tuesday rigged as a as a car bomb
the ira identified the dead as mairead farrell, 31, who served 10 years in prison for bombing a belfast hotel; daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24, all of west belfast. the men had been arrested on charges of possessing explosives
sir peter terry, the governor and commander-in-chief of british forces in the colony, issued a statement praising the 30,000 residents and said the people of gibraltar showed ``their determination to stand alongside all british people in their fight against international terrorism.''
augustin valladolid, spokesman for spanish state security, said in madrid that spanish police spotted the three ira members on the southern costa del sol more than a month ago and told british authorities, who requested surveillance but no intervention
el pais, spain's leading daily, said they left spain a week ago, probably for britain, ``but planned to return to malaga and did.'' it quoted spanish police as saying they followed the trio ``right up to the gate'' of gibraltar
in parliament, howe expressed gratitude to spanish authorities, ``without whose invaluable assistance the outcome might have been very different.''
gibraltar is a sore point in relations between britain and spain, which claims sovereignty over the rock it ceded in 1713 after losing the war of spanish succession. to update with comment from ms. desillers, picking up 12th graf pvs, `she said through...'.</note>
bank accounts containing what's left of the fortune donated to save liver-transplant patient ronnie desillers were frozen monday after a judge was told the dead boy's mother had spent some of the charity money on jewelry, clothes and furniture, a state attorney said
dade circuit judge francis christie appointed a curator to manage the estate in accordance with a petition filed by state attorney general robert butterworth and state attorney janet reno of miami
ronnie's mother, maria desillers, has spent more than half of the money donated to her 7-year-old son, who died last year while awaiting a fourth transplant, the petition said
among the donors was president reagan, who like many others was touched by news reports of the theft of funds raised by ronnie's classmates. he gave $1,000
when ronnie died at children's hospital of pittsburgh last april 29, an account in his name had accumulated $509,913, the petition said. the account balance on feb. 17 was $239,288, said fred kerstein, assistant state attorney and chief of the economic criminal division
as recently as jan. 19, 1988, $25,000 had been withdrawn from the fund, ``thereby further depleting the assets of the estate,'' the petition said
based upon an examination of bank records, at least $47,000 appears to have been expended by maria desillers on jewelry, clothing, furniture, housing expenses, an automobile and automobile expenses, these funds having been assets of this estate,'' it said. there was no further breakdown of the expenditures in the petition
asked about the allegations in the petition, ms. desillers said: ``why do they not say that money went to charity? why do they not say that some of that money was assigned to me personally? ... how come they don't say how much of that money went to kids?''
she said she had already planned to use the money that was frozen to help two ailing children who are awaiting transplants, one from miami and the other from costa rica, and would go to probate court to straighten out the dispute
there are two children that have less than six months to live, and that's what i want to do with the money,'' she said
ms. desillers is being sued by children's hospital for failing to pay $261,189 of ronnie's $424,302 bill
in refusing to pay the balance, ms. desillers charged the hospital with giving poor care to her son and threatened to file a malpractice suit
ms. desillers and her lawyer, harold robbins, said last month they would refuse to pay a $1,000 state fine for allegedly violating florida charity laws
she said through robbins that she had never asked the public to donate money and she was not legally a charity. she also said she was entitled to the money as ronnie's sole heir
after ronnie's death, ms. desillers created the foundation to assist other children in need of organ transplants
she returned to the limelight when it was learned that the formerly unemployed public relations agent was living in a luxury apartment building and driving a bmw equipped with a telephone
she denied squandering any of the donations, explaining that the car was second-hand, the car telephone was a gift and the apartment doubled as her office
the petition filed by butterworth and ms. reno asked that ronnie's estate be frozen ``to prevent additional assets of the estate ... from being wasted and to protect persons interested in the estate, including creditors.''
immediate and irreparable injury will result to assets of the estate ... if maria desillers is permitted to withdraw the funds,'' the petition said
attorney karen geivers was appointed estate curator, kerstein said
the first inmates arrive tuesday at camp sauble for 90-day terms of hard labor and military-style discipline that officials hope will keep the young offenders out of the prison system
it is michigan's first experiment with a probationary program that has caught on in other states. the so-called ``boot camp,'' one of about 15 such programs in seven states, is a last stop for young, first-time felons who otherwise would have been sent to prison for at least a year
a lot of the people put into the corrections system have never been held accountable for anything in their lives, and as a result, have never had any pride,'' deputy warden stanley adams said. ``here, we hope they'll leave with a sense of accomplishment because they'll be held accountable for everything they do.''
everything'' includes how their hair is trimmed to how their beds are made and how their uniforms are buttoned
the first dozen of an eventual 156 probationers are expected by the end of the week at camp sauble, a former state corrections department minimum-security work camp tucked away in manistee national forest in northeast michigan. inmates must be between the ages of 17 and 25 and never have been in the prison system before
the inmates will rise at 5 a.m. each day and prepare for an inspection of bunks and uniforms. after breakfast, they will fall in for an exercise period before heading out for about seven hours of unpaid work in and around mason county
before dinner, there will be more physical training and calisthenics, and after dinner inmates will attend academic or substance-abuse treatment programs. one hour will be allowed nightly to write letters or watch television news before lights go out at 10 p.m
military protocol will be enforced strictly. inmates will be required to stand at attention when in the presence of an instructor and will receive demerits for violations
if an inmate commits a serious crime, such as the assault of a staff member or fellow inmate, or if he receives three misconduct charges, he will be returned to the judge who sentenced him, likely resulting in a prison sentence
if a candidate passes the program successfully, he will be freed on probation
some say the program is an effective way to jolt first-time offenders into straightening out. others claim it is a ploy by politicians who want their constituents to believe they're tough on crime
one such critic is jerry miller, executive director of national alternatives to incarceration
the people in these programs are usually from families where yelling and screaming and putting down are day-to-day occurrences, so a program like this isn't going to scare them,'' said miller, whose non-profit organization, based in alexandria, va., studies programs that keep offenders out of prison. rage</head> graf: `the guerrillas ... aroer junction.' picks up 22nd graf pvs, `the arab ...</note>
three palestinian guerrillas seized a commuter bus monday and held nuclear plant workers hostage, killing three israeli civilians and wounding nine before police shot the hijackers to death, officials said
the palestine liberation organization claimed responsibility, saying in a statement released in nicosia, cyprus, that the hijacking was part of ``escalating military action'' against israel
the statement said the guerrillas launched the attack from within israel, and did not infiltrate from a neighboring country
israeli army officials said the guerrillas infiltrated from egypt and held 10 women and one man hostage for about three hours. the bus was seized as it shuttled workers of the top-secret dimona nuclear plant
in the occupied territories, at least 12 arabs were shot monday during clashes with israeli troops, and the army said palestinian protesters hurled a grenade at troops, wounding one soldier slightly in the west bank village of idna
also, more than 20 arab tax collectors in the gaza strip submitted mass resignations after underground leaflets called for palestinians to quit working for israel's military administration. an army official says the resignations are not final
israeli analysts said escalating violence could harden the position of prime minister yitzhak shamir and the right-wing likud bloc, which has not accepted the peace initiatives of u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz
defense minister yitzhak rabin told israel's knesset, or parliament, that monday's bus victims ``were killed for mothing else but for their being jewish, residents of israel.''
in an anonymous telephone call to a western news agency in israel, a man said the hijacking was the work of plo's force 17, a palestinian commando group linked to plo chairman yasser arafat
if the commandos did come from egypt, it would mark the eighth infiltration into israel from egypt, jordan or lebanon since late november
shamir said the infiltrations and the three months of violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip were part of a plo strategy
these are the same people who incite violence in the (occupied) territories. we shall not tire from fighting them,'' shamir said on israel radio
in washington, state department spokesman charles redman condemned the hijacking and noted ``with sadness that at a time when the majority ... are looking for a peaceful solution of the arab-israeli conflict, terrorists emerge to attack the innocents.''
foreign minister shimon peres, a leader of israel's doves, said the hijacking was an indication of why israel refused to deal with arafat
this shows exactly why the plo is a disaster for both arabs and jews,'' peres said
lt. gen. dan shomron, the armed forces chief of staff, said the guerrillas crossed the lightly guarded border from egypt, and he criticized egyptian authorities for not doing more to stop such infiltrations
army officials said the terrorists were armed with fragmentation grenades, two soviet kalashnikov assault rifles and a swedish-made karl gustav submachine gun
the arab gunmen first seized a small military vehicle at about 7 a.m. near the nafha prison, a few miles from the sinai desert border with egypt
the guerrillas, riding in the captured vehicle, went on a rampage along the highway, shooting at passing cars and trucks and wounding one israeli man in the leg, police officials said
police chased the car and shot out a tire, forcing the guerrillas to abandon the vehicle, police said
the guerrillas then seized the red-and-white bus carrying workers to the dimona nuclear plant, during which the bus' driver and all but 11 passengers escaped. police later stopped the vehicle by barricading the road near the aroer junction
the arab trio was headed toward beersheva, away from the nuclear facility, when they seized the bus, indicating the facility was not the target of the guerrillas
the guerrillas gave israeli authorities one hour to produce an international red cross official and free jailed palestinians
they presented an ultimatum. if their demand were not met within half an hour, including the release of detainees and palestinian terrorists, they will (kill) the hostages,'' said maj. gen. yitzhak mordechai, the army's southern commander
moments later, mordechai said, the guerrilla leader fatally shot in the chest victor ran, 39, the father of three children
when they fired and executed one of the hostages and fired at the women who were in the bus, despite our promises that we will not harm them ... we stormed the bus and killed the three terrorists,'' mordechai said on israel radio
he said the assault by anti-terror police lasted about one minute
rina shiratzky, 31, the mother of two, and miriam ben yair, 46, the mother of four, were fatally wounded when israeli soldiers stormed the bus
mordechai said an investigation showed the shots were fired by the arab guerrillas
cardinal jozef glemp, leader of poland's roman catholic church, said monday he has been invited to visit moscow in early june for ceremonies marking the 1,000th anniversary of russian christendom
no polish primate has ever visited the soviet union
glemp said he received the invitation last month to attend observances organized by the russian orthodox church
there have been no talks yet,'' glemp told reporters at warsaw's okecie airport after returning from a weeklong visit to rome, where he met with polish-born pope john paul ii. ``i only got a formal invitation. i want to go, obviously.''
church sources have said a visit by glemp to the soviet union could help pave the way for a future visit there by the pope
in january, john paul said he would visit the soviet union only if he could meet with roman catholics around the country
glemp has let it be known he would like to visit the soviet union, especially former polish territories in the soviet lithuanian republic that has a large polish minority and where the catholic faith is quite strong
asked whether he planned to visit other places than moscow, glemp said he ``might change from an official church representative into a tourist for a few hours ... with pleasure because there are many things to see there.''
the soviet invitation reflects a turnaround since mikhail s. gorbachev came to power three years ago
the soviets previously attacked the polish church for inspiring opposition activities, but more recently have made overtures to polish catholics
almost 90 percent of poland's population is catholic. apartment</head>
an unemployed handyman waived his right to a jury monday and his trial began on charges of killing seven women and leaving their bodies to rot in and near his apartment
harrison ``marty'' graham's decision came as common pleas judge robert latrone prepared to begin jury selection. graham then entered pleas of innocent to seven counts each of murder, voluntary manslaughter and abuse of a corpse
the judge, after determining graham, 28, understood the charges, ordered the lawyers to begin presenting their cases. both sides waived opening statements
assistant district attorney roger king moved for admission of all testimony and documents from a monthlong pretrial suppression hearing, including a confession graham made to police, admitting strangling the seven women during sex. latrone granted the request
during the pretrial hearing, defense attorney joel moldovsky, contending his client is mentally incompetent, sought unsuccessfully to suppress the confession
moldovsky argued the confession was made in violation of graham's constitutional rights and after graham allegedly was beaten by police during 17 hours of interrogation
graham surrendered to police at his mother's urging aug. 16 after a weeklong manhunt that started when he was evicted from his apartment because of a putrid stench
a police search uncovered the rotting bodies in graham's bedroom and leg and foot bones on the roof of his apartment house
in the confession, graham told police the bodies began piling up in his bedroom and he began having problems with maggots. he also told of his difficulty sleeping during the day because of birds on the roof outside his apartment, picking at human remains
moldovsky has indicated that graham's defense will be insanity
the first witness called by the prosecution, acting medical examiner robert catherman, said all seven deaths were homicides but said it was impossible in most cases to determine the cause of death because of decomposition
soldiers in tanks and jeeps patrolled the main streets and poorer areas of the capital monday to block further protests against the rising cost of living
president joaquin balaguer summoned his advisers to discuss ways of controlling inflation, a major factor in recent unrest in this caribbean island nation of more than 6.5 million people
protesters burned tires early monday during a 24-hour strike in five low-income sectors of santo domingo
three days of clashes last week between protesters and soldiers left one person dead and many businesses damaged. more than 300 people were arrested
the previous week, three people were killed and eight injured in protests in eight of the country's 26 provinces
support seemed to be dwindling for a general strike called for wednesday to demand lower prices for basic commodities, wage increases for public and private workers and better public services
we are willing to talk and hold sincere discussions with the authorities to solve the conflict as long as they manifest their sincere willingness to satisfy our demands,'' said spokeswoman virtudes alvarez of the national conference of popular organizations
the group called for the general strike and organized earlier strikes in the last few weeks that shut down many parts of the capital
labor groups opposed the strike, but promised to support it if it takes place. they want either a later strike or talks among the government, unions and business community to try to solve the economic problems
the main opposition party, the dominican revolutionary party, is also against the strike, although left-wing political parties support it
balaguer said sunday he would meet with his agricultural advisers, merchants and business people to develop a plan to implement price controls
shortages of many goods, including milk, have become prevalent
a private economist estimated the february inflation rate at about 5 percent and predicted a 50 to 60 percent rate for 1988 if that continued
private sources have estimated inflation in 1987 at around 30 percent, although the government's central bank maintains it was closer to 16 percent
the author of a petition on religious freedom in communist czechoslovakia that was signed by about 300,000 people has been arrested and charged with slander, an emigre source said monday
the london-based emigre publishing firm palach press said augustin navratil was accused of committing ``slander of a state organ and of a public organization.'' conviction is punishiable by up to one year in prison
the exact targets of the purported slander were not spelled out
navratil, a roman catholic activist from a village in moravia, was one of 16 people detained over the weekend in advance of a catholic pilgrimage in prague sunday
dissident sources in prague said navratil was detained friday morning. other activists were held for 48 hours and released late sunday or early monday, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity
palach press said it was not clear if stanislav devaty, a spokesman for the charter 77 human rights movement, was rearrested after his 48-hour detention expired
in czechoslovakia, authorities may hold people for 48 hours without formal charges
dissident sources said devaty was detained late friday night after attending a dinner with british diplomats in an embassy secretary's apartment
five other dissident activists invited to the dinner were detained before they could get in, and that action drew a strong protest from the british foreign office
navratil's petition calls for separation of church and state and for bishops to fill czechoslovakia's 10 empty roman catholic sees
cardinal frantisek tomasek gave unprecedented support to the petition in a letter of jan. 4
palach press also reported that in a separate development, 12 people were briefly detained saturday in prague as they left the home of a granddaughter of thomas g. masaryk, president of czechoslovakia's pre-world war ii democracy
it said the group had planned a graveside ceremony on sunday honoring masaryk in the village of lany, about 30 miles west of prague
monday was the anniversary of masaryk's birth in 1850. the u.s. embassy planned to lay a wreath at the grave. news digest: undated _ pm-super tuesday rdp, a0433; washington _ pm-robertson-libel, a0439; nicosia, cyprus _ pm-gulf rdp, a0467; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0425; panama city, panama _ pm-panama, a0473; los angeles _ pm-writers strike, a0475; monterey, n.y. _ pm-shock camp-ny, a0438; freesoil, mich. _ pm-shock camp-mich., a0437; phoenix, ariz. _ pm-mecham, a0453; washington _ pm-terrorism-east europe, a0432; washington _ pm-deaf school-president, a0463.</note>
the presidential candidates are suggesting that their rivals are disloyal, hypocritical, ineffective, inexperienced and underhanded in a slew of negative television ads that reflect the demands of a compressed, high-stakes campaign season
instead of inspirational biographies and upbeat messages, viewers in many of the 20 states holding super tuesday contests are seeing ``attack ads'' that quickly escalate from issue-oriented criticism to personal digs cutting to the bone of campaign themes and identities
analysts give numerous reasons for the unusually early predominance of sharply negative television ads. chief among them are the central role of tv, the candidates' needs to differentiate themselves from their rivals and the do-or-die nature of super tuesday for several campaigns
democratic voters are ``wrestling with an ancient cultural barrier,'' says jesse jackson, and when the wrestling ends in 20 super tuesday states this week, the black presidential candidate may behold some eye-catching results
barriers do seem to be bending, but the main ingredient for a strong jackson performance is the clumping among three white candidates in a year that jackson expects to take home 90-plus-percent of the black vote
no one can be so certain what's going to happen tuesday,'' jackson says, but adds: ``i can only say that i'm reaching out. ... my sense is there is a higher comfort level'' among white voters toward his candidacy
the reagan administration is dangling high-technology sales as an inducement for china to give firm assurances it will halt delivery of silkworm missiles to iran
the tradeoff _ and at least chinese neutrality in a u.s. drive to impose an international arms embargo against iran _ looms as the potential highlight of talks with foreign minister wu xueqian opening here today
it is his first visit in four years, and the agenda is substantial. for instance, secretary of state george p. shultz will solicit china's support for his proposal for arab-israeli peace talks
east european governments are quietly cooperating with u.s. efforts to close business operations affiliated with the abu nidal terrorist group, say u.s. and soviet bloc sources
after he was forced to leave iraq in 1983, abu nidal kept an apartment in warsaw and his associates ran a trade operation from an office tower there, according to a central intelligence agency report
u.s. diplomats began pressuring the polish government behind the scenes last may. in august, the poles promised to close the operation, s.a.s.-international commerce and investments, and order its staff to leave the country. a similar operation was closed in east germany
the line-item veto power sought unsuccessfully by chief executives from ulysses s. grant to ronald reagan could upset the delicate balance between the legislative and executive branches in favor of the president, a new study suggests
granting such power would also increase political confrontations and send lawmakers searching for ways to neutralize it, just as has happened in states, said the national academy of public administration
the organization, a nonpartisan research group, studied line-item veto provisions contained in 43 state constitutions and gave them mixed reviews
ten years after the federal government forced a change in the stuff that makes liquid spew out of aerosol cans, some environmentalists are worrying that it was simply a matter of swapping one evil for another
in a sense we did,'' said lon burnam, clean air consultant for the sierra club in dallas. ``but you can easily make the argument that the one that we went to is less harmful than the one that we left.''
most of today's aerosol products are pushed out of the can by hydrocarbons, a propellant that gained wide use when a government ban on chlorofluorocarbons went into effect in march 1978
lawmakers wary of angering animal lovers are being asked to take the reins in a dispute over the fate of wild horses and burros on public land in the west
sell them to the highest bidders, says the office of management and budget, which is watching taxpayers spend nearly $20,000 a day just to feed 8,600 horses and burros stored in pens by the bureau of land management
give them a home on the range, counter various animal groups, which say the auctions proposed by the reagan administration would mean thousands of the animals heading for rendering plants and pet-food factories. news digest: undated _ super tuesday; dimona, israel _ israel; gibraltar _ gibraltar-terrorists; panama city, panama _ panama; los angeles _ writers strike; nicosia, cyprus _ iran-iraq; manama, bahrain _ gulf rdp; phoenix, ariz. _ mecham.</note>
vice president george bush, anticipating a super tuesday windfall of republican convention delegates, is targeting illinois, the biggest state in bob dole's midwest base, as the battleground that could end the kansas senator's hope of a comeback in the gop race
i don't know what dole does if he doesn't win illinois,'' said bush campaign manager lee atwater
i can't wait to hear their new theory if they lose illinois,'' he said. ``everyone comes up with a theory on how they can still win it.'' 
democrats richard gephardt and albert gore jr. are in a battle of their own in tuesday's southern primaries, competing for the same voters and harboring hopes of knocking each other out of the presidential race
with jesse jackson poised to collect the south's considerable black vote, and michael dukakis scoring with southern liberals, gephardt and gore are both vying for what's left: the moderate and conservative, blue-collar and middle-income white voters
acknowledging dukakis may do very well tuesday, each would like to emerge as the white alternative to the massachusetts governor. and each would like to move on to the next round of contests without the other, trying to draw a bead on dukakis
two young democrats with few disagreements square off for their party's senate nomination on the super tuesday ballot in mississippi, expected to be an important battleground for control of the senate in november
in other primaries on tuesday, packs of republicans are battling for nominations to run against entrenched democratic sens. paul sarbanes of maryland and lloyd bentsen of texas. both face lightly regarded primary opposition
in louisiana's 4th district, voters may choose a new member of congress
the government and rocket maker morton thiokol paid $7,735,000 in cash and annuities and divided the cost 40-60 to settle all claims by the families of four of the astronauts who died in the challenger explosion
documents released monday showed that morton thiokol, which produced the faulty booster rocket blamed for the jan. 28, 1986, explosion, paid $4,641,000. the government's share of the settlements was $3,094,000
the surviving four spouses and six children actually will receive more than $7.7 million. this is because each was given an annuity, which pays benefits larger than its cost but over a period of many years
the sex experts dr. william masters and virginia johnson said monday they could not provide scientific evidence to support their widely publicized claim that aids is ``running rampant'' among heterosexuals
when masters was asked at a contentious news conference how he could justify such a claim, he said, ``i simply believe this.'' johnson, asked the same question, said ``i'm not sure we chose the word `rampant' ourselves.''
on page seven of their new book, they write: ``the aids virus is now running rampant in the heterosexual community.''
the supreme court said monday it will decide whether states may use anti-racketeering laws to close down adult bookstores accused of selling obscene materials
the court said it will review free-speech challenges to indiana's racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations law, patterned after the much-used federal rico act
under it, law enforcement officials are authorized to seize any property used in a racketeering enterprise
the air force's top officer says he never dreamed the reagan administration's military build-up would be derailed so quickly, but he intends to maintain readiness even as his service shrinks
gen. larry d. welch also said monday the air force couldn't afford to develop the new midgetman nuclear missile favored by many congressional leaders; said he would press for salary bonuses for pilots and make it easier for young pilots to stay in the cockpit; and would shut down at least three air force bases if congress let him
the four-star general added the public shouldn't be too concerned by press reports of delays in flight testing the new ``stealth'' bomber, and said he intends to repair strained relations with congress with a new openness about the onset of contracting problems
honda rolled the first shipment of u.s.-built cars exported to japan by a japanese automaker onto a ship monday, and took aim at calls for increased trade protectionism to help u.s. automakers
tetsuo chino, president of honda north america inc., drove the first of 540 accord coupes onto a ship docked at the port of portland on the columbia river. sen. bob packwood, r-ore., a leading critic of trade protectionist legislation in congress, accompanied chino
the gray car was followed by a line of matching gray and white accords driven by honda workers as dozens of honda executives and dealers, government, union and shipping officials watched and applauded
angry students forced the closing of gallaudet university and demanded a meeting with the board of trustees monday in response to the selection of a hearing president to head the world's only liberal arts university for the deaf
more than 300 students started blocking the school's main entrance shortly before dawn, and at about 6:45 a.m. university officials decided against opening the school. three hours later, the number of protesters had swelled to around 750 while smaller groups blocked other gates to the campus
the protest capped a week of campus demonstrations during which students called for the selection of the first deaf person to head gallaudet, which was founded by an 1864 act of congress
when publisher jorge de herralde saw novels bearing his anagrama logo in all three bookstores on lanzarote island, he knew things were looking up for serious books in spain
eight or nine years ago, it would have been impossible to find good novels and essays in bookstores in provincial towns, let alone on a small island in the canaries,'' he said. ``it makes me optimistic about the future of spanish publishing.''
silvia lluis, director of the year-old publishing company circe ediciones, agrees that now is the time for quality books in spain
there's a new, discriminating reading public that wants more than the pulp best sellers,'' she said. ``they've read marguerite yourcenar, and they don't want to settle for less.''
the increased interest in quality books in a country where newspaper readership is the lowest in europe comes more than a decade after the demise of gen. francisco franco's dictatorship and his 36 years of cultural and intellectual repression
the change has been fairly sudden. it is due in part to spain's 1986 entry into the european common market which has broadened many horizons. de herralde also credited the newfound market to a decline in ideological topics and obscure experimental writing by some authors, and a return to the narrative _ both in spanish and foreign literature
those in the publishing industry, centered mainly in this northeastern port city, say spaniards are now looking beyond their borders, learning foreign languages and reading good books
a 1985 study initiated by the ministry of culture on spanish cultural behavior said that although 80 percent of spanish households possessed books, mainly encyclopedias or technical manuals, only 41 percent read any of them
the study also showed that the spanish reading public is heavily concentrated in madrid and in catalonia, of which barcelona is the capital _ the the most developed and educated regions of spain. the illiteracy rate is 7.4 percent in a population of 36.8 million, third highest in the 12-nation european economic community after greece and portugal. results also revealed that fewer than 11 percent of spaniards ever set foot inside a library
many people are still afraid to go inside bookstores or libraries because they think they're only for intellectuals,'' said manuel ripoll, producer of ``entrelineas'' (``between the lines''), spanish state tv's new literary program. ``that's why so many of the books sold in spain are purchased at corner newsstands.''
de herralde pointed out that the biggest single bookseller in spain _ with items ranging from how-to manuals to poetry collections _ is el corte ingles, the country's only department store chain
translations of foreign works _ primarily american and english books _ make up about 70 percent of the lists of anagrama, circe and other quality houses. the other 30 percent is devoted to the works of established or new spanish authors
five years ago de herralde, a 52-year-old former industrial engineer, took a chance on john kennedy toole's ``a confederacy of dunces,'' a cult novel published in the united states when the unknown author's mother brought the manuscript to a publisher after his suicide. the book earned the author a posthumous pulitzer prize in 1981
the spanish edition has gone into 22 printings and has sold 100,000 copies. the translation into catalan, a language spoken by more than 5 million people in the northeastern part of the country, is due out in april
pilar raola, director of the catalan publishing house editorial portic, said many spanish-reading catalans preferred to wait to read a translation of a foreign novel in their own language, resulting in a similar upsurge in catalan-language publishing
according to the spanish association of book publishers, 38,814 titles were published in spain in 1986 of which 7,483 were novels and essays. the average press run for a spanish novel is between 3,500 and 4,000 copies
felix de azua's ``diary of a humiliated man'' has gone into its third printing at anagrama in three months following its publication in december after winning the firm's coveted herralde literary award
chilean author isabel allende's ``eva luna'' and ``belle du seigneur'' by french author albert cohen have been jockeying for first place on the best-seller list of spain's leading newspaper el pais for the past six months. five of the 10 top-selling books on the list are by spanish authors
the most successful spanish novel this century is jose maria gironella's ``cypresses believe in god,'' set in the years leading up to the 1936-39 spanish civil war. since its publication in the late 1950s, the book has sold over 4 million copies
the burst of interest in quality fiction has led spanish publishing giants to set up smaller collections devoted to serious fiction and essays, de herralde said
and the nationwide readers' circle book club began including quality foreign and domestic fiction several years ago at the request of its 1.3 million members, according to spokesman hans gentz
pssst! looking for unspoiled scenery, cheap extras and good local technicians for filming on location?
it's still a word-of-mouth proposition, but some of the world's leading filmmakers are discovering venezuela's steamy jungles, vast savannahs and palm-studded beaches for shooting their exotic location shots
the south american country is being promoted as a cheaper and more accessible alternative to brazil and a non-politicized substitute for south africa
british producer derek granger brought sir alec guinness and james wilby, star of ``a room with a view,'' to the jungles near canaima, 400 miles southeast of caracas, in late january to film a portion of ``a handful of dust,'' based on the novel by evelyn waugh
the french director alain siritzky came last november to check out scenery in canaima and caracas for the sixth movie in the ``emmanuelle'' series, now being shot for him by a local film group
last october, two episodes of the tv series ``dynasty'' were filmed here. they involve a jungle rescue
and venezuela recently beat out jamaica to provide various beach sites for a series of pepsi-cola commercials
for directors who are interested in the kinds of scenes shot in brazil or mexico or argentina, we are unbeatable: we're the cheapest, the freshest and we have good technicians,'' said george korda, a hungarian-born venezuelan whose company, korda films, is undertaking the ``emmanuelle'' project
filmmakers attribute the growing interest in venezuela in part to the never-ending quest by directors for something unique and untouched _ something that, ideally, no other director has used before
everybody knows about brazil and mexico, and they're a bit tired of that so they're discovering venezuela,'' said korda
but venezuela's attitude toward foreign filmmakers has also changed, they say, along with the value of its currency. successive devaluations of the bolivar since 1983 have made it possible for directors to put up actors and crewmen in three or four star hotels for $20 a night. extras can be hired for $13 a day _ a marvelous wage in a nation where the urban minimum wage is $65 a month
foreign directors say they have found local production companies fully competent for back-up work. many venezuelans in film were trained abroad under government scholarships
and venezuela's jungles are also more accessible, because they are smaller than brazil's vast amazon basin and closer to population centers
our location manager said it would be easier (to film here) than work in the heart of brazil,'' granger said in an interview. ``we had only 10 days to film. we needed good immediate facilities, good hotels and easy means of transport.''
and the government, which has been interested in promoting tourism ever since oil prices fell, is content to see the movie people come, local promoters say
however, some have found the government difficult to work with. the arts crew of ``a handful of dust'' could not get the venezuelan guayana corp., which controls the national park in which canaima is located, to provide the animals. so they instead had to rent parrots, monkeys and deer from a local landowner
but there's another message that venezuelan promoters are beginning to whisper: ``stable government, no racial problems.''
except for the animals, some venezuelan landscapes are dead ringers for the south african savannah
this new selling point could take on more weight as more studios, including the 120 americans banded together in the industry pressure group filmmakers united against apartheid, seek to avoid possible commercial backlashes from filming in south africa
there are places here that look just like south africa, only we're much closer and we don't have racial problems or a civil war,'' said rolando haiek, whose company, 5247 producciones, was hired by granger to provide everything needed locally for ``a handful of dust.''
5247 productions now hopes to get a canadian production company to film ``miss helen,'' a story set in south africa, in venezuela instead
anwar sadat won the nobel peace prize and the admiration of the west with a leadership that dared break new political and social ground, including making peace with israel
the same self-assured decisiveness made the warrior president a hero to his countrymen in the early 1970s, especially after the 1973 arab-israeli war in which he could claim his bold moves led to an egyptian victory over israel in the sinai peninsula
but in the years leading up to his assassination oct. 6, 1981, as sadat's temperament changed, many egyptians turned against him, even though he remained widely admired abroad
those latter years are the ones being recalled now as members of sadat's family return to a courtroom march 12 for a hearing to determine whether the government can confiscate property it claims was acquired through corruption
although the case against sadat's brother esmat and 10 members of his immediate family is connected only remotely to anwar, the late president's detractors contend that sadat's presidency is on trial. they contend that sadat's open-door economic policy led to the kind of corrupt practices his brother was tried for and convicted of
corruption increased in president sadat's time,'' said khaled mohieddin, head of the opposition national unionist progressive party, an umbrella of marxists and nasserites. ``people just grabbed money and ran away.''
like sadat, mohieddin was a member of the revolution command council that ended the monarchy of king farouk in 1952. the council acted under gamal abdel nasser, republican egypt's first president and sadat's predecessor
during the sadat presidency, esmat sadat allegedly amassed an illegal fortune despite later-disclosed efforts by the president to stop his brother's profiting on their relationship
his activities were so blatant that on the first anniversary of sadat's assassination by moslem extremists, president hosni mubarak reportedly told him: ``your stench has spread throughout the country. i'm not going to protect anyone.''
a little later, he was arrested and tried. esmat sadat, three sons and seven other family members were convicted on 24 counts of influence peddling, black marketeering and bribery
their property was sequestered, and esmat and three of his sons served nine months of a one-year prison term. the new court case is for confiscation of their wealth, estimated at $8.2 million
esmat and his children were a dangerous burden on anwar sadat in his life and after his death,'' said moussa sabry, a sadat confidant who writes a regular column at the government newspaper al-akhbar
when you see they traded, and stole, and have millions, of course they used his name. ... people used to be intimidated into doing what they wanted. ... some people say he was not responsible for his brothers but of course it affects.''
esmat's trial spotlighted ``infitah,'' the open-door economic policy that sadat came up with in the mid-1970s. with its loopholes, it created many esmats, a class of the newly rich. additionally, it created public frustration over the massive influx of flashy imports of luxury goods, from cars to designer sunglasses, that were unaffordable for most egyptians
the policy served mainly private interests and foreign companies in joint ventures. many wealthy businessmen, feeling egypt's present economic pinch, look back with regret at sadat's initiatives
egypt was not being transformed from a planned to a market economy but to a supermarket economy,'' wrote mohammed heikal, a close adviser to nasser and sadat until they fell out over foreign policy
the disrupting effect which this transformation had on egyptian society can hardly be exaggerated,'' heikal wrote in ``autumn of fury,'' a bitter book about sadat's assassination that was banned in egypt for two years after its publication in 1983
in the book's introduction, heikal said he collected much of his information from fellow prisoners after sadat jailed him and 1,535 others in a crackdown on domestic dissenters a month before his death
some watched closely to see whether the decision permitting the sale of the book would start a downgrading of sadat's memory. but anwar sadat remains an honored figure in government eyes, because the bullets that killed him did little to change the governing system he had built
his portrait remains posted on a major suburban road behind a guest house the government gave his family. his tomb in another suburb shares a place of honor with that of egypt's unknown soldier. the largest station of cairo's new subway system, the first named, is ``sadat station.''
nevertheless, much of the popular local support sadat had won by making peace with israel and his vow of ``no more war'' was eroded by the wave of arrests in september 1981. moreover, he shut down a half-dozen moslem and coptic christian publications, withdrew state recognition of coptic pope shenouda iii and banished him to a desert monastery, thereby alienating egypt's 6 million copts
a year after sadat's death, esmat's trial came as a welcome change to many people in a country where authorities often turned a blind eye to dubious acts by the powerful. eager crowds outside the courthouse cheered ``long live justice'' on hearing days, and when the verdict and sentence were read, about 300 spectators in the courtroom burst into applause
commenting on sadat's legacy after seven years, moussa sabry said, ``the egyptians, and not only the egyptians but the arab people, have started to realize that this man's view was ahead of egypt's thinking. he actually managed to create peace between egypt and israel, and to get back our land.''
in her recently published memoirs, sadat's widow jihan wistfully conceded that sadat's star has not shone as brightly with his compatriots as she feels it should have
someday, egyptians will recognize what anwar did for his country and give him his rightful place in history,'' she wrote. ``with patience, i wait.''
this is one of a series of periodic reports by associated press correspondents on the way of life in other countries
robert gobinot isn't given much chance in his candidacy for the office of president, but he's getting some attention with his idea to restore an orchard owner's benefit dating back to the french revolution
in 1791, owners of orchards were granted the right to distill tax-free each year 2.6 gallons of eau de vie, the alcoholic beverage that is sipped after meals and called ``pousse cafe'' or ``digestif.'' the distillers would pay no tax so long as they didn't offer it for sale
the license to distill was passed on from one generation to another until 1961 when a new law canceled the right to inherit the license
eau de vie comes in various forms, depending on the region. in normandy, for example, it is made from apples and is called calvados. in alsace in eastern france, pears and plums are used; in the auvergne region of central france it is made from hazelnuts
when my mother died six months ago, i inherited her orchard,'' said gobinot, ``but the license died with her and so i can no longer make eau de vie without paying tax.''
gobinot's bucolic campaign headquarters is his 60-acre sheep farm in the village of chezeaux in the haut-marne department of eastern france
his name does not figure in the opinion polls, he has no political party machine behind him, or image advisers cultivating a presidential package for the balloting april 24 and runoff may 8
but he has been getting his message out and has already received letters of support from 500 mayors, the minimum necessary to declare his candidacy formally
our method of raising support is by word of mouth,'' gobinot said in a telephone interview
but he thinks it unlikely that he will become francois mitterrand's successor in the presidency. he is simply using the elections, he said, to defend what he sees as an honorable rural tradition
others, however, compare the lot of french eau de vie distillers to the tale of tristan and isolde, or the myth of the eternal return, because the argument to restore the inherited licenses resurfaces from time to time
in a country that has one of the highest rates of alcoholism in the world, the abolition of the right to distill tax-free eau de vie might seem like a good thing. but gobinot disagrees
he wants to clean up the image of the ``bouilleurs de cru,'' as eau de vie makers are known
we want people to realize that we are not just purveyors of alcoholism,'' he said
gobinot maintains that the major distilleries are more to blame for the problem of alcoholism than farmers who make a couple of gallons out of plums or apples
according to gobinot, 2.11 million gallons of alcohol were drunk in france last year, of which just 15,840 gallons were homemade eau de vie
this shows how ridiculous the argument is,'' he said. ``we make less than 1 percent of the total consumption in france.''
gobinot emphasizes that traditional rural skills, and therefore jobs, are disappearing as a result of the 1961 law. only a handful of craftsmen making wooden barrels remain and the fruit trees are no longer pruned as they used to be, he said
the distiller with his ``alambic ambulant'' (mobile still), going from village to village in normandy to turn apples into calvados, was once a familiar figure
the farmer who picks his own fruit is proud to distill his own eau de vie,'' gobinot said. ``he does everything himself and is making a natural product
i drink very little myself. but i take great pleasure in offering a glass of friendship when people come to my house.''
in less than a generation, japan has slashed its infant death rate to the lowest in the world, thanks to a formula that combines intensive prenatal care with government policy
but japan also has one of the world's highest abortion rates, which could help in keeping figures low for the infant-death rate
the officially reported infant mortality rate, in any case, has fallen from a high of more than 60 deaths per 1,000 in the years after world war ii to 4.9 per 1,000 in 1987 _ meaning that of every 1,000 babies born, 995.1 will live to their first birthdays
no other nation comes close. the united states lags far behind with a rate of 10.6 per 1,000. finland and sweden rank second behind japan, with 6.0, according to 1986 figures
experts list several things that led to japan's low rate:
_a literate society eager for medical advice
_a system of universal health insurance
_a maternal and child health handbook, standard issue for every pregnant woman since world war ii, which has 58 pages of health records and advice on pregnancy and child care from birth to age 6
a typical japanese mother is a married woman in her late 20s _ the safest ages for childbearing _ and she is pregnant with her first or second child. the handbook tells her what to eat, how much milk to drink and when to visit a doctor. by the time labor pains begin she will have undergone about a dozen prenatal checkups, two of them courtesy of the government
a japanese mother is very interested in her own health and the child to be born,'' said dr. kazuaki miyagishima of the health ministry's maternal and child health division. ``she follows intensive prenatal care.''
like virtually all mothers of her generation, she gives birth in a delivery room. her hospital stay lasts a week, giving doctors time to keep watch on the baby. insurance takes care of most of the costs, which usually run about 200,000 yen ($1,560). depending on need, the government will pay the rest, and add 100,000 yen ($780) as a gift
officials provide coupons for free checkups for the baby and send a public health nurse to the home. legions of volunteers pay monthly house calls on rural newborns and report their progress to local officials
but abortions are not figured in the official infant mortality rate; the abortion figures themselves are difficult to establish
japan's registered abortion rate is 17.1 per 1,000 women of childbearing age, near the top among western nations. doctors say, however, the real figure could be two to four times higher, because not all abortions are reported to the government as required by law. adding the doctors' estimates of unreported abortions would put japan well ahead of the united states, which had a 1983 rate of 27.4 per 1,000
officials say the hidden abortions take place among teen-agers. while they accounted for only 5.4 percent of registered abortions in 1986, that number has been rising along with teen pregnancies
babies born to teens and women over 35 are at highest risk for late fetal and early neonatal deaths. women over 35 are almost twice as likely to have infants with congenital defects
in japan, the two groups of high-risk mothers account for 42 percent of registered abortions and only 8.8 percent of live births. they are the only groups among whom abortion is increasing
looking at the national statistics, it seems there could be a link between a high rate of abortion among high-risk mothers and the infant mortality rate,'' said dr. eikkichi matsuyama, director of obstetrics and gynecology at tokyo's kosei nenkin hospital, when asked why the figures showed infant mortality at the bottom and abortions near the top. ``it's a connection i've never thought of until now. but it's not illogical.''
japan's eugenic protection law allows abortions even as late as the second trimester of pregnancy to ``prevent the increase of inferior descendants and to protect the life of the mother.''
abortion is quite a big program in japanese family planning,'' said haruo konagai of the japan family planning association. ``one-fourth of japanese women have experienced abortions.''
matsuyama and others say that preventing high-risk births is not the key to lowering infant mortality. they say it's an incidental factor in an already successful program
but the government is pushing programs for telephone counseling and sex education in schools to lower the teen-age abortion rate, miyagishima said
in general, mother and child health is on a high standard already,'' he said. ``it is a very hard task to find a (new) target.''
one of the reasons given for so many healthy babies in japan is the tender care corps, an organization of volunteer women who visit new mothers and their babies in their own homes
the corps operates on the tradition that neighbors look out for each other. it mobilizes 80,000 mothers who volunteer to keep tabs on the health of 2 million households with children in japan's outlying cities and hamlets
here in yamato village, a collection of small farms and quarries perched among mountaintop forests, volunteer hatsuko hirayama visits six families every month. she makes her rounds on foot over steep paths and concrete-paved roads 60 miles west of tokyo
our purpose is to see that healthy babies are born,'' explained mrs. hirayama, a woman in her fifties with children of her own. ``the public health nurse can't always visit homes, so i do.''
one of the mothers she visits is yoshimi hirayama, a distant relative in this town of 1,890 people. the visits began when the 24-year-old housewife became pregnant with her second child, which turned out to be a daughter, michiko, who now is now 10 months old
she told me to breast feed,'' yoshimi said. ``she told me to eat things that would build bones _ small fish, lots of milk
she's like another mother. when i had my first baby i didn't know anybody here, but i could go to mrs. hirayama and ask her anything.''
yoshimi's pregnancy was normal. she followed her doctor's instructions to undergo health checks every three weeks during the first two trimesters, then biweekly and weekly until delivery. in between came prenatal care and childbirth classes at the village hall
in april, after she gave birth to michiko, a public health nurse stopped by to check on the mother and baby after their return from the hospital. mrs. hirayama took it from there
any teeth?'' she asked on a recent visit, pulling down michiko's lower lip. ``are you hiding them?''
her notes on michiko's diet, bedtimes and skin color are turned over to the health nurse, who evaluates them and recommends doctor's visits or looks in on the baby herself, if necessary
mrs. hirayama fills in monthly visit cards for each child she sees on her rounds until the child turns 6. then it is time for school teachers to keep an eye out
richard burt has been a guest on a hit tv variety show, sung with a west berlin rock group, sold potato pancakes on bonn's main square, and gets his name and picture in the papers
that may not be unusual for a celebrity, but it is for an ambassador
it's a ``fantastic opportunity,'' says u.s. ambassador burt, to reach 20 million ordinary west germans
since taking up his post here in september 1985, burt has become a regular fixture in west germany's news media and on television
news stories about him range from the birth of his son christopher last year to his constant efforts to present the reagan administration's message
the public affairs dimension of diplomacy is growing more important,'' the 41-year-old diplomat, a former new york times reporter, said in an interview with the associated press in his bonn office
burt made it clear he feels that reaching out to ordinary west germans is a major part of his job
in a democratic country you have, in a way, two constituencies, one the government which you are accredited to, but secondly you have public opinion which has an impact on the government.''
there's been a certain interest in a younger ambassador,'' burt said. ``to some extent i think i've taken advantage of that interest to try to project a fun, open-minded, dynamic image of the united states.''
at the age of 38, he became the youngest u.s. ambassador in west german history. he took over the post from arthur burns, who was then 81 and known for his reserved, formal ways
burt said he's made a special effort to ``win over'' west germany's young people, tens of thousands of whom took to the streets in 1983 to protest the installation of u.s. missiles in the country
they don't remember care packages, the marshall plan and the berlin airlift,'' burt said, referring to vital u.s. postwar relief and aid programs. ``they remember vietnam.''
among burt's most heavily publicized exploits was his singing stint with the west berlin rock group at a recording studio in january 1986
articles and pictures filled west german newspapers afterward
that was not sought after,'' he said. ``i was a little bit naive at that point.''
this past nov. 28, burt appeared on a television stunt and variety show called ``wetten, dass'' (will you bet that ...)
the superstar moderator, thomas gottschalk, asked burt: ``can you imagine that one day you won't just be called `your excellence,' but also mr. president _ and i can still call you rick?''
speaking in slow, halting german, burt responded with a smile: ``i will be president when you are the federal chancellor (west germany's leader).''
asked in the interview about that appearance, burt replied: ``here's 20 million people who are never going to get a chance to meet an american ambassador.'' he was, he said, a ``fantastic opportunity to project a positive image.''
burt lost his bet on a stunt on the saturday night show. so, three weeks later, as agreed before the tv audience, he went bonn's main square and sold potato pancakes in a pouring rain to raise money for charity
sometimes, burt's pronouncements, especially on u.s. foreign policy, have brought criticism from west germans
in a full-page guest essay printed in the influential magazine der spiegel on feb. 22, burt expounded on the idea that the nato allies must share with the united states the risks of a nuclear a war
the contribution, printed in german, brought a sharp retort the following week from egon bahr, the 66-year-old arms control expert of the opposition social democratic party
he finds it simply unreasonable,'' bahr wrote, ``that the united states should remain a target for nuclear weapons, while `europe is freed from the burden of the stationing of nuclear arms.' i don't.''
bahr continued: ``the family that lives near the border with the german democratic republic (east germany) during any conflict runs an incomparably bigger risk than a family in iowa.''
during the interview, burt was asked whether he looked forward to overseeing the removal of the intermediate-range nuclear missiles from west germany after ratification of the u.s.-soviet missile accord
burt responded with a laugh and said: ``it's an interesting question because before coming to germany, when i was assistant secretary of state for europe, i worked very, very hard to put them in. so i haven't really focused on taking them out.''
when miriam birch left home to join the circus, she went all the way to the soviet union
for a national geographic special, birch and her camera crew spent nine weeks following circuses across the soviet union, which has more such extravaganzas than any other country
the one-hour ``inside the soviet circus,'' produced and written by birch, will be broadcast wednesday on pbs. theodore bikel narrates
the circus is a part of everyday life in the ussr and attracts more than 70 million people a year. more than 100 troupes, all government-supported, travel the vast country from leningrad to vladivostok
it was in the ukraine that birch found one of the stars for the special, oleg popov. for 40 years he has clowned in a soviet one-ring circus. his humor is universal and cuts across all international barriers
the russian circus is a world unto itself,'' said birch. ``you don't need to know the language to get the jokes. it's exciting, it's colorful. and it's very good circus. the government doesn't spare any expense. they want the people to enjoy it.''
the tradition of the russian circus goes back many years to the wandering juggler, trained bears, gypsies and tightrope walkers
the european circus came to russia at the time of catherine the great,'' she said. ``she ordered horses from england. a certain gentleman brought not only riding horses, but trick horses as well. catherine was very taken with the horses and the man. she had a circus building erected in st. petersburg, which is now leningrad
the russian circuses are always one ring and the aerialists work without a net. they emphasize artistry, not danger. the clowns come on between the acts to distract the audience while the props are being moved. the clowns are very skilled at mocking what just happened.''
although she calls it one of the most interesting experiences of her life, birch said, ``i was happy to leave. i'd also be happy to go back. it's just the thought of settling down in one of those exotic locales. they're never quite as exotic as they look from the outside
i'd much rather capture their essence on film than live there. i like going there and coming back.''
traveling to exotic and remote areas of the world is not new for birch. in the past, she has written and produced geographic specials on pandas in china, horses in ireland and the living treasures of japan, egypt and jerusalem
she was interviewed the day before leaving for the island of bali and shanghai, china, to research possible specials. she was accompanied by thomas skinner of wqed pittsburgh and dennis kane of the national geographic society, who are co-executive producers of the specials
both bali and shanghai are shrouded in romance and mysticism,'' she said. ``bali would be a cultural show emphasizing the arts, puppet theater and dance. all of the arts on bali are performed as offerings to the gods
the theme for shanghai would be its role as a window through which we saw china, and china saw the world. shanghai has been china's most important port, from the opium wars to the birthplace of mao's communist revolution to once again being the place where china meets the world.''
elsewhere in television:
goodbye elliot _ nbc's ``st. elsewhere'' is leaving the air after five years, but at least one of its characters may leave a little early. dr. elliot axelrod, the overweight resident played by stephen furst, will have a heart attack in the fourth episode from last. nobody's saying if he dies, but the show's called ``requiem for a heavyweight.'' three years ago, furst was featured in a touching show with the late florence halop, who as mrs. hufnagel died. mrs. hufnagel had been a hypochondriac and a constant thorn to axelrod, yet a deep bond developed between them. another resident, dr. peter white, played by terence knox, was shot to death and dr. robert caldwell, played by mark harmon, died of aids after harmon left the show
japanese economic competition with the united states is often viewed negatively, especially by autoworkers hurt by imports. but the japanese have also come bearing gifts
they raised levels of quality. they forced competitors to rid themselves of waste at every level from plant floor to chairman's office. they compelled u.s. management to get off its duff and innovate
but their biggest contribution might be in management-labor relations, at least in the automobile industry. and it was in that industry that relations had, in effect, become proceedings in a divorce case
for complex reasons, workers and executives had become such foes that it might have been better had they never spoken to each other. each depended for survival on making cars. but they fought each other. they were rigidly set
in competitive markets, rigidity leads to death. competition, according to nobel laureate friedrich hayek, is a ``dynamic discovery procedure.'' it never stops; if one company ceases to innovate, another surely will
in the united states automotive industry, unions helped frustrate innovation by inflexible work rules, job classifications and resistance to technological change, while simultaneously insisting on higher wages
attitudes began changing slowly as the japanese, starting from a zero base, grabbed almost a quarter of the u.s. market. and now, according to a university report, union and management now see salvation rather than ruin in the new way
the new way is japanese, at least as it applies to labor relations. the japanese way, according to thomas dilorenzo, is for unions to be enterprising and cooperative for the common good of themselves and the company
dilorenzo, a fellow at the center for the study of american business at st. louis' washington university, observes that japanese unions have a strong interest in strengthening the competitive position of the employer
national unions seldom interfere in local decisions. members recognize that job security is possible only in a healthy company. they accept transfers to different areas of the plant. they perform a variety of jobs. they take pay cuts, in the form of reduced bonuses, as an alternative to mass layoffs
dilorenzo feels american workers are increasingly receptive to such procedures, citing the japanese-style labor relations already practiced at the new united motor manufacturing plant, a toyota-general motors joint venture
that plant, at fremont, calif., had been an intense headache for gm, which closed it in 1982 with the loss of 5,000 jobs
between 1963 and that year, there were four shutdowns for sickouts and strikes. absenteeism forced the assembly line to close. drugs and alcohol were just two of many problems. labor relations were acrimonious, almost violent
inevitably, the productivity level at the plant was incredible. it took an average of 34 manhours of labor to produce a vehicle, compared to only 20 hours to produce a toyota. and the final product sometimes was a mess
cooperation is now a two-way street, according to dilorenzo. management has made written promises of job security and has agreed to take salary cuts before laying off workers
in addition, union and management have promised to work together to resolve problems arising from layoffs, production schedule changes, major investments and day-to-day decisions once left entirely to management
the united auto workers union has made other unusual concessions to help with productivity and profits. it agreed to reduce job classes from more than 200 to three, eliminating featherbedding. it allowed workers to be trained for several jobs, allowing manufacturing flexibility
the two once-vicious enemies also adopted the japanese technique of ``kaisan,'' under which workers and management have regular discussions on how to perform jobs more efficiently for their mutual benefit
already, says dilorenzo, evidence that parts of the experiment might become fixtures in u.s. management-labor relations can be found in the uaw contracts with ford and gm in 1987, which permit an unprecedented degree of cooperation
there is recognition that labor and management are not competing against one another, says dilorenzo. ``the competition lies elsewhere,'' he says. as it always has. ^agencies and radio out</note> ^from ap newsfeatures</note> photos and 1 illustration.)</note>

editor's note _ wherever he goes, a small army goes with him. virtually everything he does in public is planned, scripted and rehearsed. even a visit to a club two blocks from the white house follows an elaborate scenario. that's the insulating apparatus of the presidency today. it wasn't always that way
harry truman liked to take a walk every morning, a habit he didn't abandon even after franklin d. roosevelt died
promptly at 7 a.m., the president, a fedora on his head and usually a cane in his hand, would set off from the white house at a brisk 120 paces a minute
the route varied _ sometimes across lafayette square and up connecticut avenue, sometimes on a circuit of the washington monument and lincoln memorial
taxi drivers would shout their hellos. sometimes the president paused to sign an autograph for a tourist
often a reporter or two showed up, joining the president and his brace of secret service men
a few weeks ago, president reagan went two blocks along one of truman's walking routes to dedicate the newly rebuilt army and navy club. here is what happened:
when the motorcade of nine white house cars and an ambulance, escorted by district of columbia police cars and motorcycles, pulled up at the club at 10:30 a.m., the president's limousine pulled into an unadorned side entrance leading to a loading dock
club officials had wanted reagan to come in the elegant front door, but a white house advance team had vetoed the idea in a meeting with club officers two weeks earlier. too dangerous
stepping from his limo, the president walked to a freight elevator, carpeted for the occasion, through a loading dock area that had been cleared of clutter
from the elevator, the white house had first proposed that the president pass through the first-floor kitchen. club officers, however, wanted the president to see some of the memorabilia _ the cannon seized in the spanish-american war, the preliminary casting of the iwo jima memorial, the busts of truman and eisenhower _ that line the long second-floor hall they call the parade. so they ended up greeting the president on the second floor
in a routine that had been rehearsed for days, brig. gen. james d. hittle, the retired marine officer who is the club president, was supposed to open a door to guide reagan into the main ballroom
as they reached the door, gray terry, deputy director of the office of presidential advance, whispered to hittle, ``not in here! the door's locked!'' hittle opened another door into the ballroom, a few yards down the hall. then the president was taken down a circular staircase to pass through a receiving line of club officials and their wives, and to cut a ribbon
hittle then escorted the president into the dining room. the other officers had already taken their places
it had all been rehearsed, with terry playing the part of reagan. the second of the two steps that led up to the dais had been marked with adhesive tape as a precaution against stumbling. the white drapes in the windows, normally drawn back, were lowered. the window at the end, where the president would speak, was protected by a bulletproof glass shield
in the old days, i'm told, the army and navy club often invited their neighbor, the president, to all their parties,'' reagan said in his remarks. ``i've also heard that benjamin harrison and grover cleveland walked over for a toddy or two. oh, for the good old days.''
those days are gone forever
this simple presidential visit, planned since the club's invitation was accepted months before, had required the initial meeting with 16 white house people two weeks earlier, at least two walk-throughs, a number of rehearsals, several more meetings on the site and constant telephone calls. for more than a week beforehand, the white house had been working on communications for the president and his staff. a holding room was needed for the president, a place where he could receive or make a telephone call if needed
club officers proposed an office just off the lobby, but the lobby was too crowded. ``the second time they were over, they asked, `is there a better place?','' said hittle. finally, they chose a modest security room near the loading dock. half an hour before the president arrived, traffic on surrounding streets and access to the building were sealed off
every moment that he is before the public, the president is backed up by a script that spells out his every motion, a staff that looks after his protection and his image and an aerial fleet that can carry limousines and tons of communications equipment anywhere in the world
no other leader, not even the pope in rome in some respects, is accompanied by quite the pomp and circumstance that follow the president of the united states wherever he goes
some presidents have chafed at this structured life. it seems to fit reagan like a glove
the trappings help fend off possible danger. they keep the president in constant touch with washington and other world capitals. they make his public appearances come off smoothly
they also insulate the leader of the world's premier democracy from the people he leads
every one of these guys becomes a little more isolated,'' says bill gulley, former director of the white house military office, who served under presidents from johnson to carter
i think the isolation of presidents is dangerous stuff,'' says james david barber, a duke university political scientist and leading student of the presidency
barber says the president does not get the advice he needs ``when you have the argument going on only in a limited closed-in coterie.''
this is particularly true with a president, he says, ``who like reagan is very much tuned in to those in the same room with him _ who are right next to him.''
not for reagan the freedom to browse in bookstores, as french president francois mitterrand likes to do, or to stroll on pennsylvania avenue as mitterrand recently did on the champs elysees
a couple of months after his inauguration in 1981, the president and first lady nancy reagan did take a walk, on a sunny march sunday, across lafayette park to attend church. the next day, reagan was wounded in an assassination attempt outside a washington hotel. he hasn't taken a walk in public since
recent presidents have reacted differently to the increasing amount of fuss and security
the only time that i ever knew a president to get out of the corral was johnson,'' gulley says. ``he set his own agenda. this guy would not only tell me what airplanes to use, he would tell me who was going to be on the airplane. he made up the manifest
when nixon came along, everything was orderly,'' says gulley. nixon also introduced white tunics, black trousers and shiny black hats for white house policemen. after protests and ridicule, the officers were allowed to return to workaday police outfits. but another nixon innovation, the use of a marine guard in splendid dress uniform as doorkeeper for the west wing, is still in effect
nixon experimented with having smartly uniformed trumpeters, their horns draped with banners, signal the arrival of the president at social occasions. jimmy carter cut out the traditional playing of ``hail to the chief'' altogether. reagan, the performer with a flare for the theatrical, brought it back
the president, with his background as an actor with a reputation for taking direction well, still takes direction well
he has said of his sacramento period, ``for eight years, somebody handed me a piece of paper every night that told me what i was going to be doing the next day.'' he has made similar statements about his white house existence
at his annual summertime party for the press in santa barbara, he goes by the book, entering the grounds and walking to a specified spot, then taking a specified route through the crowd and going at a specified time to a bandstand to make off-the-record remarks
his time is scheduled very precisely, much more precisely than i would have ever thought,'' says james c. mckinney, who came to the white house last year as director of the military office. ``there was a book printed for the gorbachev visit, and that ran only 2{ days. the book was approximately an inch thick, a minute-by-minute rundown of who goes where, when, who accompanies the president, who rides in which elevator. it's the kind of a book that we get if we even go to make a speech in jacksonville, fla., to a bunch of high school kids.''
when the american president travels, the white house goes with him. it's set up in the biltmore hotel in santa barbara, or in tokyo or venice
you can get two helicopters on and get the ground crews for them on a c-5a,'' says gulley. ``you also take a car, a backup and a follow-up for secret service. and in my time it took about 20 communicators and 6,000 pounds of communications equipment for each stop. that would be whether he goes for 15 minutes or whether he goes overnight.''
even if the president goes to a private dinner at the home of friends, it takes a 15-car motorcade with a cluster of military and security aides, a doctor and other staff
it's usually no problem and people expect it,'' says gary foster, chief of press advance for the white house. ``once in a while it's an inconvenience. it's just that so many people come with him that sometimes they have a hard time knowing what to do with them.''
wherever the president travels, the army signal corps sets up its own telephone switchboard and installs special phones for all his aides
no other country does exactly the same thing
still, some of the other leaders come fairly close
when pope john paul ii travels abroad, the vatican flies two bulletproof, glass-enclosed ``popemobiles'' ahead. the pontiff's entourage numbers as many as 30 people, including top prelates, security men, a valet and a photographer. the pope does not have his own plane, however. he travels on chartered jets, taking alitalia from rome and making the return leg on an airliner of the country he visited
mikhail gorbachev's summit visit to washington in december gave americans a chance to compare the entourages of the u.s. and soviet leaders
i think there are an awful lot of parallels,'' says mckinney. ``their motorcade is even larger than ours. i have never seen motorcades as large as the gorbachev motorcades. the longest one was some 50 vehicles.''
gorbachev took four ilyushin jetliners with him to washington. kgb agents prevented a u.s. television crew from filming the extensive wardrobe being rushed up the gangway for him and his wife
although motorcades in moscow are usually only two or three cars, special lanes are reserved for official cars and uniformed police often halt traffic for their passage. members of an elite unit wearing electric-blue shoulderboards guard the kremlin
west german chancellor helmut kohl travels abroad on one of three boeing 707s reserved for top government officials. there is no equivalent to air force one. hans-peter gaertner, a chancellery spokesman in bonn, said no west german chancellor has ever taken a limousine abroad
after the war, konrad adenauer adopted a modest style that was suited to the time, and since then other chancellors have followed suit,'' gaertner says. ``now that is what germans expect of their chancellors.''
france has a reputation for grandeur, and the elysee palace provides one of the world's most splendid presidential settings, but things are simpler when mitterrand is traveling. he usually flies in the supersonic concorde, primarily as a plug for the french aerospace industry. he gets around paris in a short motorcade, and streets are blocked a few minutes before he is scheduled to pass. he generally spends the night at his left bank apartment, not in the palace on the right bank
security around british prime minister margaret thatcher has increased since an irish republican army assassination attempt in 1984, but is still slight compared with the ring around reagan
she uses one of three look-alike official limousines at home, but when abroad rides in either a british embassy limousine or one supplied by her hosts. the prime minister's movements are no longer announced publicly in advance but members of the public are free to, for example, walk into a hotel where she is giving a speech
as for the u.s. president, nixon white house aide john d. ehrlichman, in his book, ``witness to power,'' gave this summing up: ``... we wonder at the man in the white house who is so strangely different from the rest of us. we fail to recognize that he is an animal which has been groomed to run a special race and has forgotten how to do almost everything else.''
following a rigid schedule is nothing new to reagan who, for the past 20 years, has visited the same couple in palm springs, calif., over the new year holiday; who, during his annual california vacation in august, routinely visits the same acquaintances in the same order on a trip to los angeles
i think he's got a personality that's responsive to this type of thing,'' says gulley, who observes the white house now from the vantage point of a washington consultant
even in the most rustic settings, the trappings of power are there. on one of their easter vacations, the reagans helicoptered from their hard-to-reach california ranch to a more accessible neighboring spread to join a motorcade to go to church
as the helicopter landed, a marine in dress uniform, who flies on the 'copter to be ready to open the emergency exits if needed, stepped out. he was joined by other marines sent from quantico, va., as a ground crew, also in dress blues for easter
there they were: the reagans, off in the santa ynez mountains living the simple life the president so often extols; the marines in their resplendent outfits standing at attention, saluting smartly, as the president and first lady made their way down a dusty tire-track road to the limousine
the founding fathers made one big mistake,'' says political scientist barber. ``they should have made ben franklin king and george washington prime minister, so that he would have had some kind of royalty at the top to gather all of this emotion that now feeds into our white house, all this ceremonial jazz.''
on the other hand, stephen hess, a former eisenhower and nixon aide now with the brookings institution in washington, said, ``let's start with the proposition that presidents do get shot at, and on occasion killed. a lot of these trappings really have in part a protective purpose. secondly, the trappings of our country are really not only not out of line with other countries, but in some regards quite modest. the white house, for example, is relatively small compared with the mansions and the palaces that other heads of state live in. so we do have to put that in some perspective.''
in whatever perspective, all this ceremonial jazz comes to an end for reagan in january, when he steps aboard air force one for his last flight home to california. then the country will see how the next president responds to it
just as it is for her husband, life in public is for nancy reagan a preordained venture, in which surprises are singularly unwelcome
on a sightseeing tour at the 1987 economic summit in venice, an aide makes an ``x'' in masking tape on a cobblestone to mark where nancy reagan should stop for photographers. there are no similar marks for the mayor of venice or the wife of italy's prime minister
when she goes to harper's ferry, w.va., to welcome a trainload of make-believe comic-strip characters campaigning against drugs, a six-person advance team, similar to the president's but smaller, precedes her by four days
her traveling party on trips abroad includes her personal assistant, hairdresser, personal secretary, photographer, medic, protocol officer and secret service agents
she flies on an air force plane, designated executive foxtrot one. on a side trip from venice to sweden, it was an air force boeing 707 outfitted to accommodate the first lady and 40 to 44 other passengers as well as the pilots, stewards and military communications personnel. on other trips, it is a smaller plane
security doesn't really allow her to fly commercial,'' says elaine crispen, mrs. reagan's press secretary
by contrast, bess truman and her daughter, margaret, used to go from washington to independence, mo., by train, paying for their own first-class compartment. lady bird johnson rode the eastern airlines shuttle on shopping trips to new york. by the nixon administration, however, the presidential family was flying on government planes
raisa gorbachev also gets some perks. her clothes, hats, furs, shoes and accouterments are something the average soviet woman can only dream about. and although such information is not disclosed in the soviet union, it's doubtful that she pays for them. it is known that she received gifts from paris couturiers during the couple's official visit to france in 1985. she also has worn creations of soviet designer slava zaitsev
a scene during margaret thatcher's 1987 re-election campaign illustrates the difference in treatment of political spouses in england and the united states
after the thatchers, flying aboard a plane hired by the conservative party, arrived at the packed manchester airport, the prime minister plunged into the crowd, but her husband, denis, became separated from her and spent about 10 minutes wandering around the fringes by himself. it would not have happened to nancy reagan. ^agencies and radio out</note> ^from ap newsfeatures</note> photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ with so many experiments under way at the same time, it's difficult to pinpoint television's birthplace. among the cities that lay claim to tv ``firsts'' is schenectady, n.y. there, 60 years ago, a handful of viewers witnessed the first broadcast to television sets installed in the home
the flickering pink picture of a man playing a ukulele was a small miracle in an age of wonder, all but forgotten beyond the town once known as ``the city that lights the world.''
the year was 1928, and schenectady had grown from a sleepy hamlet on the erie canal to a booming factory town where the general electric co. had its headquarters and its finest research talent
for two years, ernst fredrik werner alexanderson, a consulting engineer for ge and the radio corporation of america, had been tinkering with a machine that used perforated spinning disks to transmit pictures. it was the mechanical ancestor of television
on jan. 13, 1928, the first experimental television program was broadcast from the ge lab to the schenectady homes of alexanderson and two ge executives. there, scientists, company officials and reporters gathered to peer into the pinkish light of a tiny screen, 3 inches square, mounted in a cabinet
the two-hour program with simulcast radio sound began with a ge executive taking off his glasses and smoking a cigarette, followed by a radio announcer strumming a ukulele and humming ``ain't she sweet.''
david sarnoff, then vice president and later president of rca, appeared on the program and called it ``an epoch-making development.''
the event ``heralded another human conquest of space,'' said a front-page story in the new york times. it was hailed as ``the first absolute proof of the possibility of connecting homes throughout the world by sight as they have already been connected by voice,'' the article continued
this year, wrgb, the schenectady station which claims that day as its birthday, is celebrating with a series of parties and programs commemorating 60 years of television history
we're very proud of that heritage,'' says terry walden, wrgb's program manager and producer of a historical documentary on the station. ``we're the only station that can trace its history back that far.''
actually, the birthdate and birthplace of television are quite indistinct in history books. ``television is one of the hardest areas to pinpoint `firsts' in,'' says eliot sizowitch, a specialist in radio and television history at the smithsonian institution. ``there were just so many experiments going on at the same time.''
independent american inventor charles francis jenkins produced the world's first working television and demonstrated it in washington, d.c., in 1925. a comedy skit was broadcast from new jersey to the bell telephone labs in new york city in april 1927. westinghouse scientist vladimir zworykin developed the first electronic television system, which ultimately replaced the mechanical scanners, in the 1920s
but the demonstration in january 1928 in schenectady apparently was the first broadcast to television sets installed in homes, according to the reference book, ``famous first facts.''
the ge station was known as w2xb when it got its first federal license and started a regular program schedule in may 1928, with farm and weather reports three afternoons a week. it was the world's first regular television program schedule, according to ``famous first facts.''
from there, wrgb boasts a series of ``firsts'' in television history. it televised the first ``remote'' broadcast (outside the studio), with an august 1928 live telecast of gov. alfred e. smith accepting the democratic nomination for president at the state capitol in albany
the following month, the station televised the first play, a blood-and-guts drama called ``the queen's messenger,'' complete with props and sound effects
at the time, there were still only four households equipped with the 3-inch-screen tv sets
the first transatlantic telecast was made when the image of professor august carolus of leipzig, germany, was transmitted from schenectady to berlin in 1931
in 1939, wrgb and wnbc in new york city were linked by a series of relay towers down through the catskill mountains and hudson valley, thus forming the first television network. the visit of the king and queen of england to the new york world's fair in 1939 was beamed live to schenectady
the world's fair did more to publicize tv than anything else,'' walden said in an interview at wrgb's 40,000-square-foot studio complex in suburban niskayuna. ``ge had a huge exhibit. thousands of people went through and saw themselves on television for the first time.''
wrgb, which switched its network affiliation to cbs in 1981, became the first nbc affiliate in 1939. it aired the first complete opera on tv in 1943 with a performance of ``hansel and gretel.''
ernie tetrault, anchorman of wrgb's evening news, became the station's first full-time staff announcer in 1951. his 37 years with wrgb make tetrault the longest-tenured anchorman in the country, says news manager gary whittaker
there was little emphasis on news in the early days,'' says tetrault. ``it was pretty much rip-and-read _ we mainly depended on newsreel services and the associated press
for example, one day back in the '50s there was a big fire at the main ge plant, right near the studio,'' says tetrault. ``our news manager looked out the window and said, `hey, there's a fire at ge! get ap on the phone and see if we can get something on it.'''
when wrgb's lone cameraman shot a story, it took hours to process the film. ``he'd have to string it on sawhorses to dry,'' says tetrault. ``it would take all afternoon to do what takes minutes with modern video equipment.''
now, wrgb, which has a dominant audience share in an area with four commercial stations and two public ones, has all the latest newsgathering gadgetry, including trucks for live remotes, nine new electronic news cameras, and sophisticated editing equipment
freedom newspapers, inc., which bought the station for $57 million in 1986, has pumped millions of dollars into the station and increased the staff to 125 from 100, says general manager david lynch. ^agencies and radio out</note> photos. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ contrary to its cartoon image, the coyote is a cunning hunter blamed for annual losses of nearly $70 million worth of sheep. long the bane of western farmers, the coyote has migrated east, filling an ecological niche created by elimination of a far less destructive predator _ the wolf
the first sheep was killed on earl cole's farm last march, then another, and another, and another. within 10 months, at least 80 lambs and ewes worth $10,000 were slain on his farm and an adjoining one
predatory teeth tore the sheeps' throats or pierced their skulls, and their soft inner organs were eaten. all clues point to coyotes, an old west predator whose numbers are growing in the east
it's circumstantial evidence. nobody's actually seen a coyote kill the sheep. but it pretty much has to be coyotes,'' says cole, 67, who tends 100 head of sheep on his 200-acre greene county farm
to convince skeptics, cole paid a trapper $50 to prove the coyotes existed
five females have been trapped or shot near the scene of the crimes _ rolling pasture 60 miles south of pittsburgh, as opposed to the high grassy plains of wyoming or montana
that's good enough for richard belding, land management officer for the pennsylvania game commission, who calls the evidence ``overwhelming'' and ``conclusive.''
before 1980, only six cases of coyotes killing sheep had been verified in pennsylvania. the new run-ins with farmers are proof the coyote, preceded by its mystique and villainous reputation, has brought its eerie yips and howls to new territory
a cousin of the wolf and the dog, the coyote looks like a small german shepherd with a fox-like head, pointed nose and bushy tail that resembles a bottle brush
the eastern coyote has some wolf and dog genes, and the biggest ones weigh 55 pounds. its prairie-dwelling kin weighs about 30 pounds
coyotes are cunning hunters, bearing no resemblance to the hapless cartoon character wile e. coyote, whose comical schemes always backfire as he vainly chases a road runner
real coyotes feast on mice, rabbits, deer, carrion, grasshoppers, fruits and berries. they also kill lambs, calves, goats, chickens, geese, pigs, barnyard cats, llamas and other domestic livestock. coyotes have pilfered watermelons on california farms. in october, coyotes killed 48 flamingos in the los angeles zoo after keepers mistakenly left the birds' pen open
coyotes vanished from pennsylvania 10,000 years ago during the ice age. they began returning in the late 1890s when the practice of clear-cutting the state's forest exterminated the wolf by destroying its habitat. coyotes thrive in open country
they're filling an ecological niche created when we eliminated the wolf,'' says dr. john george, a senior biologist at penn state university. ``the coyote is very resourceful. people have tried to poison them and trap them. it's tough to get rid of every last one.''
there are coyotes in every eastern state,'' says helen mcginnis, who did her master's study on coyote populations at penn state. ``the populations are building up and will continue to build up. i have a lot of admiration for them. they're intelligent. they're adaptable.''
biologists believe coyotes migrated from the great plains in a giant arc north and east around the great lakes about 90 years ago. the route took them into ontario, then south to new england, new york, pennsylvania and appalachia. others pushed east from the plains, while some were imported to be hunted by wolfhounds and sportsmen, ms. mcginnis says
each year, an estimated 1 million sheep, or 10 percent of the national stock, are killed by predators, and coyotes account for 90 percent of that, according to the usda. the loss is valued at $70 million
it's our number one preventable loss. this is the single largest cost of production that we think is reversible,'' says dan murphy, president of the washington-based national wool growers assocation
the number of sheep ranchers has dwindled from 225,000 in the 1960s to 125,000, says dr. clair terrill, former director of sheep research for the usda. nationally, the sheep population has fallen from 55 million during world war ii to 10 million, says terrill, who blames coyotes for much of the drop
to promote the use of mutton, idaho sheep farmers coined this bumper sticker: ``eat american lamb, 5 million coyotes can't be wrong.''
others are more blunt
i only know one good coyote, and that's a dead coyote,'' says rick moore of harrison county, ohio, where farmers pay a bounty of $25
don patterson, president of sheep growers association in greene county, pa., calls coyotes ``a damned nuisance. they're taking money out of our pocket.''
the coyote has outsmarted and outlasted government attempts to shoot, trap and poison it into oblivion. in 1972, the government banned poison baits on federal lands, partly because non-target animals were being killed
in 1983, the government allowed farmers to use poison collars on sheep if they met two dozen restrictions to protect the environment. so far, the collars have been approved in wyoming, montana and texas
wildlife groups say the coyote is unfairly maligned. attacking a sheep is a learned skill, and not all coyotes kill livestock. most avoid humans. they also keep mice populations in check
coyotes are opportunistic. they're not evil,'' says susan hagood of defenders of wildlife, a washington-based group with 80,000 members nationwide. she says coyotes can be discouraged by guard dogs, electric fences, placing ewes in sheds when they lamb and selective shooting or trapping of sheep killers
it would be a waste of time, effort and money to try to eliminate them. the government spent millions of dollars and failed to eradicate the coyote. we would hate to see eastern states adopting western philosophies and making the same mistakes,'' ms. hagood says
some states have studied the impact of coyotes on deer populations. in maine, selective trapping eliminates troublesome coyotes, but the animals are not significantly damaging the deer herd
as far as i know, the coyote has not had any serious repercussions on native wildlife. it does not appear to be a disaster. if it is causing people problems, people have themselves to blame,'' says ronald novak of the u.s. department of interior
in pennsylvania, where coyotes can be hunted or trapped year-round, they number an estimated 2,000 to 3,000
says arnold hayden, a coyote expert with the pennsylvania game commission, ``they're probably everywhere but downtown philadelphia and pittsburgh.'' ^agencies and radio out</note> photo.)</note>

editor's note _ the man who created gospel music is as obscure as his music is popular. thomas dorsey is now 88 and bedridden in his chicago home. a handful of gospel devotees are working to build a foundation that would preserve both his music and his memory
more than half a century ago, thomas dorsey crossed the raw soulfulness of the blues with the sacred music of his youth to create a foot-stomping, soul-slapping sound that still fills black churches
a personal conflict over his strict religious upbringing and love of the bawdy, bluesy tunes inspired by slave songs led the young jazz pianist to create what he called ``gospel'' music
now 88, bedridden in his chicago home and suffering from alzheimer's disease, dorsey is in danger of dying in obscurity, his legend unknown by a generation of worshippers who revere his music but don't know his name
he was the person who gave blacks a medium to keep their tradition alive,'' says michael harris, a professor of religion and african american studies at temple university in philadelphia and the author of a new biography on dorsey
black church music before dorsey ``was very easygoing. it wasn't upbeat, it wasn't filled with a lot of rhythmic tones,'' says bob storman, a former gospel performer who with a handful of other aficionados is working to build a dorsey foundation in chicago
it wasn't until the late '20s and '30s that a lot of ministers would let that kind of music into their church,'' storman says. ``the ministers figured that it was indecent and unreligious. for them it was like some people react to acid rock music today.''
dorsey's song ``it's tight like that'' hit the top of the blues charts about september 1928, harris says. ``a number of people were very shocked to see the type of music they danced to the night before the next morning in church,'' he says
dorsey's all-time greatest hit, ``take my hand, precious lord,'' was the favorite song of the rev. martin luther king, and was popularized by the late mahalia jackson, who once toured with dorsey. it has been translated into more than 50 languages
dorsey's work includes more than 1,000 gospel tunes and all would be displayed, his wife, kathryn, said in an interview from the couple's south side home
i think he would think it was one of the greatest things that ever happened,'' she said. ``it would be the only one in the united states'' dedicated solely to dorsey, she said
but efforts to raise a half-million dollars for the foundation have faltered. a chicago concert in december was to be the group's first fund-raising event, but it was canceled for lack of interest
storman says that while people know dorsey's music, they don't know dorsey. they confuse him with tommy dorsey, the jazz bandleader of the 1940s
in promoting thomas dorsey, storman and colleagues have found that ``people thought we were talking about the jazz artist. we had to remind people that tommy dorsey had passed.'' tommy dorsey died in 1956
thomas dorsey was born july 1, 1899, just outside atlanta. his father was sickly, and he, his mother and four siblings had to help support the family
his mother was a very, very religious woman who had been a profound influence on him,'' says harris
he became enamored of a resident pianist at a local theater. then as a 12-year-old boy he started playing in bordellos, playing piano, blues. by that time, he was supporting his family.''
dorsey later began composing blues and playing jazz and blues piano. he adopted the stage name ``georgia tom.''
he began experimenting with gospel music as a way to reconcile an internal conflict over his religious upbringing and his early love of blues, harris says
as a young man, dorsey moved to chicago, and gradually began to concentrate on composing gospel music
he was the first black man in america to publish gospel music, in 1926,'' and started his own publishing firm at that time in chicago, storman says
he sent his first two gospel songs, ``if you see my saviour'' and ``how about you,'' to hundreds of churches. ``not a single person ordered one,'' harris says
he spent time going from church to church trying to sell this. the people thought it was blues, an inappropriate kind of music for formal worship.''
in 1931, dorsey was devastated by the deaths of his first wife and baby daughter in childbirth. ``that was when he wrote his all-time great, `take my hand, precious lord,''' storman says. ``and that was when he became totally dedicated to just doing gospel.''
in january 1932, at ebenezer baptist church in chicago, the rev. j. howard lorenzo smith hired dorsey to form a choir
a month later, at pilgrim baptist church, the rev. j.c. austin invited smith to preach an anniversary service, harris says. smith brought the choir and ``staid pilgrim baptist church ... went wild.''
two days later austin offered dorsey the job of directing his church chorus
i was a little boy then,'' says the rev. j.c. austin jr., austin's son and the current minister. ``you couldn't get into the church. the fire department came to keep the traffic moving ... every sunday morning.''
under dorsey, the choir gained national attention, and he remained its director until the late 1970s, when he retired
dorsey, a tall, thin, distinguished-looking man, was shrewd in his business dealings
he was self-taught, never went beyond third grade. but he took this gospel thing and built his own publishing business out of it,'' harris says
dorsey sold his business in the early 1950s to new york-based chapel music, which has continued to publish his music, his attorney jay ross says
dorsey also knew how to create music that performers want to sing
there's no comparison to him. he's in a class all by himself,'' says gospel singer albertina walker
the songs that he wrote ... they have such a meaning, they have such a message. people are forgetting dorsey. but you really can't forget him. he should be remembered as the father of gospel music, the founder of gospel music.'' ^agencies and radio out</note> photos. colorfoto subscribers get 2 35mm slides.)</note>

editor's note _ the yellow river, has been largely tamed by the chinese government's relentless dike- and reservoir-building efforts. but many still remember the day 50 years ago when a ruptured dike sent the waters cascading over village rooftops, killing 890,000 and leaving millions homeless
shi xiaoshan was just 5 years old when chinese nationalists broke the dike on the yellow river 50 years ago in a vain attempt to stop advancing japanese troops. shi took refuge in a large floating pot
the water was over the roofs in some villages,'' shi recalls of the 1938 calamity that claimed an estimated 890,000 lives and left millions homeless and without food. shi's family had to beg to survive
today, the retired worker lives quietly a short stroll away from that once-ruptured dike, confident neither man nor nature will ever again unleash the river known as ``china's sorrow.''
the 3,388-mile yellow river, the cradle of chinese civilization and the bane of its existence, has been largely tamed by relentless dike- and reservoir-building efforts of the communist government since it took power in 1949
but there remains an undercurrent of threat to the 110 million people who live along the banks of the world's muddiest river
nature does not change easily,'' says chen xiande, deputy director of the yellow river conservancy commission based in zhengzhou, the capital of central china's henan province
the river begins in the remote plateaus of western qinghai province and winds through nine provinces before reaching bohai bay in shandong province. over the past 2,000 years, it has flooded some 1,500 times. it has changed course 26 times in recorded history, about once every century, each time disrupting the lives of millions
in 1887, when the river tore through its banks in henan, 11 large cities were inundated and a 50,000-square-mile area was under water for two months. hundreds of thousands _ perhaps millions _ died
there has been no major flood since 1946, largely because of a dike-building program comparable to the excavation of two panama canals. chen says his 29,000-member commission has overseen the construction of seven of the 30 reservoirs that are planned to help control the river while supplying electrical power and irrigation to the barren riverside plains
but he says his engineers have still made only small gains in controlling the flow of sandy yellowish sediment that gives the river its name and its unique power to destroy
as the river courses southward from inner mongolia through the chalky and erosion-pocked loess plateau of china's midsection, it deposits 1.6 billion tons of silt in its middle and lower reaches
every year the riverbed in the lower reaches rises another 4 inches, creating what is called a ``suspended river'' where the water level is 13 to 23 feet above the surrounding land
since 1949 the dikes have been heightened and reinforced three times to contain the rising waters. the huge sanmenxia dam in western henan had to be rebuilt almost immediately after it was completed in the 1960s because engineers were fooled by the onslaught of silt
the yellow's powers of deception can be seen from atop the 500-year-old dikes north of zhengzhou breached by chiang kai-shek's troops in 1938 and repaired in 1947
the river channel is 6 miles wide, but in the dry winter months the water is only several hundred yards across, a faint glimmer far out over the frozen mud flats packed with silt from the loess plains of shaanxi province 600 miles to the northwest
yet in the summer rainy season the entire channel is filled, and after hard rain the waters pound against the 16-foot high concrete embankments
a new, computerized warning system, built with u.s. and united nations assistance, gives engineers 20 hours' notice of a potential flood, says yellow river conservancy commission senior engineer niu zengqi. that's time enough to open sluices and fill water-retention reservoirs. in the distant past, news of impending floods came via horseback
niu says the government has spent $1.3 billion since 1949 to harness the river, and is now planning a new dam at xiaolangdi, eastern henan, that should reduce sediment buildup by 40 percent over 50 years
there are other, more visionary plans, such as changing the course of the river _ largely discounted as too expensive and disruptive _ and linking the sluggish yellow with its slightly longer sister to the south, the yangtze
the idea is that the yangtze, which carries far much more water than the yellow, would help flush out the sediment on the yellow's riverbed
but deputy director chen stresses that ``most important is solving the sediment problem by soil conservation in the loess region. without vegetation, the problem of silt will only get worse.''
china has used the waters of the river to irrigate more than 10 million acres, five times the amount of irrigated land in 1949
but tree-plantings and other anti-erosion campaigns still cover only about one-fourth of the 172,000 square miles of loess plateau that loses its fragile topsoil to the river
engineer niu says he's sure deaths could be avoided if the waters rose to desperately high levels in the future. but up to 1 million people might have to be moved and $270 million in damages could be sustained if water has to be released into emergency retention areas
along the river near zhengzhou, where the soil was once too alkaline to produce anything but salt, irrigation has made the rice paddies the most productive in henan
i remember how afraid the peasants were when work began in 1955 to open the dike for the irrigation gate,'' says local resident shi. ``they thought chairman mao was breaking the dikes just as chiang kai-shek before him.''
now i don't hate the river,'' says 70-year-old farmer cui xingxian, who stood on the wall as the nationalist troops destroyed it. ``in the past i feared the river, but now i love it.'' photos.)</note>
it was 10 years ago that we first met the ewing family, those oil barons of the southfork ranch and cbs' ``dallas.''
how times have changed _ and how ``dallas'' has changed
few people today remember that the original star of ``dallas'' was pamela barnes ewing, played by victoria principal, and that her marriage to bobby ewing (patrick duffy) would give the show its theme of ``romeo and juliet.'' the feuding barneses and the ewings would be the show's montagues and capulets. it also had a dash of ``giant'' and ``peyton place'' tossed in
it was even considered, but only briefly, that bobby would be killed in the fifth episode and it would be pam vs. the family
j.r. ewing, played by larry hagman, was a supporting character, and his wife, sue ellen (linda gray), was such a minor character she didn't even speak in the first show on april 2, 1978. the script referred to her only as the ``brunette on the couch'' and didn't even identify her as j.r.'s wife
still, hagman emerged with the meatiest role in the first show and he made the most of it. ``he is deliciously wicked as he attempts to eject principal from the family bosom by any foul means,'' a pre-debut story said
writer david jacobs created the show with pamela as the focus. ``this is a poor girl who marries into a rich family _ and her own family's enemy,'' jacobs said in a 1978 interview
dallas'' was actually a spinoff of ``knots landing,'' although ``dallas'' got on the air first. the dallas locale was picked because cbs and lorimar productions wanted to get away from the usual los angeles background
it all seems like yesterday and a hundred years ago,'' says leonard katzman, the current executive producer. he has been with the show since the beginning except for the season when both he and patrick duffy left the show. he calls it ``the season that didn't exist'' because it was all passed off as pamela's dream when duffy returned
he says there is some talk of putting together a retrospective of the show's 10 years during the summer for a special
we came on in the spring with five shows,'' he recalls. ``as far as we knew that's all we were going to do. then cbs picked us up for seven more shows. then enough shows to complete the first full season. we had a cliffhanger that year, but nobody remembers it.''
few remember the first cliffhanger, in which sue ellen wrecked her car and you didn't know if she and her unborn baby would survive
the second cliffhanger, in 1980, caused a phenomenon around the world that was unprecedented in the history of television. ``who shot j.r.?'' was on the lips of millions upon millions of people, from seattle to new york to london to paris
by the time it was revealed that kristin had pulled the trigger, ``dallas'' had climbed to no. 1 in the nielsen ratings. it reigned over the ratings for the next four years, slipping once to second place, until nbc overtook cbs as the first-place network and ``the cosby show'' put the sitcoms back at the top of the ratings
a less well-known event of the summer of 1980 occurred when hagman asked lorimar to raise his salary to $100,000 an episode. lorimar not only refused but told hagman that j.r. could wake up in the hospital after plastic surgery and be robert culp
hagman got the last laugh, however. katzman says he is by far the highest paid performer on television today. ``and several other people on `dallas' are not too far behind,'' he says
dallas'' captured the interest of the audience, katzman believes, because there had never been a family like this on television before
they were very wealthy, but they had no airs,'' he says. ``jim davis was plain folks. they fought with each other, then made up. plus, we showed that you can't equate money with happiness.''
dallas'' did not become a serial until its first full season
sue ellen became pregnant and no one knew whether the father was j.r. or cliff barnes,'' says katzman. ``we carried that story for quite a while. it caught on with the audience. so we began doing more stories that ran from week to week
we also found ourselves with the greatest character in television, j.r. ewing. it's hard to say when he began to emerge, but it was probably the end of the fifth show when pam lost her baby. j.r. and pam had a fight in a hayloft and she fell and lost the baby. at first he seemed contrite, then you began to see how wicked he could be.''
jim davis, who played jock, the patriarch of the ewings, died in 1981
jim represented something we've never been able to recapture,'' says katzman. ``as bad as the boys could be, if he walked into a room and told them to knock it off they did. i think the audience responded to that strong head of the family and the warm woman (barbara bel geddes as miss ellie) at the other end of the table
much of j.r.'s motivation was looking good in his father's eyes. when jim died that motivation disappeared. so we had to transfer it to his son. after that, when he did something terrible it was to build the empire for his son, as his father had done for him.''
others have left the series and returned. donna reed replaced bel geddes as miss ellie when she had heart surgery. charlene tilton, who plays lucy ewing cooper, left the show but returned this season. patrick duffy quit in 1985, but returned after missing one season _ the famous season that disappeared as pam's dream. pam herself is now gone with the departure of victoria principal
every departure shifted relationships. without bobby, j.r. had no one to hold him in check. pamela's departure separates her brother, cliff barnes (ken kercheval) from the ewings
is ``dallas'' a soap opera or a spoof?
we play it straight, although we sometimes take it to extremes,'' katzman says. ``we've never taken ourselves as seriously as some other shows. `knots landing' is the most reality-based show. we have our own reality, but it's a fictitious reality.''
next season, cbs and lorimar are considering a move away from the serial format. either every story would begin and end within an episode, or in the manner of ``l.a. law'' and ``st. elsewhere,'' some storylines would be resolved and some would carry over a few weeks
this show will last as long as the actors want to keep on doing it,'' says katzman
hicks' job doesn't end when the curtain goes up. during the performance, she's in the dressing room or the wings, ready to do minor touch-ups
as for crawford, the makeup is with him for 12 hours on wednesdays and saturdays, when he performs twice; seven hours on the four days when he does just one show
at the end of the show, hicks applies vast amounts of mineral oil to remove the makeup, which is peeled off gently so as not to irritate the skin
there aren't many makeup jobs in theater because nowadays actors learn to do their own makeup,'' says hicks, who grew up in surrey and moved to oxford before going to london to study at complexions, the london school of makeup
hicks met tucker, the makeup designer, when he spoke at the school. he hired her to work on ``phantom.'' it was her first job
it was quite an extensive training period he put her through,'' crawford says. ``i remember him throwing all her brushes from college out the door and saying `what's this, girl? you can't use this, girl.' it was something out of dickens, and i had to sit there absolutely quiet. but it worked.''
hicks adapted quickly to her on-the-job training
we had done a lot of this in theory at school, but in practice i had never done it although i always wanted to get into prosthetic makeup,'' she says
the makeup design for ``phantom'' was first discussed during the summer of 1986, several months before the show opened in london at her majesty's theater. tucker, scenic designer maria bjornson and crawford experimented with many different kinds of makeup. they found they were limited by practical considerations
there were restrictions _ not being able to cover the nose because of breathing or going inside the mouth too far because of the singing or covering the ears because it would interfere with listening to the music,'' crawford says
what the three of them came up with is what hicks tries to recapture at every performance
it's interesting. people say `how can you do the same show every day when you're an actor?''' crawford says. ``it's exactly the same thing with the makeup. it's like painting. every day is a challenge to paint that picture.'' package, ^b0571 and b0572.</head>
little noticed by the rest of the world, a guerrilla war in mozambique has created a new and serious refugee problem in africa, along with its toll in human life and economic loss since it began in 1977. but it also is having a deep impact on mozambique's black-governed neighbors in southern africa and holds the seeds of an even wider regional conflict, swallowing people already struggling with poverty and drought. mozambique, africa's poorest nation, is on the indian ocean and provides its black neighbors their only trading outlet, except for nearby south africa. but the neighbors' efforts to cut their dependence on south africa for trade routes by using a corridor through mozambique have been disrupted by the guerrilla conflict. ``the survival of mozambique is our survival,'' prime minister robert mugabe of zimbabwe says. ``the fall of mozambique certainly also will be our fall.''
here are reports by associated press correspondents on how the war is affecting two of mozambique's closest neighbors. bc-mozambique war-zimbabwe, b0572</head>
in the gnarled branches of ancient baobab trees hundreds of pelicans from mozambique peacefully nest, giving rise to a local joke that even the birds have fled the civil war next door
during one of the incessant deluges that turn the rich farmland into marshes this time of year, manuel thomo and his family, human refugees from the war in mozambique, huddled around a camp fire beneath the branches of another baobab tree, a temporary home for them and several other families
rag-clad and diseased, hungry and frightened, more than 400,000 mozambicans have crossed into neighboring malawi in the past 17 months to escape fighting at home between guerrillas and the government
the refugees have abandoned the poorest country in southern africa for refuge in the region's second poorest nation
this is the major refugee problem in africa south of the sahara, excluding sudan and somalia,'' said raymond mkanda, a tanzanian who heads the united nations high commission for refugees operation in malawi
the pressure on the land is pretty heavy. malawi doesn't have adequate land for its own people and the refugees are occupying land normally used for farming.''
for generations, mozambicans have been welcomed visitors across the 1,000 miles of unguarded border they share with the malawians
but fighting between government troops and the rebel mozambique national resistance, more commonly known by the portuguese acronym renamo, have sent waves of mozambicans fleeing into malawi. mozambique gained independence from portugal in 1975 and has a government based on marxist theory
the refugees have put a strain on malawian resources and caused security problems
drought last year has forced malawi, once one of the africa's few food exporters, to look elsewhere for food to feed its own people
increasingly, men suspected of being renamo fighters have crossed into malawi to steal livestock and relief rations from the refugees. a cattle stealing raid in january ended with the deaths of three malawian villagers who resisted the raiders, officials said. they were the first malawian casualties of the cross-border intrusions, which also have cost the lives of several mozambican refugees
landlocked malawi is one of africa's smallest and most densely populated countries _ nearly 8 million people in the country about the size of pennsylvania
the u.n. high commission for refugees estimates the number of mozambican refugees in malawi will reach a 500,000 by the end of the year
half a million refugees in a small country like malawi is a very big problem,'' said s.s. kamvazina, principal secretary in the ministry of health and the chairman of the joint committee responsible for the refugees' care
an estimated 330,000 more mozambican war refugees are in nearby tanzania, south africa, swaziland, zambia and zimbabwe, according to the unhcr
most of the refugees arrive with similar stories of abuse from both sides in the mozambican conflict
government troops accuse civilians of collaborating with the rebels and take reprisals. renamo fighters, in turn, frequently force villagers to carry supplies on long marches. the civilians who falter or weaken are beaten or killed, some of the refugees have charged
some of the refugees take weeks wandering through the countryside to avoid fighting,'' mkanda said
for others, it's a short walk across an asphalt ribbon known as m1, malawi's major north-south road connecting the capital, lilongwe, with blantyre, the country's largest town
for 60 miles, m1 serves as the border between malawi and mozambique
lush fields of maize (corn) and other crops crowd both sides of the road
but while mud huts dot the landscape on the malawian side, abandoned buildings and deserted huts line the mozambican side
the former owners have fled, taking tin from the roofs and windows from the buildings to use in build new homes on the malawi side of the road
during the day, some mozambicans venture across the road to work their old fields, but never too far inland to risk running into a rebel or government patrol
mozambicans living along m1 were among the first to flee the fighting. that first mass movement, in september 1986, brought 40,000 refugees to malawi. three months later, the number had nearly doubled and by march 1987 it reached 100,000
over the next 12 months the refugee population quadrupled
it's very difficult for the government to cope with the problem,'' said kamvanzina, the health ministry official. ``we get no notice that tomorrow so many people are coming in.''
more than 168,000 mozambicans have settled here in the southernmost district of nsanje, the largest refugee concentration. refugees now outnumber the local population and the surrounding mountainsides are being denuded by the newcomers who fell trees for firewood and huts
because of the influx _ as many as 100 a day _ it takes up to 10 days for officials to build even temporary shelter for the new arrivals. many of the refugees in the teeming camp near mangkokwe wear clothing fashioned from burlap sacks that once held their rations
those who are coming in now are in terrible condition _ malnutrition, no clothes, tuberculosis,'' said district commissioner geoff mwanja, the chief government officer for nsanje. ``war has reduced human beings to beasts. if there was a way of ending this thing, it would be very, very nice.''
the u.n. refugee commission has budgeted $13 million for malawi in 1988 _ a ``seriously conservative figure,'' mkanda said
international aid has started to pour in, including $1.2 million from the u.s. agency for internationnal development
repatriation is the most durable solution,'' mkanda said
nobody expects that soon
they might be here for some time _ five years, 10 years,'' mkanda said. ``even if there is change tomorrow in mozambique, that doesn't mean that everybody will leave.'' bc-mozambique war-malawi, b0571</head>
a decade ago, thousands of guerrillas flooded across the border from mozambique to mount a final assault against the white-minority government in what then was call rhodesia
today, eight years after rhodesia became black-governed zimbabwe, battalions of troops, including guerrilla veterans of that independence war, are strung along the same border _ this time to block a new wave of incursions by guerrillas fighting to overthrow mozambique's government
the outcome of the guerrillas' strikes in mozambique and inside zimbabwe will have a major impact on the fragile economies of the troubled region in southern africa
several black-ruled states are striving to divert their trade traffic from south africa to indian ocean ports in mozambique, a former portuguese colony, in a bid to loosen their economic dependency on the south africans
the rebels, in turn, vow to continue sabotaging mozambique's supply lines that also serve malawi, zaire, zambia and zimbabwe
so far, the 12,000 to 20,000 guerrillas of the anti-government mozambique national resistance seem unharried by the conventional forces ranged against them in mozambique and zimbabwe _ some 30,000 mozambican regulars, more than 12,000 zimbabweans, 2,000 tanzanians and a few hundred malawians
the guerrillas, who call themselves nationalists opposing a marxist-based government, roam mozambique's 10 provinces and mount frequent raids into zimbabwe with virtual impunity
it's very strange being on the other side,'' said a young zimbabwean corporal who fought the rhodesians under the name comrade hammer
we know from our experience it's hard to beat guerrillas. but these people are just bandits and at least we know exactly how they think and what they might do next.''
the guerrillas, known by the portuguese acronym renamo, originally were formed by the rhodesian intelligence service in 1977, two years after mozambique's independence from portugal, to harass nationalist guerrillas directed by robert mugabe from inside mozambique during zimbabwe's 1973-79 independence war
mugabe became zimbabwe's prime minister at independence from britain in april 1980 and cut support to the mozambican rebels. but south africa took over the reins until 1984 when it signed a non-aggression pact with mozambique. since then, mozambique claims south african support has continued, a charge denied by the south african government
the mozambican rebels declared war on zimbabwe last year after mugabe vowed that a quarter of his forces stationed in mozambique would fight to keep its government in power
since then they have stepped up raids along the 750-mile frontier of forested mountains and scrub-dotted plains
rebels have killed scores of villagers and some security-force militias. they have abducted hundreds of civilians, including children, and marched them at gunpoint into mozambique, apparently as dragooned recruits
they also have destroyed government schools, clinics and development projects; robbed country stores and remote homesteads of food, drink and clothing; ambushed buses and looted passengers; ordered workers to leave forestry estates, coffee plantations and orchards; rustled cattle, sheep and goats
mugabe has exhorted his troops ``to erect an impassable defense along our border'' to prevent fresh incursions
he also urged them to renew military efforts inside mozambique ``to completely deny the enemy any ... chance to sabotage our arteries to the sea.''
lt. col. solomon mujuru, a wartime guerrilla chieftain and now zimbabwe's army commander, called on civilians living along the frontier to report people they suspect might have links to the guerrillas
but mujuru said zimbabwean troops had gained the upper hand in counterinsurgency operations since the first major incursions eight months ago
before june, mujuru's soldiers and the rebels clashed only in mozambique
since then, troops of zimbabwe's new 5,000-member 6th brigade have reinforced border defenses, militias are guarding farms, villages, schools and clinics and cross-border movement has been banned except at established immigration posts
anti-personnel mines have been sown where guerrillas are thought to cross into zimbabwqe and the identification papers of some 65,000 mozambican refugees in three camps are being screened by local authorities and the united nations high commission for refugees
in addition, courts have cracked down on local peasants suspected of links to the insurgents. early in february, a mutare judge sent a woman to prison for six years and a man for five years for failing to report the presence of bandits to officials
at stake in the conflict is not only the survival of mozambique, its economy already in ruins as a result of fighting and famine
also at issue is the fate of the so-called beira corridor, a 186-mile trade route that meanders through mountains, fertile valleys and swamps from the zimbabwean border city to the indian ocean port of beira in mozambique
a fifth of the overseas trade of the black-ruled neighbor states flows along the corridor's railroads and highways. landlocked zimbabwe receives most of its fuel suppliers from a corridor pipeline despite repeated sabotage by the guerrillas. most of that trade and oil previously went through south africa
both mugabe and president joaquim chissano of mozambique have rejected suggestions that they hold peace talks with the guerrillas, arguing that the rebels are puppets of south africa's government and have no support from either the east or the west
mugabe, at the graduation ceremony for the 6th brigade in september, said he was forced to form the unit because of what he called south african destabilization in the region
south africa's subversion of mozambique's ... sovereignity had the potential to completely deny us any routes to the sea,'' mugabe said
the survival of mozambique is our survival,'' mugabe said. ``the fall of mozambique certainly also will be our fall.''
the nation that wants to turn the indian ocean into a ``zone of peace'' has just acquired a nuclear submarine to add to its two aircraft carriers and 110 other naval vessels
india's acquisition last month of the nuclear submarine from the soviet union is part of a naval expansion since failing in its efforts of almost 20 years to clear the indian ocean of big-power navies
the expansion has aroused criticism from neighboring pakistan and the united states, which has warships in the ocean along with the soviet union, britain and france
within the past two years, india also has acquired five conventional submarines, its second aircraft carrier and at least five indian-built navy ships
it has plans to buy more _ including possibly other soviet nuclear subs _ and to build warships ranging from submarines to another aircraft carrier for its fleet
it's the full range of naval warfare. they're building a first-class navy,'' a western naval analyst said
when the 47,000-member indian navy got the carrier hermes from britain last year and renamed it viraat (imposing), the chief of naval staff at the time, adm. r.h. tahiliani, said: ``we finally have a round-the-clock blue (deep) water navy.''
while greater naval strength seems to belie india's pleas before the united nations for a zone of peace in the indian ocean, it matches the country's growing might
india also has a 1-million-man army, the world's fourth largest, and is acquiring modern weapons
each step up, however, is ascribed to the need to match the growing arsenals of others, chiefly neighboring rivals pakistan and china but also the western powers
the strategies of outside powers in our region have forced upon us expenditure in building military strength which we would much rather have deployed for the removal of poverty,'' prime minister rajiv gandhi said as the nuclear sub chakra was commissioned
the indian ocean has been militarized and infested with nuclear weapons flouting the overwhelming sentiment within the region in favor of establishing a zone of peace.''
india first proposed a zone of peace for the indian ocean in the early 1970s, and the non-aligned movement (third world) endorsed the concept. the proposal then went to the u.n. general assembly, which in 1971 adopted a declaration calling for a peace zone and urging the dismantling of big powers' air and naval bases in the indian ocean. but a planned u.n. conference on the issue has never been held, although a committee has been meeting in hopes of bringing one about by 1990
the soviet union has endorsed the idea, but the united states has not
india's naval buildup initially was attributed to the development of a u.s. navy base in the early 1980s at diego garcia, an island in the chagos archipelago about 1,000 miles southwest of india
an indian naval expert, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he did not believe his nation faces a real threat from u.s. or other western ships protecting oil shipping in the persian gulf, but he added: ``if you have troubled waters close to home, you think about what you might have to do.''
he said india believed more sea power was needed to protect its 4,937 miles of coastline and to keep a competitive edge in naval technology
of the newly acquired nuclear sub, he said: ``it's a system without which a navy is not viable. it takes the game to a new step altogether.''
prime minister mohammad khan junejo of pakistan has condemned the acquisition of the sub as an escalation of the military buildup in the region. press reports say pakistan, with no nuclear submarine, is pressing the united states for p-3 anti-submarine aircraft
u.s. state department spokesman charles redman has said india's acquisition of a nuclear sub ``clearly introduces a new weapons technology into the south asian region.''
the united states is opposed to india having a nuclear submarine because of a lack of safeguards, redman added
neither india nor pakistan has signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. india exploded a nuclear device in 1974, and pakistan is thought to be on the verge of developing nuclear weapons. both nations say their nuclear plans are peaceful in design
the new chakra submarine, for the moment leased by the soviets to the indian navy, is not believed to carry nuclear weapons
the western naval analyst, who insisted his name not be used, said the charlie i class sub is ``1960s technology. it's an old boat.''
india's second aircraft carrier, the viraat, was originally commissioned in 1959, and the western expert noted that india ``does not have enough planes for one carrier, let alone two.''
india, however, is buying british sea harrier aircraft and sea king commando helicopters for its carriers
it also has bought three late-1970s vintage kilo class soviet submarines and two west german hdw 209s, called ``search and kill subs,'' to update its fleet of eight soviet-made foxtrot subs
in addition, india is upgrading its three shipyards to build warships and constructing its largest naval base near karwar, 285 miles south of bombay on the west coast
there are reports the navy is expanding an existing base on its far-flung nicobar islands, 1,035 miles from the country's southern tip but only about 100 miles from indonesia
the indian naval expert saw these developments in light of india's need to protect itself
you need military power for your own security, not that you have expansionist ambitions,'' he said
his western counterpart said india's rationale for an expanding navy was its view of itself as the regional power of south asia
indian navy men also see themselves as heirs to british sea power from the days when britain controlled the indian ocean to protects its trade routes to asia, the western analyst said
they want a navy they can operate throughout the indian ocean,'' he said. ``the brits were there before. they want to be there too.''
wednesday is the 20th anniversary of the massacre of civilians by u.s. troops at the vietnamese village of my lai. the writer, who covered the vietnam war as an associated press correspondent for 10 years and was the ap's last saigon bureau chief, returned to southeast asia a decade after the war ended and visited my lai in december 1984
at 7:22 on a saturday morning 20 years ago, charlie company lifted off in helicopters with rifles on their arms and revenge in their hearts. the infantrymen were on a mission to my lai that would become synonymous with shame and cover-up
two minutes after they were airborne on that day, march 16, 1968, u.s. artillery guns firing in support from landing zone uptight indiscriminately shelled the village. helicopter gunships raked the landing zone with rockets and machine gun fire
the thundering artillery, the whistling rockets and the steady clatter of machine guns sent villagers who had been working in the rice paddies diving for cover along the dikes and in the buffalo pits in the fields. others, like pham thi trinh, then a 10-year-old schoolgirl, and her family, took refuge in homemade shelters in front of their huts
as the troop-carrying helicopters from task force barker made their final approach, smoke from fires touched off by the artillery poured into the skies. at 7:30, the first troops landed, aroused about a grudge operation aimed at evening the score for the american casualties suffered from mines, booby traps and snipers
the attitude of all the men, the majority, i would say, was a revengeful attitude,'' said gregory olson in testimony at a military inquiry into the my lai assault. ``they all felt a little bad because (we) lost a number of buddies to may lai.''
people were talking about killing everything that moved,'' recalled another participant, robert pendleton. ``everyone knew what we were going to do.''
they had been briefed the day before on their target: the 48th viet cong local force battalion, perhaps as many as 250 troops that intelligence said posed a threat to the provincial capital of quang ngai city 6 miles away. their mission: to destroy their supply base and staging area
when we left the briefing, we felt we were going to have a lot of resistance and we knew we were supposed to kill everyone in the village,'' recalled william lloyd
capt. ernest l. medina, the commander of charlie company, told his troops the civilians would be on their way to the local marketplaces in quang ngai city by 7 a.m. but that was not the case
charlie company's 1st platoon, led by lt. william l. calley, jr., moved into my lai firing at fleeing vietnamese, throwing grenades into houses and bunkers, and slaughtering animals
we heard the sound of american soldiers,'' pham thi trinh told a reporter years later. ``people hiding in the shelter got out as they usually did when americans entered the village.'' the u.s. troops ordered her family and four neighbors to the front of the house, she said. she hid in a bedroom
they shot to death three cows first,'' she said. ``then they knelt and shot my family. people tried to run away. my parents, six brothers and sisters, grandmother and aunt and uncle were killed.''
after shooting her mother, she said, the americans placed straw on the woman and lighted it. she said that when her 14-year-old sister ran from the burning kitchen of their home, laughing soldiers forced her back into the fire. pham thi trinh ran to her 76-year-old grandmother's house and found her body partly inside a clothes cupboard where she had tried to hide
vo thi lien, then 11, was in a shelter with her grandparents
i saw three american soldiers point guns and shoot into the shelter and then throw grenades into it and hit my grandmother,'' she said. numbed and unable to find a way out of the collapsing shelter, she and her grandfather finally were rescued by some villagers
by the time charlie company left my lai in the early afternoon, its troops had killed at least 175-200 vietnamese men, women and children, according to the 1970 report of the army inquiry headed by the late lt. gen. william r. peers
the evidence indicates that only three or four were confirmed as viet cong, although there were undoubtedly several unarmed viet cong men, women and children among them and many more active supporters and sympathizers,'' the peers report said
separate estimates by the criminal investigation division of the army together with other evidence indicated more than 400 civilians were killed
a plaque in my lai is inscribed with the names of 504 men, women and children vietnamese officials say died in the massacre
the only american casualty reported in charlie company was a soldier who was wounded by the discharge of his rifle
members of calley's platoon testified before the peers inquiry that an old man was bayoneted to death and another man was thrown alive into a well and killed with a hand grenade
of calley, the central figure of my lai, the peers report said: ``he directed and supervised the men of his platoon in the systematic killing of many non-combatants in and around my lai. he personally participated in the killing of some non-combatants.''
of the leader of the 2nd platoon, lt. steven k. brooks, one of four officers involved in may lai who were killed in action in the following months, the report said: ``he directed and supervised the men of his platoon in the systematic killing of at least 60 to 70 non-combatants. although he knew that a number of his men habitually raped vietnamese women in villages during operations, on 16 march, 1968, he observed, did not prevent, and failed to report several rapes by members of his platoon while in my lai ... and binh tay.''
some vietnamese were spared by the courage of an american helicopter pilot who threatened to fire on his fellow soldiers if they harmed a group of 12 to 16 vietnamese women, children and old men cowering in a bunker
warrant officer hugh thompson landed his helicopter near the bunker and ordered his crew to fire on the american infantrymen if they fired on the vietnamese while he was trying to get them evacuated
thompson said he asked a lieutenant to help get the women and children out, and the infantry officer replied that the only way to get them out was with a hand grenade. thompson snapped back at the lieutenant: ``just hold your men right where they are and i'll get the kids out.'' the vietnamese were safely evacuated
the outside world knew nothing of my lai for more than a year. the peers inquiry cited 28 officers ranging from generals to enlisted men for covering up the massacre
on march 29, 1969, ron ridenhour, a vietnam veteran, sent letters to 30 military and congressional leaders saying he had heard many reports from soldiers who had served in charlie company that something ``very black'' had happened in my lai and a public investigation should be made
eight months later, on nov. 24, 1969, calley was ordered court-martialed on charges of premeditated murder of 109 vietnamese
if i have committed a crime,'' calley said in his defense, ``the only crime that i have committed is in judgment of my values. apparently i have valued my troops' lives more than i did that of the enemy. when my troops were getting massacred and mauled by an enemy i couldn't see, i couldn't feel and i couldn't touch; that nobody in the military ever described as anything other than communism
they didn't give it a race, they didn't give it a sex, they didn't give it an age. they never let me believe it was just a philosophy in a man's mind. that was my enemy out there and when it came between me and that enemy, i had to value the lives of my troops, and i feel that is the only crime i have committed.''
in march 1971, a jury of six senior officers convicted calley of first-degree murder of at least 22 villagers, including a boy fleeing in terror whom calley tossed into a ditch and shot
calley was ordered to spend life in prison
his conviction and sentence touched off a public outcry in his support including national petition campaigns, angry speeches in congress and appeals to president richard nixon to pardon him. five months later, nixon reduced his sentence to 20 years
calley actually served three years under house arrest at fort benning, ga. he was released when his conviction was overturned by a federal district judge, and he was not returned to house arrest when the 5th u.s. court of appeals reinstated the conviction
calley was the only soldier convicted in the my lai massacre, but it became the graveyard for several army careers
initially, 25 officers and enlisted men were charged, 13 of them accused of direct involvement in the killing. but only six were actually tried, including medina, the company commander
the highest ranking officer tried, col. oran k. henderson, commander of the 11th infantry brigade, of which charlie company was a part, was acquitted of charges of failing to conduct an investigation after he was told civilians had been killed
administrative action was taken against two generals, one of them demoted and the other censured
the peers report said no single factor by itself was the cause of my lai
the battle plan by lt. col. frank a. barker, commander of the task force bearing his name, contained inaccurate intelligence on the strength and whereabouts of the viet cong and wrongly assumed no civilians would be in the area, the report said. it said barker and his subordinates failed to make any clear distinction between soldiers and civilians
barker was killed in a helicopter crash three months later
the report said many men in charlie company disliked and mistreated vietnamese civilians and did not trust them because they failed to warn the americans of mines and booby traps, which took a heavy toll of casualties, frustrating and demoralizing the u.s. troops
another contributing factor, the report said, was the attitude of south vietnamese officials themselves toward the my lai area, which they considered viet cong-controlled territory and treated as a free fire zone with little concern about the villagers. this attitude rubbed off on the americans, the report said
although atrocities were committed by both sides in the vietnam war, my lai shocked the united states, a nation that took pride in fighting by the rules of war
today, my lai is a memorial to its victims. the bodies of the men, women and children rest in the cemeteries and surrounding fields
in the center of the village is a large statue of a woman holding a child in her left arm. at her feet are victims of the massacre
my lai was reborn when the war ended in 1975. twenty years after the attack, it is alive again with the scent of flowers in bloom and the laughter of a new generation of children
a score of springs have come and gone for paul meadlo since he left vietnam. but time has not dulled his memory of my lai
i got a permanent reminder,'' said meadlo in a telephone interview from his home in terre haute, ind. ``i got my foot blowed off the very next morning. it must have been god's plan.''
meadlo was a 21-year-old rifleman on march 16, 1968, when charlie company swept through the village of my lai and killed at least 175-200 men, women and children
granted immunity, he testified at the court-martial of his platoon leader, lt. william l. calley jr., that he helped calley shoot some of them because as far as he was concerned they were viet cong
it's just something you've got to live with,'' he said. ``it's rough. eventually you just got to cross it out of your mind and go on with your life.''
meadlo, now 41, said that when he first left the army it was hard to get a job because of the loss of his right foot to a mine. ``i'm still bitter about this forever.''
he eventually landed a job with a company that makes plastic film and has been there nearly 20 years. he has a 20-year-old son and a 19-year-old daughter, both of whom are in the army
four other men involved in my lai were killed in action in the months afterward, including lt. col. frank a. barker, of new haven, conn., who planned the operation
like meadlo, my lai left its imprint on the others who survived and forever changed their lives
for ernest medina, the commander of charlie company, it meant the end of an army career
i had to resign my commission and get out, setting aside 16{ years service,'' medina told the associated press recently. even though he was acquitted in a court-martial, his career was ruined
medina moved with his wife and three children to marinette, wis., in 1971. he worked as a salesman for a helicopter manufacturer for a time, but for 10 years has been in the real estate business. his two youngest sons are in the service
now 51, medina looks back on my lai as a ``horrendous thing'' that never should have happened
i have regrets for it but i have no guilt over it because i didn't cause it,'' he said. ``that's not what the military, particularly the united states army, is trained for
but then again, maybe the war should have never happened,'' he said. ``i think if everybody were to look at it in hindsight, i'm sure a lot of the politicians and generals would think of it otherwise. maybe it was a war that we should have probably never gotten involved in as deeply as we did without the will to win it.''
medina said that in looking for the cause of my lai there is a need to look at the whole vietnam war
it's just totally different,'' he said. ``there were no front lines. it wasn't a conventional type war. it was a guerrilla war. it's something i feel a lot of draftees were not trained for, a lot of the officers were not trained. i'm talking not just about lieutenants. i'm talking about senior officers ...''
another soldier who was court-martialed and acquitted, charles hutto, now lives with his family in monroe, la., where he works as a television repairman. now 39, he was a 19-year-old sergeant at my lai
asked the lessons of my lai, he said, ``give young boys time to grow up mentally before you send them to fight a war.''
hutto said he has overcome a drinking problem that developed as he tried ``to cope with what happened in my life during that time and wondering how come it didn't happen to someone else. i was at the wrong place at the wrong time.''
calley, the central figure in my lai, declined to talk to a reporter, maintaining the silence he has kept over the years. now 44, he works in columbus, ga., with his father-in-law, v.v. vick, owner of a jewelry store
calley, the only soldier convicted in the case, served three years under house arrest at fort benning, ga
the man who exposed my lai, ron ridenhour, was never there. now 41, he is an investigative reporter for citybusiness, a biweekly newspaper in new orleans. he recently won a polk award for local reporting for a yearlong investigation of a city tax scandal
but 20 years ago, he was a door gunner on an observation helicopter that flew over the village a few days after the massacre. it was his conscience that drove him to blow the whistle, but he waited for several months until he was out of the service because he feared for his life
he learned what had happened at my lai a month later when he was transferred to a long-range reconnaissance patrol and was reunited with half a dozen of his friends from training camp who had been at the village with charlie company. they told him the story
in march of 1969, four months after his discharge, he sent letters to 30 military and congressional leaders detailing what he had been told
there's no question i had to turn in my friends,'' he said. ``but it was that or be part of their crime. i believe, though, that they are also victims that maybe carried the brunt of of what was really an official policy. i don't regret it. it exposed the truth. i didn't think people had massacres like my lai in mind when they supported the war in vietnam.''
the board of governors of the postal service may decide this week to boost u.s. postage rates, including an increase in the cost of first-class letters to 25 cents from 22 cents
the independent postal rate commission recommended on friday a series of postage rate hikes totaling 17.5 percent. the postal service requested a 16 percent increase. the rate proposals now go to the board of governors of the postal service, and could be ordered into effect within two weeks
the economy's growth slowed in february although exporters continued to show strength, the nation's purchasing managers say
the national association of purchasing management said sunday its index fell to 54.9 percent in february from 57.4 percent in january and was the lowest since a reading of 54.7 percent in april 1987
a reading above 50 percent indicates that the economy is generally expanding; a reading below that indicates it is generally declining
the nation's civilian unemployment rate has dropped to 5.7 percent, indicating a stronger u.s. economy than most analysts had thought
the bureau of labor statistics said friday that the unemployment rate fell by 0.1 percentage point from 5.8 percent in december and january. non-farm payrolls rose by 531,000 jobs, a separate survey said
chicago banker a. robert abboud has won shareholder approval of his $1.5 billion plan to rescue first city bancorporation of texas inc
the plan approved friday includes nearly $1 billion in federal assistance, a spin-off of poorly performing assets and an infusion of privately-raised capital. abboud will be become chairman of board and chief executive officer upon consummation of deal
j.a. elkins jr., first city's senior board chairman, said the bank had received a commitment for a line of credit and obtained necessary tax rulings to complete the transaction
takeover target american standard inc. has sweetened a defensive recapitalization plan to $2.3 billion, but hostile pursuer black &amp; decker corp. countered by raising its takeover offer to $2.2 billion
american standard's sweetened recapitalization offer, announced friday, would pay shareolders $64 in cash, $5 in securities and one share of stock in the recapitalized company for each old share. the earlier cash portion was $59
black &amp; decker, a towson, md.-based maker of tools and appliances that has been pursuing american standard since late january, responded by raising its offer from $68 a share to $73 for american standard's 31 million shares
campeau corp. says it would sell the filene's and foley's divisions of federated department stores inc. to may department stores co. if campeau succeeds in its $6.18 billion tender offer for federated
campeau, which is battling r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. for federated, said friday the sale of the two department store divisions would bring between $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion and help finance its acquisition
campeau is proceeding with a tender offer for federated although federated has agreed to be acquired by macy in a cash-and-stock deal valued by some analysts at $6.1 billion
iu international corp., which had resisted neoax inc.'s repeated takeover bids for the past two months, has agreed to a merger at a sweetened price of $22.25 per share
neoax, a stamford, conn.-based manufacturing firm, had raised its offer a fourth time on friday, from $22 per share, and the two sides began negotiating an agreement, the companies said sunday
based on iu's 27.4 million common shares outstanding, the buyout has an indicated value of $609.6 million
u.s. monetary authorities bought $4.14 billion in foreign-exchange markets to support the dollar in november, december and january, the heaviest intervention since 1979, the federal reserve bank of new york says
the concerted purchases were only partially successful. the dollar plummeted to record lows at the end of december in spite of heavy intervention, but then partially rebounded in the first days of the new year as market psychology shifted
the federal reserve bank of new york, which carries out foreign-exchange operations on behalf of the federal reserve and the treasury department, disclosed the operations in a report released friday
president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget would produce a deficit of $165 billion, a congressional report says
the deficit estimate released friday by the congressional budget office is $30 billion higher than the white house office of management and budget says the president's spending plan would create
the differences are mainly because cbo is more pessimistic about the how the economy will perform than the administration is
northwest airlines flew two ``unairworthy'' jetliners, improperly delayed aircraft repairs and broke other safety rules, the federal aviation administration says
the faa made those disclosures with the release of a 110-page report friday detailing a month-long investigation of the airline's operations
northwest said it plans to ``respond completely to each and every one of the findings on march 25.''
the former chairman of a connecticut bank and a stockbroker have been charged in connection with insider trading that allegedly occurred before the bank's 1986 purchase of a bank in maine
the indictments of robert digennaro, 40, former chairman of the suffield savings bank, and arthur silverman, 62, of west hartford represented the first criminal insider trading charges brought in connecticut, u.s. attorney stanley twardy said friday
stock prices declined slightly friday as the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 5.63 to 2,057.86
bond prices tumbled and interest rates surged after the government reported unexpectedly high february employment levels
the dollar slipped against most major currencies in foreign exchange trading, but gold prices rose sharply as inflation fears reawakened
soybean futures prices fell sharply while grains were mostly lower; livestock and meat futures were mixed and energy futures moved higher
after a two-month fight that saw iu international corp. repeatedly spurn buyout offers from neoax inc., the diversified companies have agreed to a merger valued at nearly $610 million
the companies announced sunday that neoax had agreed to pay $22.25 per share for each of iu's 27.4 million common shares outstanding
neoax, a stamford, conn.-based manufacturing concern, had sweetened its offer on friday from $22 per share, and the two sides began negotiating an agreement, the companies said in a joint news release
iu's board of directors, which had recommended its stockholders ignore neoax's earlier bids, unanimously endorsed the latest offer
iu shares rose 12{ cents to $22 friday on the new york stock exchange. neoax rose $1.75 to $9.25 a share in national over-the-counter trading
iu, a wilmington, del., diversified services company with executive offices in philadelphia, had been fighting neoax since jan. 6, when the connecticut firm launched a $17.50-a-share offer for iu
iu on feb. 23 agreed to a $21.50 a share leveraged buyout led by members of management and the investment firm dean witter capital corp., but neoax quickly raised its bid to $22 a share and the leveraged buyout proposal later was withdrawn
neoax's new offer will expire at 9 a.m. est march 21, according to neoax spokesman joe mansi. as of sunday, neoax had received tenders of about 1.2 million iu shares under its tender offer
iu was founded 64 years ago in philadelphia as a holding company for electric and gas utilities in the united states and canada. by the early 1980s the company had evolved into one of the country's biggest trucking companies. its current businesses include paper and food distribution, trucking and environmental services, including waste management and slag recovery at steel mills
neoax is the former white motor corp., a major manufacturer of large trucks. it sought protection under chapter 11 of of the federal bankruptcy act in 1980, emerging 3{ years later as northeast ohio axle inc., which was changed to neoax in 1986. it has acquired 11 manufacturing operations since 1983
neoax indicated last month that it had received $383 million in short-term ``bridge'' financing from drexel burnham lambert group inc. for the buyout
iu in 1987 posted a profit of $13.5 million, down from $88.3 million a year earlier, on revenue of $1.57 billion, up from $1.35 billion in 1986
the 1987 results included a $12.7 million loss on the sale of certain operations, while the 1986 results included a $12.8 million gain from the sale of some operations, a $40 million tax credit and a $1.8 million gain from an accounting change
profits from continuing operations rose to $28.6 million from $22.4 million in 1986
iraq is developing new oil fields that will boost its production by 600,000 barrels a day within the next few years, the middle east economic survey reported monday
the respected oil industry weekly newsletter, published in nicosia, quoted authoritative iraqi oil sources as saying the soviet technoexport company has started work on developing the giant west gurna field in southern iraq
it is expected to start production within two years with an initial capacity of around 200,000 barrels a day, the weekly said
a second phase to be carried out in the early 1990s, will raise the capacity of the field, discovered in 1973, to more than 600,000 barrels daily, the newsletter added
iraq is a member of the organization of petroleum exporting countries, but refuses to accept a production quota like the other 12 members of the cartel unless it is equal to iran's quota of 2.4 million barrels a day
oil industry sources say iraq's current output is now about level with iran's. iraq has said it plans to boost its production to around 3 million barrels a day by the end of the year
iran and iraq have been at war since september 1980
isuzu motors ltd. will purchase u.s.-made engines for vehicles it exports and isuzu trucks produced in the united states, a company spokesman said monday
isuzu motors plans to purchase 30,000 gasoline engines from general motors co. annually, of which 10,000 units will be imported to japan, takashi fujii said
the gm engine will be used in about 10 percent of the small pickup trucks and multi-purpose four-wheel drive cars izusu plans to export to the united states from this fall, fujii said
the remaining 20,000 engines will be installed in a third of the 60,000 small pickup trucks izusu will produce annually in an indiana factory set up jointly with fuji heavy industries, to begin in the fall of 1989
the american engines will boost the amount of locally supplied parts from 60 percent to 70 percent, the original target, fujii said
the engines that isuzu plans to purchase are six-cylinder gasoline engines, which gm uses for passenger and commercial vehicles, he said
italian investor carlo de benedetti on monday named new international partners to help him in his bid for control of societe generale de belgique sa
cerus sa, the french investment firm through which de benedetti is vying for control of belgium's largest holding company, said the alliance controlled 47.01 percent of share capital of societe generale
the group is opposed by a franco-belgian alliance which claims a majority stake of 52 percent
for the first time, cerus said the swiss bank banque financiere de la cite, australia's fai insurances ltd. company and the u.s. company odyssey partners were helping its bid for control of the company which has a stake in a third of the belgian economy
earlier known partners are the u.s. investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc., the swiss bank companie de banque et d'investissements and two belgian partners
on monday, the dutch technology giant n.v. philips and the swiss food company nestle sa were invited to become partners
cerus, shearson and cbi have formed the holding company europe 1992 in support of their bid. europe 1992 refers to the date when goods, services and people should be able to move without restrictions in the 12-nation european economic community
de benedetti wants to turn societe generale in a pan-european holding company
de benedetti's rival group is formed around belgium's biggest insurer, groupe ag, and the french investment firm companie financiere de suez. that group wants to keep the 166-year-old societe generale firmly anchored in belgium
both sides have said they wanted to discuss the future of societe generale. but the franco-belgian alliance has said de benedetti must first renounce his ambition to take a leading role in the company and stressed it could also act unilaterally
de benedetti still has a public offer going for more shares to get control of the company. but to extend his offer he needed to name his allies
cerus said within its alliance, europe 1992 had 15.9 percent of societe generale's 28.2 million shares, cbi 11.72 percent, cerus, 9.02 percent, bfc and fai each 3.24 percent, odyssey 0.97 percent and others 2.92 percent
cerus said this breakdown did not include the initial results of its bid for an additional 7 percent of societe generale stock
de benedetti was told to name his allies by belgium's banking commission, a regulatory agency, as a condition for getting approval to extend the bid
societe generale has a stake in some 1,400 companies around the world and has important interests in belgium's energy sector, technology development, strategic resources and the nation's relationship with its former colony zaire
south korea's three automakers reported monday their combined exports soared 97.4 percent in february, to 49,879 cars from 25,270 the same month last year
officials said the february shipments were mostly passenger cars and that more than 90 percent of them to the united states and canada. no breakdown by country was given
hyundai motor co. topped the list with 33,803 autos, followed by kia motors corp. with 10,360 and daewoo motor with 5,716. no year-earlier statistics were given
to the united states and canada, hyundai shipped 29,593 unts and daewoo 5,536. kia said almost all of its february exports went to the united states
the three korean automakers' worldwide exports in the first two months of this year totaled 95,687 cars, up 91.6 percent from the same period last year
hyundai's two month share was 69,636 cars, followed by kia with 13,745 and daewoo with 12,306
the three companies said they plan to export 685,000 cars this year, up about 25 percent from last year
a south korean feed grain purchase mission is scheduled to tour the united states later this month to help reduce the country's trade surplus, the agriculture and fisheries ministry said monday
officials said the group, led by president park chan-kung of the korea feed association, will visit iwoa, missouri and other states to puchase 1 million tons of feed grain such as corn and soy beans
park's aides said the mission is scheduled to leave korea march 20 and stay in the united states for about 10 days
the group also will visit washington to meet with u.s. administration officials and congressmen to try to ease growing american pressure on korea to buy beef and other american farm products
the united states has threatened to take retaliatory steps if korea failed to lift import restrictions. the united states ran a trade deficit of nearly $10 billion with korea last year
china's communist party has proposed amending the national constitution to protect the rights of private businesses and permit the transfer of land-use rights, the official china daily said monday
the report said the amendments would ensure privately owned entities, an increasingly important sector in the chinese economy, the right to exist and develop as a complement to china's socialist system
private businesses, defined as individually owned enterprises with eight or more workers, have existed since 1981, two years after china launched economic reform programs based on encouraging personal initiative and a market-oriented economy
the newspaper said there are now about 225,000 such enterprises. china also has what it calls an individual economy, about 18 million people who run street stalls and other one-man or family operations
the newspaper said the party has submitted the proposals to the national people's congress standing committee, which opened a meeting saturday, and asked the committee to put them on the agenda of the annual full session of the npc, convening later this month
the majority of japanese responding to an opinion poll favored accepting temporary foreign workers into japan if their skills and effciency are needed, the economic planning agency said monday
an agency official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 11.0 percent of those responding thought japan should allow temporary foreign laborers, such as construction workers, waiters, maids and waitresses, to find work in japan without any conditions
he said 63 percent said japan should accept foreign workers under certain conditions. only 4.8 percent opposed japan's acceptance of any foreign workers at all, the official said
the agency questioned 3,000 people aged 20 or over and 1,000 firms throughout the nation at random last october
among japanese firms that had employed foreign workers, 62.7 percent of those responding said they would employ them in the future, while 3.1 percent said they would not employ them any more. the others said they did not know
of the japanese firms that never had employed foreign workers, 21.9 percent of those responding said they would employ them in the future and 29.9 percent said they would not
in general, japan now limits foreigners working here to scholars, language teachers, technicians and performing artists, including musicians and dancers
but an increasig number of foreigners have been working illegally in japan, where wages paid in the strong yen currency make jobs more attractive
last year, the number of foreigners who violated japan's immigration laws _ mostly by working illegally _ rose by 33.6 percent from a year earlier to a record 14,129, the justice ministry said monday
a ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said 11,307 people were caught overstaying their visas and working illegally
the labor ministry asked employers in late january not to hire any foreigners who have only tourist visas
the european economic community's exports dropped 1 percent in 1987, but imports among the 12 nations edged up by the same amount, bringing the eec's foreign trade into balance
eurostat, the community's statistical service, said the eec's sluggish exports picked up in the third quarter, but not enough to make up for lost ground
eec economic data released monday also showed that the community's industrial production rose an estimated 2 percent in 1987 from the previous year. the report said eec industrial output rose 3 percent in the fourth quarter of 1987, the highest growth rate for the past 18 months
growth was boosted by a steep rise in the production of capital goods, which gained 3.7 percent in the fourth quarter compared with the year-earlier period. this was the highest rate of growth for capital production for two years, eurostat said
unemployment rose 2.6 percent in january from the previous month, bringing the number of jobless to 16.7 million, eurostat said
however, it said that january's unemployment figure was about 2.7 percent below that in january 1987. the drop was caused by a decline in the numbers of jobless in the netherlands, belgium, britain, ireland, france and denmark
the stock market headed lower today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.13 to 2,050.73 in the first half hour of trading
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 399 up, 691 down and 454 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 20.88 million shares as of midmorning
prices and interest rates showed little change in early activity in the bond market today
but developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in unemployment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
mobil climbed ~ to 44{ in active trading. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .50 to 149.93. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .87 at 292.87
on friday the dow jones industrial average slipped 5.63 to 2,057.86, reducing its gain for the week to 34.65 points
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 4 on the nyse, with 670 up, 812 down and 480 unchanged. big board volume totaled 201.41 million shares, against 203.31 million in the previous session. with stock price; picks up 7th graf pvs, firestone stock.</note>
italian tire manufacturer pirelli today launched a $1.86 billion offer for firestone tire and rubber co., complicating firestone's plan to sell 75 percent of its tire-making division to bridgestone of japan
pirelli, in an advertisement in the wall street journal, offered $58 a share cash for all 32 million firestone common shares outstanding
pirelli said in a statement today its offer was conditioned on acquiring at least two-thirds of firestone's shares, on the agreement beween firestone and bridgestone not being signed and on the removal of firestone's anti-takeover defenses
we won't have anything more to say until the board has had an opportunity to make a review. i would expect that would begin immediately,'' firestone spokesman robert troyer told the akron beacon journal on sunday in a telephone interview from chicago, home of firestone's corporate headquarters
an acquisition of firestone would substantially increase pirelli's current 1.5 percent share of the u.s. tire market, the world's largest. it would also give the italian company its first manufacturing facilities in the united states
wall street analysts had speculated on thursday that pirelli would make an offer for firestone
firestone's stock leaped $11.37{ a share in early trading today to $61 a share, above pirelli's $58-a-share offer, indicating that speculators expected an even higher offer to emerge
firestone stock closed at $49.62{ friday, up $5.50 for the week in heavy trading. nearly 4.2 million shares of firestone's common stock changed hands last week, compared with about 850,000 in an average week
it was not immediately clear what effect an investment or takeover attempt by pirelli would have on the pending proposed joint venture between firestone and bridgestone corp. firestone's board and ultimately shareholders will have to decide which offer to accept
pirelli could block the bridgestone deal if it was able to purchase a sufficient number of firestone shares
pirelli said today that if it was successful in its bid for firestone, it would spin off parts of the company to the french group michelin
michelin would pay about $650 million to acquire firestone's brazilian holdings as well as master care inc., firestone's u.s. service company, pirelli said
michelin would also have an option to buy 50 percent of firestone's synthetic rubber and diversified product holdings in the united states for about $150 million
on feb. 16, bridgestone and firestone said they intended to form a new akron-based tire business, to be called firestone tire co., that would own firestone's worldwide tire manufacturing operation. bridgestone would own 75 percent of the joint venture
firestone chairman john j. nevin has said the company wants to distribute to shareholders ``a very substantial portion'' of about $1 billion in cash that would be generated by the joint venture
firestone has been considered an attractive target for both foreign-based companies because of their interest in gaining u.s. market share
troyer said bridgestone officials were notified upon learning of possible action by pirelli on sunday
at the time the $1.5 billion bridgestone deal was announced, firestone's board approved an anti-takeover measure that took effect tuesday
that measure would raise the cost of a takeover by creating a special class of preferred stock in the event an individual or group acquired 20 percent or more, or made a tender offer for 20 percent or more, of firestone's stock without approval of the board
in a letter to shareholders released last week, nevin said the anti-takeover plan was not intended to prevent a fair offer for the shares of the company and should not deter anyone from acquiring the company if the buyer gives shareholders full value and negotiates in good faith
pirelli, headquartered in milan, had sales of $3.65 billion last year
the supreme court today agreed to hear a reagan administration appeal aimed at allowing the government to take a bigger tax bite out of some corporate mergers
the court said it will review a ruling stemming from the acquisition of a small west virginia company by a corporation traded on the new york stock exchange
the smaller company, basin surveys inc., was owned by donald e. clark of buckhannon, w.va. it provides services to the petroleum industry
clark sold the business in 1979 to n.l. industries of new york, which produces petroleum equipment, chemicals and metals
n.l. industries gave clark 300,000 shares of its stock and $3.25 million to acquire basin surveys
at issue in the case was whether the cash payment, commonly called ``boot,'' should be taxed as a capital gain or considered a dividend and taxed as ordinary income. generally, the capital gain tax rate is lower
the tax reform bill enacted in 1986 eliminated the different tax rates for capital gains and ordinary income
but the administration said the different treatment will still apply to some corporate shareholders
also, in urging the court to consider the government appeal, justice department lawyers said congress sometime in the future might restore for all taxpayers the different treatment of ordinary income and capital gains
the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled in favor of clark last september, sparing him from paying $972,505 in taxes
the appeals court said, ``we regard the boot as a cash payment by n.l. in return for clark's relinquishment of a portion of his interest in the newly reorganized corporation. because clark surrendered more than 20 percent of his interest in n.l., he is entitled to capital gain treatment.''
the appeals court arrived at the 20 percent figure by noting that n.l. industries offere clark two choices in the merger: he could receive either 425,000 shares of n.l. stock or 300,000 shares plus $3.25 million in cash
the appeals court said clark, by choosing the latter option, in effect gave up more than 20 percent of his interest in n.l. industries in return for the cash
the appeals court said that under federal law a shareholder who relinquishes more than 20 percent of his corporate control and is less than a 50 percent shareholder after the transaction is entitled to have cash proceeds from the transaction treated as capital gains
justice department lawyers said the ruling is in conflict with decisions by other federal appeals courts. they said the supreme court should eliminate the confusion
the case is commissioner of internal revenue vs. clark, 87-1168
manufacturers hanover corp., wounded from possibly uncollectable third world loans, is seeking to sell its profitable consumer finance unit to raise capital, the wall street journal reported monday
quoting banking sources it did not identify, the newspaper said the nation's sixth-largest banking concern is asking between $500 million and $600 million for huntingdon valley, pa.-based manufacturers hanover consumer services inc., which has about $3 billion in assets
the banking company has been forced to take austerity measures because of a $1.14 billion loss last year, due mainly to a $1.7 billion addition to reserves that reflected the questionable collectability of some third world loans, a problem afflicting many american banks
john meyers, a manufacturers hanover spokesman in new york, said he could not comment on the journal report. but he said the bank has consistently stated it would rebuild capital partly via property sales and expense cuts
we've said all along there is a host of assets we can realize gains on,'' meyers said. ``it is part of our game plan to get shareholder equity replenished.''
banking industry analysts have said manufacturers hanover's consumer finance business is considered highly prized and profitable within the company, so a sale would reflect on the seriousness of the bank's capital needs
on the other hand, the consumer finance unit is a stand-alone operation, so it could be sold much more easily that other company property
the stock market declined slightly today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 6.14 to 2,051.72 by noontime on wall street
losers held a narrow edge on gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 638 up, 662 down and 488 unchanged
prices and interest rates showed little change in the bond market today. but developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in unemployment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 11] to 61. pirelli group of italy made a $58-a-share bid to acquyire the company, which is planning to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp
roper corp. climbed 10| to 48. general electric made a $45-a-share offer for roper, which previously agreed to be taken over by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
mobil climbed 1[ to 44} in active trading. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .28 to 150.15. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .24 at 293.50
grain and soybean futures prices opened steady to slightly higher today on the chicago board of trade
wheat futures prices advanced on technical factors and on rumors that the government plans to revise downward its estimate of the amount of wheat it owns, analysts said
corn futures were nearly unchanged in quiet trading
soybeans opened almost unchanged after a sharp decline on friday
friday's massive sell-off of soybean futures swept a good deal of speculative interest from the market, leaving it listless and quiet, said steve freed, an analyst for dean witter reynolds inc
freed said he expected little movement in soybean futures during the next three weeks barring major news that could affect the market
i think we're dead in the water,'' he said. ``it's going to take another chernobyl to get us going again.''
in early trading, wheat was 2\ cents higher across the board with the contract for delivery in march at $3.05{ a bushel; corn was } cent to 1 cent higher with march at $2 a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1{ cents higher with march at $1.88\ a bushel; soybeans were \ cent lower to 1 cent higher with march at $6.15 a bushel
livestock and meat futures were higher in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .40 cent to .70 cent higher with april at 70.80 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .28 cent to .43 cent higher with march at 79.60 cents a pound; hogs were .25 cent to .45 cent higher with april at 42.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .45 cent to .70 cent higher with march at 53.50 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures closed mostly higher on friday
production in the u.s. paper industry appears poised for a third consecutive record-breaking year as demand remains strong for all major grades of paper and paperboard, an industry trade association said monday
the american paper institute, a trade association for american pulp, paper and paperboard companies, said production is running at a rate of 75 million tons a year, or about 3 percent above its pace at the same point last year
production for all of 1987 amounted to a record 74.4 million tons, up from 70.9 million tons in 1986, and is expected to rise by about 2 percent in 1988, according to figures supplied by the trade association
the group's forecast was released as it began its national conference
the institute's president, red cavaney, said the forecast for 1988 presumes avoiding a recession, a pro-growth trade policy, a fairly low interest rate climate and no major tax increases
last year was also a record in terms of the dollar value of paper and paperboard sales, the group said. it said it expects final figures for 1987 will show sales of about $87 billion, or 16 percent more than the previous high of $74.8 billion set in 1986
the paper industry derived its strength in 1987 from heightened demand in the various markets its serves, the institute said
demand for white papers, for instance, reflected trends such as increased use of office copy and computer printout papers and of envelopes
strength in direct-mail advertising helped fuel robust growth in commercial printing, stimulating printing paper demand, the paper institute said
paperboard production set a record last year as packaged goods production surged, triggering increased demand for paper used for shipping containers, folding cartons and fiber cans, the institute said
newspapers and the high quality color-printed advertising pieces that retailers and businesses use to reach their customers performed strongly in 1987, the group said, pushing newsprint production to a new high last year
exports of market pulp and paper products reached a high in 1987 as a decline in the dollar made them more competitive with prices charged overseas, the institute said
while sales surged in 1987, so did the profits of paper companies that had already begun aggressive cost-containment programs, the institute said
it said after-tax profits in the u.s. paper industry rose 56 percent in the first three quarters of 1987, reaching a decade high of 5.7 percent of sales
businesses that lose money from the sale of stock aren't entitled to special tax breaks no matter why the stock was purchased, the supreme court decided today
the court, voting 8-0, ruled against an arkansas conglomerate that sought to claim as an ordinary-loss deduction for federal tax purposes a $10 million loss from the sale of stock in a texas bank it once controlled
arkansas best corp. of fort smith in 1969 had acquired more than 65 percent of the stock of national bank of commerce, the fourth largest bank in dallas
congress passed a law in 1970 that prohibited conglomerates that owned a bank from expanding their non-bank business through new acquisitions in other industries
arkansas best, which owns trucking, furniture manufacturing, data processing and other businesses, decided to divest itself of the bank stock. the 1970 law gave it 10 years to sell the bank stock
because of public awareness that arkansas best was under legal obligation to divest itself, disposing of the bank stock without taking a big loss was difficult
at the same time, the bank's finances were deteriorating. arkansas best therefore acquired additional stock in the bank in an attempt to keep it solvent
the conglomerate began selling off the bank stock in 1975, and sought to claim the losses as ordinary losses rather than capital losses _ a tax advantage
the internal revenue service ruled that the losses suffered by arkansas best were capital losses. the irs rejected arkansas best's arguments that the stock was not bought for typical investment purposes but for business purposes _ and therefore its sale should yield ordinary losses
the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals agreed with the irs but other federal appeals courts had reached conflicting conclusions
writing for the high court today, justice thurgood marshall said motivation behind the stock purchase is irrelevant ``to the question whether the asset is property held by a taxpayer ... and is thus within (federal tax law's) general definition of capital asset.''
because the capital stock held by (arkansas best) falls within the broad definition of the term `capital asset' in (the tax code) and is outside the classes of property excluded from capital-asset status, the loss arising from the sale of the stock is a capital loss,'' marshall said
justice anthony m. kennedy did not participate in the decision
the case is arkansas best vs. commissioner of internal revenue, 86-751
bond prices and interest rates stabilized in quiet early trading today following friday's sell-off
the market seems to be on dead center right now,'' said marshall b. front, an economist at stein roe &amp; farnham, a chicago investment and mutual-fund management firm. ``there doesn't seem to be any news affecting the market.''
by midday, the treasury's 30-year bond was up about 1-32 point while its yield, which moves inversely to its price, slipped to 8.46 percent from 8.47 percent late friday
the bellwether issue had plunged about two points, or $20 per $1,000 in face amount, on friday, after the government reported unexpectedly high february employment levels, raising doubts about forecasts of an economic slowdown later this year
the government said the economy created half a million jobs last month, dropping the civilian unemployment rate to 5.7 percent, its lowest since 1979. the january rate had been 5.8 percent
front said the market was currently involved in a ``tug of war'' of sorts on the outlook for interest rates
the bulls point to lower commodity prices _ the price of gold continues to fall, oil prices continue to slip _ and other signs of weakness in economic activity,'' he said. ``the bears look at the employment numbers ... which were shockingly good and say ... the economy is likely to accelerate
i think a lot of people are going back to their drawing boards.''
interest rates have fallen sharply since fears of recession surfaced after the stock market crash five months ago. but bondholders worry that with some signs of economic growth, the federal reserve may want to tighten its credit policies, thus pushing interest rates higher, to prevent inflation from heating up
in the secondary market for treasury bonds today, prices of short-term governments were unchanged, intermediate maturities rose 1-32 point and 20-year issues were off 1-32 point, according to figures provided by telerate inc
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.01 to 113.3. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, lost 0.04 to 1,183.34
in corporate trading, industrials and utilities were unchanged in light trading, according to the investment firm of salomon brothers inc
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, was off 0.06 to 284.36
yields on three-month treasury bills were up 2 basis points to 5.72 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills -fell 1 basis point to 5.94 percent and one-year bills were unchanged at 6.27 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6 9-16 percent, up from 6{ percent late friday
leading foodmaker h.j. heinz co. reported a 22 percent surge in third-quarter earnings monday, attributing the improvement to higher sales volume, acquisitions and the beneficial effects of a cheaper dollar
the company said earnings for the three months ended jan. 27 totaled $91 million or 69 cents a share, compared with $74.7 million or 55 cents a share in the year-earlier period. sales totaled $1.25 billion vs. $1.08 billion, a 15 percent rise
we are encouraged by the earnings record achieved to date through our existing business base as well as the superior market opportunities offered by our strategic world-wide acquisitions,'' said chairman anthony j.f. o'reilly. ``we are optimistic that we will again achieve fiscal year results consisted with our historical trends.''
the pittsburgh-based company embarked on a series of acquisitions last year, notably in the pet-food business, in which it bought mavar and california home brands, two american concerns. heinz also recently acquired orlando s.a., an important spanish food company
the dollar's depreciation also helped heinz because its u.s.-produced foods became more competitive overseas. at the same time, profits from goods produced and sold by heinz's foreign operations rose when converted into dollars
for the nine-months ended jan. 27, heinz said it earned $284.3 million or $2.14 a share, a 16.3 percent gain over the $244.4 million or $1.78 a share in the year-earlier period. sales rose 13 percent from $3.3 billion to $3.8 billion
the stock market drifted in a narrow range today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 4.48 to 2,053.38 by noontime on wall street
gainers held a narrow edge on losers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 705 up, 690 down and 469 unchanged
prices and interest rates showed little change in the bond market today. but developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in employment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
given that prospect, investors seemed to be focusing their attention mainly on numerous stocks involved in takeovers and other deals
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 11] to 61. pirelli group of italy made a $58-a-share bid to acquyire the company, which is planning to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp
roper corp. climbed 10} to 48[. general electric made a $45-a-share offer for roper, which previously agreed to be taken over by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
mobil climbed 1 to 44| in active trading. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .13 to 150.30. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .46 at 293.28
volume on the big board came to 74.69 million shares at noontime, down from 118.92 million at the same point friday
spurred by the low dollar and cheaper air fares, europeans from spain to scandinavia are rediscovering america at a record pace
tourist visa applications are flooding u.s. consulates across western europe, and tour operators say the number of bookings to the united states is up sharply from last year's record
the numbers (of visa applicants) are increasing dramatically,'' said ira levy, chief of the non-immigrant visa branch at the u.s. embassy in london
donald mudd, chief of consular services at the u.s. consulate in frankfurt, said the consulate issued about 600,000 tourist visas last year
we expect a 30 percent to 50 percent rise this year, and this pretty much reflects the rest of western europe,'' mudd told the associated press
the association of european airlines, which includes 21 major airline companies, said the total number of europeans flying to the united states has increased about 48 percent since 1985
according to the most recent statistics available to the brussels-based association, 7.2 million europeans took flights to the united states from january to october 1987
officials across western europe polled by the ap said the first two months of this year indicate that 1988 will be a boom year for travel to the united states
britain and west germany provide the bulk of tourists visiting the united states, and the two countries are expected to combine for nearly 2 million u.s. trips this year
levy said the number of non-immigrant visas issued in britain for the united states was expected to reach 900,000 this year from 642,000 in 1987
january saw a 69 percent increase in non-immigant visas over january 1987, and february figures rose 66 percent over the same month last year, levy said
sheila beecham, owner of american round-up, a travel agency in hemel hempstead, 25 miles north of london, said her business was flourishing
the growth in america travel because of the dollar recently is tremendous. in the last three months i've had the same amount of business as all last year,'' said ms. beecham, whose agency specializes in adventure vacations to the western states
in west germany, where the dollar has dropped 50 percent in three years, travel agencies also are thriving as u.s. tours become cheaper
our january figures are 25 percent over last january's when we had 25,705 bookings,'' said rolf nielander of deutsches reisebuero, a travel agency
his agency offers two-week trips to florida for $1,000 dollars, only $350 more than a two-week stay at a mediterranean resort
the swiss are also frequent international travelers: 235,000 of them visited the united states last year, a 27 percent increase over 1986. a further rise is expected this year
in greece, a pam am official in athens said bookings for u.s. destinations were up 30 percent this year compared with 1987
alex pantelides, manager of manos travel system, greece's largest travel agency, said the dollar's drop was a windfall for u.s. trips
america is much better value for money compared to europe.''
in italy, mark dillen, spokesman for the american embassy in rome, said there has been a 12 percent increase in the past five months in tourist visa applications for the united states, compared with the same period in 1987
in spain, u.s. officials reported a 60 percent to 70 percent rise in the number of visa applications, and in the netherlands they said it was up 38 percent in the last five months. twentieth century fox studios.; picks up 8th graf pvs: ``edward adler ...; subs 12th graf pvs, ``the median ..., to conform rhoden reference; also moved on general newswires</note>
script writers struck movie and television producers today and the union predicted viewers of talk shows, game shows and daytime soaps would quickly notice a difference in programming
hundreds of writers grabbed ``the writers guild strikes'' placards depicting a quill and lightning bolt as mid-morning picket lines snaked in front of twentieth century fox studios
the writers guild of america rejected a final offer presented sunday by the alliance of motion picture and television producers and called a walkout for 9,000 of its 9,600 members. the 600 wga news writers are exempt from this action
the strike began here and in new york city at 9 a.m. pst today. the contract expired at midnight feb. 29
marty waldman, a wga spokesman in new york, said there would be no picketing in the east today
the longer the strike goes on, the more reruns the public will see,'' said brian walton, wga west executive director and chief negotiator. ``it's a very tight ratings race and unfortunately for the networks it will impact them.''
picket captain stanley ralph ross said selection of fox's west los angeles studio ``was fairly arbitrary,'' adding its size and location had a lot to do with it
we usually pick a major studio, and there's parking around here,'' ross said
grandview u.s.a.'' writer ken hixon, who marched with his 2-year old son, sam, said writers were much more unified for this strike than in their last walkout in 1985
there was nearly a civil war last time between screen writers and television writers. but this time there's real solidarity,'' hixon said
viewers will begin seeing the effects on those programs relying on scripts on a daily basis. talk shows, game shows and the soaps will see a difference right away,'' said guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden
the strike slows down the production process and if prolonged, ``it finally comes to a halt,'' she said. a three-month strike delayed the fall television season three years ago
walton said the network that would be hardest hit would be first-place nbc, whose ``the tonight show starring johnny carson,'' ``saturday night live'' and ``late night with david letterman,'' would be affected immediately
edward adler, president of wga east, said nine soap operas on the east coast and five in california also would be affected immediately, as would prime time miniseries, television movies and features in development or in production
but herb steinberg, a spokesman for the alliance, which represents 200 producers and studios, said a strike was anticipated and scripts have been stockpiled
shows like carson's show will go into reruns. but we will continue business,'' he said
producers had sought to scale back residual payments for some one-hour shows syndicated in the united states and said they couldn't pay writers more for reruns in foreign markets
the median annual income for writers is $40,000 a year, but about half of the guild's members are unemployed at any given time, said rhoden. the writers sought the first change in 17 years in how they are compensated when programs are aired in foreign markets. they now receive a single lump sum that varies depending on what is negotiated between the writer and producer
the writers also demanded more artistic control on the final product
we had all kinds of creative guarantees in there short of giving them total control,'' steinberg said. ``the director is the captain of that creative team. we couldn't bargain away rights that belonged to other guilds and unions.''
the producers had offered a $50 million package over a three-year period, including improvements in pension and health plans, steinberg said
in union ballots last week in los angeles and new york, 96 percent approved a walkout if no agreement was reached
the last script writers strike was in 1985 and lasted two weeks. since the wga won its first contract in 1947, script writers conducted strikes five times, more than any other entertainment industry union
separately, the screen actors guild and american federation of television and radio artists bargained through the weekend with makers of tv and radio commercials over daily pay rates and rerun payments for 100,000 actors
members of those unions approved a strike by a 93 percent margin in recent votes, said sag spokesman mark locher
insurance giant fireman's fund corp. will purchase 8.5 million of its stock from american express co. for $200 million plus 3 million shares of american express stock, both companies announced monday
based on american express's stock price of $27.50 a share monday afternoon, the agreement would be worth about $282.5 million
fireman's fund also has an option to purchase an additional 4.5 million of its shares from american express for $162 million, the companies said
if the agreement is approved by boards of both companies, fireman's fund will terminate a previously announced plan to repurchase some of its stock on the open market or via a private purchase, the companies said in a statement
american express once owned 100 percent of fireman's fund shares but later decided to get out of the property and casualty insurance business and began selling the company's stock. upon completion of the agreement announced monday, american express would own 20 percent of fireman's fund
american express is a diversified financial and travel services concern that owns shearson lehman hutton inc., one of the largest wall street brokerages. fireman's fund is an insurance holding company that owns fireman's fund insurance co., one of the largest property-casualty insurers
the u.s. dollar fell against most major currencies in european trading monday. gold prices were mixed
foreign exchange dealers said the british pound gained almost 4 cents against the dollar _ a remarkable one-day advance _ and also rose against every other currency
reports in london that british interest rates would stay high and that the economy was growing at a strong pace were credited for the pound's strength
sterling's rise quickened when it became clear the state-run bank of england was not selling pounds to prevent sterling from rising against the west german mark
a higher exchange rate means british goods become more expensive abroad. the bank's refusal to act was in line with government policy to encourage companies to be more competitive by becoming more efficient
in london, one british pound cost $1.8135 late monday, up from $1.7740 late friday
other late rates for the dollar late monday, compared with late friday's rates, included: 1.6765 west german marks, down from 1.6940; 1.3870 swiss francs, down from 1.4030; 5.6880 french francs, down from 5.7300; 1.8840 dutch guilders, down from 1.9010; 1.239.75 italian lire, down from 1,248.00; and 1.2562 canadian dollars, up from 1.2547
in tokyo earlier, the dollar closed at 128.87 japanese yen, down from 129.22 late friday.in london late monday, the dollar traded at 128.30 yen
gold prices were mixed. in london, the major trading center, gold closed at a late bid price of $437.20 a troy ounce, down from $437.50 late friday. the late bid price in zurich was $436, up from $432 late friday
earlier in hong kong, gold closed at $438.75, up from $438.21
silver bullion traded late in london at a bid $6.42 a troy ounce, up from $6.41. thiokol; also moved on general newswires</note>
the federal government and morton thiokol inc. bought annuities for $7,735,000 to settle the claims by survivors of four of the astronauts who died aboard the space shuttle challenger, according to documents released today
morton thiokol, the company that produced the faulty booster rocket blamed for the jan. 28, 1986, explosion, paid 60 percent of the total cost of buying the annuities, or $4,641,000, the justice department acknowledged. the government's share, 40 percent, cost $3,094,000
the families will actually receive more than $7.7 million because the annuities pay out over a period of many years. the total they will receive and the breakdown by family were not released
the documents, along with several justice department statements describing how the settlements were reached, were released to settle a civil suit brought under the freedom of information act by the associated press and six other news organizations. the government had originally kept all details of the settlements and how they were reached secret
the settlements were reached by the government and the company with the immediate survivors of spacecraft commander dick scobee, 46, a retired air force officer employed by nasa; mission specialist ellison s. onizuka, 39, an air force lieutenant colonel; payload specialist gregory jarvis, 41, an employee of hughes aircraft co., and christa mcauliffe, 37, a concord, n.h., high school teacher
scobee was survived by his wife, june, and two adult children; onizuka, by his wife, lorna, and two minor children; jarvis, by his wife, marcia, and mcauliffe, by her husband, steven, and two minor children
the government said in court documents filed during the suit that it began negotiations with these four and an informa representative on june 18, 1986. the settlements were announced dec. 29, 1986
the government's document make clear that the survivors of the four had no legal representation during the negotiations, but received informal assistance from leo b. lind, jr., the executor of mcauliffe's estate and her husband's law partner
lind said in an affidavit that the families never spoke directly to morton thiokol officials. the families dealt only with justice department lawyers, who negotiated with them on behalf of the contractor
a presidential commission blamed the explosion on a plume of hot gas that leaked through a joint in a solid-fuel booster rocket built by morton thiokol and ignited the main fuel tank. the fireball consumed the challenger 73 seconds after launch from the kennedy space center in florida. the astronauts are believed by the national aeronautics and space administration to have died before the debris hit the atlantic ocean
survivors of two other challenger astronauts and jarvis' father have reached settlements with morton thiokol to which the government did not contribute
last month, marvin resnik, the divorced father of mission specialist judith a. resnik, 36, a civilian nasa employee, settled with the company for an amount he said was ``commensurate with what some of the others got _ from $2 million to $3.5 million.''
in january, sarah resnik belfer, divorced mother of the astronaut, and bruce jarvis, father of the hughes employee, settled with the company. the amounts were not disclosed
last may, the company settled a suit by cheryl mcnair, wife of mission specialist ronald e. mcnair, 35, a civilian nasa employee who also left two infant children. the amount was not disclosed
jane smith, wife of pilot michael j. smith, 40, a navy commander, has a suit pending in federal court in florida against the company. the government last month succeeded in having itself dismissed as a defendant in that suit on the basis of a supreme court decision that survivors of active duty military personnel may not sue the government for wrongful death
a separate settlement agreement between the government and morton thiokol covered only the claims by the survivors of the four astronauts. that agreement in no way ``abrogates any claim of any nature which the united states may have against mti for property damage associated with the challenger accident, including but not limited to any claims for the loss of the orbiter itself,'' the document said. the replacement orbiter now under construction is expected to cost $3 billion
nasa spokesman david garrett said today that negotiations are continuing between nasa and company lawyers on the type and amount of penalties that will be imposed on the utah rocket-maker's contract with the government
a nasa statement in february 1987 said that morton thiokol would forfeit $10 million in profit and would receive no profit from $409 million worth of redesign work. but garrett said that does not represent the end of the matter
our lawyers are playing with it; it's in the hands of the general counsel,'' he said
the stock market gave ground today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 11.11 to 2,046.75 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 9 to 8 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 693 up, 783 down and 458 unchanged
prices and interest rates showed little change in the bond market today. but developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in employment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
given that prospect, investors seemed to be focusing their attention mainly on numerous stocks involved in takeovers and other deals
firestone tire &amp; rubber jumped 12 to 61|. pirelli group of italy made a $58-a-share bid to acquire the company, which is planning to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp
roper corp. climbed 10~ to 48\. general electric made a $45-a-share offer for roper, which previously agreed to be taken over by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
mobil gained 1 to 44|. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .49 to 149.94. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .31 at 293.43
volume on the big board came to 110.30 million shares with two hours to go
stock prices slipped a bit in quiet trading today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.96 to 2,049.90 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 710 up, 804 down and 439 unchanged
prices and interest rates showed little change in the bond market today. but developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in employment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
given that prospect, investors seemed to be focusing their attention mainly on numerous stocks involved in takeovers and other deals
firestone tire &amp; rubber led the active list, up 12~ at 62{. pirelli group of italy made a $58-a-share bid to acquire the company, which is planning to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp
roper corp. climbed 11 to 48]. general electric made a $45-a-share offer for roper, which previously agreed to be taken over by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
mobil gained 1 to 44|. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .34 to 150.09. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .56 at 293.18
volume on the big board came to 127.12 million shares with an hour to go. index; no pickup</note>
share prices fell monday on the london stock exchange as the british pound rose in foreign-exchange markets, making british exports more expensive
at the close, the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was down 16.3 points, or 0.88 percent, at 1818.2
a moderate 404.8 million shares were traded, down from 579.7 million on friday which had been the most active session since dec. 18
dealers said banks and other financial stocks were among the worst affected. companies heavily involved in exports to continental europe also lost ground
steel production fell to 1.971 million tons in the week ended march 5, a decrease of 1.5 percent from the previous week's 2.002 million tons, the american iron and steel institute reported monday
the industry's production amounted to 91.8 percent of capacity during the week, compared with 93.2 percent in the previous week
estimated figures for the year to date showed production at 17.769 million net tons, an increase of 38.4 percent from the 12.837 million net tons in the previous year. the steel operations of usx corp., the nation's largest steel producer, were shut down by a strike during the first month of 1987
production so far this year used 89.1 percent of capacity, compared with 64.9 percent a year earlier
net tonnage by district for the week ended march 5: northeast coast, 284,000; pittsburgh, 194,000; youngstown, 122,000; lake erie, 167,000; detroit, 172,000; chicago, 518,000; midwest, 197,000; southern, 221,000; and western, 97,000
grain and soybean futures prices closed mostly higher monday on the chicago board of trade, while soybean futures were mixed
expectations of new export business supported prices, analysts said
they said friday's massive sell-off of soybean futures swept a good deal of speculative interest from the soybean market, leaving it listless and quiet
at the close, wheat was } cent to 2 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.04 a bushel; corn was 1{ cents to 2} cents higher with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were \ cent to 4 cents higher with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent lower to 2{ cents higher with march at $6.14 a bushel
the number of oil and gas rigs working in the united states decreased by five this week to total 978, baker hughes inc. announced
the total reflects the number of rigs actively exploring for oil as of last friday, not the number of rigs producing oil. the previous week, the count had increased by five to 983
a year ago, the rig count was 766, baker hughes announced monday
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker, tallies the number of working rigs and the count is the widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged last year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
the rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in december 1981 _ the height of the oil boom. but as oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986, the count fell to 663, the lowest since hughes began compiling figures
among the major oil producing states, oklahoma gained seven rigs this week, wyoming gained five, while colorado, new mexico and ohio increased by two each
the rig count in michigan dropped by one, while california, kansas, and louisiana each lost three. texas and pennsylvania each lost four rigs and wyoming's rig count dropped by five
the stock market drifted aimlessly in quiet trading today amid concern over the interest-rate outlook
prices declined slightly in the bond market today, pushing yields on long-term treasury bonds up to the neighborhood of 8.5 percent. developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in employment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
given that prospect, investors seemed to be focusing their attention mainly on numerous stocks involved in takeovers and other deals
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 1.49 to 2,056.37
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 6 to 5 on the new york stock exchange, with 845 up, 710 down and 416 unchanged
big board volume totaled 152.58 million shares, down from 201.41 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index edged up .10 to 150.53
a significant number of american companies will bolster hiring this spring, a leading temporary job service said monday in an unusually optimistic quarterly forecast on u.s. employment
manpower inc. said its employment outlook survey indicated 29 percent of respondents plan to raise employment rolls in the april-june quarter, while 6 percent expect declines. sixty-two percent plan no change and 3 percent don't know, the survey stated
mitchell s. fromstein, manpower president, said it was the strongest spring hiring forecast in four years and suggested manufacturers in all regions of the country are unusually buoyant about the economy
makers of large durable goods are among the most optimistic of all employers, with 32 percent planning payroll increases and 7 percent planning cutbacks, the survey showed
among construction companies, 36 percent anticipate payroll increases and 7 percent anticipate cutbacks. among retailers, 31 percent plan increased payrolls and 6 percent plan decreases
even in the financial services industry, which was particularly affected by the october collapse in stock prices, the spring hiring forecast was still optimistic. twenty-three percent of respondents plan to add employees and 7 percent will cut back
manpower has issued the quarterly survey for the past 12 years and calls it as a significant indicator of employment trends
conducted in last two weeks of february, the survey was based on telephone interviews with more than 13,000 public and private employers in 401 u.s. cities. the margin of error is 5 percent, the company said
based in milwaukee, manpower describes itself as the world's largest temporary service firm, annually providing jobs to more than 700,000 people through 1,350 offices in 33 countries
consumers have regained virtually all the confidence they lost as a result of the october stock market crash, but there are indications employers could be cutting back their hiring plans, according to two surveys released monday
the conference board, in issuing its monthly consumer confidence index, said consumers have been heartened by continuing strength in the economy
however, the business research organization said consumers also may be feeling more optimistic because their paychecks are larger because of tax cuts that took effect jan. 1
the consumer confidence index was 113.9 points in february, up from january's 109.9 points and 100.8 in november, after the crash
the index, which uses a 1985 base of 100, stood at 115.1 in october, before the oct. 19 stock collapse
the conference board's help wanted index painted a somewhat less optimistic picture. the index, which reflects the amount of help wanted ads in 51 major newspapers across the nation, declined to 153 in january from 155 in december
the index, which uses a 1967 base of 100, reflects changes in demand for labor and general business conditions
kenneth goldstein, a conference board economist, said the drop in the index signaled a slowdown in hiring plans by employers
recent dips in want ad volume suggest that companies are taking a hard look at their expansion plans,'' he said
help wanted advertising volume fell in six of nine regions of the country: new england, the rockies, pacific, south atlantic, middle atlantic and east south central. ad volume increased in the west north central, east north central and west south central areas
takeover news and speculation provided most of the excitement in an otherwise quiet, drifting stock market session monday
analysts said the general market was held back by new doubts about the outlook for interest rates
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped 1.49 to 2,056.37
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 8 to 7 on the new york stock exchange, with 847 up, 725 down and 417 unchanged
big board volume came to 152.58 million shares, down from 201.41 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index edged up .10 to 150.53
prices declined slightly in the bond market, pushing yields on long-term treasury bonds up to the neighborhood of 8.5 percent. developments late last week raised concern that the drop in interest rates since last fall had about run its course
rates rose sharply on friday after the labor department reported much stronger growth in employment than expected for february
if the economy is robust enough to support a big increase in jobs, credit-market traders reason, the federal reserve is unlikely to take any further steps soon to relax its credit policy
given that prospect, investors seemed to be focusing their attention mainly on numerous stocks involved in takeovers and other deals
firestone tire &amp; rubber led the active list, up 13{ at 63[. pirelli group of italy made a $58-a-share bid to acquire the company, which is planning to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp
roper corp. climbed 11 to 48]. general electric made a $45-a-share offer for roper, which previously agreed to be taken over by whirlpool corp. for $37.50 a share
mobil gained 1[ to 44}. the company said it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its montgomery ward subsidiary to a group led by ward's top management
lorimar telepictures, traded on the american stock exchange, rose 2] to 14~. the company said it had been approached by warner communications for talks about a possible business combination
moore mccormack resources, which opposed a $31-a-share offer from southdown inc., added | to 36{
analysts also noted buying of some technology issues. compaq computer gained 2 to 54; cullinet software ~ to 6~; digital equipment 2} to 124]; national semiconductor { to 12{, and ultimate corp. 1] to 15[
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market increased $2.48 billion, or 0.09 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 180.64 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials rose .54 to 309.52, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was up .08 at 267.38
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 1.18 to 374.54. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 294.14, up .40
livestock and meat futures prices rose sharply monday as traders looked beyond the cash market's current problems and saw meat sales improving in the months ahead
on other markets, energy futures slid lower; grains and soybeans were mostly higher; precious metals retreated; and stock-index futures advanced
slack retail demand for meat during lent led to a slowdown in slaughters last week, prompting fears of a growing supply of slaughter-ready cattle and hogs
analysts said those fears, along with the closing of at least one major beef packing plant, were largely responsible for losses on livestock futures last week at the chicago mercantile exchange
but indications of a cattle buildup did not surface monday, leading many traders to rethink their positions and look ahead to a resurgence in demand after easter, analysts said
prices went down last week on ideas we were backing up cattle (but) we haven't seen any proof of that yet,'' said charlie richardson, an analyst in denver for lind-waldock &amp; co
in chicago, philip stanley of thomson-mckinnon securities inc. said traders had turned their attention to the future and away from the industry's current woes
they're thinking that retail demand will pick up, packers will have to accumulate supplies and the cattle feeders will reap the profits by being able to sell cattle at higher prices,'' stanley said
richardson said some traders also bought livestock futures on ideas that prices for future delivery of cattle and hogs had fallen more sharply than conditions warranted
and some were betting that a winter storm moving into the great plains would disrupt the movement of animals to market, resulting in temporarily tight supplies and higher prices, richardson said
the bullish enthusiasm for cattle futures overflowed into the pork pits, analysts said
live cattle settled .87 cent to 1.38 cents higher with the contract for delivery in april at 71.55 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .80 cent to 1.10 cents higher with march at 80.35 cents a pound; hogs were .25 cent to 1.25 cents higher with april at 43.60 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1.20 cents to 1.85 cents higher with march at 54.70 cents a pound
energy futures prices retreated in moderate trading on the new york mercantile exchange following a slight advance in the previous session
analysts attributed the decline to speculation that some member nations of the organization of petroleum exporting countries were selling oil at a discount
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 15 cents to 22 cents lower with april at $15.37 a barrel; heating oil was .13 cent to .25 cent lower with april at 43.41 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .34 cent to .57 cent lower with april at 43.94 cents a gallon
grain and soybean futures finished mostly higher on the chicago board of trade, although soybean futures were mixed
expectations of new export business supported the markets
the agriculture department announced after the close that it had sold 1.6 million bushels of wheat friday in the last of last week's three auctions for surplus, government-owned wheat
the usda had targeted 10 million bushels for sale at that auction
the agency also announced it would hold three auctions a week, each with a 10-million-bushel target, through march 25
wheat settled } cent to 2 cents higher with march at $3.04 a bushel; corn was 1{ cents to 2} cents higher with march at $2.00} a bushel; oats were \ cent to 4 cents higher with march at $1.90} a bushel; soybeans were 1\ cent lower to 2{ cents higher with march at $6.13} a bushel
gold and silver futures retreated slightly on the commodity exchange in new york
but despite its weak tone, the market appeared to have shaken off the recessionary expectactions that had weighed on prices in recent weeks, said craig sloane, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
gold settled 10 cents to 30 cents lower with april at $438.60 a troy ounce; silver was 3.2 cents to 3.5 cents lower with march at $6.395 a troy ounce
stock-index futures advanced on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.10 points higher at 268.30. the underlying spot index closed nearly unchanged at 267.38
a federal judge said monday he will order a new election in the contested race for director of united auto workers union's eight-state southwest region, ending part of a 21-month legal battle
it's a victory for the people in region 5 who've had to operate without a legally elected director for 21 months,'' said jerry tucker, who lost by two-tenths of a vote to incumbent region 5 director kenneth worley in the august 1986 election
judge richard suhrheinrich of the u.s. district court for the eastern district of michigan heard arguments from attorneys for the u.s. department of labor, the uaw and tucker, assistant director of region 5 who was fired after he announced plans to run against his boss in may 1986
tucker is the leader of a dissident group within the uaw called the new directions movement, which has called for less cooperation with companies that are forcing workers to compete with each other for jobs
the labor department investigated the contest and called for new elections after it found some votes at the convention were cast by illegal delegates
it also found that worley spent $13,000 in union money on jackets bearing his name, which were distributed at the uaw constitutional convention where the delegates voted, and sent out campaign fliers typed with a uaw typewriter on uaw stationery in a uaw office
labor department attorney janet graney, who argued three lawsuits the department brought against the uaw concerning the election, said such uses of union money and equipment for the campaign of an individual are illegal
i'm going to order a new election. there have been substantial uses of union facilities'' for worley's campaign, suhrheinrich said, adding that he would issue a formal order in two weeks
the uaw declined comment until it receives the order. the union has said it is willing only to run some of the delegate elections over
in a new election, 68 local unions in missouri, kansas, oklahoma, arkansas, texas, louisiana, colorado and new mexico will again choose 650 delegates who will vote for the director of region 5 at a mini-convention
the elections will not affect terms of local union officials
suhrheinrich did not say how he would rule on one of the labor department suits, which charges tucker was illegally fired, or on a suit brought by tucker demanding reinstatement and payment of lost wages and benefits
tucker's attorney, joseph yablonski, and the labor department argued that tucker was fired illegally because the uaw constitution allows international union staff members to run for union office
they also argued that the rule used to fire tucker, which requires staff members running for office to take a leave of absence 90 days before the election, was never properly adopted by the union's leadership or by the rank-and-file
lee iacocca's second book, a meditation on lessons he has learned in business and private life and how they can be applied to modern problems, will go on sale june 1, his publisher announced monday
the book, entitled ``talking straight,'' was written with new york times reporter sonny kleinfield. a first printing of at least 500,000 copies is planned, according tom stuart applebaum, a spokesman for bantam books
iacocca draws upon his experiences he has had as son, husband, father, friend and chrysler corp. chairman to comment on the problems of wall street, washington and the world
he proposes fresh answers to some very tough questions that we face as individuals and as a nation, perhaps most important among them, how do we retrieve the values our parents and grandparents gave us?'' said linda grey, president and publisher of bantam
iacocca's first book, ``iacocca: an autobiography,'' has sold more than 2.6 million copies in hardcover; it was on the new york times bestseller list for 80 weeks, 40 of them in first place. it also has sold more than 3.5 million in paperback, and has been published in 18 languages
he has been working on the new book since october 1986
sir nicholas goodison said monday he is resigning at the end of the year as chairman of the london stock exchange, which he piloted through its ``big bang'' computer revolution in 1986 and the market crash last october
goodison, 53, will take over the chairmanship of the trustee savings bank next jan. 1
i have served on the stock exchange council for the past 20 years and been chairman for the past 12. i have been chairman during a period of great innovation and change and now feel that the structure for the future has been built,'' goodison said in a statement
an election among the stock exchange's members for a new chairman is likely in the fall
goodison in his new post succeeds sir john read, who will be 70 on march 29 and due for retirement this year from leadership of the trustee savings bank, which is a financial services group as well as a bank with 1.9 million investors
goodison has been chairman of stockbrokers quilter goodison co. ltd. since 1975
he said the stock crash of last october and november had nothing to do with his move, and that the old-style exchange could not have absorbed the wave of selling
when he became chairman, goodison was confronted with the then labor government's decision to reconstruct the stock exchange by separating market-makers and brokers into different partnerships
eleven years later came the big bang, on oct. 27, 1986, ending fixed commissions and the distinction between brokers who were agents in the buying and selling of shares and stock-jobbers who actively traded in shares at prices they quoted to brokers
bond prices fell modestly monday in light trading as the dollar drifted lower and a key commodity-price index edged higher
the treasury's 30-year bond fell ] point, or $3.75 for every $1,000 in face value, while its yield rose to 8.51 percent from 8.47 percent late friday
the bellwether issue had plunged $20 per $1,000 in face amount on friday, after the government reported unexpectedly high february employment levels, raising doubts about forecasts of an economic slowdown later this year
david hale, economist for kemper financial services in chicago, said the report prompted some investment firms to raise their economic growth forecasts. faster growth is generally viewed negatively in the bond market because credit demands increase when the economy expands, pushing interest rates up
sung won sohn, chief economist for norwest corp. in minneapolis, said the bond market was also hurt by a new decline in the dollar and a slight rise in the commodity research bureau index, mainly due to higher meat prices
a falling dollar reduces the yields available to foreign investors on dollar-denominated investments. it also raises pressure on domestic producers to keep prices low to compete with foreign products
meanwhile, interest rates rose from last week on short-term treasury securities sold in the government's latest auction
the treasury department sold $6.4 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.74 percent, up from 5.62 percent last week. another $6.4 billion was sold in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.93 percent, up from 5.86 percent last week
the rates for three-month bills were the highest since feb. 1 when they sold for 5.74 percent. three-month bills sold for 5.85 percent on jan. 25. the rates for six-month bills were the highest since feb. 16 when they averaged 6.03 percent
in a separate report, the federal reserve said the average yield for one-year treasury bills, the most popular index for making changes in adjustable rate mortgages, held steady at 6.63 percent last week, the same as the rate for the previous week
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term government issues slipped 2-32 point, intermediate maturities were down \ point and 20-year issues fell [ point, according to figures provided by telerate inc., a financial information service
the movement of a point is equivalent to a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.17 to 112.97. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, lost 2.29 to 1,181.09
in corporate trading, industrials and utilities fell \ point in light trading, according to the investment firm of salomon brothers inc
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, was off 0.64 to 283.78
yields on three-month treasury bills rose 2 basis points to 5.72 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills were unchanged at 5.95 percent and one-year bills rose 3 basis points to 6.30 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6| percent, up from 6{ percent late friday. offer</head>
american standard inc. said monday its board of directors would consider the latest hostile buyout offer from black &amp; decker corp. and indicated it might sweeten its own alternative plan a second time
black &amp; decker, which has been pursuing american standard since late january, last friday sweetened its outstanding tender offer to $73 a share from $68 for american standard's 31 million common shares outstanding, or a total of about $2.26 billion
that move came after american standard, a plumbing and air conditioning maker, sweetened its defensive recapitalization plan to $2.3 billion
the revised recapitalization announced friday would pay shareholders $64 in cash, $5 in securities and one share of stock in the recapitalized company for each old share. the earlier cash portion was $59 a share
american standard rose 75 cents to $73.25 a share monday on the new york stock exchange. black &amp; decker dipped 37{ cents to $18 a share, a decline stemming partly from an adjustment for a dividend payment
william b. boyd, american standard's chairman and chief executive, said the company's recapitalization plan already was financially superior to black &amp; decker's sweetened tender offer and advised shareholders not to tender their stock
in the meantime, stockholders should be aware that, if black &amp; decker increases its offer beyond the values we can achieve for our stockholders in a recapitalization, we would vigorously pursue other alternatives in order to enhance stockholder value,'' boyd stated
he also said american standard was ``working on ways to further improve'' its recapitalization plan, but did not elaborate
black &amp; decker, a towson, md.-based maker of tools and appliances, also has indicated it would attempt to win shareholder support for taking control of american standard's board of directors
loss-plagued lorimar-telepictures corp., which was formed two years ago by a merger but has seen its aggressive expansion plans disintegrate, said monday it is discussing the possibility of being acquired by warner communications inc
word of the negotiations helped push lorimar's stock price up $2.50 a share to $15. in the past year, the stock has traded as high as $25.25 and as low as $6.62{
i'd say the odds (of a takeover) are 50-50,'' said harold vogel, an entertainment industry analyst with merrill lynch in new york
he estimated the final price of a deal would be ``somewhere between $14 and the high teens.''
lorimar has about 45.9 million shares outstanding
in a brief statement, lorimar, a leading supplier of original television programming, said it was approached by new york-based warner and preliminary talks were under way ``to explore the desirability of a business combination.''
however, lorimar said its board has made no decision as to whether such a deal would be in the best interests of shareholders
the company also noted it has been approached about possible mergers in the past and nothing came of those overtures
the culver city-based company was formed in february 1986 by the stock-swap combination of lorimar inc., best known as the producer of such long-running television series as ``dallas'' and ``knots landing,'' and new york-based telepictures corp., which got most of its revenue from animated shows such as ``thundercats'' and such programs as ``peoples court'' and ``love connection.''
for the 1987-88 television season, the company is producing 12 hours of prime time and 16{ hours of syndicated shows, including ``the days and nights of molly dodd,'' ``mama's family,'' ``it's a living'' and ``she's the sheriff.''
for the first nine months of of its current fiscal year, lorimar posted a loss of $82.6 million on revenues of $616.8 million. the deficit included $45 million in writedowns on five movies and $22 million in reserves for possible future losses in its home-video unit
management of both its movie and home-video units was recently ousted
for fiscal 1987 ended last march 31, the company lost $58.6 million, mostly because of restructuring costs, on revenues of $766.2 million
in recent years, lorimar sought to expand far beyond its successful roots as a producer of television shows
it bought advertising agencies, sought to build a network of television stations and acquired a children's publishing unit, but it has shed most of those operations in a back-to-basics restructuring announced last june
the company has just completed the sale of the ad agencies _ bozell, jacobs, kenyon &amp; eckhardt inc. and poppe tyson inc. _ to members of their management for about $100 million, posting a pre-tax profit of $16 million
in late 1986, lorimar had agreed to buy seven big-city storer and wometco television stations from kohlberg, kravis &amp; roberts for $1.85 billion. the move would have given lorimar 12 stations around the u.s. and in puerto rico
however, the deal with kohlberg collapsed as the bottom fell out of the market for television stations, and the company has sold some of the stations it already owned and is seeking buyers for the remainder
the company also sold its children's publishing unit
warner is the parent of warner bros. studio, is a leading record producer and is a major cable television operator
warner's financial results have been strong
in 1987, its profit rose 77 percent to $328.1 million, or $2.09 a share, from $185.8 million, of $1.26 a share, the previous year
the 1987 figures included a net gain of $37.3 million on the sale of investments while the 1986 results included a gain of $48.4 million from the sale of investments and a gain from discontinued operations
revenue for 1987 rose 20 percent to $3.4 billion from $2.84 billion
its warner bros. film unit had the best year in its history, with an operating profit of $176.4 million, compared to $172.2 million in 1986
warner's music operation posted a 1987 operating profit of $213.9 million, up from $150.6 million, and operating profit from the cable and broadcasting division jumped to $46.1 million for the year from $16.2 million in 1986
although sales for the a.h. robins co. jumped 11 percent for the final three months of 1987, the pharmaceutical company reported a net loss of $1.69 billion for the period because of costs related to its dalkon shield birth-control device
robins said its loss in the period compared to a profit of $26.2 million, or $1.08 a share, in the same period a year earlier. revenue rose to $234.8 million from $210.8 million a year earlier
for all of 1987, robins suffered a loss of $1.63 billion compared to a profit of $81.8 million, or $3.38 a share, in 1986. revenue for the year rose to $855.8 million from $789.9 million
robins was forced to set aside $1.75 billion last year to help cover the costs of claims concerning women who were injured by the dalkon shield, which has been discontinued
the accrual represents the difference between the $2.30 billion provided in the company's fifth amended reorganization plan and the $548 million which remained from the reserve for dalkon shield claims established by the company in 1984
robins' results were also hurt by the costs of its chapter 11 reorganization in federal bankruptcy court
e. claiborne robins jr., the president and chief executive, said consumer products in the u.s., international operations and medical instruments were the principal contributors to the higher sales for the year
the teamsters union asked northwest airlines on monday to submit issues separating the company and its 6,500 flight attendants to binding arbitration
northwest airlines said it would not agree to arbitration but was willing to resume talks
william genoese, director of the teamsters airline division, said flight attendants were prepared to strike if the airline did not agree to arbitration in 72 hours
gov. james blanchard's administration backed the arbitration request, said state labor director betty howe, who joined genoese in a news conference at a teamsters office in detroit
the flight attendants, more than 2,000 of them based in detroit, have worked since a feb. 26 strike deadline, but no talks have been held for the past week
genoese cited economic and safety concerns as reasons for holding off on a strike this long
he referred to a federal aviation administration report friday on safety concerns at northwest airlines and said a strike would mean operating with less experienced replacement flight attendants. ``this would threaten both the comfort and safety of northwest passengers,'' he said
issues dividing the two sides include a two-tier wage system under which attendants hired after may 1984 must work five years to earn the same as those hired earlier. the airline proposes to extend the time to nine years
howe, ``without commenting on the merits of either side,'' said the blanchard administration is concerned about the detroit-based flight attendants' jobs and the potential economic impact of a strike
northwest airlines accounts for about half the air traffic in and out of detroit metropolitan airport, the largest of its three hubs. the airline operates about 248 flights a day at metro, about 227 at minneapolis, where it is headquartered, and 201 at its memphis, tenn., hub. families</head> ... to provide reaction. inserts 3 grafs after 19th graf pvs bgng: last may, ... with additional reaction. picks up 20th graf pvs bgng: jane smith ...; also moved on general newswires</note>
the federal government and rocket maker morton thiokol inc. paid $7,735,000 in cash and annuities and divided the cost 40-60 to settle all claims by the families of four of the astronauts who died in the challenger explosion
documents released monday showed that morton thiokol, which produced the faulty booster rocket blamed for the jan. 28, 1986, explosion, paid $4,641,000. the government's share of the settlements was $3,094,000
a lawyer who represented other family members called the settlements ``woefully inadequate.''
the surviving four spouses and six children actually will receive more than $7.7 million. this is because each was given an annuity, which pays benefits larger than its cost but over a period of many years
the total dollar amount the families will receive over time and the breakdown by family were not released
with the release of the documents, the justice department settled a civil suit brought under the freedom of information act by the associated press and six other news organizations. the government originally had kept details of the settlements and negotiations secret, saying it needed to keep its internal deliberations confidential and that the company and families demanded secrecy
the documents, with some deletions to preserve family privacy, included the final settlement agreements with the families and the company, some correspondence between the government and the company, and several justice department statements concerning the negotiations
the settlements were reached dec. 29, 1986, with the immediate survivors of spacecraft commander dick scobee, 46, a retired air force officer employed by the national aeronautics and space administration; mission specialist ellison s. onizuka, 39, an air force lieutenant colonel; payload specialist gregory jarvis, 41, an employee of hughes aircraft co.; and christa mcauliffe, 37, a concord, n.h., public high school teacher
scobee is survived by his wife, june, and two adult children; onizuka left his wife, lorna, and two minor children; jarvis left his wife, marcia; and mcauliffe left her husband, steven, and two minor children
among the disclosures:
_the four families had no lawyers during the negotiations. they relied instead on informal advice from leo b. lind jr., the law partner of mcauliffe's husband and executor of her estate
_the justice department did all the negotiating for morton thiokol as well as the government. lind said in an affidavit that the families never spoke to company officials
_the rocket maker and its insurers twice tried to have the settlements cover any property damage morton thiokol might have caused, such as destruction of the orbiter and payload. the government refused, and those claims are still in negotiation
_although the justice department claims it cannot legally be sued by the families of military or federal civilian employees who die on duty, it contributed 40 percent to each of the settlements. only the jarvis and mcauliffe relatives had a right to sue the government; all the astronaut families could sue the company
_even morton thiokol's attorneys said the government was being unfair to the divorced parents of mission specialist judith a. resnik, 36, a civilian nasa employee. ``my negotiations on behalf of morton thiokol have been constrained by the government's refusal to participate to any degree at all'' in a settlement the company considered acceptable, company attorney john w. adler wrote justice last july
michael d. oldak, resnik's ex-husband, represented her father, marvin, and last month reached a settlement with the company to which the government did not contribute
asked about the document release, oldak said monday, ``it confirmed our suspicion that the government had made a contribution to people in judy's situation, that is, government employees, and that we were being treated unfairly.''
marvin resnik said that settlement was ``commensurate with what some of the others got _ from $2 million to $3.5 million.''
in january, resnik's mother, sarah resnik belfer, and jarvis' father, bruce, settled with morton thiokol but the government did not contribute
last may, the company settled a suit by cheryl mcnair, wife of mission specialist ronald e. mcnair, 35, a civilian nasa employee who also left two infant children
ronald krist, the houston lawyer who represented bruce jarvis, sarah belfer and the mcnairs, said he would not have allowed his clients to accept such a ``woefully inadequate'' settlement as the four did
they would have netted more money if they had been adequately represented,'' krist said, even taking attorneys fees into account
betty grissom, whose husband gus was killed in the apollo one fire on the launch pad in 1967, said she was treated unjustly when it came to settlement of her claim against north american rockwell. ``it kind of hurts .... it hurts when i think that they're getting that much money,'' she said. she and her two children received $350,000
jane smith, wife of pilot michael j. smith, 40, a navy commander, has a suit pending in federal court against the company. the government last month was dismissed as a defendant, because military personnel may not sue the government for wrongful death
a presidential commission said the explosion occurred when hot gas leaked through a joint in a booster rocket built by thiokol and ignited the main fuel tank
a separate agreement between the government and morton thiokol asserted that disposal of the four claims in no way ``abrogates any claim of any nature which the united states may have against mti for property damage associated with the challenger accident, including but not limited to any claims for the loss of the orbiter itself,'' the document said. the replacement orbiter now under construction is expected to cost $3 billion
nasa spokesman david garrett said monday that negotiations are continuing between nasa and thiokol lawyers on the type and amount of penalties that will be imposed on the utah rocket-maker's contract with the government
a nasa statement in february 1987 said thiokol would forfeit $10 million in profit and receive no profit from $409 million worth of redesign work. but garrett said that does not end the matter
a tentative settlement reached early monday between the united auto workers union and chrysler corp., derailing the threat of a strike at a key sterling heights stamping plant
obviously, the company is hopeful that the workers will ratify the agreement and that the threat of a strike will disappear,'' chrysler spokesman lloyd northard said
sterling heights makes metal hoods and trunk lids for all domestically made chrysler cars and most trucks and makes fuel tanks for all chrysler cars except one
a strike there would soon have hurt all chrysler production, and additional strikes at a few other key plants could have crippled chrysler within days
uaw vice president marc stepp had joined negotiations between chrysler and uaw local 1264 on friday, a day after chrysler announced it would not sell its acustar inc. parts subsidiary
the union would have been the first to receive stepp's permission to strike over local issues such as health-and-safety grievances and violation of work rules
stepp had promised to give immediate strike authorization to all locals with legitimate grievances. but after chrysler decided to keep its 28,000-worker acustar subsidiary, he began moving to resolve local disputes
stepp and other negotiators bargained through the weekend and reached a tentative settlement on local 1264's grievances at 5 a.m. monday, the union said. stepp was unavailable for comment monday
the union said it was withholding details of the agreement until march 11, when the local's 3,600 active and 500 laid-off members will vote on the settlement
we saved a lot of jobs and got additional jobs,'' said fred o'brien, local 1264 recording secretary and a member of the local's bargaining committee
o'brien said chrysler agreed to add workers to clean up oil that leaks from the plants massive presses onto the shop floor and to clean and repair the machines as a matter of routine
workers had complained that because the presses are run around the clock, they don't receive adequate maintenance, particularly cleaning, and the machines and the floors around them are covered with oil and dirt
local 1264 had accumulated nearly 140 unresolved grievances since last year. other locals had been gathering grievances so they could be ready to strike if chrysler had decided to sell acustar
homestake mining co. rejected as inadequate an unsolicited $1.88 billion buyout offer from the partnership led by t. boone pickens on monday and said it wished to remain independent
the board of directors of homestake, the nation's biggest gold producer, unanimously rejected the $20 a share buyout offer made last month by pickens' mesa limited partnership
homestake stock closed at $17.12{ a share monday on the new york stock exchange, unchanged from friday's close
pickens had labeled the buyout offer a friendly bid and proposed a negotiated transaction with homestake's managers
but homestake's board concluded the offer was inadequate and not in the best interests of the stockholders, said company officials
in light of our business prospects, we are better off served as an independent company, said stephanie kushner, homestake's manager of financial services. ``we are trying to focus on the financial future of the company.''
we're really in a strong position right now with significant cash assets and a very strong balance sheet, and our management is in a better position to put that money to work for the company,'' kushner stated
homestake, one of the largest gold producers in the western world outside of south africa, owns the homestake gold mine in south dakota and the mclaughlin mine in northern california. the company also has a one-quarter interest in the round mountain mine in nevada
in addition, homestake owns a 42.5 percent interest in the doe run co., the largest u.s. producer of lead products, and a 48 percent interest in two mines in western australia
kushner noted pickens had not made a tender offer to homestake shareholders, and she was unsure whether he would now pursue a hostile takeover in light of the board's rejection
the offer was pickens' second move on a gold-mining company in six months. his $2 billion takeover attempt for new york-based newmont mining corp. was blocked when newmont's biggest shareholder, consolidated gold fields plc, acquired a controlling stake in the company to help thwart the hostile bid. writer's quote, other detail; picks up 7th graf, `producers claim ...'</note>
striking scriptwriters warned that their walkout would send tv soap operas, talk shows and variety programs into reruns, but producers said monday they have stockpiled enough scripts to ride out a long strike
movie and television scriptwriters left their typewriters and joined nearly 2,000 colleagues on a picket line at 20th century fox studios in a contract dispute over the issues of residuals and creative control
carrying placards reading ``the writers guild strikes,'' pickets five-abreast snaked in front of the fox studios in west los angeles
hollywood has treated writers like bean-field workers for years,'' said screenwriter and science fiction author harlan ellison. ``it begins with the dream. without the dream on paper, there is nothing.''
the writers guild of america rejected sunday's final offer by the alliance of motion picture and television producers and a strike was ordered for 9,000 of its 9,600 members. six hundred news writers were exempt
we feel all the issues were dealt with fairly. they went on strike on issues we felt were resolved,'' alliance spokesman herb steinberg said, adding producers were ``ready to write a check for $550 million'' for a new three-year contract. the alliance represents about 200 producers and studios
the federal mediation and conciliation service scheduled a meeting for both sides tuesday
issues include demands by writers for a higher percentage of foreign market distribution residuals, and an offer by producers to scale back syndication residuals for one-hour television shows
producers claim new shows made for independent stations have dried up the rerun syndication market. their offer includes an increase to 150 percent of current residual agreements if the show does well in syndication
writers claim the offer is not equitable with a similar deal given the directors guild last summer
actress patty duke, president of the screen actors guild, also showed up on the picket line to show solidarity with the writers, but the actors contract prohibits secondary walkouts
the union said talk shows, game shows and soap operas would quickly reflect the strike's impact, but producers said scripts had been stockpiled and that many prime-time shows had completed shooting for the season
viewers will begin seeing the effects on those programs relying on scripts on a daily basis. talk shows, game shows and the soaps will see a difference right away,'' guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said
a three-month strike delayed the fall television season in 1981
it's business as usual. we're prepared,'' cbs spokeswoman janet storm said. the network produces the soaps ``guiding light,'' ``as the world turns,'' ``the bold and the beautiful'' and ``the young and the restless.''
nbc spokesman dom giofre said the network's ``another world,'' ``days of our lives'' and ``santa barbara,'' wouldn't be affected soon because there were scripts already written for another month
the strike won't immediately effect nbc's ``late night with david letterman'' and ``saturday night live,'' which were already on scheduled breaks. ``the tonight show with johnny carson'' featured guest host jay leno on monday, as scheduled. but the comedian used material prepared before the strike, giofre said
on daily production shows such as soap operas, writers normally turn out scripts near shooting schedule deadlines. shows like ``late night with david letterman'' are known for ad-lib lines, but much of the monologue and skits are created by a writing staff. since much of the material is topical, it often is written within minutes of showtime
picket captain stanley ralph ross said selection of fox ``was fairly arbitrary,'' adding its size and location had a lot to do with it. ``we usually pick a major studio, and there's parking around here.''
the guild's contract expired at midnight feb. 29
producers had sought to scale back residual payments for some one-hour shows syndicated in the united states and said they couldn't pay writers more for reruns in foreign markets
steinberg claimed foreign residual payments have increased 84.6 percent since 1972, which was the last time writers negotiated that issue. writers receive a single lump sum that varies depending on what is negotiated between the writer and producer
when the business is good, they are going to share it,'' steinberg said. ``but while we're making money in foreign, we're still losing money in domestic, and that foreign distribution money has to cover those losses.''
the median annual income for writers is $40,000 a year, but about half of the wga's members are unemployed at any given time, ms. rhoden said
central bank president fernando milliet resigned monday and the government fired the president of the semi-official banco do brasil, camilo calazans, officials said
no immediate explanation was given for the dismissals
milliet, the fourth central bank president under brazil's 3-year-old civilian regime, was in charge of negotiating the refinancing of brazil's huge $113 billion foreign debt
milliet was to be replaced by elmo de araujo camoes, an experienced banker with the banco do brasil, the sao paulo state bank banespa and the sogeral bank. he is a member of the government's national monetary council
calazans, an economist who used to head the government's coffee agency, reportedly disagreed with finance minister mailson da nobrega about wage restrictions for federal employees. da nobrega favored a wage freeze to reduce the federal deficit, but calazans nevertheless granted a raise for banco do brasil employees
calazans was to be replaced by mario gusmao berard, the secretary-general of the finance ministery and closely tied to da nobrega
