lee grant's boss says the veteran salesman was fired because of his unseemly habit of wearing loud and ugly sport coats. grant, 62, had filed a discrimination suit to prove he was forced out because of his age
grant said before he lost his job at darby buick in sarasota in may 1985, the dealership was undergoing a ``new image'' campaign and he was told to start wearing sport coats on the used car lot for a more professional look
the 30-year sales veteran promptly went shopping for two jackets he describes as a pale pink and a rainbow plaid. he said the latter has every color in it and goes well with his gray slacks or green or red or blue
i saw nothing wrong with them,'' grant said in a sworn statement in u.s. district court in tampa. at 6-foot-8, he said, he has to buy his clothes at specialty shops that fit tall men. and he wanted coats to go with his different trousers
so that's what i bought, you know, because i had gray pants, blue pants, green pants, every kind. so you had to have something to go with all of them.''
but his boss, c. conrad darby iii, said that neither jacket went well with the image he was trying to create for his dealership
rather than promote an image of professionalism, grant's selections took the opposite direction,'' an attorney for darby buick said in court documents. ``one jacket was multi-colored ... and the other was a loud fuchsia color.''
in the lawsuit, wryly dubbed ``the dress of a salesman'' in courthouse corridors, grant claims the dress code and other charges against him, including catnapping and snacking in the office, are pretexts to hide the real problem _ age bias
grant, the oldest salesman and the dealership's top in used car sales in 1984, was replaced by a less experienced person in his 20s, was never reprimanded and had an excellent job performance record, said grant's attorney, nancy k. donnellan
darby's attorney, william e. sizemore, acknowledged that grant was among the best in the sales force. as a result, sizemore said, there was no motive to fire grant for age discrimination, only for his poor behavior
the case is expected to go to trial this month
a wallaroo apparently blinded by the milk of human kindness underwent cataract surgery by two doctors who volunteered their services and usually treat people
in saturday's three-hour operation, dr. raymond weinstein, a family practitioner, and dr. gene zdenek, an ophthalmologist, removed a marble-sized cataract from the eye of the animal, a stocky kangaroo. the doctors tentatively declared the operation a success
weinstein said an improper diet probably blinded the animal, named menehuni, who apparently had been blind most of its seven to 11 years
milk sugars collect in the eyes of wallaroos and cause cataracts because the animals cannot break them down, weinstein said
this poor guy's condition illustrates the reason why most people shouldn't have exotic animals,'' zdenek said. ``the people probably had no idea they were blinding their pet.''
state authorities took menehuni from its owners and gave him to the wildlife way station in the angeles national forest, a nonprofit group that cares for exotic and wild animals that are sick or abandoned
the surgery was performed for free at the station with the help of resident veterinarian silvio santinelli
weinstein said it was the first time he had to worry about ``moving a patient's tail out of the way.''
dorothy was coming downstairs for some tea when she heard five shots in the middle of the night. right away she thought of police sgt. edward byrne, sitting alone in a patrol car a block away, guarding the home of a threatened witness
i said, `oh my god, he's in trouble,''' she recalled
now, sitting in her tidy living room in the south jamaica section of queens, dorothy _ a middle-age woman afraid to give her last name _ mourns byrne, 22, a rookie who police believe was slain on the orders of a jailed drug kingpin
and she mourns for her neighborhood of small wood-frame houses that once must have seemed promising to working-class people looking for a slice of prosperity
it doesn't anymore
south jamaica has been overwhelmed by drugs, especially crack, in an epidemic that reached a peak of violence in the murder of byrne, who was guarding the home of a man who had complained about drug dealers
although police have taken the neighborhood by storm in efforts to ferret out byrne's killers and drive away the drug merchants, residents remain cynical and scared
south jamaica, solidly black and poor, has been a troubled neighborhood for a long time. it shows in peeling paint, sagging porches, abandoned storefronts
but things have taken a turn for the worse in the past few years and police, clergy and residents blame crack and the people who sell it
they have taken over, completely taken over,'' said city councilman archie spigner, who represents south jamaica. ``everywhere i go, there are complaints. every community meeting i attend, the inevitable complaint is narcotics.''
the users commit other crimes to support their habits. children, seeing drug dealers in flashy clothes and fancy cars, are drawn to the drug life. lawbreakers are drawn to the neighborhood. and dealers engage in turf wars that endanger all around them
you hear gunshots here and you hear gunshots there,'' said richard barnes, who lost a new television set and a videocassette recorder in a burglary he blames on drug addicts. ``if i had the money, i'd move.''
when crack first spread through new york city several years ago, experts said it was sold by small-time entrepreneurs who would buy an ounce of cocaine and process it into a flaky, smokable drug
but now officials say a new hierarchy of violent, well-armed drug kingpins is taking over the crack trade in queens
it starts in a very low-key way,'' said william hopkins, who supervises the street research unit of the state division of substance abuse services. an entrepreneur begins selling drugs in a neighborhood and builds up a reputation. buyers begin driving into the neighborhood
after a while, the dealer's success comes to the attention of a nearby drug gang. they make him an offer that he can't refuse, ``work for us or get killed.''
once that organized group comes in there, you're dealing with guns and it's not easy to get rid of,'' hopkins said
what makes a neighborhood susceptible to drug infestation, beyond having at least some drug users?
james beshers, a demographer at queens college, believes that an influx of different ethnic groups into a neighborhood can create a breakdown in the social structure that is conducive to illegal activity
you get a loss of communication,'' beshers said. he noted that south jamaica has seen an influx of asian and west indian immigrants who can't necessarily communicate well with each other or with the established residents, mostly blacks who grew up in new york or in the south
for archie spigner, the reason for the infestation in south jamaica is more prosaic: ``the police just allowed it to exist. they just accepted it, and it became entrenched, it became institutionalized.''
the police department, shocked by byrne's murder, has set out to end such criticism. police commissioner benjamin ward announced plans last week for a new, 118-member tactical narcotics team whose mission is to stamp out drug dealing in southeast queens
and an intense investigation has already led to the indictment of four men on charges of murdering the young cop
but skepticism runs high in south jamaica, where some residents are bitter that it took the murder of a police officer to bring attention to their plight
what about the kids being killed in the drug wars?'' asked a man who walked down a street a block from the murder site and refused to give his name. ``that's what people ought to be crying about. i know about 10 cases of young kids getting killed in the neighborhood, and nobody ever did anything about that.''
porno star john holmes, who boasted of 14,000 sexual conquests, on and off screen, during a career in x-rated films and peep shows that spanned two decades, died saturday at age 43
holmes, the leading male sex film star of the 1970s and early 1980s, died at the veterans administration medical center, said adult-film producer william amerson, a longtime friend and business associate
the los angeles times earlier this month quoted unidentified sources as saying holmes was gravely ill with aids. amerson said the cause of death was not immediately known
holmes, best known for his portrayal of the character johnny wadd, a detective, made thousands of peep shows and sexually explicit films, including ``liquid lips,'' ``blonde fire,'' ``tell them johnny wadd is here'' and ``exhausted.''
he once admitted that he had a $1,000-a-day cocaine habit
two weeks ago detectives again questioned holmes at his hospital bedside about the unsolved 1981 slayings of four people in a house in laurel canyon
holmes was acquitted of the slayings in 1982 but had never told authorities what he knew about the crime
romare bearden, a leading american artist whose collages expressed the dignity of black people and southern living, died saturday. he was 75
bearden's work ranged from political cartoons to water colors, sets and costumes for the alvin ailey dance theater, public murals and eventually collages. he was awarded the national medal of arts by president reagan in june
lowery sims, associate curator of 20th century art at the metropolitan museum of art, said bearden's collages ``raised it to such a fine art it's hard to think of any other artist who is so closely associated with that medium.''
bearden was born in charlotte, n.c., and grew up in harlem and pittsburgh. he attended boston university and new york university, majoring in mathematics and planning to become a doctor
he started drawing in college, and cartoons published in the afro american, a weekly, led to a career in art
hugh wolfe frank, chief interpreter at the nuremberg war crimes trials, was found dead thursday. he was 75
frank was a skillful linguist who led the team of interpreters at the trials in west germany of top nazis, including hermann goering and rudolf hess
frank, whose body was found in a fume-filled car, had been suffering from parkinson's disease and was known to be depressed about his worsening health. an inquest was ordered
joseph t. sternaman, the first quarterback of the chicago bears, died thursday at age 88
in the bears' first season, in 1922, sternaman and his brother edward ``dutch'' sternaman, a halfback and co-owner of the fledgling nfl team with bears founder george halas, accounted for 73 of the team's 123 points
at 135 pounds, sternaman also served as a runner, drop-kicker and blocker. he called plays featuring red grange, the ``galloping ghost'' of the university of illinois
murray m. ``buddy'' weiss, former editor of the international herald tribune, died saturday at age 64
the new york native, who worked for the u.s. information agency at the time of his death, was editor of the paris-based newspaper from its creation in 1966 until 1979
in 1946, he joined the new york herald tribune as a copy boy and was managing editor by the time the paper folded in 1966
after leaving the international herald tribune, he served as editor of the advocate in stamford, conn., and managing editor of parade magazine. he left parade in 1983
at usia, he was in charge of the news file distributed to u.s. embassies and diplomatic missions around the world
j.w. jung, founder of one of the nation's biggest mail-order seed companies, died friday at the age of 100
the jung seed co., founded here in 1906, circulates between 2 million and 3 million seed catalogs a year and also operates a garden center in randolph
jung traced his interest in gardening and seeds to his boyhood, when his mother taught him to save seeds from the vegetable garden for planting. he soon was going from farm to farm selling extra seeds
steno, an italian director of film comedies, died of a stroke sunday
born stefano vanzina in 1917, he began his career as a screenwriter in 1945 and soon after began directing. some, such as ``guardie e ladri'' (guards and thieves), starred one of italy's best-loved comics, toto. poll showing simon with strong lead in illinois; picks up 8th graf pvs bgng, `simon and'</note>
with signs pointing to another republican primary victory by george bush in illinois, the vice president came under renewed criticism sunday from gop rival bob dole and from democrats jesse jackson and albert gore jr
two polls published in monday's editions of two newspapers gave contradictory indications of how the democratic voters were expected to cast ballots in tuesday's primary
the poll in the chicago tribune showed jackson moving into the lead, favored by 32 percent of the democrats, illinois sen. paul simon by 29 percent and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis by 20 percent
five hundred likely democratic primary voters were contacted thursday and friday and the survey had a margin of error of 5 percent, meaning the numbers could be off that much up or down
however, a poll for the washington post and abc news showed simon holding a strong lead with 42 percent, jackson 33 percent, dukakis 14 percent, sen. gore of tennessee 4 percent, rep. richard gephardt of missouri 3 percent and others and undecided, 4 percent. that poll was based on telephone interviews friday night and saturday with 287 democratic voters who were likely to cast ballots. the margin of error was 6 percent
simon, dependent on a home-state victory to remain in the race, said he had overcome poor showings in polls during other campaigns
if i get my message across to the people of illinois, they're going to vote for me,'' he said
the new chicago tribune poll indicated slippage in simon's support. a survey published in the tribune on sunday said the senator was leading with support from 35 percent of likely democratic voters, while jackson had the backing of 30 percent and dukakis that of 18 percent
simon and dukakis also traded barbs on the question of whether the democratic nomination would be determined by a brokered convention next july in atlanta
the tribune poll on sunday also showed bush with a 34-point lead over dole. the newspaper did not continue surveying republicans
dole, struggling to revive his presidential campaign, insisted he would fight on ``full bore'' after illinois though he said he had no obligation ``to look ridiculous.''
gore, who hopes to demonstrate some northern support in illinois, said he would ``almost certainly'' turn down his party's vice presidential nomination
gore, at a campaign stop later, also blasted bush over the iran-contra affair
the reagan-bush administration violated the law in a brazen way,'' he said, adding: ``we still don't know what george bush's role was.''
interviewed on the cbs show, ``face the nation,'' dole said he received telegram from former president richard nixon who urged him ``hang in there, don't give up, make illinois your finest hour.''
i believe i have some obligation _ not to look ridiculous _ but some obligation to stay in this race,'' said the kansas senator
asked if there was any chance he's drop out after illinois, dole said, ``we're going full bore'' on the wisconsin, which holds its primary on april 5
bush attended a polish-language mass at st. hyacinth church on the city's northwest side and described his trip to poland last year and his meeting with solidarity leader lech walesa
it is the united states of america that must keep alive the hope of the polish people,'' the vice president told a crowd that filled the church and spilled onto the sidewalk outside
after church, bush planned a day of appearances at shopping malls and restaurants, each event described by his staff as a ``photo opportunity only.''
on the possibility of a brokered convention, dukakis said, ``i can't imagine anything worse _ the idea of taking the right of the people to elect their president with their votes and putting it in some backrooms in atlanta.''
simon, predicting no democrat would be able win the nomination on the first ballot at the convention, said dukakis' attitude demonstrated ``a touch of arrogance.'' he described the massachusetts governor as saying, ``you either vote for me or you'll have a brokered convention.''
gore also came to simon's defense and criticized dukakis, saying, ``gov. dukakis' commercial tries to lump him in with back-room politics of a kind paul simon has not been associated with.''
jackson, fresh from a victory in democratic caucuses in south carolina on saturday where he won 54 percent of the vote and picked up 23 delegates, said he hoped by the end of the primary and caucus season in june to have received ``a majority of the popular vote.''
asked about the prospects of running against bush in the general election, jackson said on the nbc show, ``meet the press,'' ``he certainly has a lot of baggage
george bush was supposed to be over the commission on the drug situation, yet drugs are coming into this country at a rate that threatens our national security. ... to that continuous flow of drugs, mrs. reagan says no and george bush says nothing.''
the latest associated press delegate count showed dukakis the democratyic leader with 460 and jackson second with 423. gore was third with 352. a total of 2,082 is needed for the nomination
on the republican side, bush had 705 and dole 165, with 1,139 need for the nomination
gore, who received 18 percent of the south carolina vote and 6 delegates, said he consideed that ``a very good showing.''
i don't know of anyone weho was surprised to see jesse jackson win a big victory in his home state, his native state,'' the tennessee senator said on ``face the nation.''
dole denied he dislikes bush, but said, ``i do believe that he's sort of had a charmed life in politics, he's gotten quite a ways without doing very much. maybe that's a key to success i hadn't thought of.''
the senator renewed his debate challenge to bush and raised again the question of a possible tie between the vice president and panamanian strong man gen. manuel noriega who has been accused of involvement in drug trafficking
i'd like george bush to tell us whether noriega was on his payroll when he was cia director,'' said dole
as for his prospects for a comeback, dole said, ``sooner or later, the voters in one of these states are going to say, wait a minute, we're about to nominate someone who can't win in november.'' after 5th graf to include effect on national delegates.</note>
jesse jackson won easily saturday in his native south carolina's democratic precinct caucuses, giving his already surging campaign a boost just days before the primary in his adopted illinois
just because you're born in the slum doesn't mean the slum's borne in you,'' jackson said in greenville. ``i came home tonight to tell america there is a way out.''
with 93 percent of the state's 1,788 precincts reporting, jackson won 8,114 county convention delegates for 54 percent, followed by uncommitted with 2,853 delegates for 19 percent
tennessee sen. albert gore jr. was in third place with 2,777 delegates for 18 percent
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis trailed far behind with 1,018 county convention delegates for 7 percent, followed by missouri rep. richard gephardt with 307 delegates for 2 percent and illinois sen. paul simon with just 36 delegates
if the results of the caucuses hold up at the state convention in april, jackson would win 23 delegates to the democratic national convention, 15 would be uncommitted and gore would gain 6. in addition another four party officials in the state, who automatically are delegates to the national convention, have said they are uncommitted
the results from south carolina put jackson's overall national delegate tally at 423.55, just behind dukakis, who has 460.5
in south carolina ... i want to win another gold medal,'' jackson said, noting his strong showing in the super tuesday primaries
i hope to walk away with the majority,'' jackson said. ``i should be the favorite son from south carolina.''
gephardt, who was campaigning in michigan, congratulated jackson on his victory, saying ``i thought he would do very well there -it's his home state - and he did.''
gore spokesman fred martin called his candidate's performance ``a strong showing'' and added ``we expect to pick up a majority of the uncommitted.''
democratic party officials expected as many as 20,000 voters would participate in the caucuses in which 44 convention delegates were at stake
during a campaign swing across the state friday, jackson predicted he would emerge as the leader in the muddled race for convention delegates once the votes are tallied in south carolina and illinois, which holds a primary on tuesday
jackson trails dukakis but leads gore in the race for delegates to the democratic national convention
gore has waged an active campaign in the state and a newspaper survey of democratic party chairmen statewide found gore expected to finish second to jackson
in the past, south carolina democrats have had a penchant for going to the caucuses and voting for uncommitted delegates. jackson was the top candidate four years ago but a plurality of the delegates remained uncommitted at the precinct level
this time around, campaign aides for gephardt and simon, were asking their supporters to remain uncommitted and work to become delegates at county conventions later in the month
but gore urged supporters during a stop in charleston friday to stand up for his candidacy and ``don't let anyone talk you into being an uncommitted delegate.'' dukakis aides wanted voters to commit to him
the caucuses are the first stage of a three-stage process to select national convention delegates. voters were to select delegates to the county conventions which in turn selects delegates to the state convention
the delegates are divided proportionally based on a candidates' showing. but only those candidates with 15 percent of the vote at the state convention are entitled to national convention delegates. delegates selected saturday are bound to their candidates through the county and state conventions
jake hill, gore's assistant campaign coordinator, suggested neither gephardt nor simon would be able to round up the 15 percent of votes to allow them to receive any delegates
the campaigns would ask their people to stay uncommitted in the hopes something could be worked out at the county or state conventions to allow them to secure some delegates, he suggested
although the caucuses have been overshadowed by south carolina's republican primary and the parade of gop candidates it attracted, gephardt, gore and jackson all stumped in the state during the past week
gephardt had the endorsements of former govs. dick riley and robert mcnair. he promoted his trade policy this week at a campaign stop at a clearwater textile plant that will be closed next month
but during the stop, gephardt said he hoped to get his campaign back on track by winning the michigan primary march 26
while dukakis and simon both campaigned in the state earlier, neither has returned in recent weeks
a storm packing winds of up to 60 miles per hour capsized scores of small fishing boats, flattened hundreds of mud and straw huts and at least 15 people were feared dead, police said sunday
rescue workers searched the banks of the jamuna river on sunday for survivors of the friday storm in mankiganj district, northwest of dhaka, officials said
we see slim chances that the missing are still surviving,'' said a police official in manikganj, who spoke in a telephone interview on condition of anonymity
he said no bodies had yet been recovered
the storm along the river was slow in being reported because the wind also damaged electrical and telephone wires in the region
more than 300 mud and straw huts were flattened, and trees and crops damaged, officials said. more than 50 fishing boats were believed capsized or sunk
iraq said sunday its warplanes attacked a supertanker off the iranian coast, while its ground forces beat back an iranian offensive in a pre-dawn battle in the central sector of the war front
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, reported more than 1,000 iranians were killed in the 3{-hour battle which began at 1 a.m
ina said two iranian brigades, backed by tanks and artillery, were involved in the thrust
infantry units of iraq's 2nd army corps repulsed the thrust, exterminating the bulk of the force. more than 1,000 iranians were killed and the others were forced to retreat,'' the agency quoted an unnamed spokesman as saying
there was no immediate word from iran on the reported battle
iraq did not say where exactly the battle took place, but judging from the size of the force, the attack did not appear to signal the beginning of iran's long-awaited major offensive
the large-scale attack is expected to be launched in the southern sector of the 730-mile front around basra, iraq's second-largest city and its only outlet to the persian gulf
iran's last thrust in january 1987, brought iranian troops to within six miles of basra. but western military analysts say iran has had difficulties mobilizing forces needed for a new attack
in a separate dispatch, ina quoted a military spokesman as saying iraqi planes ``dealt an accurate and effective blow to a very large maritime target,'' a reference to a supertanker, off the iranian coast during the night
the report could not be immediately confirmed
ellison onizuka and michael smith both were military officers. they trained together for two years to be astronauts. and they died together when the space shuttle challenger blew up above the florida coast
though both were servicemen, the government contributed to a money award for air force lt. col. onizuka's relatives but went to court to avoid paying damages in navy cmdr. smith's case
dick scobee, judith resnik and ronald mcnair were civilian nasa astronauts who died in the jan. 28, 1986, explosion. the government contributed to a settlement with scobee's dependents, but refused to contribute to settlements reached with the resnik and mcnair families by rocket maker morton thiokol
i'm hoping some of this inequity will lead to legislation to address the problems of the government's negligence,'' says lawyer michael d. oldak, resnik's ex-husband
why did the government settle with some astronaut families and not with others?
one crucial difference: the families of resnik, smith, and mcnair hired lawyers to negotiate for them. their lawyers objected to justice department positions in the case, and these three families are not likely to see any money from the government
the government did settle _ along with thiokol _ with the four families who hired no lawyers: the scobees, the onizukas and the survivors of the two non-government crew members, teacher christa mcauliffe and hughes aircraft engineer gregory jarvis
these four spouses and six children shared in cash and annuities that cost $7,735,000. the government paid 40 percent; thiokol, 60 percent
they had relied on informal advice from the law partner of mcauliffe's husband, steven, and they talked only with the government, never directly with the company
another difference is that once those four cases were settled dec. 29, 1986, justice department lawyers took an our-way-or-no-way approach to negotiating with the other families
the government sought to apply the same formula for financial benefits to each family. at the same time, it tried to negotiate a legal minefield bounded by two key supreme court decisions
in one decision, the high court gave the government immunity from being sued for damages for its military and civilian employees who are killed on the job. justice department lawyers did not want to see that doctrine weakened
in the other decision, the supreme court said a contractor who pays damages for the death of a federal worker can try to get some of that money back from the government, if federal employees shared in the blame
the government did not want to be dragged into court by thiokol for a replay of the errors by government officials who spurned the protests of company engineers that it was too cold to launch challenger
the two decisions left the government with direct liability for two challenger astronauts and only indirect liability for the five federal workers aboard. the justice department's solution: settle only when the company also was a party
the split between the families had its roots in the government's financial benefit formula, based on the number and age of dependents and their needs and goals
justice spokeswoman amy brown said ``generous offers based on the same formula'' were made to all seven families. but the families with lawyers rejected them
the formula left out an element common to most court-awarded damages _ a calculation of lost wages
legal experts say this benefited the mcauliffe family, because the earning potential of public school teacher christa mcauliffe was dwarfed by that of her fellow crew members, who were engineers and physicists, all but one with advanced degrees
one lawyer involved in the negotiations said steven mcauliffe helped devise the formula and pressed other families to accept it because the government wanted a package settlement
a single settlement covering military, civilian federal and non-government crew members would ease the government's legal problem of having direct liability for some and indirect liability for others, this source said
but the benefit formula did not offer enough money to satisfy michael oldak, lawyer for resnik's divorced father, marvin, and her niece and nephew. a 36-year-old, ph.d. engineer, resnik was the only astronaut with neither spouse nor children
oldak said the formula only provided several hundred thousand dollars for the resniks _ between a quarter and a half of what the government and company were offering the other families
after rejecting two government-company offers, oldak went to thiokol
the company was agreeable to a joint government-company settlement with the resniks for an amount roughly equal to that of jarvis' widow, marcia. hers was the lowest of the four settlements because the jarvises had no children
thiokol would even make up the difference between this figure and the government-company offer that oldak had rejected
checking with marcia jarvis and other relatives, oldak found none who objected to bending the formula this much
but justice officials heard differently. ``it's not accurate that it would not offend other families,'' said justice's brown. ``one might have said ok. two might have, but all of them would not subscribe to that. concern was voiced that an offer might not be in line with the formula used for the others, and we couldn't do that.''
last july, thiokol lawyer john w. adler wrote the government, ``i don't believe that the department's position with respect to the resnik claim has been fair either to the resnik claimants or to morton thiokol.''
ulimately, thiokol settled alone with the resniks; the astronaut's father said it came to $2 million to $3.5 million
thiokol also settled with mcnair's widow and two infants. their lawyer, ronald krist of houston, says he would not let the family accept a joint government-company offer as low that accepted by the other families
he offered to settle separately with the government for whatever it calculated its share was, and he would take on thiokol independently. but the government refused
justice's brown explained, ``we couldn't settle on behalf of the government alone, because there was no direct government liability. our settlement offers were all on behalf of both the government and the company.''
but the joint settlements left the question of liability too murky for smith's widow, jane. ``she didn't feel justice was being served,'' her lawyer, william f. maready said. ``she feels now that the people whose negligence caused the accident should be accountable for their actions.''
she sued thiokol, the government and lawrence mulloy, the nasa engineer responsible for the booster rocket that was blamed for the accident
but last year, the supreme court expanded its 35-year-old doctrine that military survivors may not sue the government. it extended the government's immunity to a case like the challenger disaster, where a military pilot was killed while supervised by federal civilian employees
government lawyers appeared in court and got both the government and mulloy dismissed as defendants
maready has filed notice he intends to appeal
that ruling says, in effect, that a military person is a second class citizen, that no matter how negligent our government was in this situation that the people in the agencies involved aren't accountable,'' maready said. ``it's a dangerous thing for the space program to be run by people who aren't fully accountable.'' spending</head>
the highly touted budget summit agreement, long since enacted into law, definitively settled the question of how much money the federal government should spend this year. right?
wrong
congressional leaders are girding for a fight over whether spending in fiscal year 1988, which is nearly half over, needs to be increased
whether lawmakers adhere to the summit pact and only provide extra money for what the agreement called ``dire emergencies'' rests on whether they succumb to the urge to spend more _ an urging fueled by the fact that this is an election year
in an era of $1 trillion federal budgets, requests for an additional several billion dollars for unforeseen needs are made by the white house and approved by congress virtually every year. they are called supplemental spending bills
but the budget pact concluded by president reagan and congressional leaders forbade supplementals ``except in the case of dire emergency.'' the term was left undefined
lawmakers are already beginning to submit new spending proposals said to be for dire emergencies. one, with 37 co-sponsors, would provide $105 million to the financially strapped coast guard. another, with 20 co-sponsors, would add $263 million in spending for the homeless
my experience around here is it's sort of like a pent-up lake and the dam could break very easily,'' sen. pete v. domenici of new mexico, senior republican on the budget committee and one of the negotiators at last fall's budget summit, says of the congressional proclivity for spending money
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said last week that he interprets dire emergencies to include crises such as natural disasters or military operations
aside from that kind of thing, it's not our expectation, nor our intention'' to approve other kinds of new spending, wright said
indeed, many lawmakers seem to believe that in this election year it could be bad politics to openly preach more spending because of the effect on the deficit
there is another reason for democrats to be leery of a supplemental spending bill. many of them believe it could become a way for aid to the nicaraguan contra rebels to be restored
the administration will ultimately use the supplemental for contra aid,'' predicts rep. vic fazio, d-calif
despite those incentives, some are pessimistic that lawmakers seeking new spending will be thwarted
they'll be caving, and it's unfortunate,'' said rep. delbert latta of ohio, ranking republican on the house budget committee and another summit participant. ``it seems like per usual, everybody's got their program they're particularly interested in that's just not getting enough money.''
lawmakers will be watching closely this week, when the administration says it will submit a supplemental spending bill of its own
the package is expected by congressional aides to be worth between $1 billion and $2 billion, but administration officials say it will produce no red ink. instead, they say the spending for veterans, black lung benefits, the judicial branch, coast guard, prisons and other programs will be offset by cuts in other unspecified areas
if legislators believe that some of the spending in reagan's request is not truly for emergencies, some lawmakers might be encouraged to press for money for programs they favor
under any circumstances, some members of congress might try to attach their requests for new spending to the reagan proposal. such requests, once submitted, might be hard for other lawmakers to resist, especially with elections coming in a few months
for example, the coast guard, because it is low on money, has already announced plans to curtail more than half of its drug enforcement patrols and to close several facilities. members could be hard-pressed to vote against restoring such cuts
even if such efforts lose, lawmakers lose nothing by introducing them and showing their constituents that at least they tried
this is how they start brewing the stew,'' said one congressional aide, who asked not to be identified, about how extra spending gets generated. breathing</head>
as many as 5,000 machines designed to monitor babies at risk of sudden infant death syndrome have faulty alarms that could leave infants vulnerable to death or injury, warns the company that makes them
the devices, manufactured by aequitron medical inc., are designed to sound an alarm if an infant suddenly stops breathing or has an abnormal heart rate. but the machines have a ``higher than acceptable failure rate,'' the company's president, george a. jackson, said last week
the company issued a safety alert, warning dealers about the defect in its new model, no. 9200, which has been shipped to homes and hospitals nationwide since last july. the alert does not affect about 40,000 earlier models
jackson said that no injuries or deaths have been reported, but that the company learned within the last two or three weeks that the alarm had failed in some instances
the device primarily is used in homes to monitor children believed to be at high risk for sids. the mysterious malady is the seventh leading killer of younger americans, according to the national centers for disease control
in some cases, the infants suffer from apnea, a tendency to stop breathing while asleep, jackson said. if the alarm sounds in time, an adult often can awaken the child and restart his or her breathing
jackson said the company is notifying its dealers about the problem by registered letter. the dealers will alert individual customers, who lease the machines for home use
federal prosecutors say they have dropped a fraud count against a former insurance agent who lost all memory of his alleged crime after suffering a heart attack
robert s. jones, 52, had been charged with pocketing $76,386 by filing a false insurance policy claim. federal prosecutors dismissed the charge friday, basing their decision on medical opinion that jones is unable to proceed in court
prosecutors said jones filled out a bogus life insurance form on dec. 14, 1983, backdated it and invented a fake beneficiary to receive the money from his former employer, peoples life insurance co
assistant u.s. attorney r. lynette ranson said jones scanned newspapers for stories on violent or accidental deaths and used those victims' names in the fraudulent policies
she said jones had used the scheme more than once but said prosecutors agreed to press only one count in exchange for a guilty plea
but jones' deteriorating health prevented him from ever making a plea, ranson said
we thought ... that he was playing games, and that's why we held off for a long time,'' ranson said. ``but he really is in bad shape.''
jones was disabled since november 1986, when he suffered a cardiac arrest that included ``one episode of sudden death,'' according to dr. m.i. dababnah
the seizure came three months after jones was charged. it apparently caused him to lose his memory, dababnah said in reports to federal court
that diagnosis was supported by dr. thomas e. andrews, a clinical psychologist for the west virginia disability determination service
he has virtually no memory for significant events within the last five years,'' andrews advised the court. head</head>
a man who said his hearing was damaged when a lufthansa airline attendant spilled hot drinks over his head has won nearly $40,000 in damages, a newspaper reported sunday
the plaintiff, a bahraini lawyer identified as abdul-wahab ahmed bin harmas, had filed the suit against the west german airline in bahrain's high civil court
the lawsuit alleged negligence and said the flight attendant accidentally spilled four pots of hot coffee and tea over his head, according to the english-language gulf daily news
the newspaper said the court awarded him 15,000 dinars, or $39,750, which was one-tenth the amount sought
the paper said the accident occurred during a flight from frankfurt to bahrain, when the plane hit severe turbulence. it gave no precise dates
the man's injuries led to three months' treatment in bahrain, england and germany, the newspaper said
the court ruled that it was the airline's responsibility to ensure the safety of passengers, the paper said. lufthansa officials in bahrain have refused to comment on the case
president hussain muhammad ershad's party increased its already wide margin in parliament by picking up two more seats in weekend repolling, the election commission announced sunday
voting was held saturday in nine districts where violence during the main election march 3 had forced it to be called off. at least 13 people were killed and 300 others injured in clashes march 3, and two more people died in bomb blasts in dhaka during repolling saturday, police said
the country's major opposition parties, which have been waging a campaign since november to oust ershad, boycotted the parliament balloting. they contend that fair elections cannot be held until ershad resigns and have denounced the latest vote as fraudulent
ershad's jatiya party had 249 seats in the 330-member house, according to the latest results. the election commission said the combined opposition party, a coalition of scores of small groups, won 18 seats. two minor parties won two seats each, and independents won 25 seats
the results in three districts have not yet been announced. in one district, where a candidate was killed, voting has been scheduled for april 7
another 30 seats in parliament are reserved for women, who are chosen later
the major opposition parties contend that less than 1 percent of the nation's 48 million registered voters cast ballots in the parliament elections. but government officials say the turnout appeared to be more than 50 percent
ershad scheduled the elections after dissolving parliament 3{ years before its five-year term was set to expire in an effort to appease his foes. the former army general took power in a 1982 bloodless coup and was elected president in a 1986 election
major opposition parties contended that vote was fraudulent
a truck on the wrong side of the road collided head-on with a bus sunday, killing 13 turks, authorities said
thirty-five passengers were reported injured in the accident, about 90 miles south of ankara
the anatolia news agency said the accident occurred at 6:30 a.m. near sereflikochisar township and that the truck driver, among the dead, apparently had fallen asleep at the wheel
the bus was going from ankara to the mediterranean coastal city of mersin
police on sunday seized 440 pounds of heroin and arrested two men in an apartment raid, authorities said
police said it was the largest seizure ever in the british colony of no. 3 heroin, which is not top-grade and is used mostly by local drug addicts
the raided apartment on hong kong island was also the largest drug manufucturing center ever discovered in the colony, police said, adding that the seizure following long surveillance of the premises
police said they also seized a van containing more than 440 pounds of caffeine, needed to manufacture the drug
they said the van, which was found in another district of the island, was owned by the syndicate using the raided apartment
chancellor helmut kohl will travel to moscow this fall for talks with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, government officials said sunday
chief government spokesman friedhelm ost said gorbachev has also agreed to visit bonn during the first half of next year
kohl had asked gorbachev to visit bonn in the first half of this year
but after a meeting with soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze in bonn in january, west german officials said scheduling problems would delay the visit
ost, in a statement, said the exact dates of the visits have not yet been set
charles e. ``buddy'' roemer iii, a brash self-styled reformer who unseated a political legend to take office monday as governor, says he faces ``a difficult and interesting job'' in trying to solve louisiana's problems
i think i'm just a representative of the people in this. i think it's a make-or-break situation for the kinds of things we want,'' roemer, 44, said in a recent interview
as gov. edwin edwards leaves office, the state faces the immediate problems of a four-year, $1.2 billion budget deficit and a cash shortage that threatens to shut down state government
fiscal analysts have warned that the state faces as much as a $1 billion shortfall for the 1988-89 fiscal year
the state's unemployment rate hit 12 percent in january, one of the highest in the nation, due primarily to the long-running downturn in the oil and gas industry
at the same time, louisiana's education systems are under challenge as second-rate, business interests are demanding a major overhaul of the state's tax system in order to attract new industry, and environmental groups are calling for tougher regulations to protect the air and water
roemer, who plans major reforms in those areas and others such as in campaign finance practices, said the challenge is unlike that facing any other louisiana governor
we need a combination in the next four years of a crisis manager and a long-term planner,'' he said. ``it's rare that you combine the two. that's what i'm going to have to do as governor
but i've got to do both to get us out of debt and build _ education development, economic development, better environment. it's going to be a difficult and interesting job.''
to get started, the democratic former congressman is planning a low-budget inauguration minus the traditional parade and inaugural night ball. according to his transition office, only $48,000 will be spent on the entire event, less than the $60,000 gov. dave treen spent on the stage used for his swearing-in ceremony in 1980
roemer, who campaigned on the need for a ``revolution'' to turn around the state's declining fortunes, said the first year of his administration will be dedicated to reversing the financial problems and creating a new image for louisiana, often associated with scandal
confidence, attitude and legislative programs _ and then we will slowly fund them over the next four years,'' he said. ``this plan won't be magic, it won't be instant. we've had to build from the ground up. but i'm very pleased with the progress we've made.''
edwards, who served as governor from 1972 to 1980 and returned for a third term in 1984, was occupied for much of his last administration defending himself successfully against federal racketeering charges. as solutions for the state's budget problems, he proposed a statewide lottery and casino gambling in new orleans. roemer is opposed to both
roemer said he was happy that edwards was willing to help during the transition between the oct. 24 election and monday's inauguration
at roemer's request edwards appointed brian kendrick, a baton rouge department store executive, as commissioner of administration
edwards also approved about $36 million in budget cuts requested by roemer, but shielded the giant department of health and human resources from the fiscal ax
roemer is considering splitting the agency into two departments as part of a reorganization program to be studied by a special legislative session later this month. short-term budget reductions also will be on the agenda
kendrick has spearheaded efforts to minimize the cash-flow problem by pushing back more than $480 million in expenditures until the new fiscal year begins july 1
the cash-saving measures include delaying payments to government retirement systems, holding state income tax refund checks for 90 days and pushing one state payday back
in the meantime, roemer said he will cut the budget back as far as he can before the subject of taxes is broached
we are not going to raise taxes or change taxes until we cut this budget,'' roemer said. ``it is out of control.'' weapons</head>
a top taiwanese nuclear scientist has disappeared and may have fled to the united states with confidential blueprints disclosing that taiwan plans to make nuclear weapons, newspapers reported sunday
government officials repeatedly have denied any plans to produce nuclear weapons and said all nuclear research programs in taiwan are for peaceful purposes
on friday, defense minister cheng wei-yuan told the lawmaking legislative yuan that a warrant had been issued for the arrest of col. chang hsien-yi, 45, who was deputy director of the nuclear energy research center at the military-run chungshan institute of science and technology
cheng said the warrant was issued because chang had not asked permission for leave
chang has been missing since january, and officials said they have no information on his whereabouts
but the mass circulation united daily news said chang's daughter, pei-fen, wrote from georgia to a classmate at an elementary school in taipei last month saying she missed taiwan
the letter gave no return address and the girl gave no indication whether she was living with her father, the newspaper said
without disclosing the source of their information, several newspapers claimed that chang was a u.s. spy and had fled to the united states together with his wife and three children
the liberal newspaper independence morning post, quoting an unidentified institute official, said chang earlier had collected ``a whole bunch'' of pictures and confidential information on taiwan's nuclear plans
some newspapers said taiwan may have recycled key elements from waste from its three nuclear power plants to make nuclear weapons
the united daily news, quoting an unidentified source, said the united states may have become suspicious of taiwan's plans and this may have been behind a u.s. decision earlier this year to stop supplying taiwan with heavy water, which is needed for nuclear development
officials were unavailable for comment because of the sunday holiday
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev will spend five days in this communist country studying economic and social problems that he hopes the soviet union can avoid as it embraces reform
yugoslavia, which has jealously guarded its independence from soviet power for 40 years, presents a picture of prosperity to a visitor from moscow. a crush of private automobiles in the capital and store windows displaying local and western-made consumer goods of every description make moscow's truck-cluttered streets and drab facades seem all the more barren
but the country's system of ``self-managed, market socialism'' is struggling with high inflation, high unemployment, widespread labor unrest and a paralyzing $20 billion debt to western creditors
and yugoslavia's leadership must constantly perform a delicate balancing act to prevent the country from being torn apart by nationalistic rivalries within its borders
gorbachev arrives here monday for a five-day visit that includes belgrade, the northern industrial city of ljubljana and the southern resort city of dubrovnik on the adriatic
the soviet leader, who has just marked the end of his third year in power, is trying to boost the soviet union out of economic stagnation. he has decentralized control over production and introduced market forces to shake workers and managers out of their notorious complacency
during his tour gorbachev may gain some pointers on his programs of ``perestroika,'' or restructuring of the soviet economy, and ``glasnost,'' which encourages more open expression of ideas for solving the nation's problems
with the development in recent years of a free-wheeling press and a mixed economy that encourages both private enterprise and central planning, yugoslavia offers something of a window on the future for the reform-minded soviet leader
runaway inflation and the government's powerless decrees aimed at curing the country's economic ills serve notice that the path may not be an easy one
in recent months, as ethnic minorities have attempted to take advantage of the soviet government's new tolerance to express their long-held grievances, gorbachev has faced challenges from nationalists of several stripes
despite some rioting and huge mass demonstrations in the southern republics of azerbaidjian and armenia, no soviet ethnic group has the strength that yugoslavian nationalities have used to guarantee each a share of governing power at the expense of the central authorities
gorbachev is the first soviet leader to visit yugoslavia since the death of josip broz tito in may 1980. tito broke with moscow in 1948 and steered a stubbornly independent course outside the soviet bloc
after being forced by a soviet-led blockade to open trade with the west, yugoslavia has since re-established economic ties with moscow
the soviet union today is yugoslavia's largest trading partner, with the yugoslavs importing primarily crude oil and other raw materials and exporting manufactured goods, including much-prized shoes, clothing and technology to the soviet union
a $1.4 billion trade surplus is a subject of concern in belgrade, but there has been speculation the soviets may agree to pay off their paper debt by building a subway system for the traffic-clogged yugoslav capital
the present yugoslav leadership, headed by an eight-member state presidency, has continued tito's independent political course, and yugoslavia remains an important nation in the non-aligned movement
gorbachev is expected to formally acknowledge that special status with the issuance during his visit of a joint declaration guaranteeing full yugoslavian independence
but in the context of his public statements in prague and to fellow communist leaders in moscow last year, the gorbachev declaration may signal more independence for other east european nations as well
the soviet leader has said his nation has no monopoly on the proper path to socialism, and reform-minded leaders elsewhere in eastern europe are expected to test his words with experiments aimed at reinvigorating their own economies
yugoslav deputy foreign minister, ilija djukic, has said the new soviet-yugoslav document would update previous declarations signed by the two countries in 1955 and 1956 and will ``further confirm principles of non-interference on the basis of equality and soveregnty.''
talks aimed at ending the afghan war are one day away from a soviet deadline for their completion, but a crucial dispute on who will run the country still stands in the way of a signed settlement
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said last month that soviet troops would begin withdrawing troops from afghanistan by mid-may if an agreement is reached by march 15. but sources close to the u.n.-sponsored negotiations say they don't view the deadline as rigid
delegations from the soviet-backed government in kabul and from pakistan, which is representing the afghan resistance, both say they are ready to extend the negotiations
u.n. undersecretary general diego cordovez, the talks' mediator, said he asked both sides to seek ``strengthened instructions'' during the weekend to prepare for monday's session
soviet troops intervened in afghanistan in 1979. an estimated 115,000 troops have been helping the government fight the u.s.-backed moslem guerrillas
the latest round, the longest since the talks began in 1982, opened with a confident mood on march 2. two days later, an accord was announced on an issue that had stalled negotiations for years, with both sides agreeing on a timetable and the basic logistics for withdrawing the red army troops
under that accord, the pullout would be completed within nine months after its start, with half of the troops leaving in the first three months. cordovez said later there remained no ``differences of substance'' that would bar tying up a peace package of agreements
the agreements include a bilateral agreement pledging the two countries to not interfere in each other's affairs and arrangements for the return of more than 5 million afghan refugees from pakistan.
but the quick pace of the early talks quickly ran into snags
pakistan's chief representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, said the talks were ``inching slowly'' forward, but that he expected them to regain speed this week. he did not elaborate why
the soviet union and its kabul allies, represented at geneva by foreign minister abdul wakil, blame pakistan for holding up final agreement
they fault pakistan's insistence on linking the proposed settlement to the formation of a transitional government acceptable to the resistance. gorbachev has said that the makeup of the future government should be decided by the afghans themselves
pakistan is insisting on a transitional government that would allow for the safe return of anti-soviet refugees.
so far, noorani has given no indication that pakistan would drop its demand. but sources close to the talks said islamabad still hopes to strike a deal with afghanistan, perhaps on the timing of the establishment of a new government
but another issue had cast an increasingly larger shadow on the talks: superpower aid to the two opposing sides
on march 4, the united states demanded that all foreign military aid to the warring parties must stop simultaneously. the soviet union has flatly rejected the demand, saying the accords will leave it free to continue military aid to kabul after the troop withdrawal
wakil said the draft agreements provide only for a cessation of military aid to the u.s.-backed guerrillas
in a strong statement on friday, state department spokesman charles e. redman said u.s. aid to the afghan rebels will not be halted until the soviets stopped their assistance to the kabul government. the soviets sent troops into afghanistan in 1979 to prop up the wobbly marxist government
the guerrillas, meanwhile, have formed their own government and have rejected any power sharing with the soviet-backed government of president najib
islamabad, pakistan (ap) _ pakistan's tough stand at the slow-moving afghan peace talks has touched off a power struggle among guerrilla leaders fighting the soviet-backed afghan government
pakistan prime minister mohammad khan junejo has been barnstorming the country to drum up support for his demand that an accord on a soviet troop withdrawal be coupled with a plan for a future kabul government
in the meantime, the fractious guerrilla alliance, whose factions all want a voice in that new government, has been plagued by upheaval. during the weekend, yunis khalis resigned as chairman of the seven-party alliance, ostensibly for health reasons
but there were numerous reports, unconfirmed by guerrilla spokesmen, that the 69-year-old khalis quit to protest plans to send a resistance delegation to the u.n.-sponsored peace talks at geneva, which resume monday
another insurgent leader, sibghatullah mojaddedi, pulled his moderate afghan national liberation front out of the alliance complaining of undue pressure from the body's four-party majority of moslem extremists
two days later, mojaddedi returned to the fold, saying he had received ``certain assurances'' from the fundamentalists and from pakistani officials. he did not elaborate
there has been intense pakistani pressure on the guerrillas to come up with an acceptable plan for forming a transitional government that would preside over the withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops who back kabul's communist rulers
pakistan, which for years insisted the soviet presence was the root of the afghan conflict, reversed itself this year by declaring it would not sign an agreement that does not address afghanistan's political future
islamabad speaks for the guerrillas at the geneva talks and cares for about 3.5 million afghan refugees living in camps near the afghan border. it also channels u.s. arms to the guerrillas, who are headquartered in the northwest pakistani city of peshawar
although moscow and kabul have accused islamabad of blocking what could be an imminent soviet pullout, junejo's public relations campaign indicates pakistan's stand has solid public support
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev has said his troops could begin going home on may 15 if islamabad and kabul sign an agreement by march 15
the deadline pressure has taken its toll on the guerrilla alliance. while rejecting the geneva talks because of the guerrillas' exclusion, the alliance nevertheless responded with a proposal for a heavily moslem government headed by alliance leaders
mojaddedi protested when the extremists used their majority to vote in one of their own as future president, ahmed shah of the ittehad party
the moderate factions favor a compromise government that could include some communists now in power in kabul, possibly headed by former king zahir shah. mojaddedi insisted that the 73-year-old monarch, currently in exile in rome, is the only neutral figure acceptable to a majority of afghans
khalis's resignation, meanwhile, threatened to widen the split because the next leader in line for the rotating chairmanship is gulbaddin hekmatyar, head of the hezb-i-islami and the most extremist moslem guerrilla of all
while fending off acusations that his fighters have attacked rival groups inside afghanistan, hekmatyar recently had taken to upstaging khalis by calling press conferences of his own to promote hezb-i-islami's hardline vision of a fundamentalist islamic regime
mohammad uaqub sharafat, press spokesman for the alliance, said there were plans to send a guerrilla delegation to the geneva talks to help clear up the confusion over the insurgents' stand
even that move threatened to cause a rift
rasul sayyaf, leader of the ittehad party, issued a statement sunday declaring his opposition to sending a delegation
and under no circumstances shall we agree to any kind of direct or indirect talks with the kabul regime or the (ruling people's democratic party of afghanistan),'' he said
pakistani officials publicly have urged the guerrillas to soften their stand in the interest of peace. but so far, the extremists among the insurgents have equated compromise with capitulation
premier andreas papandreou has ruled out establishing full diplomatic relations with israel because of violence in israel's occupied territories
addressing parliament, papandreou said it ``would have been useful to have full diplomatic relations with israel,'' before greece assumed the presidency of the european economic community in july
but we deeply regret that we can't do so after the recent treatment that the state of israel reserved for the palestinians,'' papandreou told the 300-member body friday
israeli bullets and beatings have left scores of palestinians dead in the occupied west bank and gaza strip since anti-occupation riots began dec. 8
greece is the only nato-member country and eec member that doesn't fully recogize israel. the two countries have maintained diplomatic relations in each other's capitals since 1971
police detained at least seven dissidents and former political prisoners who planned to attend a seminar on the soviet union's increasingly volatile ethnic problems, the meeting's organizer said sunday
lev timofeyev told the associated press that the 70 people who did attend the unsanctioned weekend seminar issued a statement condemning the ``unreasonable and irresponsible'' behavior of police agencies in detaining would-be participants
timofeyev, a moscow human rights activist, said the group that met at his southern moscow apartment learned that seven activists from lithuania, georgia, estonia and the ukraine were taken off of trains and planes headed for the capital
at least five others were told they shouldn't leave their homes over the weekend or they would be arrested, timofeyev said. among those kept under house arrest was genrikh altunyan, an armenian activist who lives in the ukrainian city of kharkov
armenia and the neighboring republic of azerbaijan have been the scene of the most intense unrest among the soviet union's more than 100 ethnic groups
a dispute over control of a region in azerbaijan known as nagorno-karabakh, where more than three quarters of the population is armenian, triggered mass demonstrations in yerevan in recent weeks and rioting in the azerbaijani city of sumgait that killed at least 32
timofeyev, who was released from a labor camp a year ago following a government review of political sentencings, said the seminar adopted three resolutions that will be forwarded to the kremlin on how to resolve ethnic problems
the first demands broad public discussion of ethnic tensions to correct widespread ignorance of the causes of nationalistic outbursts
another calls for discussion of limitations on religious freedom and the government's propagation of atheism, which the activists said is the root of some ethnic turmoil
the third proposal calls on the soviet government to let crimean tatars return to their historic homeland, the black sea peninsula from which they were routed during world war ii when dictator josef v. stalin accused the entire population of collaborating with nazi invaders
the tatars were exonerated two decades later, but they have been banned from returning to the crimea, now the site of some of the best resorts and official retreats
he said the documents produced at the seminar would be circulated among activists so the ``unofficial viewpoint'' on nationalities questions can reach the soviet public
the floods of vacationing students that once deluged this seaside community each spring have gone, leaving some hoteliers broken and the city rethinking its economy
only 100,000 college students are expected to bask this year on the subtropical sands, made famous in the 1960 movie ``where the boys are.'' there were 350,000 in 1985
the loss of business has prompted 12 smaller hotels that depended on the student crush to auction off their properties together april 7, said joe demastry of the fisher auction company
having paid top dollar for hotels in the early 1980 boom years, many of them now cannot meet their mortgage payments. by selling en masse, they hope to gain high prices by offering developers the opportunity to assemble large tracts
the unmanageable hordes of sunworshipping students, who packed hotel rooms by night and patronized businesses on the beach strip by day, divided this resort town
beach-front nightspots, vendors and student-dependent hotels clamored for continued promotion of spring break
but their cries were overcome by the din of residents and year-round businesses, snarled in springtime traffic and furious about paying for police and cleaning up mountains of trash
since 1986, when city leaders used strict law enforcement to quell the riotous partying, the city and broward county have been trying to diversify their tourist clientele
last year, word of strict police enforcement of parking, drinking, and code regulations discouraged student visitors, costing merchants $40 million and 100,000 student customers. the broward county tourist development council said the 200,000 student visitors spent about $80 million, one-third less than the $120 million tally from 1986, in the fort lauderdale area
police made about 1,300 arrests during last year's spring break, with college students comprising about one-third of them. there were 2,506 arrests in 1986
fort lauderdale is experiencing a ``shaking out,'' said roger handevidt, who plans to sell his orton terrace apartment hotel at the auction
what's happened is the city has said, `whoa! we can't deal with this,''' handevidt said of spring break. ``it was bad in 1985. i don't know anyone who would say differently.''
the atmosphere of drunkenness, littered streets and the stench from people urinating in the streets drove people away, he said
the money's just not coming in, so people are selling out,'' said the manager of a small hotel, who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``we're losing money every week.''
fort lauderdale and broward county cannot depend on a seasonal tourism, officials said. the beach businesses are beginning to understand that, said nickie grossman, broward county commissioner and chairwoman of the tourism and development council
we want every tourist'' _ from new york yankees fans during baseball's spring training to miami dolphins fans and the teams the dolphins play at nearby joe robbie stadium, she said
but spring break is not dead in fort lauderdale. many students still come to this palm-dotted shore, warmed beneath 80-degree skies and bathed by 78-degree surf
we have a tradition at `lyco' that for the last three years we've won first place at the button (nightclub) drinking, wet t-shirt and guys' bikini contests. and we kept that tradition alive today,'' said dave gibbons, one of 15 sigma pi fraternity brothers visiting from lycoming college in williamsport, pa
only one ``small'' incident interfered with the fraternity vacation, gibbons said. ``we've got another buddy i tried unsuccessfully to bail out of jail today _ and get this _ the charge was throwing dangerous missiles, trespassing and disorderly conduct for picking up a table with cups on it and throwing it over a balcony.''
sikh extremists killed eight people in punjab state and two sikh attackers died, including one who was beaten to death by a family, the united news of india said sunday
the report said the attacks occurred saturday night and sunday and that most were in the amritsar district, near the sikh holy city of amritsar
the victims included two hindus who were playing cards, three sikh communists and a sikh police constable, the news agency said. a sikh man and a woman whose identities were not known also died
the report gave no further details
uni said two sikh gunmen were killed in separate incidents
one was shot by police in the amritsar district sunday, uni said. it quoted police as saying the dead man was in a sikh group that attacked officers during a police raid on the village of chak mohar
the other was beaten to death by a farm family at nikahke village in the faridkot district saturday night. uni said the family was enraged when the gunman demanded their valuables
so far this year, police have blamed militant sikhs for the deaths of 430 people in punjab state, where sikhs are fighting for a separate homeland
sikhs are a religious minority in india and claim they are discriminated against by the hindu majority. sikhs are the majority in punjab state
two men walked into a coffee bar on sunday, ordered a tray of cream-filled pastries and then pulled out pistols and shot a customer to death, authorities reported
the italian news agency ansa said the victim, identified as luigi serraino, 31, was dead on arrival at a hospital in this southern city. the killers fled
police did not provide a motive for the killing, the latest in a city plagued by slayings linked to rival warfare among organized crime
a british producer says he has lined up 70 witnesses, including some who served with kurt waldheim in world war ii, to give evidence at a televised ``trial'' of allegations the austrian president was involved in nazi atrocities
the list includes some of waldheim's subordinates and superiors when he was an officer in the german army from 1939 to 1945, says jack saltman, who is producing the show for broadcast on u.s. and overseas television in june
it took a lot of persuasion to get some of them to do it,'' saltman said in a recent interview
with cameras rolling, lawyers will spend nine days beginning april 13 examining witnesses as if they were in a court of law, before a panel of retired jurists, including shirley hufstedler, a former u.s. education secretary and federal appeals court judge
the program then will be edited down to four hours, ending with the judges' decision on whether there is probable cause that waldheim acted contrary to the international laws of war
nobody has any idea how it will come out,'' saltman says. ``there's astonishingly little control over it. that's the beauty of it.''
the show is the latest entrant in what waldheim himself has called a new ``cottage industry'' _ investigating whether the austrian president knew about, supported or took part in atrocities when he served the germans in yugoslavia and greece during the war
since the investigations began with a probe by the world jewish congress in 1986, waldheim has been denounced around the world, been placed on a list of undesirables banned from entry to the united states and has become the focus of a bitter debate in his homeland
waldheim has denied taking part in atrocities. indeed, saltman says that in preparing for the show, he talked to the austrian leader for nearly an hour to get waldheim's side of the story
what did waldheim think of being ``tried'' on television? ``he was not overjoyed,'' saltman said. ``i don't think i'll be getting a christmas card this year from kurt waldheim.''
nor will waldheim appear on the program
work for the show began in may 1987, when producers at britain's thames television decided to do to waldheim what was done several years ago on a program called ``the trial of lee harvey oswald''
that was a mock courtroom proceeding, using real attorneys, judges and witnesses to the shooting of president kennedy in dallas in 1963 to determine if oswald was guilty of the crime
for aesthetic and legal reasons and because the participating witnesses and lawyers would have objected, saltman and his colleagues at thames television and co-producing home box office cringe when anyone uses the word ``trial'' when describing what they are doing to waldheim
they want to avoid comparisons with the daily syndicated u.s. show, ``people's court,'' where a real judge settles such issues as ``the case of the busted headlight.''
the show will be a ``commission of inquiry,'' with retired jurists from the united states, britain, india and sweden hearing testimony elicited by a ``presenting counselor,'' allan a. ryan, former director of the u.s. office of special investigation _ the justice department's nazi-hunting wing
lord peter rawlinson, britain's attorney general from 1970 to 1974, will be the ``challenging counsel,'' trying to rebut the evidence against waldheim
the proceedings will be filmed in a courtroom built for the program. then the judges will deliberate privately for as long as they think necessary and then deliver their opinions to the cameras a few days before the show goes on the air
like the u.s. supreme court, they may not agree. and like the high court, no one _ not even the producers _ will be allowed to hear the deliberations
the rules of evidence will be similar to those used in grand jury proceedings and the judgment will not be whether waldheim is guilty, but whether there is enough evidence to bring an indictment
this is about as close as anyone is going to get to bringing the waldheim case into a court of law,'' saltman said
no matter what we call it, the audience is going to say `this is the trial of kurt waldheim' and they're going to sit at home, and decide if he's a fascist,'' the producer said
according to evidence already made public, waldheim was a german intelligence officer familiar with reprisals against civilians to stop guerrilla activities in yugoslavia. questions have also been raised about whether he was involved in deportation of greek jews to death camps and mistreatment of allied prisoners of war
the controversy has been heightened by the fact that for many years, notably during his years of service as united nations secretary general, waldheim omitted all mention of his service in greece and yugoslavia in his official biography
saltman said a team of investigators hired by the producers scoured archives and searched for witnesses in austria, germany, italy, yugoslavia, greece, britain, bulgaria, albania, israel and the united states
so far, stations in france, scandinavia, israel, italy and australian have said they will show the program. negotiations with a west german station are underway. austrian television has also been offered a chance to buy the program, but there's no sign it will do so, saltman said
lawmakers hoping to make michigan the first state to ban the sale of realistic-looking toy guns are stockpiling ammunition to fight opponents, including toy makers and retailers lobbying against the bill
merchant groups are pushing to have any law take effect in 1991 so they can unload their plastic armories over three christmas seasons, instead of two
toy makers argue that any legislative remedies should come from congress, not the states, so manufacturers don't have to make 50 different types of toy machine guns to fit the requirements of each state
i think it would be a mass of total confusion if you regulate an interstate industry in a non-uniform manner,'' said aaron locker, general counsel for the toy manufacturers of america
against that backdrop, detroit police officer david malhalab told the michigan house consumers committee last week that the legislature must deal with the problem soon
i urge you to lead the nation. don't wait for congress,'' malalab said. ``by the time you come up with something, more children are going to be killed.''
malhalab brought a cache of the look-alike weapons to show the committee just how realistic the toys can look. he asked for laws requiring markings on the toys to make it easier for police officers to make split-second decisions
make it a different color. make it red. make it blue. make it yellow,'' malhalab said
the renewed call for a ban on the look-alike toys was sparked by the feb. 19 shooting death of a 13-year-old retarded boy in california. he was gunned down by san francisco police officers who mistook his plastic pistol for the real thing
a week later, 57 michigan house members co-sponsored a bill requiring the barrel of any toy firearm to be permanently sealed and colored in an ``indelible fluorescent orange.''
but legislators also were considering if the ban were in place how they would prevent criminals from copying the markings on fake guns and possibly tricking police into letting down their guard
rep. timothy walberg said he's afraid officers might see a potential cop-killer with a colored gun and develop a false sense of security
(criminals) are creative people. i see no problem with them taking a live weapon and painting it orange,'' walberg said
burbank, calif., became the first city in the nation to ban the sale of any toy that resembles a real weapon last september
two avalanches sunday crushed houses in this mountanous region under a mass of snow, killing seven people and injuring about 20, authorities said
no americans were among the dead
in italy, meanwhile, an italian skier was killed when he was buried by an avalanche on ski slopes near the swiss border, authorities reported
the snowslides in austria followed three avalanches in the same region saturday that killed three people
sunday's avalanches roared down mt. zwoelferkopf shortly after dawn, engulfing a gas station and several houses before they blocked a nearby railroad track, minutes after a train had passed the area
the avalanches occurred in st. anton in tyrol province, a well-known skiing area that has traditionally attracts scandinavian and british tourists
the massive snowslides ripped off roofs and crushed or tore off walls of houses, some of which have stood there for 300-400 years, a policeman said
authorities said five swedish tourists and two austrians were killed and about 20 others were injured. the identities of victims and the injured were not released
in innsbruck, the provincial security police headquarters put the fatality figure in this weekend's avalanches in the tyrol at 10, saying no more people were believed hidden under the rubble and snow at st. anton
some of the swedes were said to have been buried by collapsing walls of a boarding house, one of several buildings seriously damaged by the snow
policemen said the two avalanches had a combined length of about 1,200 feet and a height of up to 33 feet
in sondrio, italy, a rescue dog located the body of giuseppe rini, 37, after his wife came down the mountain to report the avalanche, the italian news agency ansa said
saturday, per-anders lundborg, a 24-year-old swedish tourist from hoerby, was killed, also near st. anton. he was part of a group of five swedish skiers who triggered an avalanche in an area barred from skiers
also on saturday, 17-year-old gerda schumacher from groenebach, west germany, was buried and killed by masses of snow when an avalanche hit seven people near a ski lift in the town of biberwier, tyrol province
two strollers were hit by a 1,500-foot-wide avalanche at berwang, tyrol province, saturday. eckehard leupold, 46, of duisburg, west germany, was rescued from the masses of snow, but his wife, erika, died
in tyrol and westernmost vorarlberg province, up to 45,000 tourists, many of them foreigners, were stranded sunday after heavy weekend snowfalls and a series of avalanches blocked many roads in the region
vorarlberg was completely cut off from the outside after an avalanche disrupted rail traffic on saturday, and the only exit out of tyrol province was the kufstein checkpoint on the border with west germany
motoring clubs said the line of cars traveling northward reached more than 15 miles in length
traffic conditions were chaotic in most parts of western austria, including the province of salzburg where many roads had to be closed after half a dozen snowslides
pope john paul ii is calling on the faithful to observe st. patrick's day, celebrating ireland's patron saint, by praying for peace in the emerald isle
the pope appeared sunday in st. peter's square to say the noon prayer before a crowd of some 25,000 and recalled his 1979 visit to the shrine to the virgin mary at knock, ireland
i invite you to pray so that in the land of st. patrick there is an end to the political and terrorist violence that for almost 20 years has been causing death and suffering both in the catholic and the protestant community,'' the pope said
since the resumption of sectarian violence in the british-ruled province of northern ireland in 1969, a total of 2,628 people have been killed, including 10 this year
the predominantly roman catholic irish republican army is fighting a guerrilla war to oust the british from the mainly protestant province and unite it with the irish republic to the south
prince edward, the youngest son of queen elizabeth ii, reportedly has proposed to the daughter of a belgian baroness _ a marriage that would require the prince to forfeit his chance to become king
the people, a weekly london tabloid, said the 24-year-old prince has proposed to georgia may, 22, whose mother catherine was born a baroness in belgium's van den branden de reeth family
edward would have to give up his rights as fifth in line to the british throne if he marries miss may, a roman catholic, the newspaper said
britain's 1701 act of settlement rules that only protestants may become british monarchs
the newspaper said the prince is awaiting the queen's permission to be formally engaged
it quoted miss may's former boyfriend, new zealand yachtsman ed danby, as saying she told him of the engagement plan in a telephone call last week
the people said the prince met miss may at a yachting regatta in cowes in southern england last august
former ``cbs morning news'' co-host phyllis george is taking on the small screen again with a one-hour television special on babies
the former miss america taped the show with prominent pediatrician t. berry brazelton in front of about 100 people, many of them her friends
george, who is married to former gov. john y. brown jr., left cbs 2{ years ago under a barrage of criticism
after tuesday's taping, george said she was pleased. ``i enjoy television. i enjoy people,'' she said. ``it was good for me to get back out and do something.''
george said she has had several television offers since she left cbs, but nothing has been quite right
regarding her cbs experience, george said: ``it was a great opportunity. it was a wonderful experience and i learned from it. and that's all i'm going to say.''
the baby special, ``phyllis george presents: brazelton on babies,'' will be aired sometime in april
country music singer larry gatlin, who sings the praises of a drug-free lifestyle, will receive the university of houston's distinguished alumni award
gatlin majored in english and also studied law at the university, which he attended in the late 1960s on a football scholarship. he will be honored by the school may 12
in recent months, gatlin has spearheaded anti-drug efforts in high schools. prior to that, he received treatment for cocaine use
he performs with his brothers steve and rudy and is known for hits such as ``all the gold in california'' and ``houston.''
singer joan baez, whose voice came to be synonymous with the peace movement in the 1960s, received the medal of peace award from the mayor of verdun
mayor jacques barat-dupont presented the medal saturday night following a concert, part of a french tour by the singer
verdun's medal of peace was instituted for the 50th anniversary of the battle of verdun in 1916. the northeastern french city was the site of heavy fighting during world war i
most recipients are war veterans or from cities which have known the terrors of war, like hiroshima, japan, or warsaw, poland
actress patricia neal says she and gary cooper wept after deciding to abort a child they conceived out of wedlock and she continued to weep about the decision for another three decades
for over 30 years, alone, in the night, i cried,'' she writes in her autobiography, ``patricia neal: as i am,'' excepts of which were published in the april issue of good housekeeping
if i had only one thing to do over in my life, i would have that baby,'' miss neal says
she and cooper were attracted to each other during filming of the movie, ``the fountainhead,'' according to the 62-year-old actress, who was 24 at the time. after filming ended, their love affair began, she said. cooper was living with his wife and daughter at the time
sharing a life with gary was not complex,'' miss neal wrote. ``i knew i had no rights with him. i did not allow myself then to consider the possibility of a permanent relationship. we were not building a future together. we were seizing moments.''
moscow _ a newspaper sunday questioned whether officials acted properly by ordering a hijacked aeroflot jet to land on soviet territory, pointing out that nine people were killed, 19 injured and the plane burned to ashes
an 11-member family jazz band from the siberian city of irkutsk seized the plane on tuesday as it headed across the ural mountains, soviet reports said. they demanded to be flown to london
the aeroflot crew duped the air pirates into believing they were landing in finland, but set down at a small airstrip near leningrad
the hijackers, led by a matriarch in her 50s who had been honored as a hero-mother of the soviet union, shot and killed a stewardess when they realized they had been deceived and set off a bomb after two hours of negotiations when a police assault team stormed the plane. five of the hijackers were killed, soviet reports said
sunday's edition of komsomolskaya pravda, the communist party youth newspaper, said the hijackers would have faced trial in britain if their demands to be flown there had been granted
we are entitled to a question: wasn't the price too costly for the decision to detain the bandits on our territory?'' the newspaper asked. ``an answer to this question lies with the courts.''
in calculating the cost of the incident, komsomolskaya pravda said ``the aircraft burned to ashes, nine people, including five of the criminals, were killed, and 19 people, including two on the assault team, were wounded, and many will be crippled for life.''
previous reports said the hijackers detonated a bomb in the tail section, setting fire to the plane, but the extent of the damage had not been made clear
the report said the police assault team had plenty of time to prepare before the tupolev-154 landed, but it implied that the preparations were inadequate
among the 76 passengers on board, three were killed and 32 surgical operations were needed among the 19 wounded, the newspaper said
it said one passenger's face was smashed with the butt of a submachine gun in the melee that ensued on the ground when people began jumping from doors and windows to flee the fire
a criminal investigating team has been assigned to the case, and the official tass news agency has reported that the surviving hijackers are in custody. accuracy</head>
rep. les aspin said sunday the air force is ``part of the problem'' in the guidance system for the mx missile, but the service says once again the weapon is reliable and accurate
the wisconsin democrat, chairman of the house armed services committee, said his panel's investigation of the 10-warhead weapon shows there are still problems in producing the missile's inertial measurement unit (imu), or guidance system
aspin's latest criticism of the mx was contained in a speech he plans to deliver on the house floor monday. a text of the speech was released sunday
aspin has previously criticized northrop, which is building the imus at a hawthorne, calif., plant
documents recently received by the house armed services committee show that while northrop is undeniably having its difficulties, the air force is part of the problem,'' according to aspin's speech
he said the documents, obtained from persons whom he did not identify, show that the service considered accepting one imu without inspecting it, and also protested the use of a process exempting small components from testing
an air force spokesman, capt. jay defrank, said, ``we stand by the imu's reliability and accuracy. we've answered many of the charges in his statement. there is nothing new there.''
the mx is the centerpiece of president reagan's nuclear build-up. reagan originally wanted to build 100 of the missiles and put them in silos in wyoming and nebraska, but congress limited the total deployment to 50 because of fears about the weapon's vulnerability to a soviet strike
the air force now wants to build 50 more and put them aboard trains. defense secretary frank c. carlucci has said he would like to put all 100 of the weapons aboard trains
the mx weapons tested thus far have shown better-than-expected accuracy, and the air force has consistently defended the ability of the weapons deployed to hit their targets
thus far, 34 mx weapons have been deployed, but only 22 have the proper imus. the other dozen still lack guidance systems, defrank said
northrop has promised to accelerate production of the guidance systems, and all 50 of the mx weapons are scheduled to be deployed by the end of 1988
one of the imus cited by aspin failed after only 200 hours on alert atop an mx missile, according to his speech. that would mean that it fell far short of the service standard of 3,000 hours allowed between failures, he said
but defrank said the 3,000 hours is a standard mean time, meaning it is an average. ``to criticize the air force for one imu failing is meaningless because it's the mean time between failures that is important, and we're meeting that,'' he said
agents from the pentagon planted listening devices in an apartment of panamanian military leader manuel antonio noriega several years ago, but the bugs failed to pick up any meaningful data, according to book excerpts published sunday
the noriega bugging story is one detail in a widespread secret effort by the pentagon that included efforts to rescue u.s. hostages, aid the contras in nicaragua and collect information on potential enemies around the world, according to ``secret warriors: inside the covert military operations of the reagan era,'' excerpted in u.s. news &amp; world report
the book by the magazine's senior editor, steven emerson, says the pentagon set up several secret units to carry out covert paramilitary operations after the failure of the 1980 attempt under president carter to rescue american hostages in iran
it says some of the operations were not disclosed to congress or to senior officials
the lack of coordination that led to the failed mission prompted the new administration to establish snow bird, to be run by a group of men in the army's new special operations division, says the book
emerson said his findings are based on a yearlong investigation, including information from hundreds of interviews and thousands of documents obtained under the freedom of information act
the noriega microphones were planted in 1983 by a defense department group called the quick reaction team, which specialized in electronic surveillance, according to emerson
the agents initially tried to bug noriega's luxurious residence, but they were scared off by barking dogs and guards who opened fire, the book says
another attempt met with better results,'' the report said. ``qrt agents succeeded in planting a bug in a lavish noriega apartment. but six tapes, each 90 minutes long, failed to yield any significant intelligence on noriega.''
the united states is now applying massive economic sanctions, including a freeze on panama's bank assets, in an effort to force noriega's resignation. the general also has been indicted on drug charges by a federal grand jury
other findings from emerson's book include:
_u.s. officials negotiated with the palestine liberation organization and libyan intermediaries to obtain the release of americans being held in lebanon, according to classified portions of private notebooks of fired marine lt. col. oliver north, a national security council aide who was a central figure in the iran-contra affair
one plan, which later collapsed, called for $10 million in covert payments to sheik fadlallah, the leader of the hezbollah organization holding the hostages and hussein massawi, the leader of the islamic amal militia. at u.s. request, the plo actually transferred some money to fadlallah to get the hostages out, but nothing happened
_in 1985, u.s. intelligence identified the location of the house where five of the six american hostages were being held in lebanon. the site was reconstructed by u.s. intelligence agents as part of a portable mini-model used by u.s. officials to prepare a rescue operation. a detailed military rescue mission was planned, but it was scrapped when the iran-contra affair began to unfold
_nsc sources said the man behind the kidnapping of the hostages was a shiite named immad mughniye. however, north said that mughniye's wife, whose relative was being held in a kuwaiti prison for terrorism, was running the show. ``ollie said mughniye wasn't going to get any sex until his (wife's relative) was released,'' says one excerpt from the book
_pentagon agents who discovered the soviets had ordered a fleet of opel automobiles in 1983 entered the manufacturing plant at night, took apart a car and embedded a transmitter in the frame. agents were then able to trail the car without being seen. ``the mission was so successful that a number of soviet agents were identified and several russian codes were broken.'' were there</head>
rep. richard gephardt's trademark boy scout smile froze as he peeked from behind the curtains at the sunrise musical theatre
stretching out beyond the stage he was about to take was a sea of empty seats _ no more than 400 people were at the 4,200-seat theatre. he could see some people walking out of the florida community association meeting, following the end of the featured speech by former president gerald ford
gephardt shook his head slowly, straightened himself, then strode out to give his campaign speech
it was a foreboding beginning to the final, three-day push to super tuesday, the 20-state set of primaries and caucuses that could have dramatically boosted the presidential ambitions of the missouri congressman
instead, on wednesday morning gephardt awoke to newspaper headlines that called him the day's big democratic loser
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the big prizes of texas and florida and five other states; civil rights leader jesse jackson won five states and the biggest share of the popular vote, and tennessee sen. albert gore jr., the candidate gephardt's campaign officials hoped to see eliminated tuesday, was stronger than ever after winning six states
gephardt won only one state _ missouri _ and finished fourth in 13. he was left with one last chance _ the march 26 michigan caucuses _ to keep his campaign alive
gephardt arrived here three days before super tuesday from louisiana, where his campaign's polls had said he was running neck-and-neck with jackson for the lead. polls in oklahoma and arkansas also were encouraging, and texas seemed volatile enough to take from dukakis with gephardt's theme of correcting the trade imbalance and spurring domestic oil production with an oil-import fee
in south florida, even though gephardt had the active support of the popular 87-year-old rep. claude pepper, the condominium community retirees were solidly for dukakis. after the musical theatre appearance, gephardt and pepper campaigned at condominium complex. fewer than 75 people turned out
next was the annual strawberry festival in plant city. it was raining as gephardt walked through the carnival-style grounds, and he attracted little attention. two days later, dukakis would arrive to hundreds of supporters, 500 dukakis signs along the route and a plane flying overhead with a dukakis streamer
in tallahassee, gephardt was joined by media consultant robert shrum, given credit for helping gephardt develop the populist theme that played so well in iowa. arriving in brownsville, texas, late saturday, shrum was asked if his rare travel with the campaign was a sign of trouble
no, no, i just like to get out in the field sometimes,'' said shrum, smiling around his big cigar
gephardt began sunday with a taping of ``meet the press.'' the first questions were about his ``flip-flop'' on abortion. meanwhile, both gore and dukakis were attacking gephardt for changing positions on the issues. dukakis was running a commercial depicting a man in a business suit doing back flips, with a voice-over about gephardt's issue switches
later, as gephardt's motorcade with the long black limousine drove into the border city of texarkana, oncoming cars pulled over to the side of the road
a local gephardt supporter explained: ``they see the black car and they think it's a funeral procession. it's tradition that you pull off the road for a funeral.''
joe trippi, gephardt's deputy campaign manager, the campaign's ``spin'' specialist, was trying to put the best light on the upcoming super tuesday voting. on sunday, the spin was that even if gore and gephardt shared third place, it would be a victory for gephardt because his strength would be shown as comparable to gore's in the tennessee senator's southern stronghold
gephardt's showing, as it turned out, wasn't up to the spin
that night in dallas, gephardt invited the traveling press to join him at casa dominguez, where he had the mexican special combination dinner and a budweiser beer, brewed in his hometown of st. louis. gephardt talked about his beloved st. louis cardinals baseball team
someone asked: ``why didn't you stop in st. petersburg and take batting practice with the cardinals?'' gephardt smiled ruefully, doubtless thinking of rival dukakis' much-publicized visit to red sox camp in winter haven, where the governor donned a boston uniform and took some swings in the batting cage
that was a good picture, wasn't it?'' gephardt said
on monday, gephardt headed to san antonio, where dukakis had drawn 1,500 people a day earlier, addressing hispanic crowds in fluent spanish. no more than 400, many of them tourists, were there as gephardt spoke in front of the alamo, one day after the 152nd anniversary of the fall of the badly outmanned texan mission to the mexican army
gephardt concluded his texas campaign monday evening with a visit to the johnson space center, where he detailed his kennedyesque plan to revitalize the u.s. space program. but media questions concentrated on how he would do tuesday
asked whether any candidate could finish worse than third tuesday and survive, gephardt replied: ``i don't know ... i know i'm going to keep fighting to get my message out.''
as the campaign headed to miami, where its ill-fated super tuesday campaigning would conclude, trippi was talking spin again. he was talking about michigan
steno, an italian director of comedy films, died sunday from a stroke, italian news media reported
born in 1917, steno's real name was stefano vanzina
he began his career as a screenwriter in 1945 and soon after began directing comic films. some, such as ``guardie e ladri'' (guards and thieves), starred one of italy's best-loved comics, toto
there was no immediate word on survivors or funeral arrangements
mildred jeffrey, a wayne state university trustee for 12 years, and joseph f. rosenfield, a grinnell college trustee for 47 years, received the association of governing boards' distinguished service awards sunday
the awards, sponsored by the oil company b.p. america, include an inscribed steuban crystal bowl for the winners and $5,000 unrestricted grants to their institutions
ms. jeffrey was cited not only for her work at wayne state but for helping expand the michigan association of governing boards. michigan gov. james j. blanchard said she ``has made an historical and permanent mark on michigan's higher educational system.''
rosenfield was crediting with helping to spur the growth of grinnell's endowment over the past two decades from $11 million to $250 million. he was also credited with encouraging an aggressive minority recruitment program and planning for divestiture of south african investments
women now head nearly 300 of the accredited colleges and universities in the united states, the american council on education said sunday
the number of women college presidents doubled from 148 in 1975 to 296 in 1987, with the most rapid growth at public institutions, said the council's office of women in higher education
but the fastest spurt was in the late 1970s and early 1980s, it said. there was a net increase of only 10 women presidents between 1984 and 1987
there are more than 3,400 two- and four-year colleges in the united states; 2,880 are accredited
eighty-six of the women presidents, or 29 percent, are nuns heading religious institutions. forty, or 14 percent, are minorities, including 22 black, 13 hispanic, four american indian and one asian-american women
since 1984, the office said, the number of women heading four-year public institutions has increased 22 percent, from 32 to 39
the number heading four-year private colleges and universities grew by 16 percent, from 134 to 156
women also held the presidencies at 73 two-year public colleges (up from 72 in 1984) and 28 two-year private institutions (down from 48)
donna shavlik, director of the office of women in higher education, said colleges need to search harder and address inequities in hiring and promoting women. ``what's needed is personal and institutional commitment and determination to achieve the goal,'' she said. fights on</head>
when a campaign starts to slide, as bob dole's surely has, everything goes wrong, even the little things. the candidate finds himself struggling to overcome power failures and competing for attention against vanna white
the signs are everywhere that george bush has all but clinched the republican presidential nomination. he won a smashing victory on super tuesday and appeared poised to keep rolling on tuesday when illinois holds its primary
yet, despite the battering he has taken from bush in recent contests, dole clearly sees a loser when he looks at the vice president
sooner or later,'' he said sunday on the cbs show ``face the nation,'' ``the voters in one of these states are going to say, wait a minute, we're about to nominate a loser.''
but dole's view wasn't shared by many republican voters in the south and doesn't appear likely to find much support in illinois
in fact, if anyone looked like a loser, it was the senator from kansas
after super tuesday, dole needed a way to turn the race around. bush came out of the south with a big lead in delegates _ 705 to 165 _ but the next battleground was the midwest and dole had trounced bush in iowa, minnesota and south dakota
dole had his hands full as he started his illinois campaign, still stunned by the magnitude of his loss on super tuesday when bush took all 16 primaries
suddenly word got out that the campaign was laying off most of its paid staff and was pulling all its commercials off the air in illinois. rumors spread swiftly that dole was going to throw in the towel and concede the nomination to bush
that possibility clearly had been discussed and rejected
dole said people were laid off because ``a campaign is not a jobs program'' and after super tuesday, paid staff was not needed in a large number of states. while that argument made some sense, the timing of the layoffs, right after a big loss, left the unmistakable impression the campaign was folding
the announcement on the television commercials was a case of different people in the same campaign giving out conflicting versions of what was happening
william brock, the campaign manager, finally said on friday that all the commercials had not been pulled. he said many had been dropped in favor of a decision to buy 30 minutes of time for a major dole effort to win voter support
brock's version, as it turned out, was correct. some 30-second dole commercials are running in illinois. but the former secretary of labor was not around to provide an authoritative version when the word first got out. he was attending ceremonies marking the anniversary of the founding of the labor department
the 30-minute dole program, originating from knox college in galesburg, site of one of the lincoln-douglas debates, turned out to be a showcase of campaign disarray
eight hours before the program was to air, dole advisers were unable to say exactly what it would contain. aides were scrambling to fill the 30 minutes. nearly half of it was filled by a dole biography filmed months ago for showing at campaign events
the message the candidate delivered was a restatement of campaign rhetoric, his contention that bush was not discussing the issues
the issues are more important than the odds,'' he said, portraying himself as the one who was responsible for getting president reagan's program through congress
it was a $100,000 gamble _ and was all the riskier due to the decision to go live instead of taping the program in advance. in the middle of the program, there was an unexplained power failure that resulted in loss of the picture for several minutes. the sound was not interrupted
how many voters saw the program was questionable. it was competing against ``wheel of fortune,'' the popular game show in which vanna white has become a celebrity for her role of turning around the letters on word puzzles
while dole was fighting for attention in one campus building, bush was addressing a cheering crowd of more than 1,000 republicans in the college gymnasium about 200 yards away
tied as tightly as ever to reagan, bush condiently predicted, ``we are going to win on tuesday because we have the people with us.''
in the battle for republican primary votes, bush is looking and sounding very much like a winner
the associated press
inside an old brick building that once was a drive-in liquor store, a minister and a group of volunteers are putting the finishing touches on a cafe for people who rarely get to enjoy restaurant treatment
the cafe will be for the homeless, who have some of their basic needs met by the city's shelters and soup kitchens but are unable to enjoy the more relaxed and personal atmosphere of a restaurant, said the rev. a.b. short
i'm thankful for the feeding programs; they (the homeless) couldn't survive without them,'' said short, who has been involved in homeless aid programs since moving to atlanta in 1980
but if you feed 500 people in two hours, you can't give much personal attention,'' he said
short said the restaurant will be relatively small, serving about 30 at a time, and will emphasize a friendly atmosphere over merely providing food to the homeless
people have a need for food, but we hope the interaction and relationships will be our primary product,'' he said
the restaurant will feature counter service as well as tables. the kitchen will be entirely visible from the dining area so patrons can talk to the cooks, dishwashers and other volunteer staffers, short said
one of the main differences from the standard shelter kitchen will be that the homeless will be able to choose items from a menu, instead of just having plates of food handed to them
there will be no charge for the food, but a voucher system of tickets distributed by area shelters may be used, short said
a legal aid service as well as alcohol and drug abuse counseling also will be available on the premises, short added
there are an estimated 7,000-10,000 homeless in the atlanta area
renovation work began in november with the help of $30,000 in federal and state grants. several individuals and businesses have contributed materials or funds, and some of the work has been done by volunteers, including members of the homeless community
the idea seems so unique it has sparked a lot of people's interest,'' short said, adding that he hopes the restaurant will be ready to open by the end of the month
once it is open, much of the food will be provided by agencies that already help the homeless. short said he also will rely on donations to keep the restaurant going
at first, the restaurant will serve for two hours beginning at noon. short said he hopes he can add a breakfast or dinner period later
short, 43, a native of mississippi, said the idea for the restaurant grew from his involvement with the homeless, which started when he organized a shelter at oakhurst baptist church in suburban decatur, where he is a member
he said his church, which includes many social activists, responded enthusiastically to the shelter project. but he and his wife, who is on the faculty of emory university, wanted to go a step further
we decided that if we were really serious about the homeless issues, what we might ought to be doing is having homeless people live with us,'' he said
they have had homeless people living with them since 1982, and some of them now are working on the restaurant, located near the martin luther king jr. center for nonviolent social change
short said he does not envision facilities such as the restaurant replacing traditional shelters or kitchens, but he would like to see it become an established part of the homeless aid network
it's just another piece of the very important work people are already involved in,'' he said
a senior palestine liberation organization official sunday denied that the guerrilla group called on west bank deputies to resign from jordan's parliament
such a call was made in a leaflet circulated in the israeli-occupied territory and prompted expressions of concern from jordanian prime minister zaid rifai
but the senior plo official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, disassociated the organization from the contents of the leaflet, saying it was an adulterated version
the official said the leaflet was part of ``a plot meant to harm our relationship with the jordanian government.''
in a leaflet issued thursday and circulated in the occupied areas, underground palestinian leaders said arabs should take revenge ``on collaborators and the lackeys of the jordanian regime.'' it purported to be signed by the plo
it also called on west bank deputies in jordan's parliament to resign and ``return to our people, otherwise they will have no place in our land.''
delegates of the lower house of parliament, half of whose 60 members are from the west bank, refused to comment on the call, saying ``it is untrue and fabricated.''
state-run radio said rifai denounced the resignation call, saying ``it harms the unity of the two peoples in the two banks .. . and only serves the enemy objectives.''
it said the plo provided rifai with ``the real text of the statement, which does not include such a suspicious call.''
israel seized the west bank from jordan in the 1967 middle east war but deputies from the west bank continue to sit in the jordanian parliament. in illinois</head>
jesse jackson said sunday that winning in his native south carolina may give him the momentum in his adopted home state to upset illinois sen. paul simon in the primary here on tuesday
jackson won 54 percent of the vote saturday in south carolina's democratic caucuses and 23 of 44 delegates to the national convention
upon his return to illinois, jackson was greeted with the results of a chicago tribune poll indicating he was in a virtual dead heat with simon, the state's other favorite son
simon has ``the inside track'' and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has the money, jackson said in a campaign stop at st. sylvester's, a roman catholic church in chicago's hispanic humboldt park neighborhood
so here i am again, the underdog with the big bite,'' he said
the latest associated press count shows jackson now has 423 delegates to 35 for simon, who sat out south carolina as well as last week's 20-state super tuesday contest
jackson and simon are battling for the 113 state democratic delegates to be elected tuesday. simon, who hails from southern illinois, has full delegate slates in all 22 congressional districts. jackson has slates _ although not all are full _ in all but one of the districts
i certainly hope to win the popular vote and the delegate vote in illinois,'' jackson said. ``i've been a builder in this state for 25 years and i hope the people with whom i stood will stand with me on tuesday
we will get support all over the state,'' he added
to ensure statewide support, jackson planned a rally sunday night in east st. louis, the state's other major black population center. on monday he planned to swing south to carbondale and travel through the fertile illinois farmland with stops in springfield and bloomington and finally chicago, where he owns a home
jackson was buoyed by the tribune poll results
that means in the last lap of the race, whoever has the most kick, whoever has the most strength in the last lap down the stretch will win,'' he said
asked about the possibility of throwing his support to democratic front-runner dukakis, jackson said he was too busy running and winning to give it a thought
the message is winning _ end economic violence against the farmers and workers, stop the flow of drugs into our country,'' jackson said
jackson is being asked these days about his chances against republican george bush in the general election, if they were their respective parties' nominees
he certainly has a lot of baggage,'' jackson said of the vice president on nbc's ``meet the press.''
george bush was supposed to be over the commission on the drug situation, yet drugs are coming into this country at a rate that threatens our national security. ... to that continuous flow of drugs, mrs. reagan says no and george bush says nothing.'' of title of play. pick up 21st pvs, `the only...'</note>
some of the few vienna jews who survived hitler's death grip on austria gathered sunday at a synagogue and at a former gestapo headquarters, remembering the pain of the past and the shadow it has cast on the present
prayers and tears mingled inside the city's oldest synagogue, where more than a thousand jews marked the 50th anniversary of the anschluss, austria's annexation by nazi germany
no one can feel our pain, no one can feel our suffering,'' rabbi chaim eisenberg told the congregation
the meeting was the emotional climax of four days of solemn remembrances of the annexation. political and cultural leaders engaged in an unprecedented public probing of their nation's role as victim and perpetrator of nazi terror and continued to discuss the problem of president kurt waldheim
for many vienna jews, waldheim's concealment of his german army service in the balkans symbolizes the suppression of the nazi past in austria
paul grosz, leader of the jewish community, drew loud applause at another meeting at the former vienna headquarters of the nazi police when he expressed hope that jewish suffering under the nazis would be remembered
we can only hope that the high degree of consciousness for these events in recent days will not end next week,'' said grosz
there were 200,000 jews in vienna on march 1938, when adolf hitler's troops swept into his native austria. today, just 6,000 jews remain, a mix of holocaust survivors and younger jews from the soviet bloc and israel
they have been exposed to a new wave of anti-semitism in the past two years that has surfaced with the controversy over the waldheim's world war ii record
waldheim concealed his role as a german army lieutenant in the balkans until it was disclosed in the media in march 1986. he has rejected calls for his resignation, saying he will stay in office until his term expires in 1992
a commission of historians appointed by the austrian government to investigate waldheim said he was in a position to know about nazi atrocities and did nothing to stop them
grosz attacked waldheim backers who argue the president must stay in office to prevent a backlash against jews if he is forced to resign. he said the jews could defend themselves
by contrast, grosz welcomed socialist chancellor franz vranitzky to the meeting as ``our good friend.''
vranitzky, who is popular with vienna's jews, also warned against losing sight of the nazi past
in the last few days ... we all tried to make the things that happened seem anonymous in some way, as if we were afraid to make it too personal, too direct,'' vranitzky said
you have to call things by their name,'' he said. ``it was not an anonymous horror that descended on a people ... and then disappeared.''
referring to the former gestapo headquarters, he noted, ``let the desperate screams that sounded from the cellars of this site, which we can no longer hear, be a reminder.''
half a mile away, at vienna's opera house, former socialist chancellor bruno kreisky reiterated his call for waldheim to resign, while roman catholic cardinal franz koenig looked at the controversial role of the church in the nazi era
the church did not do enough to protect (believers) against the temptations of the nazi regime,'' koenig said
on friday night, neo-nazis booed a vienna premiere of ``the deputy,'' west german rolf hochhuth's 1960s play on the church's world war ii role
the only other overt neo-nazi action came in linz, the city of hitler's youth, where a recording of hitler's 1938 speech in the town blared from a hotel just after a monument to nazi victims was unveiled saturday. police found no trace of the perpetrators
the strike at the indian head mine is in its fifth month, but neither management nor union miners are showing any sign of backing down in their dispute over job security
the miners say they're still united behind the walkout, which began nov. 1, while management claims the job is getting done safely, on time and at lower cost
it is a matter of principle. it isn't a matter of money anymore,'' said dan neurohr, president of united mine workers of america local 8880
the union represents 44 striking miners and wants written assurances its members will be hired at other north american coal corp. mines when work at indian head ends in 1992. the company refuses such a guarantee, arguing it would be unfair to its 350 non-union miners in north dakota
neurohr calls north american's tactics ``union-busting.''
but north american won't budge from its stance, even for wage concessions, said company spokesman august keller
it's like the union asking us to give them a trip to the moon. it's just something we can't do,'' he said
each side accuses the other of committing various acts of vandalism, ranging from littering roads with nails to knocking out windows
talks broke down in early february, and no new negotiations are scheduled
north american negotiators offered a wage package worth an average of $18 an hour and more fringe benefits, keller said
as both sides maintain their stances in the strike, north american prepared to hire 10 temporary workers who haven't worked at other company mines, the first such move since the strike started
neurohr said he wasn't nervous about keeping his striking miners on the picket lines as the coal company maneuvered to hire replacements to take their jobs
the replacements, who are slated to go to work later this month, have been told they will lose their jobs if the strike is settled, keller said
the company has mailed letters inviting the disgruntled workers back, but none has accepted the offer, neurohr said
the striking miners planned ahead and saved money to ride out the economic storm of being idled from their $40,000-a-year jobs, neurohr said. the workers, with $200 checks each week from the union's strike fund, are paying their bills, he said
but one miner on the picket line said some strikers have been unable to make their house payments. more will search out at least part-time jobs when the weather warms, he said
meanwhile, the company said it was ``doing fine.''
we are making our coal deliveries. we are meeting the demand. ... the cost of production on a per-ton basis is lower than anytime in the last year,'' keller said
an unemployed immigrant and his six children were forced to rely on charity despite winning a $3.45 million malpractice suit because attorneys and a hospital caring for his comatose wife split the award
those involved say the treatment of linval ayton's family is entirely legal under florida law, which does not recognize his 20-year common-law marriage, and does not allow the children to benefit unless their mother dies
we were sympathetic. all the judges were sympathetic,'' said j.b. spence, the high-powered personal injury attorney who handled much of the case. ``but everyone was locked in a set of legal handcuffs,'' he added. ``the culprit here is the law.''
the tragedy for ayton, 43, an illiterate jamaican immigrant, began when his longtime common-law wife maudeline ford, then 42, entered the broward medical center for what should have been a routine childbirth in january 1985
ms. ford ran a small store and had been the only support of the family after ayton ruptured a disk and lost his job as a school janitor
but something went wrong during a caesarean section to deliver the baby, and ms. ford's heart stopped. in the time it took to get her heart started again, ms. ford's brain suffered damage that has left her comatose
the baby was born in excellent condition
ayton's sister-in-law eventually called attorney phillip auerbach after seeing his ad on television, and auerbach in turn brought in spence
there is dispute over whether the attorneys told ayton he and his children would be provided for under a possible settlement
but whatever ayton was told, quirks in florida law deprived the family of any benefits from the $3.45 million eventually awarded after 30 months and nine volumes of litigation
one quirk was that state law does not recognize common-law marriages, even though ayton and ms. ford had been together almost 20 years. that means he had no legal right to benefit from loss of her companionship
the six children, ranging in age from 3 to 19, could have received money except for another twist _ state law recognizes their loss of companionship only when the mother dies. and modern technology is still keeping her alive in the north miami medical center, at the cost of $1,000 a day
ayton and the children wound up relying on the sister-in-law, who would sometimes drop off a chicken or a loaf of bread, and charity
i went to the red cross and the salvation army and begged for food,'' ayton said. ``mostly canned food, vegetables and corn. we were living by the mercy of god.''
the sympathetic judge in the case, circuit judge james reasbeck, eventually tried to give the family $104,000. but probate judge raymond hare forced ayton to pay it back a few months later
there was no legal basis for him to have it,'' said hare. ``he wasn't her legal spouse.''
the attorneys say their 45 percent fee, plus thousands of dollars in expenses, were legitimate and legal. spence said the case was very difficult, and called winning it ``a home run.''
ms. ford won a total of $1.8 million, but that money was put into a trust fund to pay for her medical expenses. attorneys say the hospital bills will be paid out of the interest, and the children will eventually inherit the principle
but the fund's administrator, fred koerner, assistant vice president of barnett banks, disputes that
he said ms. ford's care now costs $380,000 a year, and has used up almost half of the principle
at the current rate, we estimate the money will last three years or less,'' said koerner
ayton's family was finally saved from destitution eight months ago when the court agreed to parcel $2,500 a month out of a trust fund on behalf of the five minor children. the money keeps the children in food and decent clothes, and has allowed them to return to regular classes
ayton, as their legal guardian, could petition the court to pull the plug on his comatose wife, whom he visits almost daily. that would allow the children to have what remains of the trust fund
but he refuses
we have been poor all of our lives,'' said ayton. ``i can do without any of this money. because to me, this money comes along like a kind of blood money.''
scores of flights were canceled or delayed at rome's main airport sunday after ground workers staged a wildcat strike because they were unhappy with a tentative accord reached in a six-month labor dispute
the strike at leonardo da vinci airport involved about 90 percent of the check-in counter personnel and baggage handlers. it was called by autonomous groups in defiance of italy's major labor federations
alitalia canceled 30 flights scheduled from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. foreign carrier flights took off but only after delays ranging from 15 minutes to two hours. some travelers were forced to lug baggage onto the tarmac to jet cargo holds
on saturday, transport minister calogero mannino and federation leaders for airport ground workers announced a tentative accord in the dispute, which has been punctuated by day-long strikes a few times a month since september
the tentative accord, which would be applied retroactively from january, calls for a monthly raise of about $190 over three years and gradually shortening the work week from 40{ hours to 37{ hours
a baggage handler's current maximum regular salary is about $1,215 a month
airport sources said the workers who struck sunday want the salary increases granted over a shorter period
travelers since fall have also suffered through pilot and traffic controllers' strikes as well as repeated walkouts by railway workers in still unresolved disputes
railway workers in palermo, sicily, and reggio di calabria in southern italy, called a three hour strike for sunday night
angola and cuba have presented the united states with a proposal for moving 40,000 cuban soldiers out of the african nation, the angolan foreign ministry said sunday
a ministry statement said the proposal includes a specific timetable for a full withdrawal of cuban troops. it said the proposal was handed to a u.s. state department official saturday after talks here between u.s., angolan and cuban officials
the proposals for a cuban withdrawal are conditional on south africa withdrawing its troops from angola and a halt to u.s. and south african aid to the angolan rebel movement, the angolan foreign ministry said
it also includes a proposal for peace in neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia, where the south-west african people's organization has been fighting south african rule since 1966
in south africa, meanwhile, the sunday times quoted unidentified western diplomats as saying south africa and the angolan government have met in preliminary talks aimed at peace in angola
sources in luanda, however, told the associated press they had no knowledge of meetings between angolan and south african officials. the sources asked not to be identified
according to cuban estimates, about 40,000 cuban soldiers are in angola to aid the marxist government in its 13-year war against local guerrillas, primarily the national union for the total independence of angola
the cuban withdrawal plan specifically did not mention participation in negotiations by the angolan rebel movement and its leader, jonas savimbi. there have been recent suggestions from angolan officials that talks with group members other than savimbi might be possible
the south africans have insisted that the rebel group be part of negotiations and a postwar government
government-run south african television reported sunday night that savimbi had been in cape town the previous day. the broadcast quoted him as saying he had been ``meeting with his allies'' because ``something was in the air.''
savimbi was quoted as saying several african countries, including gabon, the ivory coast and keyna, were expressing open support for a negotiated settlement to the angolan conflict and there was increasing pressure on the luanda government to talk to his group
the soviet union and other east bloc countries also supply angola with military aid and advisers. the united states supplies the rebel group with arms
after talks in luanda in january, u.s. assistant secretary of state chester crocker said cuba had declared its willingness in principle to pull its troops out of angola. a state department group arrived in angola wednesday to explore the possibility of further talks on a cuban withdrawal
hundreds of armenians gathered sunday at a cemetery to demand justice from the kremlin in a territorial dispute between armenia and azerbaijan and to condemn the soviet press for being ``criminally silent.''
the fight for control of the nagorno-karabakh region in azerbaijan has brought ethnic tensions to the surface in both southern republics. the armenian capital of yerevan last month was the scene of a weeklong demonstration involving hundreds of thousands, and an ethnic riot in the azerbaijani city of sumgait killed at least 32
sunday's five-hour demonstration outside a 19th century armenian church at the vagankovskoye cemetery swelled to as many as 1,000 participants and curious onlookers. it was the second mass gathering in less than a week by moscow's armenian community
armenians hoisted banners declaring ``karabakh was and will be armenian'' and ``shame to the proponents of genocide.''
a cluster of armenian officials and activists, some of whom had traveled to moscow from the republic to press the annexation cause, vied for a chance to address the crowd
armenian film director boris baratov told the crowd that the kind of moslem fanaticism he believes was the catalyst for the sumgait rioting cannot be tolerated in the soviet union
if this happened to the armenians yesterday, it can happen to any nationality tomorrow,'' he shouted. the armenians burst into applause and shouts of approval
baratov said he was a member of a committee of 600 armenians from all regions and professions that has come together to keep the public informed and to press government bodies to resolve the dispute over nagorno-karabakh, a mountainous region, smaller than delaware, located within the republic of azerbaijan
more than three quarters of the population of the region, which was part of armenia until 1923, is armenian
the silence in the press over what happened in sumgait drew me into this committee,'' said baratov, who lives in moscow. ``our press has been criminally silent.''
the official tass news agency issued a brief report on the sumgait rioting which was published by the major national newspapers. but reference to the issue behind the rioting _ the annexation question _ has been made only in small-circulation newspapers in armenia
soviet television and the government newspaper izvestia initially branded the annexation drive an ``extremist action,'' which angered many armenians who consider themselves moderates and loyal soviets
later in the rally, another member of the committee, moscow lawyer garik agabekov, urged the crowd to maintain order if they wanted to succeed in getting the government's support
agabekov credited soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms for allowing the long-simmering dispute over the nagorno-karabakh region to be discussed and decided openly, but challenged the kremlin to abide by its slogans and let the region's people decide their fate
communist party and government officials in nagorno-karabakh voted in early february for annexation to armenia, but the party's national central committee rejected the appeal in mid-february
the rejection touched off mass protests in nagorno-karabakh's central city, stepanakert. unrest spread to yerevan in late february when armenians learned that soviet troops had moved into the disputed region to quell the protests
the yerevan demonstrations subsided after gorbachev appealed for calm and promised a top-level review of the annexation appeal
the ethnic rioting on feb. 28 in sumgait was reportedly sparked by moslem extremists angered over the armenian claims to nagorno-karabakh
most armenians are christian, while the azeri population of azerbaijan is predominantly moslem
the day is near when your home telephone line will be an electronic pipeline to a wide variety of information services
by punching numbers on your phone pad, you will be able to select the programs you want to watch on cable television, leave messages for callers when you're not home and, if you have a computer, tap into a host of databases by dialing just one number
the seven regional bell phone companies went to work quickly to move their plans off the drawing boards when they got a green light last week from a federal judge allowing them to offer these services to consumers
most of the companies say they will begin market trials of some of the services this year and that some services may become commercially available in certain areas by year's end, though nationwide offering is probably several years away
voice mail, which acts like a sophisticated answering machine, is expected to have the most widespread consumer appeal and will be among the first of the services to hit the commercial market in most areas
this service would provide a telephone user with a ``voice mail box'' in which callers could leave messages when the user's line is busy or is not answered. the user could retrieve messages at his or her convenience
it's like a mail box, except the letter is by voice,'' said linda laskowski, vice president of the information provider market for us west, one of the seven regional bell companies. ``you can get and receive information but you don't have to be there to do it. what it really stops is telephone tag.''
users would not have to buy any hardware, like an answering machine. with the services, all they would have to do is punch instructions to the phone company on their phone pad
many businesses have this service in their internal phone systems now, but such private phone systems are not an option for most households or small businesses because of the cost
the bell companies say they haven't decided how customers will be charged for voice mail, but laskowski said, ``it will have to be low enough for the average consumer to want to use it.''
heidi harris, director of voice mail for pacific bell, suggested that ``to send a single message might be within the range of a postage stamp.''
a related service is called voice messaging, which allows callers to dial a number and reach dozens of recorded messages. once they've dialed in, a message would tell the callers to punch a certain key to hear the weather report, for example, another key for a stock report and another for sports scores. another application of this service would allow organizations to leave messages for members
both voice mail and messaging by the bell companies will compete with answering machines and could shut down many small businesses that provide live telephone answering services, said joseph laseau, executive vice president of the association of telemessaging services international inc
we see these small businesses losing 10 to 15 percent of their customers, and that could put them out of business,'' he said
the bell companies also are moving to begin market trials on services that will make it easier for computer users to send information electronically to other computers and to dial into information databases
under u.s. district judge harold greene's order, the companies can transmit such information services but cannot generate the information itself. they will be allowed to function as ``gateways,'' providing users with a menu of services they can reach
greene is the judge who presides over the breakup of american telephone &amp; telegraph co., which was stripped of its local bell operating companies four years ago. that led to the formation of the seven regional bell companies
dozens of computer information services exist now, but users must dial each separately to gain entry. the bell companies will now be allowed to provide a single phone number these users can dial to reach many databanks
companies also will be allowed to enable cable television subscribers to use the touch pad on their phone to tell the cable operator what channel they want to watch
under such a system, subscribers could choose from among programs on several channels and pay for what they watch, instead of subscribing to all the programs on all the channels
the companies will have to get regulatory approvals for any of the services they offer, and in market trials they will be trying to determine what is easiest for consumers to use
they also will be trying to develop designs that will be compatible from region to region, so that someone who is accustomed to the voice-mail system in california can make a call in new york and use the same keys for the same functions to store and send messages. compatibility also would allow people to take their computer to another region and still be able to connect to local databases
there has to be a lot of industry cooperation,'' said gary handler, vice president of network planning at bell communications research, which does research and development for the bell companies. ``widespread use of these services is going to depend on (common industry) standards.''
handler said bellcore is helping the seven companies coordinate on technical standards, but each of the seven is developing its own products
if working with the children's toy etch a sketch is a spiritual experience, as artist jeff gosline says it can be, his murals using up to 278 of the drawing devices must leave him on a cloud
everyone who sees these murals smiles,'' said the san diego artist who opened a one-man show at the peace gallery and cafe on saturday
it's a fun thing. it stretches the limitations of a child's art toy by putting it in another context, putting it in a gallery.''
the plastic etch a sketch traces black lines on a gray background with turns of the knobs on the front, and the drawing is obliterated when the device is shaken
but the temporary nature of the drawing adds a dimension to the experience, gosline, 24, said
your drawing is just going to be erased,'' he said. ``a lot of people try to make art permanent, but how permanent is anything?''
one of the murals is called, ``child's play,'' and features 72 etch a sketchs in a portrait of guru sri chimnoy playing the flute
gosline guts the devices, sprays a fixing agent to keep the images frozen on the screens, then glues the knobs. he mounts the etch a sketch to the wall with velcro
ohio arts, the device's maker, donated the toys to gosline while he was a student at the university of california at san diego
as gavels fell ending a two-day special session of the washington legislature, the strains of ``here comes the bride'' echoed through the ornate rotunda of the state capitol
minutes later, janice keller and john brian saul became man and wife
there had been a question of whether they would do so saturday as planned
the legislature had been scheduled to adjourn thursday, but unfinished business forced the lawmakers into a special session
state officials told ms. keller and saul that the wedding might have to be canceled if the legislature did not finish its work in time
but it became a night to remember for the happy couple
they were asked into the house chambers just before it adjourned and were honored with a resolution
now therefore be it resolved, by the house of representatives of the state of washington, that it extends its best wishes to the happy couple on this memorable day of their lives,'' stated the resolution
said rep. karen schmidt, ``if they can follow this act, everything can only be positive from now on.''
chuck pascale thought an exploding snail had blown his 5-year-old restaurant business to smithereens
instead, it brought nationwide fame
karen j. prouty was celebrating her 36th birthday with a dinner at pascale wine bar &amp; restaurant on feb 26. she was eating her second escargot when it blew up in her face
garlic butter caused minor burns around her right eye and blinded her for 90 minutes. prouty was treated at a hospital and released the same evening
the snail's internal moisture had apparently built up steam that propelled it right out of its depression in a ceramic serving dish, pascale theorized
pascale said he pleaded with the local newspaper not to print a story on the incident fearing it would hurt business. but he said the night the article was printed, escargot was the most popular item at the restaurant. every snail in the building was sold, he said
we've won national awards for four consecutive years, and we've been nominated for a fourth star in mobil travel guide,'' said pascale's brother and partner, neal pascale. ``but this definitely added to our national reputation.''
the pascale brothers and etienne merle are partners in the establishment, which specializes in french and northern italian cuisine
since the story was publicized nationally, the pascales have fielded about 30 calls from radio stations and newspapers around the country. friends and business associates have mailed them newspaper clippings about their exploding snail from los angeles, phoenix, milwaukee, new york, washington, miami and even mexico city
humorist dave barry plans to write about the incident for his nationally syndicated column april 17 in the miami herald
in the course of all the publicity, and after realizing prouty was not seriously hurt, the brothers said they have begun to accept the humor in the accident
now they quip about their flying snails and how they're training them to stay in the dish. nomination early</head>
jesse jackson on sunday was touting his big win in his native south carolina, while officials struggled to count the final ballots after a record turnout at democratic caucuses
about 45,000 voters turned out saturday, officials said
even as he celebrated his victory, jackson quickly turned his sights toward the next battleground _ illinois, which holds its primary tuesday
this is a 50-state marathon race and we're now moving into another lap,'' jackson said. illinois is jackson's adopted home state; the civil rights leader has been based in chicago for years
in a television interview, jackson suggested that at the rate he's going, he could lock up the democratic nomination before the convention in atlanta in july
i hope by that time to have a majority of the popular votes. i hope my delegate total will correspond to my popular vote and on that basis i hope to be the nominee of the party,'' he said from chicago on nbc's ``meet the press'' program
with 1,668, or 93 percent of south carolina's 1,788 precincts reporting, jackson had about 54 percent of the delegates to attend county conventions later this month. nineteen percent were uncommitted while tennessee sen. albert gore jr. collected 18 percent
masachusetts gov. michael dukakis collected 7 percent and missouri rep. richard gephardt had 2 percent
in terms of the 44 national convention delegates at stake saturday, jackson apparently will collect 23 while 15 will be uncommitted and six went to gore. there are also four so-called super delegates from the state
nationally, jackson's delegate total lags behind that of dukakis. the massachusetts governor has 460.5; jackson has 423.55
carol kahre of the state democratic party said the estimated turnout of 45,000 easily surpassed the old record of about 25,000 set back in 1976
she said it could be a couple of days before all the figures from the counties are tabulated
the problem now becomes the county party priorities are preparing for their county conventions,'' she said, adding state officials must ``beg a lot'' to get all the numbers in
there's no official state certification of the results, she said. the credentials of each delegate will be checked at the county conventions and then again at the state convention
the record turnout for the meetings ``slowed them up and slowed up the reporting. but that's a nice kind of problem to have,'' she added
earl black, a political science professor at the university of south carolina, said the record turnout was due to ``a flurry of final days campaign activity.''
i'm certain the proportion of black voters at the democratic caucuses was higher than the overall percentage of black voters'' in the state, he said. ``with south carolina being jesse jackson's home state, there was a very strong incentive in the black community.''
some of it was due to gore's showing on super tuesday. some democrats felt that there was (another) candidate out there they could support,'' black said
jackson, gore and gephardt all campaigned in the state in the days leading up to the caucuses
attorney general edwin meese iii said sunday the united states still lacks legal backing for a customs service plan to seize the passports of americans suspected of entering the country with illegal drugs
our legal people are working with customs and by the time that that program starts, we will have a legal basis for it,'' meese said on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''
william von raab, the customs service commissioner, announced march 2 at the white house conference on a drug-free america that his agency will take the passports of americans who try to re-enter the country with illegal drugs, beginning tuesday
customs service spokesman edward kittredge said the passports would be seized as evidence of a crime and forwarded to the state department
meese, questioned about a plan to shoot down planes used for drug trafficking, said the program lacks the necessary amount of certainty to determine whether a plane is carrying drugs
i think right now we do not have the capability of putting in an effective program _ a foolproof program of shooting down planes ... and therefore i am not in favor of it at this time,'' meese said
now that george bush has virtually locked up the republican presidential nomination, he is carefully putting some distance between himself and some elements of the reagan administration record
in a major switch in campaign strategy, bush also is trying to broaden his appeal to democrats and independents _ a massive block of voters that ronald reagan tapped successfully in 1980 and 1984
the vice president signaled this transition in tactics the day after his most impressive electoral performance ever _ a stunning sweep of the 16 gop primaries on super tuesday
the message will have to be fleshed out more, and more definitive,'' he said
craig fuller, bush's chief of staff, said ``we don't want to get out ahead of ourselves and launch a national campaign before we get the nomination. but i think you'll see him beginning to talk more about various issues.''
bush later departed abruptly from his basic stump speech
he told an audience of republican boosters in chicago thursday that if elected he would create a special white house office on ethics and devise a new ethics code. it was a concrete proposal on a general campaign theme he has pitched since last fall
i am tired of being embarrassed'' by news accounts of ethical misdeeds by government officials, he said
he said his call for a white house ethics office should not be taken as criticism of president reagan. he said he was talking about ``how i would do it.''
in another part of the speech, he offered details on how he would try to attack federal budget deficits _ going beyond a four-year, flexible spending freeze proposed earlier. he said he would take a ``hands-on'' role as a participant in negotiations with congressional leaders
the tower commission set up to investigate the iran-contra affair concluded, among other things, that policy-making went awry because of reagan's hands-off management style
bush had said early in his campaign that he intended eventually to talk of ``shades of difference'' in how he would approach things, as opposed to reagan. and that's what happened thursday
the chicago tribune, endorsing sen. bob dole over bush in the next day's newspaper, said:
nowhere have the republican candidates asked or answered the kind of harsh questions the democrats surely will raise in november about the reagan administration, whose colors mr. bush has been able to wave more furiously than anyone else.''
so, bush's decision to hammer away at the theme of lifting the level of ethics in government seems to be an attempt to position the candidate to better cope with the iran-contra issue, the investigations of attorney general edwin meese and the convictions of former white house officials michael k. deaver and lyn nofziger
campaign manager lee atwater said ``it was a big mistake'' for dole of kansas to continue running campaign advertisements questioning bush's role in supporting the arms-to-iran initiative. ``this has created a lot of resentment in the republican party,'' he said
but atwater and other top bush strategists know they have not heard the last of the issue, particularly in view of the continuing investigation of the iran-contra affair by special counsel lawrence e. walsh
bush could find himself trying to campaign against a democrat at a time when administration figures are being indicted and tried in connection with the scandal
the shift in bush's strategy apparently resulted from a conclusion that the vice president has sufficient strength _ with 705 of the 1,139 delegates needed to win the nomination _ to shift toward a broader-based campaign
a dual purpose would be to lessen his vulnerability to criticism by a democratic opponent of the reagan administration's record on ethics and to reach out to blue-collar voters, democrats, independents and others who have supported president reagan in the past
i do think we'll reach out to ethnic groups and various minority groups,'' fuller said of the emerging bush strategy. ``he has consciously reached out to the hispanic population in the southwest and to cubans in florida. i think he will work very hard to capture ethnic groups.''
bush also can be expected to touch up his campaign pitch to appeal to workers _ as he did in acknowledging that not everyone has benefited from the economic recovery. he said the face of a jobless man in illinois looks just as grim as the face of a man out of work in savannah, ga
the storm system that dumped heavy snow on the plains had moved into canada and weakened sunday, and in its wake below-normal temperatures extended from the rockies to the appalachians
afternoon temperatures were below the freezing mark across much of the northern and central rockies, northern and central plains and the great lakes region
during the night, freezing temperatures were expected to extend as far south as much of texas and most of the lower mississippi valley, except the gulf coast. freeze warnings were posted for all of mississippi except coastal sections and for the hill country of southern texas
snow showers extended from the upper mississippi valley across the great lakes to the upper ohio valley. two to 4 inches of snow fell during the morning in snow belt areas near lake superior
a winter storm watch was posted for monday across extreme northeastern ohio near lake erie, with as much as 8 inches possible by monday night
freezing rain made travel hazardous over parts of inland northern new england during the morning, especially in some deeper valleys
elsewhere, light snow fell over much of the rockies during the afternoon. up to 4 inches fell in the mountains near alamosa, colo
showers diminished across the mid-atlantic states and the carolinas, but scattered thunderstorms broke out during the morning along coastal sections from north carolina to florida
heavier rainfall during the six hours up to 1 p.m. est included 1.15 inches at patrick air force base at cocoa, fla., and 1.00 inch at orlando, fla
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 9 degrees above zero at yellowstone national park to 87 at west palm beach, fla. the early morning low for the day was 19 degrees below zero at chadron, neb., and west yellowstone, mont
for monday, snow showers were forecast from new england across the northern and central appalachians and the ohio valley to the great lakes region. snow showers also were forecast from the northern and central rockies into the western dakotas. showers were forecast in southern florida
highs only in the teens were predicted in parts of upper michigan; in the 20s from northern vermont across northern and western sections of new york, pennsylvania and west virginia, the upper ohio valley, the great lakes and the upper mississippi valley to eastern sections of the dakotas; in the 50s or 60s from the southern atlantic coast across the gulf coast region, texas and much of the southwest to the pacific northwest; in the 70s and lower 80s in southern florida and from the desert southwest to most of california; and in the 30s or 40s in most of the rest of the nation
one man who died after a fall from a hotel balcony and a second injured hours later at the same hotel were not part of the annual invasion by out-of-state college students, police said sunday
with the onslaught of more than 300,000 college students on spring break, daytona beach authorities have been trying to crack down on such alcohol-related antics as climbing on motel balconies
in 1986, five died and seven were seriously injured in falls from high-rise motels in florida
on saturday, jay stricklin, 24, of orlando leaned over the railing of a fourth-floor sundeck at the seashore motel and lost his balance, police said. he was flown to halifax medical center, where he died of head injuries
two hours later, david baldwin, 19, of ocala fell off a second-floor roof onto the pool deck of the same hotel, and was rushed seriously injured to the same hospital
a friend told police that baldwin had been drinking all day, said police capt. noel ouellette
baldwin was in serious condition sunday with a concussion and facial injuries, said hospital spokeswoman charlotte hinson. with later government statement on casualties, compensation for victims, three sted two policemen killed</note>
hundreds of nepalese crowded hospitals sunday and looked for relatives after a sudden hailstorm caused a stampede at a soccer stadium, killing about 90 people and injuring scores
doctors at katmandu's main facility, the bir hospital, said about a dozen unidentified bodies could present a health hazard because there was no place to properly store them
we have no room in the morgue. there is in fact no morgue to speak of in medical terms,'' said one doctor, speaking on condition of anonymity
the stampede occurred saturday when a hailstorm struck during a soccer game at the national stadium. witnesses said the crowd of about 30,000 surged toward the one open exit, and many people were crushed or suffocated to death
government television reported 73 died, and witnesses said at least 20 other bodies were taken away by relatives for cremation. more than 100 people were treated at hospitals. three people remained in critical condition sunday
home affairs minister niranjan thapa said later sunday that 70 people perished in the tragedy, including three police officers. he said 94 people had been hospitalized with injuries, and 15 remained in serious condition
thapa denied reports that police charged crowds outside the stadium when they attacked government cars with rocks. witnesses said police used batons to club people enraged that other gates to the stadium had not been opened
the government ordered a judicial panel to investigate the disaster and said it would pay compensation to relatives of victims and to the injured
soccer is nepal's most popular sport, and saturday's game was the final match in a tournament between a team from the national tobacco factory and a team from bangladesh
government-run newspapers reported that the crowd surged toward the south exit _ where most people usually enter the stadium _ but made no mention of other doors being locked
they reported that king birendra and queen aishwarya visited the injured in hospitals
the official national news agency reported that the government declared a national day of mourning sunday, a normal working day, and ordered all sports events and other entertaintment canceled
at bir hospital, about a mile from the stadium, one patient, judha tamang said, ``i got blessing from our beloved king and queen.''
hundreds of anxious people crowded around one hospital building where pictures of the unidentified dead had been posted
bhayacha kumale, from thimi, just outside katmandu, said he lost two of his sons, aged 12 and 16, in the tragedy. a third son had decided to skip saturday's soccer game
i could not even give them a drop of water before they died,'' kumale said
in nepal, it is a tradition for relatives to gather at a dying person's bedside and give him water to comfort him
the stampede was nepal's worst sports-related disaster on record
it came just two days after part of a grandstand collapsed at the main soccer stadium in tripoli, libya, reportedly killed around 20 people during a match between libya and malta
some of the 60,000 spectators at the 75,000-seat ``june 11 stadium'' panicked when someone brandished a knife, news reports said
in the worst soccer disaster on record, rioting left nearly 300 people dead and 500 injured on may 24, 1964, in lima, peru, after argentina beat peru on a last-minute goal

here is a list of political stories that have moved for ams

chicago _ with signs pointing to another republican primary victory by george bush in illinois, the vice president came under renewed criticism sunday from gop rival bob dole and from democrat jesse jackson, who said bush would enter the race ``with a lot of baggage.''
am-political rdp. a0778

sunrise, fla. _ rep. richard gephardt's trademark boy scout smile froze as he peeked from behind the curtains at the sunrise musical theatre. stretching out beyond the stage he was about to take was a sea of empty seats
am-gephardt's slide. a0760

chicago _ when a campaign starts to slide, as bob dole's surely has, everything goes wrong, even the little things. the candidate finds himself struggling to overcome power failures and competing for attention against vanna white
am-dole's slide. a0766

washington _ now that george bush has virtually locked up the republican presidential nomination, he is carefully putting some distance between himself and some elements of the reagan administration record
am-bush-strategy. a0798

columbia, s.c. _ jesse jackson on sunday was touting his big win in his native south carolina, while officials struggled to count the final ballots after a record turnout at democratic caucuses
am-south carolina dems. a0792

bismarck, n.d. _ north dakota democrats on sunday began the two-week process of picking the delegates who will attend the state convention and eventually cast ballots for president
am-north dakota democrats. a0784

chicago _ jesse jackson said sunday that winning in his native south carolina may give him the momentum in his adopted home state to upset illinois sen. paul simon in the primary here on tuesday
am-jackson. a0773

chicago _ sen. paul simon shrugged off new poll results suggesting his lead in his home state had diminished to a tie with jesse jackson, but conceded sunday that his democratic campaign was hampered by not having the money to buy television ads in illinois
am-simon. a0794
am-political quotes. a0801
am-us-deleg-sum. a0747
am-political briefs. a0802
_ koch says jesse jackson should serve as drug czar
_ disagreement splits jackson campaign effort in northern indiana
the indian government rejected the latest call for a cease-fire in sri lanka from a tamil rebel leader, saying his words did not match his deeds, an indian diplomat said sunday
he said the appeal by velupillai prabhakaran, issued saturday in the southern indian city of madras, was one ``of a series of communications we've received from time to time.''
he noted that prabhakaran's liberation tigers of tamil eelam had continued to attack rival tamil militants as well as indian forces sent to sri lanka last july to enforce a peace accord. the diplomat spoke on condition of anonymity
the tigers, the largest sri lankan rebel group, have refused to surrender their weapons as called for in the indian-sponsored peace plan signed by india and sri lanka. the pact was designed to end the tamils' nearly 5-year-old guerrilla war for an independent homeland in northern and eastern sri lanka
india has an estimated 50,000 troops in sri lanka to enforce the accord. prabhakaran has been in hiding since an indian offensive against his stronghold in sri lanka's northern jaffna peninsula began last october
in his statement, prabhakaran appealed for a cease-fire but said he was skeptical that sri lanka's sinhalese majority would abide by the peace accord
tamils, most of whom are hindus and who make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population, claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists
india became involved in the sri lanka conflicet because of its tamil minority of 60 million tamils _ most of them in madras and surrounding tamil nadu state. although india has sent troops to sri lanka to enforce the peace pact, it has allowed the rebel groups to maintain exile offices in madras, 250 miles north of the island nation of sri lanka, formerly ceylon
in colombo, sri lankan police said 15 sinhalese had been arrested in connection with an ambush near the eastern port of trincomalee on friday in which 22 men, women and children were killed. most of the victims were tamils
in the northwest, two sinhalese serving in the sri lankan army were shot to death saturday 400 yards from the adampan military camp near mannar
military sources in colombo said the soldiers were slain by liberation tigers guerrillas. pipeline</head> trades involved $150,000.</note>
a memo by a longtime friend of attorney general edwin meese iii describes the two men joining in a 10-minute ``briefing'' of israeli prime minister shimon peres on a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
the memo by e. robert wallach, first disclosed in sunday editions of the washington post, says peres ``literally dragged me off into a corner'' and began discussing the pipeline ``intensely'' at an israeli embassy reception in washington on oct. 16, 1985
the document says that in the crush of activity at the reception, peres then asked wallach to wait until after the event to discuss the pipeline further
fortunately, as the time approached, my friend (wallach's usual phrase for meese) arrived and there was a three-way discussion which took approximately 10 minutes,'' said wallach's memo
he (peres) is very quick and we went right to the point and he was agreeable in all respects. it wasn't the kind of briefing i would have preferred, but it seemed to be effective,'' the memo said
meese, interviewed sunday on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' denied the story, while foreign ministry officials in israel refused to comment on the latest report
the attorney general, asked if the report was correct, responded: ``no it's not. it's the usual thing you expect these days from the washington post, taking a small fact that is well known and trying to blow it up into a new news story.''
many times, at that particular reception i had brief conversations with prime minister peres,'' meese said. ``there's nothing new to it.''
meese also reiterated that he will not resign his post despite the growing controversy
obviously i shouldn't step aside because if honest public officials can be hounded out of office by partisan political attacks, by media barrages, then no one as a public official is safe,'' he said
the attorney general said that ``at no time has this (investigation) detracted from my ability to do my job.''
asked if he should step aside for president reagan's sake, meese said, ``i think it would hurt him. and i think it would hurt the cause of good government more if i didn't stand up and fight these false allegations because to leave would acknowledge that maybe there's some truth to them.''
on sunday, james rocap, one of meese's lawyers, said that ``wallach's account totally exaggerates'' the discussion ``in order to impress his (wallach's) client.''
wallach was legal counsel to swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the proposed project. two months before the embassy reception, rappaport had paid wallach $150,000, which wallach directed be sent to an account owned by w. franklyn chinn, an investment manager at the time for both wallach and meese
wallach's money was in effect pooled in several stock trades with meese's funds, sources familiar with a criminal investigation of meese, speaking on condition of anonymity, said friday
meese, asked about reports that he had profited from stock trades involving $150,000, said, ``i knew nothing about this money being paid.''
chinn's company had a separate financial arrangement with meese. the attorney general said that in any event his financial arrangements with chinn were set up as a limited blind partnership so that ``i had no way of knowing what was being done or how it was being managed.''
meese described wallach as ``my friend'' and said he ``never asked me to do anything that was wrong. ... in this case, a lot of people are taking a simple situation where i turned something over to the national security council staff and then for political reasons or media attack reasons they're trying to make a big deal out of it.''
in a statement issued feb. 1, meese said that his total involvement with peres on the pipeline consisted of ``only two contacts ... each was brief and limited and neither was initiated by me.''
a second memo by wallach, also described in sunday editions of the post, recounts a meeting in new york _ a few days after the embassy reception in washington _ involving peres, wallach, then-national security council aide david wigg and the israeli ambassador to the united states
wallach said the meeting lasted about 15 minutes and that the four discussed two proposed letters for peres to sign, the first committing israel not to disrupt the pipeline and the second dealing with the concepts of using u.s. foreign aid to israel as insurance for the project
peres has said he recalls having met wallach only twice, on social occasions with others present
peres eventually signed a later version of the first letter. peres said he could not act on a second letter without additional consultation in israel, wallach's memo said
the pipeline project collapsed shortly thereafter for lack of an insurance package. the justice department saw legal impediments to using israeli aid money
finally, national security adviser john poindexter, on the advise of former nsc adviser william clark, killed u.s. involvement in the project
meese's involvement with the proposed pipeline is under criminal investigation by independent counsel james mckay, who launched a probe of meese's activities last may 11
the two memos were obtained from wallach's files recently by mckay's investigators, said sources familiar with the probe
the sources outlined the memos contents following the account in the post
a 9-year-old boy flew an ultralight airplane solo for 3{ minutes sunday, giving him a chance at being recognized as the youngest pilot to make a solo flight
it was smooth throughout,'' tony aliengena said after piloting a quicksilver gt ultralight in calm, sunny weather at oceanside municipal airport, while his parents watched
ultralights, descended from motorized hang-gliders, are not regulated by the federal aviation administration, which requires pilots to be 16 years old before they can fly solo
tony, of san juan capistrano, took off and made a touch-and-go landing on the runway, then climbed more than 100 feet before returning for a landing, said don taylor, who observed the flight as a representative of the national aeronautics association
taylor said he couldn't say exactly how the flight might be classified by the naa, which certifies aviation records
i don't know, to be honest with you,'' taylor said, noting that typical categories for ultralight records are in terms of speed, distance and time
the naa might create a new category or just ``recognize'' the flight, he said
according to the guinness book of world records, the youngest previous solo pilot was cody a. locke, who flew a cessna 150 near mexicali, mexico, on feb. 24, 1983, at the age of 9 years, 316 days
on sunday, tony was 9 years and 295 days old
tony became interested in flying because he has flown as a passenger in a plane owned by his father, gary aliengena, since the age of 3. when he was 7, tony was allowed to sit at the plane's dual controls and guide the craft with his father
on march 30, tony and an instructor plan to take off in a cessna 210 in an attempt to to break the record for the youngest pilot to fly across the united states. missile, denies shelling iraqi cities, background on missiles. pick up 10th graf pvs: the iraqi news agency...</note>
iraq said it fired a missile into tehran sunday to retaliate for iranian artillery attacks that killed 21 people in iraqi border towns
iran vowed revenge, indicating a resumption of the ``war of the cities'' after an uneasy two-day truce. a 12-day missile duel on each other's capitals killed scores of civilians
if the iranian regime continues its aggression, then our retaliation will continue with all-out strength,'' an iraqi military spokesman was quoted as saying by the iraqi news agency
iran's islamic republic news agency (irna), monitored in cyprus, confirmed that tehran was hit. it said the missile exploded in a residential neighborhood killing and wounding ``a number of civilians.'' the agency gave no figures
irna quoted an official spokesman as saying, ``iran's moslem combatants will severely retaliate'' and he warned baghdad residents to evacuate the iraqi capital. the spokesman, who was not identified, also denied as ``pure fabrications'' the iraqi claim that iran had shelled iraqi border towns
an iraqi military spokesman, speaking on television, said iran broke the conditions of the city-war truce by shelling civilian areas. he also said iranian forces launched a ground attack in the central sector of the front
iraq will retaliate on tehran for one time, as a warning to the iranian regime,'' said the spokesman, who was not identified
the iraqis said a single al hussein missile, which has a range of 400 miles, was fired at tehran 290 miles from the border
the iraqi military spokesman said 13 civilians were killed and 70 wounded in iranian shelling of the town of halabja, about 130 miles northeast of baghdad. another eight were killed and nine wounded in other border towns, a communique said
iraq has said it fired 71 al hussein missiles in the 12-day war of the cities, including 59 at tehran. iran fired 27 at baghdad. iran reported nearly 200 civilians killed and hundreds wounded, while iraq reported many civilian casualties but gave no figures
the al hussein missile is named after a shiite moslem saint. iraq says the missile is manufactured in iraq, but western military analysts in cyprus said it could be a soviet-made scud-b with strap-on boosters to reach tehran
iran has used unmodified scud-b missiles, which have a range of 190 miles, to attack baghdad, 85 miles east of the border
the iraqi news agency said more than 1,000 iranians were killed in the 3{-hour ground battle in the central sector of the war front. the battle began late saturday and ended early sunday
iran did not comment on the report, but the iran news agency reported that in a separate raid farther north, iranian revolutionary guards and anti-government kurdish guerrillas killed or wounded 450 iraqis
it said the combined forces seized 15 square miles of iraqi land and 12 ``strategic heights'' in the sulaymaniyah area 160 miles north of baghdad
iraq said iranian troops in the central sector were backed by tanks and artillery
infantry units of iraq's 2nd army corps repulsed the thrust, exterminating the bulk of the force,'' the iraqi agency quoted an unidentified spokesman as saying
it did not say where exactly the battle took place, but the relatively small scale of the fighting indicated it was not the beginning of iran's long-awaited major offensive
iran's last thrust, in january 1987, brought its troops to within six miles of basra. but western military analysts say iran has had difficulties mobilizing forces for a new attack
iraqi news agency quoted a military spokesman as saying iraqi planes ``dealt an accurate and effective blow to a very large maritime target,'' a reference to a supertanker, off iran during the night
it did not give the exact time of the raid. it was the fourth such claim in five days
iraq had reported ships attacks on friday and saturday, but the last confirmed raid was on wednesday when iraqi warplanes hit the maltese-flag, 41,195-ton tanker tenacity
before the attack wednesday, the ``tanker war'' had been dormant as the two belligerents hammered each other's capitals and major cities in a resurgence of the ``war of the cities.''
scores of civilians were killed in both countries in the unprecedented missile duels, which began feb. 29. iraq fired a total of 71 missiles at tehran, the holy city of qom and central isfahan, while iran shot 29 missiles. policy</head>
more than 3,000 people carrying palestinian flags and chanting slogans marched to the white house on sunday to protest israeli policies in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
many of the protesters carried signs saying, ``israelis: stop killing babies'' and ``palestinians deserve statehood.''
they condemned u.s. policy toward israel, chanting, ``reagan, shultz, you will see _ palestine will be free.''
the demonstrators called on the white house to freeze u.s. aid to israel until the israeli government supports and participates in the peace process
they also asked for a moratorium on miliary aid to israel until there is a political settlement and urged the reagan administration to establish direct contact with the palestine liberation organization
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who strongly opposes a u.s. peace plan for the middle east, is due to arrive in washington on monday for talks with president reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz
meanwhile, about 300 pro-israel demonstrators rallied near the offices of abc news to protest the network's coverage of the clashes between israeli soldiers and arabs in the occupied territories
american viewers expect the whole story, not half-truths,'' moshe roumani, a professor at the university of maryland, told the crowd gathered about a half block from the abc offices. the demonstrators later marched past the network's entrance before returning to their makeshift podium
protesters carried banners saying, ``half the truth equals a whole lie,'' ``abc _ arab propaganda network,'' and ``peter jennings _ plos man on tv.'' many in the crowd wore yellow pieces of cloth to signify yellow journalism
a spokesman from abc news was not immediately available for comment
speakers urged the crowd to write or call the network to protest the coverage, while organizers sought signatures on petitions calling upon the media ``to report the entire story.''
we believe abc news, along with the other major media, has been presenting a significant amount of news from the middle east in a manner that is biased against israel,'' the petition said
the group planned to deliver the petitions to the news divisions of abc, cbs, nbc, cable news network, mutual broadcasting system, national public radio and the public broadcasting system, and the managing editors of the associated press, the new york times, reuters, united press international and the washington post
gov. michael s. dukakis' proposal to provide health insurance to every massachusetts resident by 1992 was endorsed by a key senate committee sunday after it stripped the bill of an exemption for small employers
a final version of the bill, which dukakis has championed in his democratic presidential campaign as a model for the nation, could be on the governor's desk by the end of the month, said sen. patricia mcgovern, chairwoman of the senate ways and means committee
we are now three-quarters of the way toward having solved what is really a 40-year fight in this country to come up with a degree of coverage in health care that some of the other industrial countries have had for a long period of time,'' sen. john olver told panel members
the committee adopted the bill 7-2, sending it to the full senate
hale champion, the governor's chief of staff, said the administration was pleased with the committee vote and was optimistic that the legislature would produce a final bill the governor can support
mcgovern, the proposal's earliest advocate, said she hoped the senate could begin debate monday, so the bill could be passed and sent to a house-senate conference committee to work out differences
there are an estimated 600,000 uninsured residents in the state. it is expected that employers will pick up the tab for many of them through a series of tax breaks and pooled insurance proposals outlined in the bill
the house version pegged the state's cost over the four-year life of the bill at around $1 billion. the senate version estimates the state's share at about half that
about 90 percent of the senate version agrees with the measure passed overwhelmingly by the house two weeks ago, mcgovern said
the two versions differ mainly over a house amendment to exempt businesses of nine or fewer full-time employees from having to pay a unemployment surcharge tax if they refuse to insure their workers by 1992
the surcharge is intended to help pay for health care coverage for the uninsured. the house-backed exemption of small employers, which does not exist in the senate version, would affect an estimated 86,000 employers
the drop in gasoline retail prices has slowed and may end as early as next month, an oil industry analyst said sunday
the latest nationwide lundberg survey found pump prices dropped .37 of a cent between feb. 19 and mar. 11 to an average of 95.75 cents per gallon for all grades and services, including taxes
that was a slower rate of decline than in previous weeks and the smallest drop since last november, analyst trilby lundberg said
this drop was barely over one-third of a cent, and several indicators point to rising prices during the next few weeks if crude (oil) prices hold,'' she said
other factors contributing to a possible increase include refiners' need for profits, reduced profit margins for dealers and seasonal increases in consumption beginning in the spring and peaking in the summer, she said
according to the latest survey, prices at self-service stations were 86.39 cents per gallon for regular unleaded, 101.53 cents for premium unleaded, and 82.94 cents for regular leaded. self-service accounts for 80 percent of all sales, ms. lundberg said
full-service prices were: 116.98 cents per gallon for regular unleaded, 127.27 cents for premium unleaded, and 112.75 cents for regular leaded
prince edward, the youngest son of queen elizabeth ii, denied on sunday a british newspaper report that he plans to marry the roman catholic daughter of a belgian baroness
the people, a weekly london tabloid, reported earlier sunday that the 24-year-old prince had proposed to georgia may, 22, whose mother, catherine, was born a baroness in the van den branden de reeth family
it's all complete fabrication,'' edward said when he arrived at the british academy of film and television arts craft awards ceremony in liverpool
the people report noted edward would have to give up his right as fifth in line to the british throne if he married a catholic
britain's 1701 act of settlement states only a protestant can become the monarch.s
the newspaper quoted miss may's former boyfriend, new zealand yachtsman ed danby, as saying she told him of the engagement plan to the prince in a telephone call last week
a roman catholic church leader on sunday condemned the use of car bombs, saying the terrorist tactic could turn this central american nation into another lebanon
monsignor gregorio rosa chavez, the auxiliary bishop of san salvador, referred to the explosions friday night of two car bombs in san salvador that wounded two people
leftist guerrillas claimed responsibility for the attacks
unfortunately, this was not just one more violent episode, but an extremely grave step on the part of terrorism,'' he said in his homily at the metropolitan cathedral
speaking with journalists after the mass, he said of the car bombs: ``what we're seeing is a qualitative leap in terms of terrorist tactics, and this is extremely dangerous.''
he said such bombings could turn el salvador into another lebanon, where car bombs have killed hundreds of people in the civil war between christian militias and moslem factions that began in 1975
human rights groups say an estimated 65,000 people have been killed in el salvador's 8-year-old war between government forces and leftist rebels, with at least half of the victims civilians. mushers leave kaltag; add that finishers must arrive in nome with at least five dogs, status of non-alaskan americans in race. no pickup.</note>
the 70-year-old founder of the iditarod trail sled dog race streteched his lead sunday as front-runners and their dog teams passed the last checkpoint on the yukon river section of the race
joe redington pulled out of kaltag, on the yukon river, at 4:22 a.m. and turned toward unalakleet, 90 miles away on the wind-swept norton sound coast
redington had left only nine of the 15 dogs with which he began. race rules require mushers to arrive in nome with at least five dogs in harness
leaving kaltag 2{ hours after redington was martin buser of big lake, who had passed redington early saturday before falling back into second place again sunday. buser still had 13 dogs in harness, one fewer than saturday
buser had arrived in kaltag only 23 minutes behind redington. the town is 798 miles from anchorage, where the 1,100-mile race began march 5
defending champion susan butcher, who won the last two races in record times, left at the tiny village at 8:18 a.m., and four-time champion rick swenson at 9:58 a.m., both with 12 dogs
the next checkpoint is unalakleet, about 90 miles away on the coast of norton sound. from unalakleet, the teams run north along the coast, open to the region's sudden storms and raking winds
the first musher to reach nome will collect $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers will split the rest. three of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out, including one saturday
redington, who founded the race in 1973, has never won, although he has competed in all but two iditarods
redington had paced the race for more than 400 miles, before buser pulled out of galena an hour ahead of him saturday. buser also arrived first at the nulato checkpoint, but then warm weather forced both men to wait until dark before setting out for kaltag
american mushers from outside alaska were paced by robin jacobson of minnetonka, minn., in 13th place. john patten of grand marais, minn., was 24th; frank teasley, jackson, wyo., 27th; terry adkins, mikado, mich., 31st; dan mceachen, snowmass village, colo., 34th; and stan ferguson, philadelphia, 45th. miles of tunnel, subs grafs 1-3 with three grafs. pick up 4th graf: excavation techniques... deletes 15th graf bgng: trains will be able... which moved up.</note>
passengers packed into trains and traveled under ground and sea to the island of hokkaido on sunday as the world's longest undersea tunnel opened to rail service
some riders had waited in line more than a week to ensure a seat on the first train that took them on the 99-mile trip from aomori at the tip of japan's largest island, honshu, to hakodate in hokkaido, the country's northernmost main island
the seikan tunnel is 33.4 miles long and 14.4 miles is under water. the aomori-hakodate trip takes about two hours, with 30 minutes inside the tunnel
excavation techniques developed by japanese civil engineers for the tunnel are to be used in the construction of the planned dover strait tunnel between england and france
transport minister shintaro ishihara, guest of honor on sunday's first hakodate-bound train, told japanese reporters after crossing through the tunnel: ``it is a technological feat without parallel in the world. it is a myth come true.''
next month, with the official opening of the seto ohashi bridge, a series of 11 spans totaling 7.6 miles linking honshu with the island of shikoku, transport officials will complete a decades-old plan of linking all four of japan's main islands by rail
but the cost of the seikan tunnel, which took 24 years to build, has fueled debate in japan in an era of declining rail service
overall construction and personnel outlays cost taxpayers about $8.5 billion at current exchange rates, well above the original forecast of $1.54 billion. the project also claimed the lives of 34 workers and ran 10 years behind schedule due to technical delays and four major floods
yukinari shojiguchi of the hokkaido japan railway co., which will lease the tunnel from the japanese railway construction public corp., said the new undersea rail line will operate at a loss
but it's worth it because more people will be coming through to hokkaido and utilizing the region, which has long been cut off from developments on the mainland,'' he said
figures released by hokkaido japan railway indicate that about 2.3 million passengers and 5 million tons of cargo are likely to pass through the tunnel each year
shojiguchi said a final estimate of operating costs still was being prepared, but did not deny reports pegging the annual level at $23.1 million
an 80-year-old ferry boat service between aomori and hakodate halted operation on the eve of the tunnel's opening. thousands of ferry fans visited the region for one last four-hour crossing over the churning tsugaru strait, site of a ferry accident that killed more than 1,100 passengers in 1954
a lot of people are sorry to see the ferries go. i don't think many will be interested in riding through a dark tunnel,'' said etsuhiro tomokane, a university senior from osaka touring hokkaido during a school break
but japanese critics charge that government officials erred in approving construction of the tunnel because of the low volume of traffic across the strait, and are skeptical of claims that the tunnel will spur regional development
as far as the current railway service goes, it's not likely that the new tunnel will help develop the region by attracting new companies,'' said scott foster, transportation analyst with merrill lynch in tokyo
while a possible extension of the ``bullet train'' high-speed line up through the tunnel could bring a turnabout, some critics say the huge additional cost of building the line, which uses different tracks, would only increase the deficits
masao takada, who operates a souvenir shop in aomori, says merchants on both sides of the tunnel are worried that it will hurt business
surveys show that the number of customers in aomori and hakodate will decline because train passengers on their way to sapporo (in hokkaido) from tokyo are less likely to disembark and shop around,'' he said
sen. paul simon's home-state support appears to be slipping as the illinois primary nears and he finds himself locked in a tight race with jesse jackson, according to the results of a newspaper poll to be published monday
a chicago tribune poll of 500 democrats likely to vote in tuesday's primary shows jackson with 32 percent of the support and simon with 29 percent
but the poll, by peter d. hart and associates has an error margin of plus or minus 5 percentage points, making the race a statistical dead heat
the latest poll, taken friday and saturday, updates one done earlier last week and published in sunday's tribune. that poll, with a similar sample and error margin, showed simon holding 35 percent of the support to jackson's 30 percent
i'm not saying every poll is inaccurate,'' simon said while campaigning sunday in chicago's chinatown. ``all i'm saying is if i get my message across to the people of illinois, they're going to vote for me.''
among other democrats in the new poll, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis was third with 20 percent, rep. richard gephardt of missouri had 5 percent and tennessee sen. albert gore had 4 percent
the tribune said 9 percent of the voters were undecided and 1 percent preferred none of the candidates
the newspaper did not update its sunday poll of gop voters, which found vice presient george bush the overwhelming favorite among illinois repbulicans over rivals kansas sen. bob dole and former tv evangelist pat robertson
the new tribune poll found jackson's support strongest in chicago, which represents nearly half of the state's likely democratic primary voters. simon did best in counties closer to his southern illinois home of makanda and in the rest of cook county outside chicago
support for the two was split among racial and sexual lines. jackson was strongest among blacks and men, while simon's support was heaviest among whites and women, the poll results show
among occupations, blue-collar workers supported jackson far more than other job classifications, while simon's support was nearly even among all occupations. each networks' total awards; subs 11-15th grafs, bgng `musical variety:...', to add networks on which winning shows appeared, clarify that same director made all three commercials mentioned in commercial category. picks up 16th graf pvs, `there also...'.</note>
the last emperor'' brought bernardo bertolucci the directors guild of america's feature film award, the second jewel in what may be a triple-crown season for the italian movie director
bertolucci, who in january won a golden globe for directing ``the last emperor,'' picked up the dga award saturday night in ceremonies held jointly at the beverly hilton hotel and in new york
the dga honor boosts his odds of winning an oscar. only three times in the 40-year history of the award has it failed to coincide with the academy award direction winner
other top dga winners were will mackenzie, who received the tv comedy directing award for an episode of nbc-tv's ``family ties'' called ```a' my name is alex''; and marshall herskovitz, who won the nighttime dramatic series award for his pilot for abc-tv's ``thirtysomething.''
in all, abc shows won three of the television direction awards, cbs won two, and nbc and pbs each won one. nbc had come in first in the number of nominations with eight
bertolucci's competition was steven spielberg for ``empire of the sun,'' james l. brooks for ``broadcast news,'' lasse hallstrom for ``my life as a dog'' and adrian lyne for ``fatal attraction.''
in accepting his award, bertolucci expressed his belief that ``cinema is the most international and the most classless of expressions.''
the italian director, who won permission to film ``the last emperor'' in china's forbidden city, also observed that ``cinema is living in shyness _ i might even say fear _ of television
too many movies have been intimidated by television and have tried to imitate the rhythms and the language of television. maybe i'm an idealist, but i still think of the movie theater as a cathedral where we all go together to dream the dream together.''
other winners were:
dramatic show, daytime: victoria hochberg, ``just a regular kid: an aids story,'' abc afterschool special
musical variety: dwight hemion, ``julie andrews ... sound of christmas,'' an abc special
documentary-actuality: elena mannes, ``the kingdom divided (god and politics),'' on pbs
sports: robert a. fishman, syracuse-indiana ncaa basketball championship game, on cbs
dramatic special: judd taylor, ``foxfire,'' on cbs
commercial directorial: rick levine, for three commercials: ``trouble'' for arnott's biscuits; ``bill demby'' for dupont; and ``apt. 10-g'' for pepsi
there also were several special achievement awards
robert wise, director of ``the sound of music'' and ``west side story,'' received the d.w. griffith award, the guild's highest honor
sheldon leonard, longtime dga treasurer, was named recipient of the robert b. aldrich award for service to the guild
former guild national executive director michael franklin, who guided the organization through several important labor negotiations with producers, received an honorary life membership
the 8,500-member dga represents film and television directors as well as assistant directors and production managers in movies and associate directors and stage managers in television
four soviet army officers flew here from leningrad sunday to observe winter maneuvers by north atlantic treaty organization forces, the allied press information center reported
it said the soviets would observe the military exercises for a 48-hour period. the month-long maneuvers in northern norway involve 14,000 military personnel from eight nations
under a 1986 stockholm agreement, any country that signed the pact has the right to inspect large-scale military exercises in other countries to ensure that aggressive actions are not being prepared. the agreement also requires member states to notify the others of such maneuvers
the agreement was ratified by the united states, canada and all european countries except albania
the press center said there have been five similar observation missions. the soviets sent observers to two nato maneuvers in turkey and west germany, and east germany sent a team to west germany. the united states had observers at one exercise in the soviet union and britain one in east germany. monday. subs seven grafs for grafs 5-10 pvs: `before this ...' to update with casualty count at 91, details of shamir airport conference, confirmation of mitzna order. pickup 11th pvs: we will ... edits thruout to trim</note>
israel choked off gasoline supplies to the occupied west bank on sunday after palestinian protesters set fire to two fuel trucks and pelted others with stones. prime minister yitzhak shamir flew to washington monday to meet with u.s. officials
the army confirmed an arab died after being shot in the eye in a clash last week but denied reports that a 5-year-old boy perished from burns caused by a tear gas grenade
the army said the boy had been playing with a kerosene stove when he was fatally burned. a spokesman said the parents initially blamed soldiers but later retracted the allegation
a police spokesman said more than half of the 850 arab policemen in the occupied west bank of the jordan river and gaza strip had resigned in response to a campaign led by the palestine liberation organization
the united nations said at least 91 palestinians have been killed since anti-israeli rioting began dec. 8 in the occupied territories
sunday night, police and organizers estimated from 200,000 to 250,000 israelis gathered in tel aviv to back shamir's refusal to accept u.s. peace proposals
at the protest, demonstrators held signs that read, ``peace now, pay later,'' ``yes to peace, no to withdrawal,'' and ``america to the indians.''
the rally came one day after peace now demonstrators _ estimated by israeli newspapers at 40,000 _ protested in tel aviv, urging shamir to accept the u.s. peace plan
shamir, at an airport news conference early monday before leaving for washington, said he felt ``at peace with himself'' in his decision to reject the plan. he added he hoped his talks with president reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz would advance the peace process
after two fuel trucks were set ablaze in the west bank and others stoned, maj. gen. amram mitzna banned fuel trucks from entering the occupied west bank, the army reported
a senior official in the west bank military government said fuel would be delivered to stations that serviced hospital ambulances and certain other vehicles
we will arrange for fuel deliveries only to places where it is vital for public services,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the army confirmed economic restrictions had been imposed on the west bank town of qabatiyeh, where an alleged pro-israeli collaborator was hung from an electrical pole last month after shooting a child to death
the village will be barred from exports to jordan and will be unable to receive visitors from abroad, an army official said. qabatiyeh is also without electricity, he said
defense minister yitzhak rabin last month said israel might have to resort to economic restrictions against the 1.5 million arabs in the west bank and the gaza strip if strikes and violence persisted
police ministry spokesman nahum mendel said 450 of 850 arab police officers in the west bank and gaza had handed in their papers after underground leaflets called for their resignations
he said israeli police might be called to help
former police officers wearing civilian clothes could be seen leaving a district headquarters building in bethlehem after making their resignations official
one of them, rames, 33, who declined to give his last name, said he was influenced by last week's brutal slaying in jericho of a police officer who was accused of being a collaborator
the killing made me decide very quickly,'' he said
dozens of arab tax collectors also have resigned, and palestinians have been called on to stop paying taxes
but a senior israeli official said tax receipts were down only about 10 percent for january and february
a military court, meanwhile, indicted a soldier from the elite givati brigade for manslaughter
an army spokesman said the soldier was en route to an army base when his car was surrounded by stone-throwers. the soldier drew his weapon and shot a palestinian who cursed him, the spokesman said
israel's supreme court cleared the way for the deportation of three more palestinians after rejecting an appeal and lifting a temporary restraining order that had barred their expulsion. the three were detained before the current unrest
nine other palestinians were handed deportation orders jan. 3, and four were flown to southern lebanon on jan 12. the move drew strong international protests as a violation of geneva conventions on the treatment of civilians in occupied zones
the divided cabinet debated the u.s. peace proposals, and shamir said the 24-member body would vote on the plan after he returns from his eight-day u.s. visit
shamir has rejected several key elements of the u.s. plan, especially its call for an international conference. but he apparently held out hope of getting american agreement for changes. the plan also calls for palestinian self-rule in the occupied lands
shamir told israel radio that he would propose revisions to the plan
forming the world's longest conga line with almost 120,000 dancers was no problem sunday for members of the crowd that filled the streets of little havana for the calle ocho festival
it's very easy: just face toward downtown, grab the shoulders of the person in front of you _ and dance,'' juan carlos sanchez, organizer of the event
anna nicholas, a representative of the guinness book of world records, confirmed a record had been set at 119,986 dancers, shattering the old mark of a 10,442-person chain formed last august in canada
there's no way it could fail. as soon as the music plays, we just grab on to somebody and hang on,'' said nuvia valdez, one of about 1.5 million who turned out for the food and fun of what is billed as the nation's largest hispanic festival
the river of people along 23 blocks of eighth street _ calle ocho in spanish _ began to move when gloria estefan and the miami sound machine blared their hit ``conga'' from loudspeakers
on the street, 96 volunteers with bullhorns attempted to direct the traffic of dancing feet, while ms. estefan shouted to the crowd: ``is everybody ready? let's conga!'' a special computer program helped count the dancers, and 30 observation posts were set up
since the street was clogged, forming a single line was difficult, and untold thousands of people formed in a bevy of smaller lines in addition to the mega-line that made the guinness tally
i've never seen this many people in one place in my life,'' said jean-louis levasseur, who was vacationing from new brunswick, canada. ``there's more people on this one street than in all of the maritime provinces.''
hundreds of thousands of low-income people who are elderly or disabled may have to pay an average of $50 to $75 a month more for nursing home care under a new rule issued by the reagan administration, a published report said
the government said the rule, which takes effect april 8, would enable states to ``shift more of the financial responsibility for the cost of nursing home care to the recipient,'' the new york times reported in sunday editions
the department of health and human services said the new rule will save the federal government and the states from $160 million to $615 millon over three years, according to the newspaper
the change could affect 20 percent to 50 percent of medicaid recipients in nursing homes or other institutions, the department said
under the new rule, states will be allowed for the first time to eliminate or curtail the deductions they must now permit medicaid recipients for medical costs not covered by the state medicaid plan _ such as eyeglasses, hearing aids, dentures, physical therapy and prescription drugs, according to the times report
medicaid recipients currently deduct these medical expenses from their income before determining how much they must pay for nursing home care
the health and human services department estimated the rule will require additional payments averaging $50 to $75 a month by each medicaid recipient in a nursing home who has income from a pension, social security or other sources, according to the times
in a statement published in the federal register, the administration said the purpose of the rule was to ``reduce administrative problems for states'' and to give them ``maximum flexibility in operating their medicaid program costs,'' the newspaper said
toby s. edelman, who represents nursing home residents as a lawyer with the national senior citizens law center, told the newspaper: ``the new regulation reverses a longstanding policy of the department of health and human services. there was no congressional action or judicial mandate calling for such a reversal.''
congress could pass legislation to override the rule change, but has apparently not focused on the issue, the times said. shamir and peres. pick up 6th graf pvs: sunday night,... adds byline. edits thruout to trim and conform.</note>
prime minister yitzhak shamir left for washington early monday, saying he felt ``at peace with myself'' as he prepared to tell president reagan he opposes a u.s. peace plan
but shamir, who leaves behind a deeply divided coalition government, expressed hope for results in the peace process from his talks with reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz
the state of israel was and is always ready to stretch its hand and to participate in negotiations on establishing peace in our area. no other people desires peace like us,'' shamir said at an airport news conference
i am at peace with myself. i know i will be able to convince my interlocutors and then all the others will say: `amen.'''
foreign minister shimon peres, head of the labor party, supports the peace proposal worked out by shultz during a middle east tour earlier this month
leave in peace and come back with peace,'' peres told shamir at the departure ceremony at the ben gurion international airport
shamir, leader of the right-wing likud bloc, discussed the plan with cabinet ministers for the third time sunday but said he would not call for a government vote until after his trip
after i come back with a summation of my talks with representatives of the american government, the cabinet will meet immediately and i think we'll have a decision on this subject,'' shamir said on israel radio. ``it's a matter of about a week.''
newspapers reported some 40,000 israelis attended a rally organized by the peace now movement in tel aviv saturday night and called for shamir to accept the u.s. proposals and to end the 20-year occupation of the west bank and gaza strip
sunday night, thousands of israelis gathered at the same square in tel aviv for a counter-rally backing shamir. police and organizers estimated some 200,000-250,000 people were at the rally
the demonstrators held signs that read, ``peace now, pay later,'' and ``yes to peace, no to withdrawal.''
a shamir deputy, david levy, told the crowd that if israel adopts the u.s. peace proposal, ``it will have to go to war in the future.''
shamir, who has said the u.s. plan is ``fraught with danger'' for israel, repeated his opposition sunday but said he would propose his own ideas for peace in the region
the u.s. proposal calls for taking two steps this year: enacting palestinian self-rule in the west bank and the gaza strip and starting talks on the final status in the territories. those negotiations would be kicked off by an international conference
for his part, shamir will suggest implementing arab self-rule in the terroritories on a step-by-step basis, holding peace talks under soviet-american auspices instead of an international peace conference and using a more flexible time schedule to start negotiations, said shamir aide yossi ahimeir
shamir is scheduled to meet with shultz monday and will meet with reagan on wednesday, officials in jerusalem said
labor party legislator and former u.n. ambassador abba eban also left for the united states on sunday, saying he hoped to make it clear to american officials that the conservative prime minister represents only half the israeli government. the other half, he said, would like to see israeli involvement in the peace plan
we can't appear as a country that refuses every chance for peace,'' labor legislator rafi edri said on the radio. ``the time has arrived for him (shamir) to return to reality.''
east german leader erich honecker on sunday opened the leipzig trade fair, the largest east-west gathering of manufacturers and exporters
about 9,000 exhibitors representing 100 foreign countries are attending the fair that runs until saturday, the state-run adn news agency reported
it said about half of the exhibitors are from east germany
the news agency said that a message by president reagan posted at the american exhibit expresses hope for more u.s.-east german trade
i hope this trade fair serves to advance our relations and to create a mutually beneficial trade dialogue between our two countries,'' adn quoted the message as saying
communist east germany's economy has slumped in recent years and leaders have hoped to improve it by increasing exports to the west. anonymous opinion; picks up 8th graf pvs bgng, `his principal'</note>
panama's political turmoil has been a wrenching experience for three panamanian diplomats who are defying the sentiments of most of their washington colleagues by remaining loyal to embattled strongman manuel antonio noriega
two are described by acquaintances as showing signs of emotional stress as a result of panama's ordeal while a third has remained holed up in the country's consular affairs office since the crisis began more than two weeks ago
most panamanians attached to diplomatic offices in the united states closed ranks around ambassador juan b. sosa, who refused to recognize the february 26 change in government in panama and continues to support ousted president eric arturo delvalle
with u.s. backing, sosa has declined to relinquish control over the embassy despite efforts by the noriega-controlled government to replace him
a number of panamanian diplomats elsewhere have broken with noriega as well. the latest known case involves the consul general in atlanta, jaime trujillo, who notified sosa on thursday that to continue supporting the present leadership ``would contribute to the disintegration of the panamanian family.''
the three panamanians in washington who have stuck with noriega have close personal ties to the defense chief or his inner circle, according to friends and colleagues, all of whom insisted on anonymity
roberto leyton, who has known noriega for years, is panama's ambassador to the organization of american states and is the highest ranking of the three. leyton is described by one acquaintance as having lost weight and has been keeping an unusually low profile. he has refused to return a reporter's phone calls
his principal deputy at the oas, lawrence chewning febrega, broke with noriega a month ago after being ordered to deliver an anti-u.s. speech which he felt contained misrepresentations. he said he also was troubled by evidence of corruption in panama
it wasn't until two weeks later that panama's crisis came to a head. delvalle attempted to fire noriega but was ousted himself within hours in a noriega power play that included a late-night vote by noriega supporters in the country's congress
since then, alejandra sarmiento, a consular affairs officer, has remained confined in the building where she works adjacent to the panamanian embassy
according to acquaintances, ms. sarmiento is worried that if she departs the office, she will not be allowed to return. sosa has taken no action to evict her
ms. sarmiento is said to be a friend of nander pitty, a former oas ambassador who is now a top aide to noriega
the military attache at the embassy is capt. jose motta, the only embassy official who reports to noriega and not to the ambassador
as a professional soldier, motta is not called on to make political judgments and believes that his role is not affected by political shifts back home
but a panamanian diplomat who has been in contact with motta said the captain has been under a doctor's care recently for high blood pressure, a condition which worsened after the crisis erupted
his appearances at the embassy have been more infrequent lately, and he often stays only for a few minutes before departing. the relationship between motta and others at the embassy is said to have become strained
sosa has told motta that he wants to keep lines of communication open in the event that noriega wishes to send messages to the ambassador through motta. thus far, no communications have been sent
a senior pentagon official said motta has been in contact with defense officials in an attempt to learn what the u.s. government is doing in panama
he's trying to figure out what's going on ... so he can report back to his boss,'' the official said. ``but he's not in any position of trying to broker a deal. and he's not contacting us nearly as much as before.'' attacked. pickup 2nd pvs: `the attack ...' inserts two grafs after 6th pvs: `when they ...' with details on second cameraman attacked. pickup 7th pvs: `at least ...</note>
men in civilian clothes fired guns outside a church service sunday and attacked two tv cameramen after roughing up a woman who was selling an anti-government newsletter. no one was injured
the attack came at the roman catholic church of el cristo rey, long a center of government opposition activity, just as its pastor, the rev. xavier villanueva, was beginning a late-morning mass
an associated press reporter and photographer said eight to 10 men first attacked a woman selling pamphlets at the entrance of the church, in a middle-class neighborhood near the city's center
when several parishoners ran to her aid, the attackers began firing handguns in the air and using large rocks to break car windows
marcello zanini, an italian camerman for the worldwide television network, said two of the gunman struck him and stole his video camera as he was shooting the scene
when they started shooting, i crouched behind a tree and when i looked up, i saw those two men coming at me,'' said zanini, who is based in el salvador. ``they hit me and took my camera away.''
the attackers also ripped a cable from the television camera of a cbs crewman and tried to seize the camera of juana anderson, a reuters news agency photographer, but only managed to rip off the flash device
the men threw rocks at other reporters on the scene
at least one of the attackers was jumped on by a group of churchgoers, but he managed to break free and join the other attackers as they ran for their parked cars about two blocks away, firing as they fled
a policeman watched the attack from a street corner half a block away, but made no effort to halt it. asked by a woman why he had not intevened, he replied: ``lady, i have nine children who must eat every day.''
the pamphlet vendor, displaying cuts and bruises on her face and chest, said she had been shoved and struck several times. she would not give her name to reporters
there are people here who would like to have names,'' she said in an apparent reference to undercover government agents
the government's opponents have frequently accused it of using hired thugs or plainclothed state security agents to break up its demonstrations
two people were killed in separate protest marches last year when attackers in civilian clothes fired into the crowd
anti-government activists have been waging a campaign since june to oust panama's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, who is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges
his government has closed all opposition newspapers, radio and television stations. his foes spread their messages through handbills, mimeographed newsletters and photo copies of articles appearing in foreign publications
the opposition campaign is led by the national civic crusade, a coalition of about 200 professional, business, labor, political and other groups that was formed last june. many of the el cristo rey parishoners are crusade members
villanueva, a spanish priest who is a well-known government critic, restored order inside the church by leading the congregation in a hymn. in his homily, he spoke of king david uniting the people of israel
the people had to suffer,'' the priest said. ``but out of that suffering came unity. ... thus it will be for panama. panamanians have had it too easy. almost everything has been given to them. now we are seeing the sense of nationality being forged under suffering. we are forging a new, united panama.''
as the congregation cheered and clapped, the priest then read a recent communique of the panamanian conference of bishops that called for a return to civilian authority and the restoration of full civil liberties
this is the season of lent,'' the pastor said. ``panama will rise this easter.'' aquino ceremony canceled. pickup 3rd pvs: `appearing on ...' ^by james w. hatton</note>
communist rebels killed two soldiers in manila's suburbs sunday, police said. protesters forced president corazon aquino to cancel a scheduled ceremony inaugurating a housing project in the southern philippines
rebel assassins shot dead sgt. edwin salalima as he was walking down a street near his home in suburban taguig, police said
in a separate attack, rebels killed sgt. juanito de olazo after he arrived in his car for services at a baptist church in suburban malabon
police said they found a note near de olazo's car claiming he had been a member of a philippine constabulary intelligence unit that hunts down rebels
also sunday, mrs. aquino flew to cagayan de oro on the northern coast of mindanao island sunday to open a sports festival and also lay the cornerstone at a housing project for about 1,000 people, including former rebels who had surrendered
but the housing project ceremony was canceled after some 300 people picketed the site claiming the government was ignoring the needs of the poor
on a television talk show, political and business leaders, including opponents of mrs. aquino, announced they have formed a group that will seek to change the country's political system and economy
opposition sen. juan ponce enrile said the 30-member nation movers for reconstruction and survival wants ``to change the structure of the government because it is too centralized.''
appearing on the television program, he said ``all decisions now come from malacanang (the presidential palace).'' he also caid mrs. aquino's government does not understand the problems of people in the countryside
but the group is not uniting to oppose mrs. aquino, said its leader, industrialist enrique zobel who was on the program with enrile. ``we want people from both the left and the right,'' zobel said
enrile said the nation movers want to change the country's economy, educational system and foreign policy, and will study land reform
asked about their position on u.s.-run bases in the philippines, the men said they had not taken a stand
the united states operates clark air base and a naval base at subic bay, both north of manila, along with four smaller facilities under an agreement that expires in 1991. it pays the philippines $180 million a year for the bases
the two sides are to begin a review of the bases pact later this month, and the philippines is expected to ask for a major rent increase
pornographic film star john holmes, who boasted of thousands of sexual conquests during a career that spanned two decades, died at a hospital, a business associate said sunday. he was 43
death came about two weeks after police again questioned holmes, reportedly gravely ill with aids, at his hospital bedside about the unsolved slayings of four people
holmes died saturday night at the veterans administration medical center, said adult film producer william amerson, a longtime friend and business associate
it's a real emotional time for me right now,'' said amerson. ``it's a real shock. he did die. it was last night.''
the hospital refused to confirm the death, and a nursing official hung up on reporters. the case has not been referred to the los angeles county coroner's office, said spokesman claude boucher
amerson said the cause of death was not immediately known
the los angeles times earlier this month quoted anonymous sources as saying holmes, star of such x-rated movies as ``exhausted'' and ``tell them johnny wadd is here,'' was gravely ill with acquired immune deficiency syndrome
it also was reported that he was re-questioned by police detectives about the unsolved 1981 bludgeoning murders of four people in a house in laurel canyon
holmes was acquitted of the murders during a 1982 trial after jurors cited a lack of corroborating evidence, but has never told authorities what he knew about the slayings
deputy district attorney ronald coen, now a superior court judge, alleged at trial that holmes led the murderers at gunpoint to the house at the orders of los angeles nightclub owner adel nasrallah, also known as eddie nash. holmes' palmprint was found over one of the victim's beds
police and prosecutors alleged nash sought revenge for a robbery at his house days earlier by people who lived at the home. nash was never charged in the slayings, but remains a suspect in the case, said detective tom lange
during the re-questioning, holmes refused to answer questions about the case, his attorney, mitchell egers, said two weeks ago. calls to egers' law office went unanswered sunday night
holmes was the premiere male sex film star of the 1970s and early 1980s, making hundreds of sexually explicit films and thousands of peep shows in his career
he was best known for his portrayal of the character ``johnny wadd,'' a detective. movies from the johnny wadd series, made between 1976 and 1980, include ``liquid lips'' and ``blonde fire.''
holmes once claimed to have had sex with 14,000 women on and off the screen. he also admitted after his trial that he had a $1,000-a-day cocaine habit
the ruling sandinista party invited opposition parties and groups sunday to renew stalled talks with the government on national reconciliation
president daniel ortega, reading a statement from top party officials, called for a resumption of talks that would, ``in a serene manner, discuss all the political points that could preoccupy'' the civic opposition
the sandinista statement also said the government would redouble its efforts ``to reach an effective cease-fire'' during talks with leaders of the u.s.-supported contra rebels scheduled for march 21-23 in the southern border town of sapoa
talks between the leftist government and its internal opposition are called for in a central american peace plan signed by five presidents in the region last aug. 7
the directorate and assembly urged opposition parties, labor unions, trade guilds and media ``not to continue provoking situations that explode the public wrath.''
government talks began oct. 5 with 15 opposition parties, but stalled dec. 15 when the government refused to discuss 17 opposition proposals to modify a new national political constitution, which went into effect in january
ortega accused opposition party leaders at the time of allowing themselves to be used as instruments by the cia in its efforts to launch an invasion of nicaragua
the sandinistas maintained that any modifications to the constitution would have to be addressed by the national assembly
sandinista delegates comprise a majority in the assembly
antonio bonilla of the social democratic party told the associated press sunday that the sandinista representatives in the national assembly ``would not accept the discussion of the constitutional reforms.''
bonilla said that opposition leaders were considering meeting on monday to study the sandinista proposal and issue a response
more than 40,000 people have been killed in nicaragua since november 1981, when the contras began fighting the sandinista government
the central american peace plan calls for cease-fire negotiations in nicaragua, el salvador and guatemala, and a series of reforms to bring greater democracy to the region
sen. joseph r. biden jr., d-del., who underwent brain surgery a month ago to repair an aneurysm in a blood vessel, checked into walter reed army medical center on sunday night so doctors could see if he is suffering from a blood clot in his leg, a hospital spokesman said
we're going to give him a good looking over,'' said spokesman pete esker. ``we're looking to see if there's a blood clot in one of his legs, and we want to make sure that if there is, it is not moving toward the heart or the brain.''
esker said biden was relaxing and talking to his wife, jill, shortly after entering the hospital, and said there was no immediate condition report on the 45-year-old senator
it's not a routine examination, and it wasn't planned, but at this point there's really nothing to worry about,'' he said
biden had undergone surgery feb. 12 to repair an aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to his brain. he was released nine days later
doctors found a second aneurysm in biden's brain during the first operation and said surgery eventually will have to be repeated, but that second operation was not expected to take place for several months
after surgery you don't get a lot of activity, and it's possible for a clot to develop,'' esker said. ``this wasn't a planned thing, but he is awake and fully aware of everything that's going on.''
biden had announced his candidacy for the democratic nomination for president last june but dropped out of the race in september after he admitted committing plagiarism in law school, acknowledged that he had xaggerated his academic record and was criticized for lifting sections of other politicians' speeches without attribution. proclamation</head> with 80 evacuees opting to stay another night at red cross center in abilene, estimate of shackelford county grassland damage, picking up 6th graf `the fire is...'.</note>
weary firefighters worked sunday to extinguish hot spots still smoldering in a brush fire that charred hundreds of square miles of texas prairie
state and federal officials began a damage assessment, and gov. bill clements' office was considering whether to issue a disaster proclamation early this week
the blaze, which started thursday as a trash fire, burned about 300,000 acres in one county alone, raced into sections of four other counties and threatened the towns of albany and moran in shackelford county and baird in northern callahan county, just east of abilene in the north-central part of the state
but hundreds of volunteer firefighters and three tanker airplanes dropping fire-retardant chemicals contained the brush fire saturday
the fire killed livestock, burned trailer homes and oilfield equipment and closed roads
about 80 people who fled their homes opted to remain sunday night in a shelter set up in a church across from the albany city hall, said jerri malone, a spokeswoman for the red cross in abilene
bill terry, also with the forest service, noted that the fire consumed from one-third to one-half of grassland in shackelford county
the fire is still smoldering in some places but it's a case of flareups within burned areas. there has been no movement in the fire line since yesterday,'' tom millwee of the state division of emergency management said sunday
the head fire has been in essence stopped. at one time, we talked about it being a 60-mile-long stretch from interstate 20 by baird and north to albany,'' he said
the charred area stretched about 60 miles long and 25 miles wide in parts of callahan, shackelford and throckmorton counties
representatives of the department of public safety, texas forest service and federal agencies met sunday to decide whether to declare the fire under control, but put off the decision
the forward advance has been halted,'' said pat ebarb, head of the fire control department for texas forest service in lufkin. ``now, what we have to do is make sure the fire that's bumping up against our control lines is extinguished.''
many of these big fires have a history of laying there and then coming back out. we don't want that to happen this time,'' he said
once the mop-up begins, ``that'll take about two days,'' said sam logan, public information officer for the texas forest service. ``we'll continue to keep an eye on it, because with the strong winds and low humidity, just a spark could start it up all over again.''
we've pretty well got fire guards around the complete fire,'' said pat mckennon, the baird fire chief. ``we will have forest service crews out and some local fire units out, just more or less patrolling.''
state forest service spokesman joe fox said about 70 percent of the total damage was believed to have occurred in shackelford county, where the flames covered about 300,000 acres of rangeland, or a little more than half of the county's 915 square miles
the federal emergency management agency in washington approved aid saturday to help reimburse the state for expenses of fighting the fire in throckmorton, jones, haskell, callahan and shackelford counties, said carl suchoki, fema spokesman in washington
it looks like the baird area is well controlled,'' said millwee. ``they had isolated fires last night _ mostly burns within the main burn _ and there was a little more of that kind of activity, hot spots to contend with, in the albany area.''
albany, the county seat of shackelford located 31 miles northeast of abilene, has about 2,500 residents. baird has about 1,700 and moran about 350
millwee said no figures on loss of livestock or crops were yet available and a monetary damage estimate had not been made
the county (agricultural) agents are working through the system, looking at any prospects for usda or other disaster declarations,'' he said
mnay firefighters suffered smoke inhalation and minor burns, said millwee, but no residents were hurt
it is amazing that a fire could burn that far and for that long and not do more than it did,'' he said. 03-13 0679</first> that task force will study plan to change board's composition but that trustees have not agreed to change the composition, delete outdated graf on jordan not being immediately available; picks up 6th graf pvs bgng, `i took,' but subs 12th graf pvs bgng, `before becoming,' to fix jordan's age to 44, sted 43</note>
gallaudet university's board of trustees on sunday chose the dean of the school's college of arts and sciences to become the first deaf president in the 124-year history of the school for the hearing impaired
i. king jordan, a popular campus figure, was chosen to replace elisabeth ann zinser, a hearing woman, who resigned early friday after protests from students seeking a deaf leader had virtually paralyzed gallaudet's campus
we will no longer accept limits on what we can achieve,'' jordan told a cheering crowd of about 250 students at the downtown hotel where the board had met earlier. `i am confident we will walk boldly into a future without artificial limits
school officials also announced that board of trustees chairwoman jane bassett spilman, who came under fire from protesters for her handling of the crisis, has resigned. she will be replaced by philip w. bravin, one of four deaf members on the board
in a near-total victory, bravin announced that the board would form a task force to study composition of the board in response to student demands that deaf people comprise a majority of the 20-member panel. there also will be no reprisals against student protesters, bravin said
i took this step willingly,'' said spilman in announcing her resignation from the board. ``in the minds of some, i've become an obstacle. i am removing that obstacle.''
news of jordan's selection was received with joy on gallaudet's campus
we love it. we know now the university is going to be ours,'' said gallaudet graduate student paul singleton, who is deaf. ``he's the perfect president, the perfect selection.''
there was pandemonium in the campus gym, where about 200 students had gathered throughout the day as the board met
god made the world in seven days and we have changed it in seven days,'' charles a. giansanti, a deaf chemistry professor, told the crowd
jordan, a finalist for the position when zinser was selected, stunned protesters by endorsing zinser's presidency at a news conference wednesday, but gave protesters an emotional lift when he retracted his backing of zinser the following day
before becoming dean of gallaudet's largest undergraduate department in 1986, jordan, 44, served as a psychology professor at the school. he becomes the seventh president of the nation's only liberal arts college for the hearing impaired
another deaf candidate who was considered for the presidency was gallaudet board member dr. harvey corson, the superintendent of the louisiana school for the deaf
jordan's appointment comes after a tumultuous week in which clamor for a deaf president grew from an isolated campus protest to a national platform for deaf rights
students forced school officials to cancel classes monday, when they blocked all entrances to the campus and prevented faculty and staff from entering. throughout the rest of the week, students boycotted classes, and on wednesday, more than half the school's faculty voted to back the protesters
gallaudet, founded by an act of congress in 1864, offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in 30 fields
meanwhile, congressional investigators plan tuesday to scrutinize gallaudet's board of trustees and presidential selection process
the house education and labor committee's subcommittee on select education is scheduled to investigate the university's bylaws, which allow the board to pick its own members. lawmakers also are expected to examine the process by which zinser was chosen
gallaudet, chartered by an act of congress in 1864, receives 75 percent of its $76 million budget in federal funds
the house panel, chaired by rep. major owens, d-n.y., has jurisdiction over gallaudet's funding
the 130 members of a high school band from michigan sang the school fight song sunday to a schoolmate who has been waging his own fight against bone cancer
members of the belding high school band and about 95 parents made the surprise visit to the university of chicago's wyler children's hospital, where they sang the band's theme song, ``friends,'' to eddie mikek as he emerged from an elevator in his wheelchair
there wasn't a dry eye in the whole building,'' said eddie's mother, janice mikek
he didn't know they were coming, and it took him a minute or two to figure out what was happening,'' she said. ``then he started crying like all the rest of us.''
the band was on its way to dublin, ireland, to march in the st. patrick's day parade, and the musicians decided to stop at the hospital on the way to o'hare international airport
they sang to eddie because their instruments were packed up for the trip. ``eddie's not a band member but he is a good friend,'' said band director bob stiles. ``we just want to remind him that he's one of us and show our love and concern.''
eddie was diagnosed as having bone cancer dec. 10, a day after his 17th birthday, mrs. mikek said. before his illness, the high school junior stayed busy helping at his parents' grocery store and working a part-time job at a hardware store
after the diagnosis, he was able to attend school several days a week between chemotherapy treatments, mrs. mikek said, but schoolwork had to stop when he came to chicago for surgery
the family had to sell the store, said mrs. mikek in a telephone interview from the ronald mcdonald house, where she stays when she is visiting eddie
on march 4, doctors at the hospital removed a bone tumor from eddie's left leg and implanted part of a femur taken from a cadaver. they also installed a mechanical knee joint. the relatively new surgical technique, called limb salvage, avoids amputation, and should allow eddie eventually to walk normally, mrs. mikek said
the nine mile 2 nuclear power plant, which began providing power on a permanent basis friday for the first time in its troubled existence, automatically shut down sunday night when a water pump malfunctioned, a plant official said
the $6.3 billion facility, described as the most expensive nuclear plant ever built in the united states, underwent what officials term an ``unusual event'' at 5:45 p.m. sunday
robert burtch, a spokesman for the niagara mohawk power corp., said the problem occurred when the plant lost its main feed water pump, which provides water pressure to the reactor
the plant was operating at 99 percent power,'' burtch said. ``but when that (the water pump) tripped, the water level in the reactor dropped and caused the plant to automatically shut down.''
burtch said the actual problem was corrected within 15 minutes and the water in the plant was quickly replenished
but any time there's an automatic activation of an emergency cooling system,'' he added, ``we have to activate the emergency plan.''
the ``unusual event'' is the lowest emergency classification that exists for nuclear plants
officials declined to speculate when the plant might return to full power
we're looking right now to determine the cause, but obviously we're not going to start back up until we know what went wrong,'' burtch said sunday night. ``we'll know more tomorrow.''
the 1,080-megawatt plant, which was supposed to have been completed in 1977 at a cost of $423 million, began providing power on a permanent basis when plant operators declared it ``on-line'' around 3 p.m. friday
former president jimmy carter is not picking his favorite candidate in the 1988 presidential race, but said sunday that three democrats have ``an excellent chance'' to win in november
carter said he would be active in the selection of democratic candidates in the party convention in atlanta, noting there were ``three strong candidates,'' _ gov. michael s. dukakis of massachusetts, sen. albert gore jr., d-tenn., and the rev. jesse l. jackson
the former president, in nigeria sunday to pledge support for a government health program, did not indicate a preference for one of the three democratic candidates
all three agree with me on what needs to be done,'' said carter, referring to american foreign policy
the democrats have an excellent chance to win. ronald reagan is popular but his policies are not popular. two-thirds of the american people disapprove of aid to the contras,'' carter said, referring to u.s.-backed rebels fighting nicaragua's government
carter signed an agreement with the government sunday that pledged support for a program to eradicate guinea worm in nigeria by 1995
he was representing global 2000, a non-profit organization that is part of carter center of emory university in atlanta
the organization will provide nigeria assistance in surveying the country's infested areas, treating contaminated water supplies and in teaching people how to avoid the disease, he said
the guinea worm is a debilitating parasite that thrives in impure water and affects people in rural areas of africa and asia
amnesty international claims that burmese government forces have arbitrarily arrested, tortured and executed hundreds of unarmed civilians since fighting against rebels intensified in 1984
the london-based organization said that its interviews with more than 70 refugees and statements from independent investigators have produced the names of more than 200 victims, most of whom belonged to minority ethnic tribes including the karens kachins, mons, kayahs and shans
in its february newsletter, the human rights organization said the victims were attacked ``apparently because of their non-violent political opinions or activities, their ethnic origins or language.''
the newsletter was available monday in bangkok
it said the burmese government has not responded to several letters in which amnesty international expressed its concern
a dozen ethnic groups have been fighting the rangoon government for decades, saying it has denied them the autonomy they were entitled to under the terms in which great britain granted independence to burma in 1948
the newsletter said most of the people it blamed for human rights violations were army troops engaged in counter-insurgency operations in zones suspected of being under rebel influence. members of the military intelligence service, the special branch and the people's police force also were implicated, it said
eyewitnesses describe numerous instances in which burmese troops shot and killed unarmed villagers on suspicion of association with the insurgent karen national union,'' the newsletter said. ``in many cases people were apparently killed on the basis of unsubstantiated allegations from informers.''
other first-hand accounts described summary executions of karens, who had been taken by army units either at random or as punishment for suspected political offenses or sympathies, to work as porters or guides,'' the report added. news digest: am-dole's slide; am-gephardt's slide; am-challenger settlements; am-queens drugs; am-panama-envoys; am-budget; am-rat pack.</note>
with signs pointing to another republican primary victory by george bush in illinois, the vice president came under renewed criticism sunday from gop rival bob dole and from democrat jesse jackson, who said bush would enter the race ``with a lot of baggage.''
a poll to be published in monday's editions of the chicago tribune showed jackson moving into the lead among likely democratic voters in tuesday's primary
now that george bush has virtually locked up the republican presidential nomination, he is carefully putting some distance between himself and some elements of the reagan administration record
in a major switch in campaign strategy, bush also is trying to broaden his appeal to democrats and independents _ a massive block of voters that ronald reagan tapped successfully in 1980 and 1984
israel choked off gasoline supplies to the occupied west bank on sunday after palestinian protesters set fire to two fuel trucks and pelted others with stones
the army confirmed an arab died after being shot in the eye in a clash last week but denied reports that a 5-year-old boy perished from burns caused by a tear gas grenade
a memo by a longtime friend of attorney general edwin meese iii describes the two men joining in a 10-minute ``briefing'' of israeli prime minister shimon peres on a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
the memo by e. robert wallach, first disclosed in sunday editions of the washington post, says peres ``literally dragged me off into a corner'' and began discussing the pipeline ``intensely'' at an israeli embassy reception in washington on oct. 16, 1985
scientists at sandia national laboratories have cast aside a popular theory and developed a new method to dramatically boost the speed of solving complex problems with parallel computers, which work on many parts of a problem at the same time
sandia announced sunday that john l. gustafson and other scientists at the lab had broken records for speedups, a measure of the increased speed at which a problem can be solved on a multiprocessor parallel computer, compared with a single processor from the same system
talks aimed at ending the afghan war are one day away from a soviet deadline for their completion, but a crucial dispute on who will run the country still stands in the way of a signed settlement
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said last month that soviet troops would begin withdrawing troops from afghanistan by mid-may if an agreement is reached by march 15. but sources close to the u.n.-sponsored negotiations say they don't view the deadline as rigid
reports that iran may be planning to install silkworm anti-ship missiles on a tiny island in the southern persian gulf add a new element to a much-publicized threat that some u.s. naval officers say has been greatly overrated
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was still no sign of the missiles being installed. nor did they speculate on what purpose the chinese-built weapons might serve if located there
if military strongman gen. manuel noriega steps down from his post as head of the defense forces, the united states, and not panama's fledgling opposition, will have brought it about
u.s. sanctions freezing panamanian assets have dealt a serious blow to the military regime of noriega, who is indicted in the united states on drug trafficking and other charges. the opposition has done little to further the process
charles e. ``buddy'' roemer iii, a brash self-styled reformer who unseated a political legend to take office monday as governor, says he faces ``a difficult and interesting job'' in trying to solve louisiana's problems
as gov. edwin edwards leaves office, the state faces the immediate problems of a four-year, $1.2 billion budget deficit and a cash shortage that threatens to shut down state government
recent political developments in panama have put japan in the awkward position of having to choose between pleasing washington or maintaining good relations with its top latin american trading partner
foreign ministry officials have withheld an official position on the government installed by military strongman gen. manual antonio noriega as tokyo apparently plays for time, hoping to avoid aggravating the united states, which regards ousted president eric arturo delvalle as panama's legitimate ruler
but japan's considerable commercial interests in panama give tokyo strong incentive to maintain good relations with noriega's government
panama is not only a major consumer of japanese goods, it also controls the panama canal, a vital link for japanese cars headed for the eastern united states and agricultural products returning to japan
on feb. 25, delvalle ordered the resignation of noriega, who is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges. the next day, however, the national assembly, controlled by noriega, dismissed delvalle and appointed solis palma as president
last week, the u.s. state department asked japanese counselor for political affairs ryozo kato to explain tokyo's position on noriega's government. assistant secretary of state elliott abrams in turn explained washington's opposition to noriega
foreign ministry officials in tokyo say japan simply has not decided whether to recognize palma's government. they refused to give any indication of when such a decision will be made
rumors that tokyo had in effect recognized the new government by sending its ambassador to palma's inauguration were untrue, said one ministry official
the presense of our counselor, instead of the ambassador to panama, at palma's inaugural ceremony is a sign of uncertainty,'' said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``we have not yet decided.''
tokyo may find it difficult to distance itself from noriega, who has visited japan several times in recent years in his capacity as head of panama's armed forces
japan has a $3.2 billion trade surplus with panama, and is panama's second-largest trading partner after the united states. in turn, panama is japan's largest export market in latin america, as well as the top recipient of japanese direct investment in the region
panama absorbed $2.4 billion, or 51 percent, of japan's private direct investment in latin america in 1986 _ one-tenth of all direct investment by japanese companies. it received 41 percent of japan's $15.6 billion accumulative direct investment in the region from 1951 to 1985, according to the foreign ministry
japanese companies have financed economic development projects, medical and educational facilities in panama
a foreign ministry official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that aside from a halt to all banking activities, which has prevented business among japanese banks operating in panama, recent political unrest has had little effect on japanese commercial activities in the nation
so far there is no cause to expect any major problems,'' she said
since banks can no longer issue letters of credit, ``in panama, everyday is sunday,'' said masaya hasebe of the japan external trade organization (jetro)
u.s. lawmakers including sen. alfonse d'amato, who favors a u.s. trade embargo against panama, have expressed concern that tokyo might follow its economic interests in recognizing palma's government
d'amato said a number of legislators hoped to see ``that the japanese do not become involved in helping to finance and prop up this dictator for their own private economic gain.''
jetro's hasebe said japan probably would ``have to cooperate'' with the united states and reject noriega's government _ a move that could have some economic costs
there are many banks and manufacturers with businesses in panama, but no factories,'' hasebe said. he said some of the japanese firms are paper companies set up as tax havens
while tokyo has given no official indication that it would recognize the government put in place by noriega, japan has a clear interest in ensuring its access to the panama canal
japanese ships accounted for 13.1 percent of the 64.5 million tons of cargo shipped through the canal from the pacific to the atlantic in the 1985 fiscal year ending in september 1986, including many of its cars destined for markets in the eastern united states
in the same period, japan accounted for 26.1 million tons, or 35.2 percent of the total 74.2 million tons shipped from atlantic to pacific
japan ships petroleum from mexico and venezuela, grain from the united states and iron ore from brazil through the canal
hasebe of jetro said there was little concern that the canal, which is jointly operated by the united states and panama, would be closed to traffic
all the government can do right now is wait and see, looking at the future of panama,'' he said
prudential insurance co. of america may be about to lose an ally in the case of the missing zeroes, a clerical error on a financial document that could cost the company tens of millions of dollars
in a case that is the talk of the town among bankruptcy lawyers, prudential is trying to establish in court that a mortgage lien it holds is for $92,885,000
the problem is that someone mistakenly left three zeroes off a form and recorded the lien's value as only $92,885 _ one-tenth of 1 percent as much
the lien is on eight huge container ships that belonged to united states lines, a giant shipping company whose assets are being sold off to satisfy creditors in u.s. bankruptcy court in manhattan
united states lines agreed in principle in january not to contest prudential's claims about the value of its lien in return for payments from prudential totaling up to $5.45 million
but with a hearing to wrap up that agreement scheduled for this wednesday before judge howard c. buschman iii, united states lines seems to be on the verge of demanding a larger payment from prudential _ and possibly challenging the lien's validity if prudential doesn't go along
because prudential holds a first preferred ship mortgage stemming from a $160 milion loan to united states lines made in 1978, it can collect all the money raised from the sale of the eight ships, up to the amount of its lien
a lawyer for united states lines last week refused to say whether the company planned to oppose prudential over the missing zeroes, but made it clear he feels the shipping company has leverage over the insurer
we believe we're on sound ground that the mortgage can be avoided for the benefit of all u.s. line's creditors,'' said alan kornberg, a lawyer for milbank tweed hadley &amp; mccloy
the sale of the first five of the lancer-class ships earlier this month brought in $44.1 million, nearly triple what was expected, and other creditors are clamoring that united states lines deserves a payment from prudential of more than $5.45 million
judy liu, an attorney for prudential's law firm, weil gotshal &amp; manges, declined to comment
lawyers in the case clearly have little sympathy for prudential's argument that the dropped zeroes amount to nothing more than a harmless mistake
the federal ship mortgage act is a notice statute that has very strict reporting requirements,'' said sandy mayerson, a lawyer at kelley drye &amp; warren representing general electric capital corp., which shares a second mortgage on the ships
my client actually lent $57 million to the debtor, so anything it does to try to obtain the repayment of that is certainly to be expected,'' she said
prudential says the lien was improperly recorded by someone at the law firm of haight, gardner, poor and havens. it says if its lien is not upheld it may file malpractice suits against haight, gardner and its overall outside counsel on the transaction, dewey, ballantine, bushby, palmer and wood
attorneys for those firms have declined comment on the malpractice matter
the head of firestone tire &amp; rubber co. says he will not meet with the chairman of italian tiremaker pirelli until firestone consults its advisers on pirelli's $1.9 billion buyout offer, according to a report published sunday
john j. nevin, firestone chairman and chief executive officer, informed pirelli chairman leopoldo pirelli by letter saturday that firestone's board needed to examine the offer more closely, the akron beacon journal reported
nevin was replying to two letters he received from pirelli last week asking for negotiations on the italian company's offer to acquire firestone for $58 a share
i appreciate the invitations to meet with you that were included in your letters,'' nevin responded
it would, however, in my opinion, be inappropriate for me to meet with you before i have had the opportunity to obtain the advice and counsel of our board and any directions or instructions that the board may deem it appropriate to give to me,'' he wrote
nevin also said firestone, with the help of outside financial and legal advisers, is compiling background information on pirelli for use in reviewing the offer
firestone has until friday to respond to pirelli's bid. firestone already has said it planned to sell 75 percent of its tire business to bridgestone corp. of japan for $1.2 billion
a shortage of japanese computer chips is rattling the domestic computer industry, with prices of some important memory chips doubling in the past year, according to a published report
the san francisco examiner reported in its sunday editions that chips selling under contract for $2.15 a year ago now are in short supply, and their prices have shot up to the $5 range. some companies are buying chips on the spot market at even higher prices to get extra supplies
the price of chips is out of hand,'' said jim cavuto, editor of an industry newsletter, micro publishing report. ``chips are the fuel of the computer industry. it keeps us running and there should be an unlimited supply.''
some industry observers trace the problem to a 1986 semiconductor trade agreement between the united states and japan. the accord set up fair market value prices for semiconductors, such as essential memory chips used in computers. it banned third-country dumping and the japanese agreed to open up their economy more to american products
but at the time, most u.s. companies had dropped out of the memory chip business completely
only two companies, texas instruments of dallas, and micron technology of boise, idaho, still make dynamic random access memory chips, or d-rams, an essential memory chip for semiconductors. japan has 90 percent of the d-ram market, according to the san jose market research company, dataquest inc
we send our procurement people to japan all the time and use every bit of leverage we can bring to bear to make sure we're getting our share,'' said john young, president of hewlett-packard co
semiconductor makers in japan deny they deliberately are short-changing u.s. customers. they say the time-consuming conversion of factories to develop d-rams instead of 256 kilobit chips and increased demand have caused the chip shortage
they (japanese suppliers) have to wait and see to avoid oversupply and charges of dumping,'' said michihiro inoue of matsushita electrical co. in osaka. ``it takes time to put a new production system into orbit.''
inoue predicted japanese companies would catch up with chip demand later this year
usx corp. chairman david roderick received a $600,000 bonus last year in addition to his $763,982 salary and other top executives also received substantial bonuses, according to the oil and steel giant's annual proxy statement
the 1987 bonuses came as usx significantly improved its financial performance, posting a profit of $219 million in 1987 after losing $1.83 billion in 1986
usx bonuses are set individually by the board of directors' six-member compensation committee, based on the total amount of incentive compensation available as determined by the entire board
roderick's bonus was his highest ever, said usx spokesman william ryder. roderick's last disclosed bonus was $275,000 in 1985
usx did not report any incentive compensation for its top executives in 1986. that means it either did not pay bonuses or awarded bonuses worth less than $25,000, which need not be disclosed, ryder said
hourly workers at usx will receive extra compensation this year under a profit-sharing plan. usx said in january it would pay about $28 million, or an average of $1,700 apiece, to its steelworkers under the plan
those payments were triggered by a formula based on the stock prices of usx's competitors
other top usx executives and their 1987 earnings include:
_charles a. corry, president of the diversified businesses and recently named president of usx, who received salary of $301,020 and a $245,000 bonus
_thomas c. graham, president of uss, usx's steelmaking division, who made salary of $478,600 and received a $275,000 bonus
_william e. swales, president of usx's marathon oil co. subsidiary, who received salary of $446,768 and a $325,000 bonus
_w. bruce thomas, chief financial officer, who received salary of $449,814 and a $275,000 bonus
federal securities laws require companies to disclose compensation for their highest-ranking officers
american standard inc. said sunday it was in discussions regarding a cash buyout of more than $75 a share, or about $2.35 billion, and its board of directors expected to consider definitive bids at a wednesday meeting
american standard also indicated it would drop its ``poison pill'' anti-takeover plan if more than 50 percent of the company's shares were bought under a formal tender offer
black &amp; decker corp., which has offered $73 per share, or about $2.27 billion in cash for american standard, has sought removal of the poison pill and demanded more financial information since launching its hostile takeover attempt in february
black &amp; decker has been provided with the same information as that provided to other potential bidders and has been invited to meet with management and submit its own bid,'' american standard said in a statement issued from its new york headquarters
black &amp; decker's lawyers were expecting the information on sunday and the company likely would have no statement before deciding whether to sweeten its outstanding offer, spokeswoman barbara lucas said
american standard rose $1 to $73.25 a share friday on the new york stock exchange. black &amp; decker dipped 25 cents to $17.37{
george mcgrath, a spokesman for american standard, said an offer of more than $75 a share would top black &amp; decker's current offer and would relegates american standard's own defensive recapitalization plan _ which would pay shareholders a package of cash and securities valued at about $71 a share _ to a back burner
mcgrath declined to give other information about third-party offers or to disclose how many bidders were involved in discussions with american standard, a plumbing and air conditioning manufacturing company
this ($75 bid) emerged from the discussions,'' he said
while noting there was no assurance the $75 bid would be accepted, american standard cited the new developments in saying it would drop its poison pill, which makes a takeover prohibitively expensive by requiring the surviving company to buy back shareholders' stock at half of market value
noboby could have done it with the poison pill,'' mrs. lucas said
american standard has fought black &amp; decker's bid for months, rejecting its overtures, developing the recapitalization plan to thwart the takeover and winning a court battle validating its poison pill
black &amp; decker, the towson, md.-based tool and appliance maker, initially offered a buyout at $65 a share, later sweetening it to $68 and finally to $73
their confidence undermined by the collapse of their favorite stocks last october, to say nothing about the destruction of pet theories, some analysts are reaching into history for guidance
and those who do so have a tendency to remain bearish
the reason for this isn't difficult to discern, because a retracing of prior declines, such as in 1929, isn't unusual for subsequent rallies. often, however, those rallies lead only to further collapses
at its post-crash high of 2,072 points a week ago, the dow jones industrial average had risen more than 320 points, or 20 percent, from its oct. 19 bottom of 1,738
the comparison with 1929 is as hard to avoid as it is painful to recall
four-and-a-half months after the debacle of october 1929 the industrial average had recovered 43 percent of its late 1929 decline, and a bit more than one month later it reached its high for 1930
but, wright investors' service reminds us, ``within seven months all of that recovery was lost, and the downward spiral which would last until july 1932 was resumed.''
while the year 1929 is imprinted on every schoolkid's mind, the further collapse from early 1930 to mid-1932 was several times larger, and at some points along the way the descent was just as precipitous
but history can also be a treacherous guide; while it teaches, it can deceive, too. the years 1929 and 1987 have certain similarities, especially in regard to economic excesses, but the differences are probably more numerous
to begin with, the economy currently shows few signs of collapse, even in spite of some enormous and unpredictable excesses in matters such as budget deficits, credit extension and trade balances
wright and others point out that today's economy is still creating jobs at a strong level, the service sector is growing, manufacturing has been gaining strength, and after years of decline the nation's exports are increasing
there are few signs of recession. the conference board economic model released today shows gross national product rising only 2.1 percent this year, compared with 2.9 percent in 1987. that's anemic to be sure, but still growth
albert t. sommers, economic adviser at the board _ an independent group supported largely by business _ says the economy has simply entered an inevitable retrenchment, ``but does not seem poised for a recession.''
in the market itself there are signs of heightened activity, especially regarding stocks of companies that are takeover targets. merger mania has gripped the marketplace once more, and some of the premiums offered for companies seem beyond reason
less obvious, however, have been areas of underpricing in the market. business week magazine calls the over-the-counter market, where many smaller companies are traded, a bargain-hunter's paradise for undervalued shares
these stocks, some of which could be tomorrow's blue chips, failed to rise to the sky during the industrial average's long ascent. moreover, they fell more sharply than blue chips during the october collapse
now, many of these stocks are selling far below their net cash value and so have begun attracting the interest of what wright suggests are rather sensible investors. it might, says john wright, be a good sign for the entire market
while conceding that such activity might not continue, it suggests to him that for the moment, at least, ``rational investors are regaining some control of the market.''
