the company that distributes the salk polio vaccine is asking for federal permission to test it against aids, after california physicians reported the vaccine lessened some symptoms of the disease
connaught laboratories inc., of swiftwater, filed an investigational new drug exemption petition with the food and drug administration on march 22
just two weeks ago, connaught stopped shipping the vaccine to california doctors who said they had used it to lessen symptoms in patients suffering from acquired immune deficiency syndrome. the company said it did not have fda approval to use the vaccine for anything other than the prevention of polio
west coast doctors complained their patients would be left without a treatment that had shown results against the deadly disease
in commenting on the fda petition tuesday, connaught vice president david j. williams expressed doubts about the experiments
while we know of no demonstrable clinical evidence for ipv other than the prevention of polio, the theoretical possibility has been raised by certain researchers and as such warrants that the company sponsor a study to determine if the vaccine has any potential in the treatment of aids,'' he said
a california doctor said the old polio vaccine has relieved some cancer lesions, herpes infections, swollen lymph nodes and fatigue among aids sufferers
dr. allen allen said statistics on more than 50 patients have shown the vaccine ``produces clinical benefits after six weeks.'' the halt in shipments forced him to delay a study he had planned, he said
the drug exemption petition requests authorization of a random, placebo-controlled study at lac-olive view medical center in sylmar, calif., directed by dr. glenn mathisen, chief of the center's infectious disease section and clinical research attending physician at the ucla aids clinical research center. poisoning</head>
food poisoning, possibly from fresh turkey fixed for lunch wednesday, sent at least 75 ellijay elementary school pupils to an overflowing hospital wednesday night
north georgia medical center administrator john downs said 24 pupils, mostly kindergartners through second graders, and one teacher were admitted for treatment of stomach cramps and dehydration brought on by vomiting. other pupils were being treated and sent home
it's not a serious thing. it just requires monitoring,'' he said. ``most are on intravenous feeding to replace the fluids they lost. we're listing it as gastritis due to food poisoning.''
downs said the 50-bed hospital already had about 40 patients when the schoolchildren started coming in wednesday afternoon
we've got them in the chapel and various treatment rooms,'' he said. ``we haven't had to use the halls yet, but we have beds available for that if we need it.''
if more pupils come in and are admitted, he added, ``we'll probably have to send some to other hospitals.''
gilmer county school superintendent j. homer hefner said the food poisoning apparently hit two classes the hardest and also struck some children from a few other classes at the 619-pupil school
lunch wednesday was fresh turkey and dressing, green beans and potatoes
downs said doctors suspected the turkey caused the illness. the turkey that remained after the meal was finished would be tested at a medical laboratory thursday, he said
i talked to the luncheon person and reviewed how they thawed and prepared the turkey and i saw nothing wrong with how they did it,'' hefner said, adding that he has asked the state department of education's food services division to help with his investigation into the problem
the following advances moved for use this cycle:

new delhi, india _ three years after he was swept to office in a landslide, prime minister rajiv gandhi has become the target of a vociferous campaign for his ouster. slug pm-gandhi-opposition. b0197, sent march 21

hollywood _ for many years, french filmmaker louis malle didn't think he wanted to deal with a very traumatic memory of his childhood. slug pm-ap arts: oscars-foreign films. b0211, sent march 30

columns:
new york _ business mirror, b0250, sent march 30
los angeles _ ap on tv-underwater, b0247, sent march 30
new york _ on the money, b0248, march 30
the origins of the oscar, a golden symbol of artistic triumph, are more down to earth than many of the glitzy stars who take home the greatly cherished statuette
far from the studios, sun and sea of the california west coast, is a cluster of brick buildings in a residential-industrial neighborhood of chicago. under a cloak of security, this is where the trophy manufacturer r.s. owens &amp; co. creates the academy award prize
winning the oscar contract may not compare with winning the oscar itself. however, it was a coup for owens seven years ago and remains a source of company pride. the statuettes used to be made by dodge, inc., at a small manufacturing plant in crystal lake, ill., some 25 miles northwest of chicago
with 300 employees, owens makes about 95 percent of the most prestigious awards in the country, including the television industry's emmys, advertising's clios, the super bowl trophy and the miss america awards. but oscar tops them all
most people don't know the names of awards in other fields, much less what they look like, said bernice estka, who handles the oscar account for owens
oscar, you know,'' she said
each model of the muscular knight, who holds a sword and stands impassively on a reel of film, is hand cast from a single steel mold
oscar was designed by cedric gibbons, then head of the mgm studio's art department. he sketched the prototype on a table cloth in 1927. sculptor george stanley transformed the sketch into the coveted statuette
the trophy was named oscar by longtime academy employee margaret herrick, who took one look at the statuette and declared that it reminded her of her uncle oscar, estka said
the design has remained unchanged since 1927, and the mold, which was turned over to owens with the contract, is kept in a vault
neither owens nor the academy of motion pictures arts &amp; sciences, whose members' votes decide the winners, would reveal the price tag on oscar
i like to say that they are worth a million dollars to the people who receive them,'' said owen r. siegel, founder and chief executive officer of the trophy company. ``once you have got an oscar _ you've made it.''
if we say it only costs a certain amount to make, what does that do to the image?'' said patrick stockstill, the academy historian who will hand the oscars to presenters at the 60th annual awards presentation on april 11
it is the most famous award and the most prestigious. it thrusts a person into the limelight and brings additional cash into their pockets.''
the oscar's value as a symbol far exceeds the cost of the pewter form and electroplating of copper, nickel, silver and gold, estka said. however, from 1943-47, because of war rationing, the statuettes were made of plaster. they were later replaced
early each year, nine or 10 owens employees set aside the work of the moment such as little league trophies or bowling prizes to make the oscars. each 13{-inch, 8{-pound statuette takes about five man hours to craft, estka said
the awards are handcrafted in the 100,000 square-foot facility with cinderblock walls whose concrete floors often are shrewn with metal shavings
the academy usually needs about 100 oscars, but this year's order was for 150 because of the academy is celebrating its 60th anniversary, estka said
the oscars are locked in a separate room each night. as each statuette is finished, it is packed in plastic foam. when all are ready, they're put in a sealed truck for the trip to los angeles
we don't have an elaborate secret route, but only a few people actually know when they leave or how they go to los angeles,'' said scott siegel, president of the company
once in a secret los angeles warehouse, the oscars wait in muffled silence for the night they make dreams come true
david hare, a leading british playwright, has remarked that when prime minister margaret thatcher came to office nearly nine years ago, the usually vibrant, challenging british theater fell silent
a lot of writers stopped writing because they didn't know how to deal with her arrival,'' said the author of ``plenty'' and other works. ``now people are really beginning to get to grips.''
today, secure in her third term of office, mrs. thatcher's imprint on britain is indelible _ nowhere more so than in the arts, where disaffection is being turned into the stuff of provocative films and plays
the topicality itself is nothing new, as ``angry young playwrights'' such as john osborne and arnold wesker and such filmmakers as karel reisz and john schlesinger were demonstrating 30 years ago
but no post-war government, conservative or labor, has come under such concerted artistic attack as mrs.thatcher's, and few serious works today fail to address themselves somehow to the phenomenon of thatcherism, most often from an angry, left-wing viewpoint
emasculated politically by the march of thatcherite capitalism, the left has dug in on stage and screen to attack her bourgeois, pro-business values
so sustained is the onslaught that a backlash is being felt from artists who ordinarily would stay out of the political crossfire
i'd much rather have a frank disinterest in culture than a phony and deliberate one,'' novelist peter ackroyd recently said. ``and i find the patronizing snobbery of those who despise mrs. thatcher and her supporters very unpleasant indeed.''
in a recent sunday times article, right-wing historian norman stone of oxford university said the growing tendency was ``to run down mrs. thatcher, to assume that capitalism is parasitism, that the established order in this country is imperialist, racist, profiteering.''
earlier, critic francis king had asked in the conservative sunday telegraph: ``why is there so much stage left?'' and yearned for a play to counter the ``vicious denigration of poor old mrs. thatcher'' which he saw proliferating in theater
many of the works have a common message: under mrs. thatcher, britain is becoming a greedy society, heartless to the poor, hostile to free speech, in thrall equally to nuclear weapons and america under president reagan
works both new and old are being mobilized against thatcherism. in alan ayckbourn's ``a small family business,'' the upstanding hero falls into a spiral of corruption in which vanishing paper clips become a metaphor for vanishing morals. olwen wymark has adapted emile zola's 1880 novel ``nana'' for the london stage because, she says, it matches her sense of britain today
both dramatists acknowledge the anti-thatcherite message. ``i couldn't have written that play 10 years ago,'' ayckbourn, 48, said in an interview. ``the disease (of greed) much more deeply permeates the society now than it once did.''
the american-born wymark says she chose ``nana'' because ``the book is about the kind of tendencies thatcher has been able to nail to the mast. ... i feel very strongly that the urge towards greed is being fostered, the sense of communal responsibility is drying up.''
hanif kureishi, the anglo-pakistani screenwriter of two low-budget hit movies, ``sammy and rosie get laid'' and ``my beautiful laundrette,'' says he and director stephen frears want their movies ``to shoot bullets at thatcherism and everything it stands for.''
because things are so terrible in this country, we have to be able to look at what's going on and discuss it publicly,'' kureishi said in an interview
sammy and rosie'' opens with images of a riot-torn, rubbish-strewn london and the voice of mrs. thatcher promising to tackle the problems of the inner cities
other works share kureishi's view: david hare's ``wetherby'' and derek jarman's ``the last of england'' on screen; karim alrawi's ``a colder climate'' and kay adshead's ``thatcher's women'' on stage
on television, various drama series consistently portray the government as authoritarian, secrecy-obsessed, even murderous. ``spitting image,'' a satirical program, uses rubber dolls to portray mrs. thatcher and her ministers as hitler's nazis
more benignly, john mortimer in ``paradise postponed'' has pointed up the irony of post-war britain: the traditional working-class vote has swung to mrs. thatcher, the self-made grocer's daughter, because she, rather than the ideological left, embodies blue-collar aspirations
mortimer, a committed laborite, gently mourns the loss of an older, dreamier, more compassionate britain. other playwrights, such as caryl churchill in ``serious money'' tony marchant in ``speculators,'' vilify the london's financial district as a nest of greed, fraud and raw ambition
director christine edzard's six-hour film version of charles dickens' novel ``little dorrit'' draws parallels between the victorian virtues and vices and mrs. thatcher's britain. its juxtaposition of obscene wealth and tragic destitution, she says, makes it ``the dickens novel very much closest to today.''
however, some critics feel the point is being stretched. reviewing nick darke's 1983 play ``the crimes of vautrin,'' which used an honore de balzac work to indict a society glutted by materialism, critic victoria radin complained in the observer newspaper: ``it is a gray day when balzac can be bleakly molded to symbolize the dread face of thatcherite britain.''
but mrs. thatcher does have defenders, powerful figures in the arts such as painter francis bacon and novelists kingsley amis and anthony powell who argue that the resentment is largely intellectual snobbery toward her bourgeois background
historian stone wonders why there are not more films such as ``a room with a view'' and ``chariots of fire'' which extol traditional british virtues
but hanif kureishi feels the truths of england today take precedence over golden-hued images of its past: ``there are actually so few films that show life in great britain at all (that) we have to make films about life as it is. there are so many stories to be told, and we've got to get on with it.''
abc won its first friday night of the season, thanks to basketball on cbs, but nbc still dominated the nielsens last week
on sunday, in a battle of tv movies, viewers decided they had seen enough of ``gore vidal's lincoln'' on nbc and steadily tuned out, according to nielsen data, while audience shares for cbs' ``too young the hero,'' starring ricky schroder, increased
it was not a typical week, since cbs pre-empted two nights of regular programming, thursday and friday, for the ncaa basketball playoffs. nbc put ``night court'' and ``beverly hills buntz'' up against abc's regular comedy lineup, but nbc's male-appeal shows were apparently hurt by the basketball on cbs. abc won the night, the first friday night win it has won this season, including during the olympics
the basketball didn't help cbs. the highest-rated of the games was only 52nd in the rankings
meanwhile, cbs' new lineup of four tuesday night comedies were the worst-rated network shows of the week, with ``trial and error'' at the bottom with a miserable 5.1 and 8 share. the move to tuesday has hurt the critically acclaimed ``frank's place,'' and the formerly sturdy ``my sister sam,'' both which were among the fatal four
nbc won the week ending march 27 with an average, prime-time rating of 15.3. abc was second with a 12.9, and cbs had a 12.6. with three weeks left in the television season, nbc has a season average rating of 16.2, abc has 13.9 and cbs 13
the ``cbs evening news'' continued its winning streak. for the week ending march 25, it had a 10.5 and 21 share, while abc's ``world news tonight'' had a 10.4 rating and a 20 share. ``nbc nightly news'' had a 9.4 and 19
the rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use
the top-rated prime-time shows for the week were: ``the cosby show'' nbc, ``a different world'' nbc, ``cheers'' nbc, ``murder, she wrote'' cbs, ``who's the boss?'' abc, ``60 minutes'' cbs, ``too young the hero'' cbs, ``the wonder years'' abc, ``golden girls'' nbc and ``alf'' nbc
one of nbc's usually top-10 thursday comedies was missing as ``the days and nights of molly dodd'' returned for a spring run, replacing ``night court,'' normally a top-10 show on thursday. ``molly'' ranked 17th and was followed by an episode of ``the bronx zoo'' rather than the usual ``l.a. law.'' ``bronx'' ranked 34th
the lowest-rated shows of the week were: ``supercarrier,'' ``dolly,'' ``our house,'' ``high mountain rangers,'' ``ohara,'' ``the disney sunday movie,'' ``coming of age,'' ``frank's place,'' ``my sister sam'' and ``trial and error.''
a two-year international study of more than 17,000 heart patients showed that aspirin and the clot-dissolving drug streptokinase, taken together after the onset of chest pains, reduce deaths among heart attack victims
the second international study on infarct survival, involving patients in 400 hospitals in 16 countries, is billed as the largest heart attack treatment study ever. it was presented tuesday at the annual meeting of the american college of cardiology
the study showed that a chewed aspirin tablet or administration of the drug streptokinase, or sk, improved the survival rate. the rate improved more, however, when the two were taken together
mortality among heart attack victims given the combination was 7.8 percent after five weeks, compared with 12.8 percent for patients given a placebo
drs. rory collins and peter sleight and researcher richard peto, all of the university of oxford, england, said the improvements were evident across the range of patients, including high-risk cases involving stroke or patients older than 70
the importance of the study, they said, lies more in the size of the sample than in what was done. they said other studies were too small to give a true picture of the effects of the drugs
the median age of the patients was just over 60 years, and 23 percent were women. the study was funded by the british heart foundation and one maker of sk. a drug company donated the aspirin
peto said the study was done in hospitals in medically sophisticated countries, ``but an aspirin tablet will work in rural china.''
sleight said the combination of drugs significantly reduced the likelihood of a second heart attack while the patient was hospitalized and reduced the likelihood of a stroke by about one-third
of 17,189 patients in the survey, 534 given placebos for both aspirin and sk died within five weeks. of those given aspirin but a placebo in place of sk, 447 died. of patients given sk and an aspirin placebo, 420 died. of patients given both medications, 327 died. the choice of treatment was made at random
collins said some doctors were uncomfortable giving a placebo. but he said doctors were asked to expose a patient to a possible placebo only if they were uncertain of treatment for an individual case. they were not asked to reject other treatments if they were obviously called for, he said
the sooner the drugs were administered, the better the results, the researchers said. but they reported significant improvement even when the drugs were administered 24 hours after the onset of pains
it has been established that aspirin is of value in preventing heart attacks and for patients who have recovered from one, sleight said
this plugs the gap in the middle,'' he said, saying the tests show it can help for patients who have just suffered an attack
for patients with a history of heart problems, chewing an aspirin ``would be a very reasonable thing to do'' while waiting for help, he said
peto likened sk to a household drain cleaner that is administered once to dissolve obstructions in the blood flow to the heart
it was developed in the 1950s and ``inadequately tested'' on small samples for years, peto said. its wider use as a heart attack treatment began stirring renewed interest several years ago
it has just recently lost its patent protection and thus can be made by anybody, he said. the lack of a patent lowers the cost to about $200 per dose, a tenth of the cost of similar competitive drugs
the latest round of u.n.-sponsored negotiations on an afghan peace settlement entered a fifth week wednesday with the parties still split on the question of when outside military aid to the warring sides would be halted
a report in the new york times, meanwhile, said reagan administration officials had received indications that the soviet union would consider allowing aid to the rebels to continue after soviet troops begin withdrawing from afghanistan
this issue of continued aid to the two sides is the last obstacle to a comprehensive settlement designed to end more than eight years of fighting in afghanistan, u.s. and pakistani officials have said
washington has said it will not guarantee a settlement unless the soviet union agrees to stop funding the kabul government at the same time the united states stops aid to the guerrillas fighting the government. moscow has refused to agree to such a cutoff
the times, citing unidentified senior u.s. officials, said the administration now is considering an arrangement under which pakistan would sign the accord but the united states and the soviet union would have a separate understanding on aid to the insurgents
the new position was discussed by telephone wednesday by president reagan and the president of pakistan, mohammed zia ul-haq, the newspaper said
the soviet union intervened in afghanistan in 1979, and about 115,000 soviet troops are believed to be helping the pro-moscow government there
no formal meetings were scheduled between the u.n. mediator, diego cordovez, and the afghan or pakistani delegations wednesday. but cordovez met separately with the special soviet envoy, nikolay kozyrev, and with u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state robert peck, both of whom have been following the indirect talks between pakistan and afghanistan since the latest round started march 2
peck told reporters as he entered his meeting that he was ``convinced that the soviets want to withdraw and want an agreement, and we will stay here until we get an agreement.''
he said reagan ``is not going to be easily satisfied,'' and that an eventual accord ``will have to ensure the withdrawal of soviet troops, self-determination of the afghan people, return of refugees and non-alignment of afghanistan.''
kozyrev reiterated the soviets' opposition to a symmetrical cutoff. ``we would like to see (the u.s.) as guarantors, but they refuse, insisting on the cutoff,'' he told reporters. ``it's impossible.''
peck, in his first on-the-record remarks to reporters since he arrived, said a soviet statement tuesday that the united states could eventually be dropped as a guarantor ``might be an attempt to split the united states and pakistan.''
but he said the united states and pakistan ``see eye-to-eye on the cutoff, the objective concept of symmetry and the reality of a balanced agreement, (all of which) are essential for both pakistan and the united states.''
the soviet foreign ministry spokesman, gennady gerasimov, said tuesday that ``ultimately, we can do without the american guarantee'' of an accord if pakistan would sign an agreement pledging not to interfere in afghanistan's affairs. that would mean an end to u.s. military aid being channeled to guerrillas through pakistan, he said
the parties in the afghan talks were expected to continue informal consultations on thursday
the mother of a teen-ager has filed a $5 million lawsuit charging that her son was paralyzed by injuries suffered when he was hit by an apple during a cafeteria food fight, an attorney said
francisco beltran, 14, of the bronx was ``minding his own business'' as he ate lunch oct. 23 at junior high school 143 while a food fight went on around him for 15 or 20 minutes, attorney kevin concagh said tuesday
one fellow threw an apple at somebody and missed who he was throwing it at and hit francisco in the back of the head,'' concagh said. ``it hit him very hard and then the apple shattered into pieces.''
shortly after he was struck, beltran collapsed when a blood vessel broke in his head, said concagh, who was hired by the boy's mother, aida garcia
in a lawsuit filed march 18 in u.s. district court against the board of education, concagh said beltran has required two brain operations, is paralyzed on his left side and suffered severe brain damage
concagh said the lawsuit asks for $5 million in damages, contending that school employees failed to stop the food fight even though it had gone on for some time and had occurred on other days
concagh said there were more than 250 students in the cafeteria at the time with no security guards or monitors
board of education spokesman frank sobrino said school officials could not comment because the suit had not been studied. 03-30 0658</first> louisiana, other detail, picking up 5th graf pvs, `rain showers...'.</note>
a cold front pushing across the south-central states produced strong thunderstorms in arkansas, louisiana and texas on tuesday, while wintry weather gripped the northwest and spring dazzled the east
a 2-year-old boy died after high winds whipped up by a thunderstorm knocked a tree into his trailer home in bastrop, la., police said. his 3-year-old sister was injured
city crews with chainsaws and hydraulic equipment worked with police and firemen to free the children, who were pinned by the tree to the chair they had been sitting in, authorities said. another small child and their baby sitter were unhurt
near bunkie in central louisiana, about 100 miles south of bastrop, a tornado destroyed two brick homes and one woman received minor injuries, authorities said
the tornado knocked down poles holding power lines, cutting off service to an undetermined number of central louisiana electric co. customers. traffic was rerouted around u.s. 71 until the live wires could be secured, deputies said
earlier in the day, thunderstorms in eastern texas pelted buchanan lake village with three-quarter-inch hail tuesday morning and produced high winds that overturned an airplane at mineola airport north of tyler
thunderstorms in western arkansas downed trees northeast of magazine on tuesday and spawned a tornado that uprooted trees and damaged a barn and service station at harriet
showers and thunderstorms extended from western arkansas and northern and central louisiana into south-central texas on tuesday afternoon. other showers and thunderstorms extended from southern illinois across eastern arkansas
rain showers were reported in oklahoma, eastern kansas and much of the middle-mississippi valley, with snow and sleet reported along the northern and western fringes of that area. clouds and light rain and drizzle were reported in the upper great lakes region
heavier rainfall totals for the six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. est included 2{ inches at harrison, ark., an inch and a third at west plains, mo., and fayetteville, ark., and an inch at springfield, mo., and waco, texas
skies were cloudy in the northwest, and scattered rain and snow showers fell
snow advisories were posted tuesday for washington's cascade range and olympic mountains, oregon's northeast mountain areas and for southwest montana
gale warnings were in effect along the coast of washington and northern california
skies were sunny over much of new england, the middle missouri valley and the southwest. afternoon temperatures were in the 70s from the gulf coast and the southern atlantic coast as far north as lake erie
while strong northerly winds ushered much colder air into the great plains and the mississippi valley, strong southerly winds brought warm weather ahead of the cold front, from the western gulf coast to the great lakes
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 20 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 87 degrees at mcallen, texas, and fort myers, fla. the nation's low tuesday morning was 1 degree below zero at yellowstone park
wednesday's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from the central and western gulf coast across the ohio valley to the lower great lakes and western new england. scattered rain showers and snow showers in higher elevations were expected from the northern pacific coast through the upper rockies to the dakotas and across the upper great lakes. snow was predicted in western and central montana and northern wyoming
temperatures in the 30s and 40s were forecast from the northern and central plateau region through the dakotas to the upper great lakes, and across northern maine; in the 70s and 80s from southern california through southern new mexico and the rio grande valley of texas to the south atlantic coast; and in 50s and 60s across most of the rest of the nation
cigarette exports are expected to rise sharply this year, largely because of rising demand in some asian countries, according to an agriculture department analysis
in all, cigarette exports are forecast to be up 10 percent to 110 billion ``pieces'' in 1988, the department's foreign agricultural service reported
recent efforts to lower trade barriers in japan, taiwan and now, south korea, are having a major impact on u.s. cigarette trade,'' the report said. ``sales have yet to reach their full potential in far east markets, with sizable gains expected in 1988.''
much of the increase will be in japan, which last year was the largest single foreign market for u.s. cigarettes, surpassing the longstanding leader, belgium-luxembourg
south korea, on the other hand, has ``the greatest untapped potential for rapid growth'' as a u.s. cigarette customer, depending on the outcome of a u.s. trade complaint, the report said
overall, u.s. cigarette sales to europe are expected to increase slightly this year
the growing popularity of u.s. blends of tobacco is ``a strong stimulus to further sales'' of cigarettes in spain, and the netherlands is expected to ``absorb more cigarettes due to re-export demand'' from neighboring countries, the report said. re-exports are also contributing to the expected rise in sales to belgium-luxembourg
gains also are expected in turkey, jordan, cyprus and south africa due to the increasing popularity of u.s. cigarettes, whereas slight decreases will occur in morocco and tunisia,'' the report said. ``in the western hemisphere, increased shipments to central and south american countries will more than offset decline in sales to canada.''
exports of unprocessed tobacco are expected to increase 4 percent to 203,000 metric tons this year, with larger shipments to indonesia, hong kong and taiwan ``due to the accelerating trend towards consumption of american-blend cigarettes in the far east,'' the report said
but in western europe, imports of u.s. leaf may drop due to declining cigarette use
the exceptions will be spain and italy where the falling dollar, lower u.s. prices and a continued preference for u.s. blends will stimulate u.s. leaf sales,'' the report said. ``in spain, higher prices for dark-type cigarettes will encourage consumers to substitute american blends, thus increasing u.s. leaf sales.''
the agriculture department has reversed a 2-month-old policy decision and will allow farmers to extend price support loans for some old-crop corn and sorghum for a year longer than their normal maturity dates
the one-year extensions were approved for 1984-crop corn and sorghum held in the farmer-owned reserve program, and for 1985 and 1986 corn and sorghum under price support loan. no extensions will be allowed for 1983 and older corn and sorghum loans
agriculture secretary richard e. lyng said tuesday the announcement on 1985 and 1986 corn and sorghum loans reversed a previous decision announced on jan. 29
the change was made ``to alleviate grain movement problems due to a rail car shortage, grain congestion at some country elevators'' and other logistical problems, he said
but the agriculture department will reserve the right to ``call at any time'' the 1985 and 1986 crop loans, lyng said. grain in the farmer-owned reserve program can remain until prices rise enough to trigger its release
the loans are extended to farmers by the department's commodity credit corp., which uses the grain as collateral. if prices rise significantly, farmers usually repay the loans and sell or use the grain as they choose
but farmers have the option of not repaying the loans, in which case ccc takes over the grain when the loans mature, or come due. by extending the loans, farmers continue to own the grain and retain their ccc options
parts of the jan. 29 order still stand, including the decision not to extend loans on 1987-crop wheat, feed grains and soybeans. also, loans that already had been extended on 1985 and 1986 wheat, feed grains and soybeans will not be extended further when those mature
the reversal was announced here by usda and by lyng himself at the governor's agriculture conference in kearney, neb
the government has agreed to investigate a complaint that south korea's ban of high-quality u.s. beef and veal is in violation of international trade practices
the american meat institute filed the complaint on feb. 16 under section 301 of the trade act of 1974, alleging that south korea's may 1985 ban on imports of u.s. beef was ``unjustifiable'' and ``unreasonable.''
manly molpus, president of the trade association, said the office of the u.s. trade representative accepted the complaint on tuesday
acceptance by the office ``has sent a clear signal to korea that this counrtry is not going to continue to tolerate unfair trade practices against our beef,'' molpus said
we hope the korean government will be reasonable and move quickly to lift the ban, which has no justifiable basis.''
trade representative clayton yeutter said in a statement that he accepted the industry's petition ``following extensive consultations with korea for nearly three years aimed at achieving market access for u.s. high-quality beef.''
prior to the 1985 ban, south korea was the fourth largest overseas market for u.s. meat, averaging about $5 million worth of imports annually
yeutter said the door is still open to south korea for resolving the issue through negotiations. but if those efforts fail the united states could retailiate against south korea for violating its obligations under gatt, the general agreement on tariffs and trade, he said
president reagan says former national security aides oliver north and john poindexter are not being presumed innocent on conspiracy, theft and fraud charges in the iran-contra scandal
someplace along the line, many of us have forgotten that you are innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt,'' reagan told a group of regional reporters on tuesday
what has happened, i think, in the case is it's just everyone is accepting guilt on the basis of accusation.''
north, poindexter and arms dealers richard v. secord and albert a. hakim pleaded innocent last week to charges that they defrauded the government of more than $17 million by diverting profits from the iran arms sales to the nicaraguan contra rebels
although he once again spoke out on behalf of his indicted former aides, reagan backed away somewhat on tuesday from his assertion last week that north is still an american hero. reagan said he was referring to the marine's wartime record
i think i was too short in my remark when i answered the question,'' reagan said
i should have augmented that and said why, and that is: look at the record and at the honors and the medals that have been awarded him for bravery in combat,'' reagan said. ``and i have to say those were heroic actions and he is a valid hero.''
north, who has announced he will retire from the marine corps in may, received a silver star and two purple hearts in the vietnam war. he said after his indictment that he might attempt to subpoena the ``highest-ranking'' government officials to testify in his defense
reagan declined to say on tuesday whether he would testify on north's behalf
a senate committee wants to add $1.59 billion worth of water projects to an already huge, backlogged construction agenda that is being squeezed by budget deficits
the environment and public works committee voted unanimously tuesday to authorize the building of 16 new army corps of engineers projects from florida to california, with illinois receiving the two costliest
the panel's bill is the first water projects authorization measure to begin moving on capitol hill since 1986, when congress and the reagan administration agreed on a massive package of proposed construction
the 1986 legislation authorized more than 200 projects around the country at a cost of between $10 billion and $15 billion, depending upon the final scope of the flood control, navigation and environmental restoration work
the 1986 law also forced localities to begin paying a portion of a project's cost, a proposal that had deadlocked the water-projects pipeline and had resulted in no new authorizations in the previous 16 years
committee chairman quentin burdick, d-n.d., said the new proposal contains no rollbacks in the cost-sharing requirements, and he insisted that the plan is ``non-controversial.''
he and sen. daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y., said they hoped the committee's action would be the start of a regular two-year cycle of new authorizations for the corps
once a project is authorized, its backers have to go to the administration and the house and senate appropriations committees in an effort to obtain construction money. if the money is not forthcoming within five years, a project automatically loses its authorization
sen. george mitchell, d-maine, said obtaining construction money for a project is becoming difficult because of the huge number of already authorized projects competing for limited money in times of big budget deficits
the 1988 bill's costliest project, at an estimated $775 million, would be a new lock and dam on the lower ohio river near olmsted. half the cost would be paid by all taxpayers and half would come from fees and taxes paid by inland waterway users
the second most costly project would be a new phase of the chicagoland underflow plan, the flood control program for the chicago metropolitan area. estimated total cost would be $419 million
other projects that would be authorized by the senate bill and their estimated total costs are:
_fort pierce harbor, florida, navigation improvement, $6,742,000
_nassau county (amelia island), florida, beach erosion control, $5,753,000
_port sutton channel, florida, navigation improvement, $2,670,000
_hazard, ky., flood control along a 14-mile stretch of the north fork kentucky river, $7,450,000
_mississippi river, southeast louisiana and southern mississippi, enhancement of fish and wildlife resources, $59,300,000, with the federal government paying the entire cost because it is an environmental restoration proect
_wolf and jordan rivers and bayou portage, mississippi, navigation improvement, $2,229,000
_truckee meadows, nevada, flood control, $78,400,000
_scioto river, west columbus, ohio, flood control, $31,562,000
_delaware river, pennsylvania and delaware, navigation improvement, $17,200,000
_lower mission creek, santa barbara, calif., flood control, $10,420,000
_cypress creek, texas, flood control, $114,200,000
_guadalupe river, texas, navigation improvement, $23,900,000
_falfurrias, texas, flood control, $31,800,000
_mcgrath creek, wichita falls, texas, flood control, $9,100,000
the exact federal and local shares of most of the projects will not be known until the corps and local interests negotiate under the terms of the 1986 law
the house armed services committee has voted to make some of the navy's most sophisticated technology available to japan to help defend western pacific seas against the soviet union
the decision came tuesday as the democratic-controlled panel voted 48-4 approval of a bill authorizing the pentagon to spend $299 billion in the fiscal year starting oct. 1
the committee also cut president reagan's request for star wars anti-missile spending and his plan to put multiple-warhead mx missiles on western railroads
by a 46-6 vote, the committee approved the tentative administration plans to go ahead and sell japan up to four of the navy's $1.2 billion aegis-class destroyers
an elaborate array of sensors and radars connected with guns and missiles makes the aegis the navy's most sophisticated system of defenses for surface ships
japan wants to buy the ships as part of the japanese role in helping defend vital sea lanes near the soviet union
some legislators have opposed the move, arguing that the aegis weapons should remain in the u.s. navy. critics have pointed to the case of toshiba, a japanese company which has admitted helping in the illegal sale of sophisticated machinery to the soviet union to build quieter soviet submarines
but pentagon officials say the toshiba case involved a private company and they argue that the japanese government has protected other u.s. technology
the committee voted tuesday to approve only $3.7 billion for the strategic defense initiative, as star wars is formally known. reagan had sought $4.5 billion
in addition, the panel voted to approve $500 million for research into putting the mx aboard trains, $300 million less than reagan had sought. at the same time, the panel increased reagan's request for spending on the single-warhead midgetman missile from $200 million to $500 million
the $299 billion figure for total pentagon spending was set last december during negotiations between the white house and congress over the effort to cut federal budget deficits. the agreement eliminated the normal congressional fight over how much total money should be allocated for the defense department
the bill is expected to go to the house floor late in april. the version that eventually passes the house will have to be reconciled with the separate senate version of the same measure
the star wars decision would result in a deep reduction from original plans. the $3.7 billion figure would put star wars spending next year at about the current level
pentagon budget plans last year called for seeking $6.2 billion in star wars money for fiscal 1989, but that was trimmed to $4.5 billion by defense secretary frank c. carlucci as part of a package of cuts he ordered in response to the december agreement
the dispute over the midgetman and the mx involves two nuclear weapons at the heart of a 7-year-old fight over reagan's plans for building up america's nuclear arsenal
congress has approved 50 mx weapons for deployment in land-based silos, but the pentagon wants 50 more for deployment aboard trains. meanwhile, the pentagon has been lukewarm toward the midgetman, a weapon that has been a favorite of congressional critics of the mx
carlucci told congress last month that he thought the midgetman should be eliminated, but said he had included $200 million at the request of congress so the program could be kept alive until reagan's successor makes a decision next year
meantime, carlucci said $800 million should be spent for research into the rail-based version of the 10-warhead mx
the committee's research and development subcommittee said last week that each weapon should be given $500 million and that subcommittee decision was ratified tuesday after several unsuccessful attempts to change it
the panel also voted 43-8 to spend $1.4 billion for a new trident submarine instead of using the money for two more aegis-class destroyers. that vote reversed a decision last week by the seapower subommittee
the reagan administration has sought three aegis warships for next year, but the subcommittee increased that to five by killing the trident. the two extra ships would be deployed in japan under u.s. control, protecting japanese security while keeping the aegis secrets in u.s. hands
congress has already approved 15 of the giant trident missile-firing subs, which are the heart of america's nuclear deterrent force
labor unions have suffered their first major loss in the senate since democrats gained a majority in the 1986 election, as senators refused to guarantee warnings to workers facing on-the-job exposure to toxic chemicals
the senate's rejection on tuesday of a bill to require notice for workers exposed to carcinogens and other job hazards ended a string of union victories this congressional session. in earlier industry-labor showdowns, the senate had approved measures to ban most uses of lie detector tests and require advance notice of plant closings
sens. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, and edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chief sponsors of the worker notice bill, could get only 42 of the 60 votes needed to cut off an eight-day filibuster led by sen. orrin hatch, r-utah
in this one i've lost,'' metzenbaum said afterward. ``but as long as workers are kept in the dark about occupational hazards, we will continue to try to bring them light.''
majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., had indicated earlier he would turn the senate's attention to other legislation if its supporters could not muster at least 55 votes tuesday. he did so immediately
opponents of legislation often use a filibuster to continue debate indefinitely and effectively defeat a bill that otherwise might win senate passage
unlike an up-or-down vote on a bill itself that requires a simple majority _ 51 votes if all 100 senators are present _ breaking a filibuster to cut off debate requires 60 votes
the hazard notice bill, which was passed by the house last october, would have set up a seven-member panel of scientists in the department of health and human services to identify the most dangerous carcinogens and other toxins on the job and the groups of workers at most risk
the national institute of occupational safety and heath would have been ordered to notify individually up to 300,000 of those workers a year at an annual cost of $25 million
employers would have had to pay for medical monitoring of those workers at a cost of up to $250 a year for each. armed with the results from such medical tests, workers could file liability suits against their employers
the american cancer society had estimated that metzenbaum's bill would have reduced cancer deaths by 250,000 over the next 10 years
but business opponents led by the u.s. chamber of commerce and the national association of manufacturers claimed that liability suits could cost employers $6 billion a year or more
niosh officials have estimated that one in every four americans has been exposed to carcinogens or other potentially disabling toxins on the job at some time during their work life, most of them unaware of it
for workers exposed to toxic substances, the senate's action is a tragedy,'' said margaret seminario, a health and safety specialist for the 14-million-member afl-cio. ``workers need to know; it's their health at stake.''
hatch and other opponents of the legislation argued during more than a week of debate that a dozen other government programs requiring labels on hazardous substances now provide enough warnings
it is already being done,'' he said. ``union leaders want this bill and they do not care what it costs. ... they just want it so they can go back to their people and say: `we have done another great thing for the little people of america,' when they have not.''
mary bernhard, manager of environmental policy for the chamber of commerce, said the bill would have misled ``millions of workers into believing that they might some day contract a disease.''
she called the vote tuesday ``a major victory for a wide coalition of business groups and a major defeat for organized labor.''
fifteen democrats, most of them from the south, sided tuesday with hatch on the 52-42 vote against ending the filibuster, effectively killing any chance that the measure will become law this year
they're a little irritated with kennedy and metzenbaum for bringing up all these labor and civil rights bills that force them to pick between their constituencies back home,'' said one lobbyist who supported the legislation
others agreed, saying the size of the vote virtually precludes passage of other union-sought legislation this year, with the exception of a bill to raise the minimum wage which has been stuck at $3.35 an hour since 1981
it dealt a very severe blow to the so-called labor agenda,'' said barbara beatty, a government affairs specialist for associated building contractors, a trade organization of non-union construction companies
both the house and senate are expected to pass some form of a minimum wage bill within the next month, even though president reagan has threatened to veto it
reagan also has threatened to veto the plant closing measure, which is included in a trade bill that he opposes
argentines may have fallen out with the english over the falkland islands, but the upper-crust still likes the way they talk
that is evident on the quaintly british campus of st. george's college in quilmes where argentine children are still being sent to learn english with the proper accent and prepare to go on to cambridge or oxford
for as much as $7,800 a year in tuition, the 330 boys and girls who attend the only british-style boarding school in argentina are assured as fine an education as if they lived in england, said headmaster graham sims
ninety instructors from britain teach children aged 3 through 18 the fundamentals as well as computer programming, chemistry, advanced mathematics and english literature
english at st. george's is the most common classroom language, although argentina's education ministry requires that bilingual schools teach some courses in spanish
the school operates on british discipline
we are very strict and that means the boys and girls are not allowed any physical contact in school. holding hands is out,'' sims said in an interview. ``we've all got to lead disciplined lives. if not we become pretty hopeless human beings.''
st. george's is in quilmes, a city of 100,000 people 12 miles south of buenos aires. once a popular residential area for the british who earlier this century built most of argentina's railways, it is most noted now for a brewery and the school
dotting the 62-acre campus are a chapel, rugby fields, gardens, two swimming pools, a horse-riding academy and dormitories where students are required to place their folded clothes and towels on racks in the bathrooms
the only inkling this is not britain is when schoolchildren break into spanish after class or when argentina's flag is raised each morning outside the administration building
it really is a little piece of britain in argentina,'' said ray mckay, counselor at the lincoln school in northern buenos aires, the only american school in argentina. ``the student body is almost all argentines from wealthy families who want their kids to speak english.''
lincoln has 550 students, most of them children of u.s. embassy personnel, diplomats and businessmen in argentina. its schedule follows the u.s. system, with summer vacation from june through august. the english-style and argentine schools have their vacation from january to march, the southern hemisphere summer
st. george's, founded in 1898, is considered one of the four top schools in argentina for learning english
we offer a 24-hour-a-day education experience,'' said peter stoyle, director of studies at st. george's. wakeup calls are at 6:30 a.m. and lights are out across campus by 10 p.m., which is the normal dining hour in argentina
student magdalena winter, 15, hopes someday to become a diplomat
most people here believe we're getting a very good education so we learn to put up with things that maybe we don't always like,'' she said
three other top british-style schools, st. andrew's, st. catherine's and northlands, are in the northern suburbs of buenos aires, but they do not offer boarding
st. andrew's is observing the 150th anniversary of its founding by scottish settlers. with 1,900 students, st. andrew's is the largest of the british-tradition schools and oldest of the bilingual schools in argentina
one of its headmasters, watson hutton, was credited with introducing soccer to argentina at the turn of the century
without him there'd be no (diego) maradona,'' said headmaster kevan prior, referring to the star of argentina's 1986 world cup champions
st. andrew's has been coed since 1980
we have a particular ethos, particular spirit, something the parents of argentine upper middle-class children choose,'' prior said
tuition is $1,600 to $2,400 a year
northlands school near st. andrew's is considered the top girls school in argentina. headmistress jehane taylor takes pains to separate her school from anything british
this is an argentine school with no funds from england that happens to teach english,'' she said
sensitivities over anything british comes from problems regarding the britain's falkland islands in the south atlantic, off argentina. the argentines have claimed them since 1833 and here they are called the malvinas. argentina invaded the falklands in april 1982 and were driven off by british forces three months later
during the falklands these british-style schools got lots of phone treats, some of them obscene,'' said mckay of the american school. ``some kids were pulled out by their parents and there were some classroom tiffs over the so-called imperialist british
so it's really kind of remarkable now that so many argentines send their kids to these schools. i suppose it's kind of the snob thing to do.''
st. catherine's school for girls, like st. george's, offers the international baccalaurete program for its 1,100 students. the program allows students to enter colleges in the united states at a second-year level or qualify for advanced study in england
a st. catherine's coordinator, marie philpotts, described the school as ``british to a certain extent.'' tuition ranges from $1,050 to $1,600 a year compared to $1,000 to $2,000 a year at northlands
mrs. taylor, head of northlands, said the tradition of argentines sending their children to english-style schools goes back several generations
the school, founded by a british governess in 1920, gives 985 students ``an anglo-saxon point of view and a latin point of view,'' giving students ``different ways of looking at knowledge,'' mrs. taylor said
the supreme court is weighing arguments on the constitutionality of ohio's ``gasohol'' tax credits, defended by state officials as legitimate incentives but attacked by opponents as discriminatory
herman schwartz, an attorney for the new energy co. of indiana, said tuesday that new energy was ``inevitably excluded'' from selling ethanol in ohio after ohio limited the tax benefits to companies in states that provide reciprocal incentives
it's a discriminatory tax on its face,'' schwartz told the justices during oral arguments in the case
gasohol is a blend of 90 percent gasoline and 10 percent ethanol, which is derived from corn and cereal grain
most states and the federal government have offered tax credits for the production and sale of gasohol, which reduces toxic emissions from leaded motor vehicle fuels
initially, ohio had offered tax credits for ethanol regardless of where it was produced. but in 1985 the state legislature restricted the credit to those states that give a similar tax incentive to ohio-produced ethanol
that reciprocity feature was challenged by new energy, which produces ethanol at its south bend, ind., plant. the company was shipping about 25 percent of its output to ohio distributors in 1985 and expected to be able to ship 35 percent eventually
taxes can have the same effect as an absolute ban,'' said schwartz. ``this statute is clearly unconstitutional under the commerce clause.''
the ohio supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the law last year by a vote of 4-3, saying it did not bar interstate commerce
attorneys for the ohio tax commissioner have argued that the provision is intended to encourage the use of ethanol in ohio and neighboring states as a substitute for leaded gasoline, a major source of air pollution
richard farrin, assistant attorney general of ohio, told the court the provision does not bar the sale of out-of-state ethanol in ohio. and he said it does not interfere with private-market forces, but simply provides an incentive for the production of ethanol
we're looking to have a national market that we think is essential for the future of the ethanol industry,'' said farrin. ``it's to encourage indiana and other states to grant ethanol credits.''
farrin also said the provision was enacted to protect the environment, create an alternate market for corn and help lessen dependence upon foreign oil
these purposes are legitimate purposes for a state to pursue,'' said farrin
but he was bombarded by questions from the justices
justice anthony kennedy asked whether the ohio provision did not penalize some companies while helping others. and justice john paul stevens asked why ohio was concerned about clean air in indiana
the air in indiana comes into ohio,'' farrin replied. ``i don't think environmental concerns stop at state lines.''
justice antonin scalia asked farrin what is to keep ohio from ``fiddling with'' markets other than gasohol. and justice sandra day o'connor said the high court has so far invalidated all such reciprocal laws
find some cases where we have upheld this type of a scheme,'' she told farrin
the court is expected to issue a decision in the case by july
more ultraviolet light suppresses marine productivity in the antarctic, according to findings of new research on the antarctic ozone hole
sayed el-sayed of texas a&amp;m university said tuesday his findings could mean the existence of a threat to the krill, a tiny shrimp-like creature on which all antarctic life depends directly or indirectly
if the krill goes, ``the whole ecosystem probably would collapse,'' and the whales, seals, penguins, birds and fish would disappear, he told reporters at a briefing arranged by the world resources institute, a washington environmental policy research institute that has called attention to ozone problems
the ozone layer high above the earth thins by about half over antarctica each spring, letting more ultraviolet light reach the ground. if this happened over the globe as a whole, the environmental protection agency says, each 1 percent decline in ozone would mean a 2 percent increase in ultraviolet radiation and a 4.8 percent to 7.5 percent increase in the most common skin cancer
the krill, which are an inch or two long, feed on phytoplankton, which are invisible to the naked eye. fish and marine mammals in turn feed on the krill
a 10 percent harvest of the 550 million to 770 million tons of protein represented by the krill could equal the entire fish catch of the world, and several nations are studying use of such a protein resource
el-sayed and his students at an island near palmer station labeled test tanks of southern ocean water containing phytoplankton, the ``grass of the sea,'' with radioactive calcium carbonate
the radioactivity of the plankton after taking up the carbon isotope is a measure of photosynthesis, the process by which plants live, deriving energy from sunlight
samples to which extra ultraviolet had been added showed far less radioactivity: 1,000 counts per minute on a scintillation counter as opposed to 15,000 counts per minute for the sample from which all ultraviolet had been excluded
the extra ultraviolet was about 6.5 percent of what was already in the light. on the day the measurements were made, ozone overhead was only about 80 percent of normal, so the light was already presumably enriched in ultraviolet
ultraviolet reaching the ground in antarctica is not as much as it would be elsewhere under the same ozone layer. the sun is low in the sky and its light travels a long slant distance through the ozone
scientists attribute the antarctic ozone hole, and a newly discerned average 2.3 percent year-round ozone decline in northern mid-latitudes since 1969, to man-made chemicals called chlorofluorocarbons. major producing nations agreed in montreal last year to a 50 percent cut in production by 1998, and last week du pont co. said it planned to stop manufacture
lee m. thomas, administrator of the environmental protection agency, told reporters tuesday that in light of the mid-latitude decline, he would seek to accelerate the scientific review called for by the treaty so that participating nations could consider further production cuts when 1990 opens
but thomas said he would not support bills in the senate, subject of a hearing today, calling for an early 95 percent cut in u.s. production
sayed, a biological oceanographer with 25 years of experience in the antarctic, was supported in his work last fall on anvers island near palmer station by the national science foundation
how to shop in a city with horrendous traffic, boutiques that close for two hours at lunch and sales clerks who are imperious, or just plain rude? maribeth clemente knows, and helps fellow americans for a fee
with an investment of less than $9,000, she started a business called chic promenade last june to counsel visitors and shepherd them through the array of stores and shops in the ``city of light.''
ms. clemente, a 26-year-old native of troy, n.y., takes up to four people on a tour of six to 12 boutiques in an average day, with a midafternoon break in a cozy tea room
clients are met at their hotels in a minibus for the tour, which costs about $70 each
some customers might find the service worth every centime just for the way ms. clemente shields them from salespeople. she usually chooses shops known for hospitality, but when needed steps in to act as a buffer
if the sales people want to be snippy, i can take it,'' she said. ``i know their racket and understand their mentality. americans are very sensitive to how they're treated and a rude sales clerk can ruin a fun afternoon.''
between stores, she is a first-rate tour guide, giving interesting background on historic neighborhoods, french celebrities and the boutiques themselves
on a recent afternoon, shoppers learned a bit about french chocolate-eating habits before visiting the capital's oldest chocolatier. ms. clemente says she does not take commissions from the stores she visits
ms. clemente is a graduate in international management of simmons college in boston. she spent her junior year in paris, fell in love with it and returned after graduation
after much time spent as guide and consultant to friends and relatives, she said, it was a logical decision to make a business of it
most of her clients are americans who don't speak french. she translates explanations given by clerks and does quick conversions between francs and dollars. she also briefs clients on applying for reimbursement of sales taxes paid on items taken out of the country
most clients seek items that are authentically french, such as perfumes, wines and cookware, spending an average of about $300 each in an afternoon
each tour is tailored to the interests of the clients, and ms. clemente chooses the shops to be visited from a long list in her memory. an afternoon could be devoted to antique silver, tapestries, glass, clothing or a combination of things
i don't even think about bargains,'' she said, adding that the falling dollar means ``there aren't any left.''
instead, she offers the uniqueness of stores that are not listed in tourist shopping guides and carry items ``you won't find on madison avenue.''
costume jewelry, for example, is a great buy in paris
price-wise and in terms of selection and uniqueness of design, some paris boutiques have an edge over the united states,'' ms. clemente said
the most challenging part of her job is revising her repertoire of boutiques stay current. ``i'm on the streets so much, i spot new places before the french fashion magazines do,'' she said. eastern</head>
using an air cargo company to train non-union pilots to fly eastern airlines jets in a possible strike against that passenger airline violates eastern's labor agreement, a federal judge ruled in blocking the activity
u.s. district judge barrington d. parker issued the preliminary injunction pending trial on a lawsuit by the air line pilots association. the order says eastern must stop training non-union pilots on its planes by orion lift services, inc
in the order handed down late tuesday, parker said the training program ``constitutes a unilateral repudiation of the collective bargaining agreement'' eastern has with the pilots union
the plain language of the agreement requires that eastern utilize pilots from the system seniority list to perform any type of flying'' _ including flight training, the judge said
moreover, ``eastern has failed to offer a reasonable interpretation of the contract which would justify its conduct nor has it proven that this type of leasing arrangement is justified by past practices,'' parker said
the judge dismissed as ``completely spurious'' the company's argument it was entitled to engage in strike preparations ``irrespective of the terms of its agreement with alpa.''
eastern spokesman robin matell said the miami-based airline would not comment on the decision until company officials had an opportunity to review it
orion, based in raleigh, n.c., signed a contract earlier this year to hire and train 350 to 400 non-union pilots to fly eastern planes in the event alpa honored a possible strike by 13,000 airline employees represented by the international association of machinists and aerospace workers
the agreement called for orion to fly as many as 25 eastern planes out of atlanta during a strike. the pilots union has not indicated whether it would honor a machinists strike
one aircraft was leased to the company to train non-union pilots in louisville and eastern officials testified that as many as five more would be transferred to orion for that purpose
orion needed to conduct the training on eastern planes to obtain federal aviation administration certification to carry passengers in the event of a walkout
the machinists' union and eastern are now conducting negotiations under the auspices of the national mediation board. if the board declares an impasse, the union could strike following a 30-day cooling off period that is prescribed by the railway labor act
the pilots union has not said whether it would honor a machinists strike. alpa itself is preparing to begin negotiations with eastern to update its contract, which will be open for changes in june
parker barred the airline from unilaterally changing its labor agreement with the pilots union
he also enjoined eastern from using any pilots not on the union's seniority list ``as a means of undermining alpa's status as the exclusive collective bargaining representative for the airline pilots employed by eastern.''
the decision is the second legal setback for the financially troubled airline this month
on march 10, another federal judge here held the airline in contempt of court for taking steps to sell its eastern air shuttle to another subsidiary created by the company's parent, texas air
u.s. district judge john h. pratt also ordered eastern to pay a fine of $10,000 for each day it was in contempt of his order after april 5. a federal appeals court last week refused to stay the contempt order
a group of american experts on the supernatural found that the only thing special about chinese reputed to have magic powers was their ability to disappear when asked to prove their claims
they failed all the tests,'' said dr. paul kurtz, chairman of the committee for the scientific investigation of claims of the paranormal and professor of philosophy at state university of new york at buffalo
kurtz said in particular his six-member delegation had seen no scientific evidence to back up claims from masters of the chinese martial art of ``qigong'' that they can cure tumors and help cripples walk through energy emanating from their fingers
the americans arrived in china march 21 at the invitation of the chinese newspaper science and technology daily to give lectures to chinese scientists and academics on how to evaluate paranormal activity, or psychic phenomena outside the range of the normal
they have also tried, with limited success, to test qigong masters and chinese clairvoyants. one group of masters failed to appear for a demonstration of their skills, as did two children said to be able to read chinese characters in sealed envelopes
the group did witness one qigong master who said he could make a woman shake convulsively, even if she was in the next room as demanded by the american skeptics. the woman did shake, kurtz said, and continued to shake when the master, unbeknownst to her, was ordered by the americans to stop zapping her
they also tested a clairvoyant who claimed she could diagnose body conditions of people in the united states just by reading their name on a piece of paper. kurtz said his daughter, who has diabetes, was diagnosed as being pregnant
james randi, a well-known conjurer and expert on the paranormal, said the clairvoyant failed to realize that his mother had been dead for several years
lin zixin, director general and chief editor of the science and technology daily, said the paper invited the americans to china because of ``growing confusion between science and superstition in china.''
he said there has been some opposition to the american mission
some ask why we should bring foreign people to contradict our traditional treasures'' like qigong
the government gives official support to the study of qigong, which in its less fantastic forms is an ancient system of deep-breathing exercises practiced daily in parks and along roads by millions of chinese
controversy comes in with masters who say that through controlled breathing they can channel vital energy to turn on light bulbs and radios, cure diseases and fry fish. they aim for the same body points used by acupuncturists with their needles, but without ever touching the patient
china's official media frequently warns that superstition and sorcery, supposedly squelched when the communists came to power in 1949, are staging a strong comeback, particularly in rural areas
the media at the same time often prints articles about children able to read a newspaper by sitting on it, ufo sightings, giant hairy wild men and loch ness-style monsters
masters have held healing rallies attended by 10,000 people, and have made claims, carried in the official press, that they can cure aids from thousands of miles away
this is serious for our country and modernization,'' lin said. qigong may have some beneficial effects, he said, ``but now paranormal activity like esp and psychokinesis are being put under the qigong umbrella.''
lin said china's reforms over the last decade, which have given people more economic freedom, are partly responsible for rising interest in the supernatural
ten years ago the state had much stronger controls,'' he said
he said a survey of 300 educated chinese attending one of kurtz's lectures found that half believed in the paranormal
qian xingsha, vice director of the human body information study society, told the american skeptics that ``you're not being broad-minded enough.''
they simply don't believe,'' she said in an aside to a colleague
randi, who uses his skills as a magician to debunk psychic trickery, said there were ``high school explanations'' to most of the feats of qigong masters
they believe in themselves because they've never been tested,'' he said
the committee for the scientific investigation of claims of the paranormal has offices in 18 countries and puts out a journal called ``skeptical inquirer.'' among committee members are astronomer carl sagan, psychologist b.f. skinner and author isaac asimov
the white house says sen. bob dole's withdrawal from presidential contention could change president reagan's proclaimed stance of neutrality in the race for the republican nomination
the president's position all along has been that he wouldn't work for the candidate until there was a clear choice and we had presumed all along that would be at the convention,'' presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said tuesday after dole's announcement
this does change things somewhat and the situation could change, but i haven't heard any discussion of it,'' he said
dole's withdrawal leaves only vice president george bush and former religious broadcaster pat robertson in the gop field
even while maintaining his neutrality, reagan has consistently spoken in glowing terms of bush, telling television personality david frost in a nov. 28 interview, for instance, that bush ``has been the finest vice president in my memory in this country.''
on the other hand he has spoken slightingly of robertson. at his feb. 24 news conference, after robertson claimed that his christian broadcasting network had known and announced the location of american hostages in lebanon, reagan said, ``isn't it strange that no one in our administration was ever apprised of that? if he thought he knew, he kept it to himself.''
at the time of nancy reagan's hospitalization for breast cancer surgery last year, robertson made a remark that the president interpreted as criticism of the first lady. talking to reporters before a scheduled white house meeting of gop presidential hopefuls, reagan said of the comment, ``i'll see if he brings it up.''
the president eventually canceled the meeting altogether, reportedly in anger over the robertson remark, and it was never rescheduled
despite the apparent contrast in reagan's views of the two surviving contenders, both white house political director frank donatelli and his predecessor, mitchell e. daniels jr., said in recent interviews that they expected the president to maintain his stance of neutrality after dole's anticipated withdrawal
for one reason, they said, there would be little pressure for reagan to enter the fray now, since bush is so far ahead that robertson is no threat to him. robertson has acknowledged bush's victory and is a candidate in name only
stephen hess, an expert on presidential politics with the brookings institute, called the president's neutrality ``a modest fiction'' that ``probably can't do any harm.''
everybody knows, including george bush and all who are interested in being involved in the campaign, exactly where reagan's heart is,'' hess said
congress can save its sweeping trade bill from a presidential veto if lawmakers drop a provision requiring advance notice of plant closings, says the nation's top trade negotiator
my judgment is that it would precipitate a veto if it remains,'' u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter said tuesday
his comment came hours before a house-senate panel voted to approve the provision, which would require employers to serve 60-day notice of impending plant closings involving 100 or more employees
companies would be required to give notice of any layoff of 50 or more workers if those being furloughed made up at least one third of the work force at the plant
in layoffs involving 500 or more workers, notice would be required regardless of whether they represented one-third of the work force
an exemption would be provided for faltering businesses. violation would carry a penalty of up to $500 a day, payable to local governments
the plant closings issue was fiercely debated when the senate approved the 1,000-page trade bill last year and decided to include such a provision. business groups say it would spawn lawsuits by communities trying to save factory jobs. the house omitted such a plan from its version of the bill
president reagan said monday in a speech in richmond, va., that the plant-closings provision was one of three that would prompt him to veto the trade bill
the others were mandatory import curbs and disclosure of foreign ownership of property in the united states _ issues lawmakers hope to resolve before their spring break next week. they have been tentatively planning to bring a final product to the floor soon after they return
the plant-closings provision was approved on a voice vote by a subcommittee of the house-senate conference committee on the trade bill
its inclusion and resulting concern over a possible veto raised the question of whether the subcommittee could be reversed or induced to backtrack. or, as a last resort, if it would be possible to override a veto
yeutter held out hope that the plant-closings provision could still be erased somehow and said no final conclusions should be drawn until ``the end of the legislative day.''
it's not over until it's over,'' he said
labor secretary ann mclaughlin also urged that the provision be dropped. ``if not, i have no recourse but to recommend a veto (of the trade bill),'' she said
senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said it was ``a possibility'' that the provision could be removed. ``but i know of nothing that would indicate that it's a certainty.''
we have said repeatedly that we want as strong a bill as can be enacted into law,'' said bentsen, who is vice chairman of the overall conference committee but not a member of the plant-closings panel
rep. ed jenkins, d-ga., leaving a meeting of a different trade bill subcommittee, said it appeared that sending the measure to the president with the plant-closing provision in it would guarantee a veto
based on previous comments from people in the administration, i would anticipate that it would,'' jenkins said. asked if it would be possible to override a veto, he said, ``i would think that it would be unlikely.''
the chairman of the plant-closings panel, rep. augustus f. hawkins, d-calif., indicated that he expected the provision to be contained in the final product. he allowed critics full chance to offer amendments but afterward rejected requests for ``continued dialogue.''
the dialogue cannot be continued indefinitely,'' hawkins said
the president said several times, including this week, that if the bill has mandatory notice of plant closings in it, he's going to veto it,'' said rep. steve bartlett, r-texas, a persistent critic of the plant-closings provision. ``now that's not hard for anybody to understand.''
michael dukakis regained some of the credibility he needed with his connecticut presidential primary victory, and now must decide whether to follow the example of albert gore jr. and directly challenge jesse jackson's qualifications for the white house
with wisconsin looming as a tense, tough battle next week and new york only two weeks later, dukakis' democratic dilemma is as simple as it is difficult
he could permit jackson to run virtually unmolested and thus risk having his painstakingly constructed effort fall apart at the hands of a dynamic campaigner who has never held public office
or, he could confront jackson as he would any other contender who obstructed the way to the nomination, but simultaneously risk alienating the millions of black voters who support the civil rights leader and are essential to a democratic victory in the fall
a loss for the massachusetts governor in next-door connecticut would have effectively ended his hopes of winning the nomination. even a close win over jackson might have been seen by party leaders as a sign of mortal weakness and sparked a movement to draft mario cuomo _ just in time for the governor's home state new york primary on april 19
instead, dukakis triumphed in connecticut with 59 percent of the vote to 28 percent for jackson, a solid win by anybody's reckoning _ even if it was in friendly new england _ and bought himself the time he needs to regroup for wisconsin
his aides say he will campaign energetically there, a response to the critics who complained that he seemed to give short shrift to michigan. dukakis lost by about the same margin there as he won by in connecticut
these aides also say he will set out the differences with jackson in wisconsin in a way he hasn't done before
dukakis no doubt wishes that someone else will do the work for him. the media, the party leaders who fear a debacle if jackson heads the democratic ticket in the fall and other politicians are all candidates for the heavy lifting
gore, in fact, stepped in even before the dimensions of dukakis' big win _ and his own poor, 7 percent finish _ were known from connecticut
we're not choosing a preacher. we're choosing a president,'' he said in new york during the day
gore credited jackson with having ``energized millions of voters'' and having offered ideas on drugs and the economy
but i part company with him over his opposition to such mainstays of our national defense as the f-15 and the cruise missile,'' he said. ``i categorically reject his notion that there's a moral equivalence between israel and the plo. and i am dismayed by his embrace of (plo leader yasser) arafat and (cuban leader fidel) castro.''
jackson, campaigning in east harlem when told of gore's remarks, said, ``the senator should not discriminate against someone because they are a preacher, a priest or a rabbi.''
i assume that he is stimulated by his own status in the campaign to attack me. i am stimulated to keep hope alive,'' he added
that was jackson's way of saying that gore was attacking him out of desperation. the tennessee senator, three weeks after his strong super tuesday showing, is still searching for a place to demonstrate srtrength in the north. he has the added embarrassment of having lost eligibility for federal campaign funds, at least temporarily
gore's attack was unprecedented in the democratic campaign, and in the curious language of politics, an indication of the new stature that jackson gained along with his michigan caucus victory last weekend
for months the white candidates have basically let jackson alone _ assuming he posed no threat of winning the nomination _ even as they jabbed and poked at each other
candidates generally refrain from attacking someone who isn't getting in their way in a campaign, particularly if he has millions of followers whose votes may be needed later
but when jackson won several super tuesday states, followed up with a strong second place showing in the illinois primary on march 15 and scored his stunning victory in michigan last weekend, he stopped being a sideshow and became part of the main event
and at dukakis' expense
the governor's endorsements, the organization, the fundraisers, the solemn whispering by aides of dukakis' inevitability all seemed on the verge of being washed away in a michigan landslide
jackson knew exactly how to ridicule the trappings of a campaign
we don't have no rolls royces and no big stretch limousines on the road to the white house,'' he said in connecticut. ``we're walking but we know the road better.''
jackson can outdo dukakis in rhetoric at every turn
the governor talks of his greek immigrant parents' journey to success in the new world with genuine feeling. here's what jackson says to his supporters, many of them struggling daily with poverty:
i'm almost to the top. but i came from the bottom. i really understand.''
country musicians buck owens and roy clark will be reunited tonight as ``ol' pickin' and grinnin''' for a 20th anniversary celebration of ``hee haw.''
owens left the syndicated television show three years ago to pursue other business interests. clark remained as host of the program, joined by other country music stars as co-hosts
it's great to have him (owens) back,'' clark said tuesday after appearing before the oklahoma senate to accept a resolution naming march 30 as ``hee haw country music and entertainment day.''
sam lovullo, the producer of the program, said 104 entertainers are scheduled to participate in the show, including roy acuff, minnie pearl, george jones, kenny rogers, conway twitty, mel tillis and loretta lynn
the two young sons of prince charles encountered the likenesses of some their most violent royal ancestors during a visit to an exhibition of horrors
william, 5, and henry, 3, went on an hour-long tour of the converted warehouse known as the london dungeon on tuesday accompanied by two detectives and a governess
the princes saw life-size models of charles i, who tried to rule parliament and was beheaded; king henry viii, who had two of his six wives beheaded; and henry's catholic daughter mary tudor, who burned her protestant subjects at the stake
the boys, whose father is heir to the british throne ``seemed to enjoy their hour or so with us,'' said the museum's promotion manager peter jay
joe m. rodgers, the u.s. ambassador to france, had hoped to arrange for the grand ole opry to perform at his fourth of july bash in paris, but he may have to settle for a jazz combo
we had hoped to get some square dancers or cloggers or such from opryland for the annual july 4th celebration at the embassy, but the idea is falling through because that is the busiest time of year for opryland,'' said rodgers, a successful contractor and nashville native
the embassy throws a july 4th party every year, according to embassy officials. about 1,800 people attended the festivities last year
anthony andrews, the costar of a forthcoming cbs movie about king edward viii's romance with a commoner, started life poor but married well and now rubs shoulders with royalty
andrews plays the english king who abdicated for love and created a pre-world war ii constitutional crisis in ``the woman he loved.'' jane seymour portrays wallis simpson, the american divorcee he married
known to american viewers for his starring role in the masterpiece theater series, ``brideshead revisited,'' andrews grew up in a part of london he describes as ``lower middle class and stable working class,'' tv guide says in its april 2 issue
his life took another turn when he married actress georgina simpson, heiress to a department store fortune. they have a country house in hampshire, horses and three children
despite his affection for the royal family _ princess anne is godmother to his youngest child, amy-samantha _ andrews is disdainful of edward, who later became the duke of windsor
it was an extraordinary thing to do _ to have decided to throw all our heritage to the wind and upset the constitution of the country,'' he said
cable tv operator ted turner says his new 24-hour television network will be free of ``sleazy sex'' when it begins operation next fall
it's a new project. that makes it kind of exciting,'' turner said tuesday. ``you don't know exactly what's going to happen. it's kind of like `gone with the wind,' half way through you're not sure the south is going to lose.''
turner network television is scheduled to be offered to cable operators on oct. 3
we aren't going to have the tyranny of being totally dependent on advertising revenues,'' turner said. ``when that's the case, you have to go for the largest audience and unfortunately the programs have a lot of gratuitous violence or a lot of sleazy sex.''
oscar hopefuls for 1988 gathered for the seventh annual nominees' luncheon and heard academy president robert wise advise them to ``calm down, take a deep breath and enjoy the honor that your peers have given to you.''
as in previous years, many of the top nominees were no-shows tuesday. among the best actors, michael douglas and robin williams appeared. sally kirkland was the only nominee present of those in the best-actress category
albert brooks was the sole nominee for supporting actor in attendance, and anne archer and anne ramsey represented the supporting actresses
the nominees sipped chablis, ate the bevely hilton's tuna luncheon and posed for a group photograph
long-time nbc spokesman m.s. ``bud'' rukeyser is leaving the network to go into business for himself
rukeyser, 56, said tuesday he would leave may 1 and plans to be a consultant to media companies
he has been at nbc for 30 years, the last 15 as executive vice president for communications
for 15 years, i've been whispering in the ears of four different chief executive officers. i thought if i was ever going to do something else, try something on my own, it was going to have to be now or never,'' rukeyser said
three people died in a fire that heavily damaged the cuban consulate on tuesday night. consular officials kept firefighters away for 15 minutes while they telephoned for permission to let them in, police said
the three victims _ two men and a woman _ were found in different rooms of the top floor of the four-story, 19th century mansion on the slopes of mount royal, said raymond therrien, a fire director
he said he presumed the three, whose identities were not available, were all consular employees and that they died of smoke inhalation
therrien said the fire was believed to have started on the top floor, where firefighters found unrolled fire hoses. the cause of the blaze was not known
consulate officials would not let firefighters battle the fire until about 15 minutes after they arrived, police said
they've got their own security and their own fire people working inside,'' police sgt. ulrich pilon told reporters at the scene. ``when they saw it was out of control they let the (firefighters) in.''
pilon said a security guard in a condominium across the street had phoned to say he saw smoke coming from the consulate's attic
there were one or two fire trucks there when we arrived,'' pilon said. ``after we talked with the consul and she checked with her officials in ottawa, they let the firemen in.'' the consul, whose name was not immediately available, took up her post a week ago
therrien said about 10 people were removed from the older part of the consulate where the fire raged, and that the fire-fighting effort was hampered by the consulate's barred windows
the blaze did not reach a recently completed wing of the building
the consulate is across the street from the house of former prime minister pierre trudeau and dozens of onlookers stood on his lawn to watch the blaze
the delay by the cubans is similar to an incident in january 1987 when soviet officials kept firemen waiting for a quarter of an hour before letting them fight a blaze that destroyed the soviet consulate in montreal
while firemen waited perched on ladders, soviet officials hustled boxes of documents out the back door into parked cars. others inside the building tried to douse the flames with chemical extinguishers and buckets of snow
here is the current breakdown of all the votes cast in the primaries so far. for each candidate the total is calculated by adding together the votes the candidate received in each of the primaries
62,567 of 62,839 precincts reporting -  99.6 percent

dukakis, 3,094,107 -  26.2 percent
gore, 2,635,730 -  22.4 percent
jackson, 3,211,084 -  27.2 percent
gephardt, 1,261,582 -  10.7 percent
simon, 904,044 -  7.7 percent
babbitt, 71,372 -  0.6 percent
hart, 311,541 -  2.6 percent
uncommitted, 202,102 -  1.7 percent
others, 99,464 -  0.8 percent

total states with primaries so far -  23

63,428 of 64,665 precincts reporting -  98.1 percent

bush, 3,970,811 -  56.9 percent
dole, 1,705,842 -  24 percent
robertson, 833,894 -  11.9 percent
kemp, 343,417 -  4.9 percent
du pont, 51,335 -  0.7 percent
haig, 25,578 -  0.4 percent
uncommitted, 46,887 -  0.7 percent
others, 3,820 -  0.1 percent

total states with primaries so far -  23
file stored as: y1406z a43 0193 23:39 03-29 ----- upbx am-pp-pres-totvot-sum,190
send;y1406z dsa ok
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primary in connecticut on tuesday
739 of 739 precincts reporting - 100 percent
bush, 72,867 - 70 percent
dole, 20,975 - 20 percent
robertson, 3,410 - 3 percent
uncommitted, 3,187 - 3 percent
kemp, 3,360 - 3 percent 
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential primary in connecticut on tuesday
739 of 739 precincts reporting - 100 percent
dukakis, 139,968 - 58 percent
gephardt, 1,018 - 0 percent
gore, 18,542 - 8 percent
jackson, 68,193 - 28 percent
simon, 3,136 - 1 percent
uncommitted, 1,924 - 1 percent
babbitt, 2,512 - 1 percent
hart, 5,767 - 2 percent
jesse jackson drew about 20 percent of the white vote in connecticut but a sizable percentage of democrats said they would vote republican in november if jackson were the nominee, exit polls showed
in addition, jackson lost the support of blue-collar white workers in connecticut to michael dukakis, the polls by abc news and wnbc-tv said
jackson has improved his showing with whites, but not the working class whites he's supposedly been getting,'' said abc poll analyst john brennan. ``those have been won decisively by mike dukakis.''
signs of jackson's weakness in a fall campaign were also evident in the survey findings. thirty-three percent of democrats told abc they would abandon the party and vote for george bush if jackson were nominated, compared with 13 percent if dukakis were the nominee and 24 percent if gore received the nomination
that third of the democrats who'd vote for bush if jackson were nominated include a plurality _ 45 percent _ of the democrats who voted for dukakis
sixty percent of the democrats, including a third of those who voted for jackson, said they believe dukakis will be the nominee, wnbc found. only 20 percent said they think the country is ready to elect a black president
dukakis won all demographic groups except blacks, and abc found that 79 percent of democrats said they would support him against bush in november. just 56 percent said they would support sen. albert gore jr. against bush and only 52 percent of democrats said they would back jackson against bush
still, the wnbc poll found some softness in dukakis' support: 45 percent of his voters said they wished there were other candidates running
he's swept all groups except blacks,'' said poll chief laurily epstein. ``but there's disquieting news in that it's not enthusiastic support.''
abc found that jackson did not draw a much greater share of black voters to the process; their 8 percent of the total was up just 1 point from 1984. and jackson's white supporters were primarily well-educated liberals; dukakis, governor of neighboring massachusetts, won blue-collar workers by a 2-to-1 margin
he (jackson) is increasing his white vote,'' brennan said. ``but given the profile of his white vote it's doubtful at this point that he is competitive.''
brennan noted that jackson's share of the white vote was about the same in massachusetts and rhode island and greater in vermont early this month, before his victory saturday in the michigan caucuses. the wnbc poll found no evidence of movement to jackson after his michigan victory
there's been a misconception that jackson has made some kind of substantial breakthrough with the white vote,'' brennan said. ``i don't think that's happened.'' there was no exit polling in the michigan caucuses, which, as is customary for caucuses, drew relatively few voters
there also was a hint of potential trouble for bush in the general election: the 40 percent of republicans who said he not has told the full story of the iran-contra affair tended to support him less strongly. ``among those for whom it's an issue, it's hurting him,'' epstein said
bush still was viewed favorably by 75 percent of the republican voters, and unfavorably by 18 percent, in wbnc's poll. dukakis was viewed favorably by 70 percent of democrats and unfavorably by 10 percent
jackson was viewed favorably by about half democrats and unfavorably by a third, while gore's rating was 40 percent favorable, a quarter unfavorable. only one in seven gore supporters think he will be the party's nominee
the wnbc poll included 1,700 voters and had a margin of sampling error of 3 points. abc's poll had 1,277 voters and a 5-point error margin
arnold i. burns, the high-ranking justice department official who announced his resignation tuesday, spent most of his career as an attorney in new york
burns, 57, had served as deputy attorney general _ the no. 2 slot at justice _ since july 24, 1986. he had been associate attorney general for a short while before his promotion
burns was not viewed as an ideological conservative at the department in contrast to some of the other people who worked with attorney general edwin meese iii
perhaps the most attention burns attracted came after the exposure in november 1986 of the sale of weapons to iran and the diversion of profits to the contras, the so-called iran-contra affair
burns was involved in meetings with justice department officials on nov. 25, 1986, the day meese announced the iran-contra affair publicly for the first time
according to a report by congressional committees that investigated the iran-contra matter, meese asked burns to ensure that white house officials had sealed the offices of oliver l. north and john m. poindexter, two national security aides involved in the matter
burns forget to make the call and failed to reach white house counsel peter wallison until nov. 26, the report said. wallison, it turned out, said the documents had been secured by a security officer
a native of new york, burns graduated from union college and received his law degree in 1953 from cornell university
before coming to washington, burns was a senior partner at the new york law firm of burns, summit, roving and feldesman, a firm which he founded in 1960. burns is married and has two children
here is a transcript of sen. bob dole's comments tuesday as he ended his bid for the republican presidential nomination
well, i am very honored to be here today, and i appreciate all my _ many of my _ most all of my colleagues being here, many from the house, and my good friend, pat moynihan. pat, appreciate your being here, too
and we're not going to say anything mean about anybody, so you _ it's about _ it's going to be a non-partisan statement, not going to attack any republicans. so in any event _
but nearly five months ago, i went home to russell, kan., to declare my candidacy for the highest office the american people can bestow
it was only natural that i should begin my campaign for the presidency on main street, among those from whom i have always drawn my strength and identity
today, here i am, ``bloodied but unbowed,'' as the poet says, reminding you that there was a special reason this year for those of us on the republican side to walk, or in my case, to run the extra mile
and that reason is the national interest
the nation is entering a period in which there are great dangers and great challenges, and i entered this race convinced that to solve our problems and realize our potential, america requires strong leadership
the kind forged in the crucible of governance
the kind that is sensitive to how ordinary people live, and attuned to their extraordinary possibilities
i ran for my party's nomination because i was determined to lead a dialogue on issues that matter, issues that i care passionately about, involving the national defense and fiscal integrity of this country, profoundly interrelated issues i feared would get lost in the shuffle
i wanted these issues to be a part of a crucial dialogue about this country's future
it matters if we have this hostile soviet client state the sandinistas are building in our own backyard
it matters if we have this monster deficit looming up like a tidal wave in our future
and it matters how we deal with these issues, whether we mortgage our future to them or whether we make certain that the buck stops here, and future generations don't have to pay up because of our cowardice
my campaign has been an appeal for all republicans to recognize and celebrate the diversity of america
no party can govern that is not truly representative of this nation of nations
and no president can succeed who promises confidence, but withholds compassion
i seek a party as strong in its commitment to equal rights as to its military and economic pre-eminence, for the defense of american freedom, whether at home or abroad, is ultimately indivisible. its success depends on a house united and leadership with the will to win
now, i know and my friends know that i am a fighter, and i don't like to lose
and i make no apology for that. it's simply the way i am
they also know that i am an optimist
if i weren't, i wouldn't be standing here today
and i have been beaten before, and no doubt, will again
but i have never been defeated, and never will be, so ..
my wife elizabeth and my daughter robin are beside me today, as they have been throughout this campaign
we have become even closer because of this journey. and i'll always be grateful for their love and support
bill brock, and bob ellsworth, and nancy kassebaum ... and countless and hundreds of others _ my colleagues in the house and the senate; staff members; and members of the dole for president committee all across america; volunteers, both here today and across the country, have made this campaign a labor of love, and my thanks seem hardly enough
more than one and a half million americans have honored me with their support in primaries and caucuses, and for that, i will always be humble
the one thing you learn how to do pretty well in our business is to count
you come to trust your instincts to tell you when it's over
and in my heart, i know that time is now
and so i congratulate george bush, and wish him well in november, because as i've said many, many times, the bottom line is keeping the white house republican; that's the bottom line
so today i've come to the end of one road, but the journey is far from over
when people ask me why i ran for president, i will say because i wanted to make a difference
and that desire will remain with me for as long as i live
ronald reagan has made an historic difference for america
he has set us on a renewed course to renewed prosperity, greater security, and more hope and more opportunity for each and every american
but there is much more work to do
so i return to the senate as the republican leader, eager to engage there the issues that confront america, and ready to do all i can to elect republicans in november, and doing all i can for our nominee, george bush
thank you very much
william s. weld, head of the justice department's criminal division until his resignation tuesday, is a well-known figure in massachusetts where he served as a successful federal prosecutor
weld, 42, a member of a distinguished republican family in his home state, spent five years as the u.s. attorney in massachusetts before he came to the nation's capital in 1986
during his tenure in massachusetts, he led investigations that resulted in the indictments of associates of lyndon h. larouche jr., the political extremist. he also prosecuted money-laundering cases against several new england banks
before he moved into the criminal arena, weld was a civil litigator for a decade at hill and barlow, a boston firm. he once said he had a hard time getting started as a prosecutor
it took me six months to learn where the bathroom was,'' he said
weld has stellar academic and political connections. a summa cum laude graduate of harvard college, weld also studied at oxford university in england. he received his law degree from harvard in 1970
during 1974, he worked as a minority counsel for the house's impeachment hearings during the watergate episode
in 1978, he ran unsuccessfully as the gop nominee for the attorney general in massachusetts
weld is married to the former susan roosevelt, and they have five children. celebrities</head>
fresh flowers, catered refreshments, a smiling flight attendant, a fill-up and a clean windshield _ it's all part of the service offered by a network of ``pit stops'' for the nation's corporate jets
the network, operated by pueblo, colo.-based flower aviation, also features a mini-skirted service attendant named tana zipsie, who directs the jets as they line up at mount vernon-outland airport here
it's always fun when we get a jet in,'' said ms. zipsie, 20. ``it makes a person probably have a better day if they're greeted with a smile.''
to these corporate passengers, time is money. in 10 minutes, flower's ground crews can refuel a jet, restock on-board supplies, dump the trash, vacuum the carpet and wipe the windshield, said stan jones, the company's local general manager
flower specializes in obscure airports, like mount vernon, where amenities are scarce. the company also has flight pit stops in salina, kan., and fort smith, ark., and has plans for three more midwest bases
most of the flower flight stops are open 24 hours daily, year-round. mount vernon is open from 6 a.m. to midnight
i haven't seen anybody unhappy when they left here at all,'' jones said recently. ``that's the idea, anything they want. treat them like royalty.''
when they arrive at mount vernon in the summer, passengers are presented with flowers, usually fresh daisies. they're led indoors to a plush lounge for refreshments and homemade chocolate chip cookies
and if they're hungry, flower also offers catered foods _ from rolled slices of turkey, ham and roast beef to chilled shrimp and crab legs
if pilots radio in ahead of time and mention the password, ``spin,'' they take home a bottle of champagne and a frozen steak, said jones, who declined to discuss his company's rates
this is a vacation for me. all the pressure is down,'' said gary garrison, a corporate pilot from nearby olney. ``it's just a time for me to relax when the airplane is down like this
and they're very accommodating to you,'' garrison added. ``you can take their car and go uptown and eat if you like.''
some passengers, said jones, take time to golf, fish or shop. ``we have guys that get out of the airplane and jog around the ramp out there, in all kinds of weather.''
though most of their business comes from business people, jones said they also get celebrities, like singer mickey gilley and race car driver mario andretti, military officers, politicians and wealthy private parties
jones said he could provide no figures on the number of daily flights that used flower's services at mount vernon, but he noted that business picks up in the summer, with up to a dozen jets lined up on the tarmac
a cloth diaper importer has offered this town a year's worth of free diapers to show his appreciation for the town fathers' refusing to let welfare recipients buy the disposable kind
philip d. anderson, president of empire trading co. ltd. of syracuse, n.y., said he will supply as many cotton diapers as the town needs at no charge
he said his offer was prompted by a news story about the town's feb. 16 decision to remove disposable diapers from the list of allowable local welfare expenses
anderson said his company supplies diaper services and mail-order houses with chinese-made diapers designed to retain their shape after laundering
the town's policy change has drawn support from environmentalists and fiscal conservatives who agree with the choice of traditional cloth diapers as an appropriate technology that saves taxpayers' money
critics have accused lisbon officials of making a rash decision to balance the budget on innocent babies' bottoms
in a letter to the times record in nearby brunswick, peggy cotton of west bath said the restriction was ``for a baby who's helpless'' and she suggested that town officials ``get their savings someplace else.''
connie a. france, lisbon's welfare director, recommended the policy because throwaway diapers cost $10 a box, while cloth diapers, even with laundering costs considered, are less of a drain on the town's welfare budget
france said it would be up to the selectmen whether to accept anderson's offer. but, she added, ``i'm sure they will.''
france said she had no idea how big a diaper demand there was over a year's time but, pending the selectmen's decision, she would order a gross of diapers from anderson
the welfare director said that while the diaper rules may have caused a stir outside lisbon, there have been no complaints from her clients
town manager john bubier said lisbon officials have received letters and phone calls from across the country in response to the diaper policy, with ``about 98 percent of them'' backing up the selectmen
he said 200 to 300 individuals in this town of 12,000 usually receive public assistance benefits during the course of a year. the local welfare budget totals about $35,000
federal authorities charged a california man tuesday with intent to distribute after seizing 189 pounds of cocaine worth more than $40 million when the car he was in was stopped for speeding
orlando rene monie, 33, of los angeles appeared in handcuffs before a u.s. magistrate, and a bond hearing was set for friday
officials called the seizure by far the largest cocaine haul on record in iowa. agents said the largest prior seizure they could recall was a 12-pound haul in davenport last year
public safety commissioner gene shepard said two suitcases of cocaine were found in the trunk of a car stopped for speeding monday afternoon near the atlantic exit on interstate 80
the trooper who pulled the car over had become suspicious and asked to look inside the trunk, shepard said
he saw several suitcases, one of which appeared to be leaking a white powdered substance,'' shepard said. the trooper called for help, and a dog trained to detect narcotics was brought to the scene
the dog indicated there were controlled substances in the containers,'' shepard said
field tests concluded that the suitcases held cocaine, and monie was arrested along with a woman who had been driving the car and a second woman. a 2-year-old child in the car was turned over temporarily to county human services workers
the two women said they knew nothing about the suitcases in the trunk and were later released
state agents said the largest prior cocaine seizure in iowa they could recall was a 12-pound haul in davenport last year
the nikkei stock average closed at 26,319.98 points, up 366.89 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on wednesday
oba oba,'' with its brazilian entertainment, and the black swan dance company, with brazilian dance and guest dancer fernando bujones, opened in new york the same night
oba, oba,'' at broadway's ambassador theater, looks exactly like a show an american would expect to find at a rio de janeiro nightclub catering to tourists. one would expect to be exhilarated, and the performance here tuesday night was surprisingly delightful
costumes, dancing and musicians look like mardi gras on stage
before act 1 ended with a tribute to carmen miranda, one already had thought of her flamboyance
oba, oba'' is more than cheerful. its 50 or so performers exude an infectious spirit of joyfulness
references to slaves fighting and african religions in act 2 lead up to athletic and exotic dances, strictly entertaining, not seriously ethnic
in some dances, women wore tops and dance belts _ backless bikinis. because their manner wasn't naughty, it seemed simply another costume
singing star eliana estevao has a beautiful voice
a limited engagement for ``oba, oba'' has been announced
at the city center, the 10-year-old black swan dance company, from sao paulo, brazil, opened for a week
guest star fernando bujones is still the exciting dancer with dazzling technique he was when seen regularly here in american ballet theater
his partner tuesday in two pas de deux was beguiling, petite yoko morishita of hiroshima, japan
the program, over-long, included two folk dance numbers, an undistinguished pas de deux for ana botafogo and laudiney delgado, and two unusual character ballets
in the first ballet, ``who are you?'', vitorio casarim, has a dalliance in dance with a fiery woman, then with a demure one, and winds up in a clinch with a man in a black cloak we had thought until then was a priest
a more successful dance is based on sartre's ``no exit.'' julio lopes choreographs erotic solo dancing and some nudity. each one of a trio condemned to share a room in hell tries to entice the one he or she fancies, but that one always yearns for the third party. even a twitch from the third person can undo the seductive effect the first person begins to have on the second. kintanar, names of other communist rebels arrested. no pickup.</note>
the commander of the communist insurgency's army was among seven rebels captured this week, the military disclosed wednesday
romulo kintanar, the elusive leader of the new people's army, was presented at a news conference held wednesday by maj. gen. ramon montano, chief of the philippine constabulary, at a heavily guarded suburban manila military camp
the seven rebels, who were arrested in a series of raids tuesday, also include communist party secretary-general rafael baylosis; central committee member benjamin de vera; and the chief of staff and logistics officer of the new people's army, napoleon manuel
of the seven rebels captured, only baylosis did not appear at the news conference wednesday. montano said baylosis had refused to be photographed
the arrest of the rebels was seen as a significant breakthrough in the government's 19-year battle against the communist insurgency
president corazon aquino immediately hailed the arrests and commended the armed forces chief of staff, gen. renato de villa, and other officers
the arrest of top communist leaders rafael baylosis, benjamin de vera and several others is happy news for our country,'' mrs. aquino said in a statement read by press secretary teodoro benigno
it clearly demonstrates that we have turned the tide and are winning the war against the communist insurgency. the fact that they were arrested on the npa's 19th anniversary (tuesday) attests to the admirable performance of our armed forces of the philippines. i am elated and so is our citizenry.''
the statement apparently was prepared before officials realized that kintanar was among those arrested in raids tuesday in the manila suburb of san juan. officials said kintanar initially gave authorities a false name
kintanar had long been wanted by the military
besides being the alleged head of the 24,000-strong new people's army, he is widely believed to be the organizer of communist urban assassination squads called sparrow units because of the swiftness of their attacks
kintanar organized the sparrows, which began operations in the southern davao city in the early 1980s before moving out to the manila area and other urban centers
military authorities did not mention kintanar when they announced the arrests tuesday. he apparently used the alias of mario asuncion because no person with such a name was among the rebels presented to the press wednesday
the others arrested were kintanar's wife gloria; manuel's wife inez; and marco palo, a member of the communist party's liaison committee jailed under deposed president ferdinand marcos. palo was among 500 political prisoners mrs. aquino released soon after assuming power on feb. 25, 1986. state murkowski represents.</note>
american builders are being urged to bid on japanese construction projects and test a settlement of the bitter dispute over their exclusion from that country's public works boom
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter and japanese deputy chief cabinet secretary ichiro ozawa on tuesday jointly announced the agreement resolving one of the major trade conflicts between the two countries
ozawa and the u.s. chief negotiator, deputy trade representative michael smith, both urged u.s. firms to try out the new accord admitting them to bidding on japanese public works and semi-official construction
deputy u.s. commerce secretary w. allen moore said, ``our side feels fairly good about the outcome of these talks, but the real proof of access will be in the future.''
he said commerce secretary c. william verity next week plans to call heads of major u.s. construction companies to washington and ``urge them to take advantage of what we sincerely believe is a real opportunity.''
ozawa negotiated as a personal representative of prime minister noboru takeshita, who, he recalled, agreed with president reagan in january that the construction dispute could be solved amicably
it is my great pleasure to see a settlement that is amicable, mutually satisfactory and fruitful,'' ozawa said
yeutter said he wanted to pay tribute to takeshita and ozawa for their efforts. the settlement proves that through negotiation the two countries ``can manage difficult bilateral trade disputes,'' he said
officials said the accord provides for u.s. participation in construction of the offshore osaka international airport and some other projects on which the two governments had basically agreed last year
added to it were procedures for non-discriminatory bidding on other public works projects financed by the japanese central government, and a third category of local public works as well as private projects franchised or approved by the central government
these include airport terminals which u.s. builders said they have been prevented from bidding on despite an edge in experience and competitiveness. the agreement provides for bidding credit, to be granted for experience outside japan
officials said that besides the multibillion-dollar osaka airport project the agreement covers entry of u.s. builders in the bidding on $16.9 billion worth of other specific projects
officials said provisions were made for expanding the list, and the u.s. embassy in tokyo or the japanese foreign ministry can request a meeting on the agreement at any time, with an overall review set for 1990
moore said the vote in congress last year to bar japanese builders from u.s. projects in retaliation for the exclusion of u.s. contractors from the japanese market had contributed to wednesday's settlement. u.s. officials hope the agreement will work and that it will not be necessary to extend the u.s. ban, he said
a co-author of the legislation, sen. frank murkowski, r-alaska, said the pact ``appears to be workable'' and he hopes it turns out to be more than ``just a box wrapped with lovely paper and ribbon.''
the ultimate success of failure of this agreement will depend on the ... follow-through by our industry and by the government and industry in japan,'' he said
the dollar edged down after opening more than one yen higher in tokyo on wednesday, while stocks extended their rally to three days
the dollar began trading at 125.75 yen, up 1.38 yen from tuesday's close of 124.37 yen. after holding steady during the morning, it began declining and ended trading at 125.43, up 1.06 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues rose 366.89 points, or 1.41 percent, closing the day at 26,319.98
it was the first time the index had ended trading above the 26,000-level since last october's market crash. on tuesday, the nikkei gained 330.38 points
traders said stock prices were boosted by the stronger dollar and by gains on the new york and london markets on tuesday
dealers said trading on the foreign exchange market was quiet, with many corporate customers staying on the sidelines because of the end the japanese fiscal year on thursday
many participants, traders said, were continuing to cover dollar-short positions as they did on tuesday, when the dollar capped a 2.78-yen decline over four trading days and temporarily touched 123.87 yen, its lowest level since the first week of january
a bank of japan source said the dollar's recent fall ``was triggered by speculative movements bolstered by almost groundless factors.''
the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, described recent market intervention in support of the dollar by japanese and u.s. central banks as having been ``firm.''
but many market analysts have said bullish sentiments toward the yen remain because of healthly japanese economic fundamentals
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis scored a 2-1 primary victory over jesse jackson in the state next door to his own, while republicans handed vice president george bush an easy victory over bob dole, who quit the race before the polls closed
dukakis backers had been worried about jackson, who gained momentum in his decisive weekend victory over the massachusetts governor in the michigan caucuses
sen. christopher j. dodd, a connecticut democrat who endorsed dukakis only last week, said there had been ``a lot of anxious moments'' in the days before the presidential primary. but, he said: ``we've stemmed the tide.''
the massachusetts governor got the lift from his neighbors he had counted on tuesday, besting jackson 58 percent to 28 percent, according to final unofficial returns. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee lagged with 8 percent
this sends us back to wisconsin and colorado with a very good boost,'' dukakis said, looking ahead to next week's contests
speaking by a telephone link to connecticut supporters in hartford, dukakis said it had been ``a wonderful night and a wonderful victory.''
you're good neighbors and good friends,'' he said
dukakis walked away with 36 of the 52 connecticut delegates up for grabs, and jackson took 16
in the gop race, bush had 70 percent of the vote in the state where he grew up, to dole's 20 percent, according to unofficial final returns. bush took 25 of the 35 delegates at stake, while dole got the other 10
a poll released last week, before the michigan caucuses, indicated dukakis was favored by 50 percent of democrats to 16 percent for jackson, while 27 percent were undecided
jackson had strong showings in connecticut's cities and exit polling by wnbc-tv in new york showed jackson winning the votes of one of every five white connecticut democrats
four years ago, by comparison, jackson got 5 percent of the white vote. former hartford mayor thirman l. milner, jackson's connecticut chairman, said in 1984, jackson was seen only as ``a black voter's candidate.''
that is no longer the case,'' milner said. ``he is getting a cross-section of connecticut voters. i think his campaign is right on target.''
after the gop returns were in, bush called for ``a good unified effort for the fall.''
bush turned his attention to the general election before the primary results were in, since dole dropped out while connecticut polls were still open
the job you all did in connecticut got through to my opponents,'' bush said by telephone from wisconsin to about 200 supporters at a wallingford victory celebration
former television evangelist pat robertson, who ignored connecticut, said tuesday he couldn't dispute bush's lock on the nomination
unofficial final returns showed dukakis with 139,968 votes, jackson with 68,193 and gore with 18,542 votes
in addition, former colorado sen. gary hart had 5,767 votes, or 2 percent; sen. paul simon of illinois had 3,136 votes, or 1 percent; former arizona gov. bruce babbitt had 2,512 votes, or 1 percent; rep. richard gephardt of missouri had 1,018 votes, or 1 percent
hart, babbitt, and gephardt have all left the democratic presidential race. gephardt was the most recent dropout, abandoning his bid on monday
one percent, or 1,924 voters, chose the uncommitted line
the unofficial reurns showed bush with 73,020 votes; dole with 21,032; robertson with 3,415, or 3 percent; and rep. jack kemp of new york with 3,375 votes, or 3 percent; and another 1 percent, or 3,200, uncommitted
kemp dropped out of the gop race earlier this month
the senate finance committee has agreed to grant a fuel-tax exemption for farmers and other off-the-road diesel users on april 1 and to make corporations foot the bill
however, the future of the proposed relief remained in doubt tuesday because the house ways and means committee, which must originate tax bills, has scheduled no action on the diesel proposal. backers of the legislation are holding out hope that the house panel will approve a bill this week before adjourning for easter week
farmers, fishermen and others who use diesel for off-the-road business purposes traditionally have been exempt from the tax, which finances highway construction. but under a 1987 law aimed at preventing cheating, they must begin paying the tax on april 1 and then apply for a refund when they file their income-tax returns next year
the finance committee voted last week to grant these users relief from paying the tax at all but, because of budget restrictions, it acted to provide the exemption on oct. 1. at the direction of the committee, sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, the chairman, introduced an amendment tuesday that steps up the relief to april 1
georgetown university has agreed to provide homosexual groups with the same privileges given other campus groups, ending an eight-year legal battle over gay rights at the jesuit school
the consent order signed tuesday by judge sylvia bacon of the district of columbia superior court, university officials and members of gay student groups, means that georgetown must now provide equal treatment to gay groups
however the consent order includes a ruling by the district of columbia court of appeals that said georgetown does not have to officially recognize the organizations. for that reason, the school said it will not appeal the order to the supreme court
officials at the nation's oldest catholic university had argued that recognizing the groups would violate basic tenets of the catholic church, and imply endorsement of homosexual practices
this result has been a long time in coming, and it is gratifying to have georgetown admit that it was wrong all these years,'' said lorri jean, who first brought the case as a member of a lesbian group at georgetown law school in 1980. ``there's great satisfaction that a battle begun as a first-year law student has finally been won.''
bacon also put into effect an appeals court ruling that georgetown must also pay attorney's fees for the students, which are ``substantially in excess of half a million dollars,'' according to attorney richard gross, who represented one student group
states hoping to get title to abandoned shipwrecks of historic significance lying within their waters won't get those submerged treasures following a rejection of a house proposal strongly opposed by sport divers and some commercial salvage operators
the house defeated the measure on tuesday, 263-139, which was five votes short of the two-thirds majority required for passage. the bill passed the senate by voice vote on dec. 19
rep. norman d. shumway, r-calif., complained that under the bill, ``there is no legal, binding or enforceable way ... to ensure that the sport divers' right to dive on these wrecks, even for purely recreational purposes, will be protected by states.''
rep. e. clay shaw jr., r-fla., countered that ``its passage will go a long way toward preserving these archaeological treasures,'' although he agreed with shumway that the bill may discourage private exploration for undiscovered shipwrecks
without the bill, said rep. bruce vento, d-minn., dynamiting and other abuses by some reckless treasure hunters ``would absolutely guarantee for future generations that these shipwrecks, these valuable pieces of history, (would) be lost for all time.''
opponents complained that the bill had been brought to the floor under parliamentary ground rules usually adopted for abbreviated debate on non-controversial bills, with no amendments allowed
the bill's supporters, led by rep. charles e. bennett, d-fla., were expected to try to return the measure to the house floor under different rules which would allow opponents to introduce amendments and would require only a simple majority for passage. quotes from students, status of injured; other details; picks up 5th graf: `the accident ...</note>
two tour buses loaded with junior high school students collided tuesday night with a vehicle on the san mateo bridge and at least 12 people were injured, two of them seriously, the highway patrol said
many of the youths were trapped inside the buses for nearly an hour after the 9 p.m. accident until emergency crews cut openings through the twisted wreckage. other students crawled to safety through smashed windows, oakland television station ktvu reported
when we crashed into the other bus everybody started screaming and crying. the driver swerved but he still hit the bus,'' said kristi new, 13, modesto
i was sitting up and talking to my friend when i did a total flip,'' said callie stewart, 13, of modesto. ``everybody was screaming. after the bus stopped, people started hugging each other and asking if they were ok.''
the injured, some of them adults, were taken to st. rose and eden hospitals in alameda county, said a california highway patrol dispatcher in san francisco
two people taken to st. rose hospital were listed in stable condition, and two people, including the bus driver, were listed in serious condition at eden hospital in castro valley, according to hospital spokeswomen
about 70 teens were from loma linda and roosevelt junior high schools in modesto were aboard the buses, returning from san francisco international airport following a field trip to washington, d.c., the highway patrol said
the accident occurred in the eastbound lanes about two miles west of the toll plaza, which is on the almeda side of the 9.5-mile bridge linking almeda and san mateo counties, said lt. john thomas of the san mateo bridge district
the bridge was closed in both directions following the accident
chp officers at the scene said the buses collided and then crashed into a center-divider after a passenger car stalled on the bridge, which is about 20 miles south of san francisco. cq.</note>
amateur detective work by a dealer of rare hebrew books who paid $60,000 for a counterfeit, 15th century haggadah _ the prayer book of passover _ has led to the arrests of two men accused of selling the document
nobody in the world had this haggadah except the library in israel so that's why i bought it,'' says dov berlin, a brooklyn dealer of rare books
raphael podde, 45, of woodmere and gabriel reguer, 49, of anaheim, calif., were arrested tuesday at their homes and indicted for allegedly selling or trying to sell counterfeit haggadoth to dealers, federal prosecutors said
the haggadah, which recounts the story of the deliverance of the ancient hebrews from slavery in egypt, is read by jews during the passover holiday celebration, which begins friday evening
the documents were handwritten until the invention of the printing press in the late 1400s. scholars believe the haggadah was first printed in guadalajara, spain, in 1482
the only known edition from that printing is kept at the jewish national and university library in jerusalem, authorities said
berlin, with a business partner in israel, bought what he thought was a previously unknown copy of the guadalajara haggadah for $60,000
in a telephone interview, berlin said podde offered to sell him the rare haggadah in the spring of 1986, saying he had inherited it from the estate of his father
berlin said he began to doubt its authenticity a few months later after a friend told him that he had just been offered a chance to buy a supposedly genuine guadalajara haggadah. so, he went to israel to compare it with the original
there, he discovered differences in markings between the two documents and he later contacted the fbi after podde refused to buy back the phony haggadah, berlin said
prosecutors said the defendants made the phony haggadoth by printing photocopies of the original onto paper made in the late 15th century
the only way to tell it was a counterfeit was to go to israel to compare it to the original,'' said assistant u.s. attorney jonny frank
the indictment also accuses the defendants of selling three pages of the six-leaf counterfeit document to another dealer for $12,000 and unsuccessfully trying to sell two other phony haggadoth to two dealers for $90,000 and $100,000
podde, an italian citizen, was identified as an expert printer and restorer of ancient hebrew books. he and reguer are partners in the pardes rimonim press, a company that prints and sells limited editions of hebrew books
podde was arrested tuesday morning at his woodmere home, which also is where the printing company is located. reguer was arrested tuesday at his home in california
they were each charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud and three counts of wire fraud. each count carries a maximum sentence of five years in jail and a $250,000 fine
a broken romance, not political assassination, was the motive behind the shotgun killing of an indian judicial candidate by a lumbee indian who later committed suicide, a sheriff says
another indian, sandy gordon chavis, 24, was charged with first-degree murder tuesday as an accomplice in the slaying of julian pierce, a popular, 42-year-old legal services lawyer who was running for superior court judge in racially troubled robeson county
county sheriff hubert stone, who had initially called pierce's killing an assassination, said a friend of chavis, john anderson goins, 24, had been having problems with his girlfriend, whose mother was pierce's fiancee
two warrants were issued last week by the girlfriend's mother, charging goins with trespassing. goins felt pierce had something to do with it. he got mad and he killed him,'' stone said
goins' body, with a bullet wound to the head, was found in a closet at his father's home tuesday by police who had a murder warrant for his arrest. stone called the death a suicide
i can assure the world that there was no political involvement in the case,'' stone said at a news conference. ``i think the people of robeson county will understand that it's just another murder.''
on the eve of pierce's funeral today, however, some county activists said they doubted stone's conclusion
in light of our history here, any hasty conclusions to a murder in robeson county will always be highly suspect in the community,'' said the rev. mac legerton, director of the center for community action in lumberton
you got a few who believe it's the real thing, but i don't,'' said the rev. s.d. lewis, assistant pastor at hilly branch baptist church, a predominantly black church in lumberton. ``they're trying to pull a cover-up on us.''
before tuesday's arrest, commissioners in the county of 100,000 people in southeastern north carolina had urged the appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate pierce's killing because of fears it was racially linked
anger at what the indians called corrupt local government and entrenched racism in robeson county boiled over feb. 1, when two lumbees took hostages at the robesonian newspaper in lumberton, the county seat
the siege ended when the governor agreed to appoint a task force to investigate allegations that law enforcement was biased against racial minorities
indian leaders have also called for a special session of the legislature to change a law that would automatically hand the judgeship over to pierce's election opponent, district attorney joe freeman britt, who is white
gov. jim martin said tuesday he would continue to investigate the possibility of a special session. he also said he had talked with britt about a special prosecutor, but the district attorney ``was not prepared to do that.''
under state law, a special prosecutor could be appointed only if britt requested one from attorney general lacy thornburg
pierce was shot in the chest and side early saturday morning. gunmen blasted through a broken window in his kitchen door and entered the room to shoot him again in the head with a 12-gauge shotgun, stone said
stone said chavis said in a confession that goins had pulled the trigger on the pump shotgun that killed pierce. the gun belonged to chavis's brother, stone said
chavis accompanied goins, who was described as a longtime friend of his, during the crime, stone said
neither chavis nor goins, a security guard in raleigh who had recently dropped out of north carolina state university, had criminal records, stone said
contra and sandinista negotiators agreed on the cease-fire areas where rebels will begin gathering friday, and president daniel ortega urged the united states to discuss normalizing relations with nicaragua
the negotiators identified the cease-fire zones tuesday at the end of two days of talks in the southern outpost of sapoa, but failed to resolve other crucial issues, including when the contra rebels will lay down their arms
citing the cease-fire accord signed last week by sandinista and contra rebel leaders, ortega said in a speech tuesday the united states should begin negotiating a return to normal relations with his leftist government
we hope president reagan keeps his word. he has repeatedly said that the day the sandinistas sit down for direct negotiations with the contras, then the united states government would sit down and negotiate with the sandinistas
we hope he is a man of his word and immediately fulfills his word to accept bilateral conversations to deal with security issues that concern the united states with respect to nicaragua and with nicaragua in respect to the united states,'' ortega said. the discussions should focus on normalizing relations, not the internal policies of nicaragua, he said
ortega also urged the u.s. congress not to approve more contra aid in violation of last week's cease-fire agreement, in which the rebels agreed to accept only humanitarian assistance from neutral organizations
house negotiators later reached agreement in principle on $50 million in non-military aid to the contras and for children injured in the six-year war
u.s. aid to the rebels expired feb. 29 and contra leaders say reagan's inability to secure them continued military aid was a factor in their decision to sign the accord
after three days of talks in sapoa last week, the contras and sandinistas agreed to try to work out a lasting peace during a 60-day cease-fire that is to begin friday. the sandinistas also promised to restore democracy in nicaragua
a communique released tuesday night at the end of two days of talks in sapoa aimed at hammering out details of the cease-fire said the two sides had agreed on the size and location of zones where the rebels are to gather
the truce and zones _ two in the north, two on the caribbean coast and one in the south _ were agreed to only in general terms. the exact locations of the areas were not immediately disclosed
army chief of staff maj. gen. joaquin cuadra, the chief sandinista negotiator, said that issues including what supplies the rebels may receive and whether they must lay down their weapons remain to be decided when the talks resume in sapoa next week. under last week's sapoa accords, the main peace talks are to begin in managua on april 6
we are trying to guarantee the physical and moral security of our combatants,'' said aristides sanchez, head of the rebel delegation
ortega spoke on tuesday at a ceremony honoring anti-war activist s. brian willson of san francisco as a ``hero of peace.'' willson lost both legs last fall when a train ran over him during a protest at a u.s. navy weapons depot in concord, calif
in november, reagan said secretary of state george p. shultz was prepared to meet with the sandinistas ``once serious negotiations'' on a nicaraguan cease-fire were under way.the united states and nicaragua have not held direct talks since 1984
for years, ortega's government refused to meet with the contras, insisting instead on negotiations with the united states, while the reagan administration said the sandinistas must first talk with the contras
the sandinistas came to power in a revolution that ousted the rightist regime of the late president anastasio somoza in july 1979. the united states supported the sandinistas initially, but in 1981 began financing the contra insurgency. the civil war has ravaged the nicaraguan economy, created food shortages, and produced an unpopular military draft
it hardly merits a mention in most history books, but sweden is celebrating the 350th anniversary of its short-lived colonization of the new world and swedes' contribution to the american way of life
marking that long-ago foothold, sweden is putting on a traveling show of their emigrants' contributions that range from the zipper and coca cola bottle to ball bearings and monkey wrenches
the year-long celebration will begin with a 14-city u.s. tour in april by king carl xvi gustaf and queen silvia
swedish settlers disembarked on the shores of the delaware river on march 29, 1638, 18 years after the pilgrims landed farther north at plymouth rock, mass. at its peak, ``new sweden'' had 500 people, but within 17 years the swedes lost their colony to the dutch who then lost it to the british
it's not much to celebrate. we are a peaceful people and even then we had no knack for colonial work,'' said historian per sorbom of uppsala university
but it's a good excuse to make sweden a little more known in the united states and to give sweden an identity,'' said sorbom, who has organized an exhibition of inventions and innovations by swedish emigrants
sorbom's ``it's swedish'' exhibition will open april 19 in chicago and move in the autumn to los angeles
about 1,000 exhibitions, music festivals, seminars and other events are planned in the united states for the celebrations called ``new sweden 88.''
they include a display of the swedish crown jewels in washington and tributes to raoul wallenberg, the swedish diplomat credited with saving 100,000 hungarian jews from nazi death camps in world war ii. wallenberg disappeared toward the end of the war and there are occasional reports that he is still alive in a soviet labor camp after being seized by advancing soviet troops. the soviets insist he is dead
though the swedes' delaware colony had little impact on american history, it was the first page of nordic emigration
in the 19th century, before sweden became industrialized, emigrants fled poor farmlands that could not sustain the growing population
by 1900, 1 million people or one-quarter of the world's swedish population lived in the united states. the number of americans of swedish descent has grown to 4.3 million, compared to sweden's population of 8.4 million
among the swedish immigrants are many whose names have been virtually forgotten but not their contributions. they include:
alexander samuelsson. a glassblower from goteborg who emigrated in 1883, he won a design contest for a company selling its fizzy drink at soda fountains
coca cola wanted a bottle ``that would be recognizable even if it was broken in the gutter,'' said sorbom, and samuelsson's design is still in use
justus sjoberg. he moved to chicago from goteborg and changed his name to seeburg. he is credited with inventing the parking meter and the jukebox
gideon sundbach. in the early 1900s he patented the modern zipper
c.e. ``measurement'' johansson. his gauges for steelmaking became an essential element of henry ford's assembly line
sorbon said other displays in his exhibition range from safety matches to heart pacemakers to the hasselblad cameras used by american astronauts who landed on the moon
former president chun doo-hwan's younger brother confessed to stealing a fortune in cash, land and stocks and will be charged with embezzling at least $9.3 million, prosecutors announced today
senior prosecutor kang won-il said chun kyung-hwan broke down early today after 20 hours of interrogation and admitted he embezzled funds during his seven years as head of the semi-official saemaul (new community) movement
kang said chun, who at first denied the charges, confessed after being shown evidence and said he used the money for land and stock speculation
mr. chun has largely admitted to most of the charges after prosecutors showed him evidence and through cross-examination,'' kang said
kang said formal corruption and embezzlement charges were being prepared and chun would be charged today or thursday. if convicted, chun could receive punishments ranging from 10 years imprisonment to the death sentence
prosecutors said chun still denied charges that he peddled government influence and diverted funds overseas, according to kang
officials said he also blamed his surbordinates for taking most of the funds missing from saemaul, a huge nationwide organization founded in 1971 to promote urban and rural development
but kang, who has headed the investigation into saemaul, said there was extensive evidence implicating chun as the key figure in massive corruption involving embezzlement, influence peddling and extorting stocks, land and money from businesses
my investigators have already secured enough evidence to incriminate and prosecute chun,'' he said
prosecutors said chun was implicated in the misappropriation of $9.3 million. they said investigators were checking evidence chun embezzled another $6 million
the government investigation into corruption within saemaul has become a major political scandal. about 200 saemaul and government officials have been questioned about corruption or covering it up to protect former president chun and his family
five suspects were charged with embezzlement and fraudulent land sales tuesday night, prosecutors said, two of them top saemaul officials and brothers-in-law of the younger chun
one brother-in-law, hwang hung-sik, tried to commit suicide twice tuesday while in custody, once trying to jump from a five-story window
former president chun, who has not been implicated in the saemaul scandal, is on a private tour of the united states and met with president reagan at the white house last week
opposition parties are demanding the former president return to south korea immediately to explain his role in the saemaul scandal. opposition leaders charge the former president must have been involved in the affair
prosecutors say the younger chun, who was appointed by his brother, used his position as saemaul leader to divert government and private donations, sell influence and pressured businesses to make gifts of money, land and stocks
widespread government corruption was long suspected under the authoritarian chun regime. but criticism of the president and his family were not tolerated and the allegations were ignored
the younger chun resigned as saemaul chief in 1987 after being linked to underworld gangsters. he fled to japan april 18 when news of the government probe surfaced, but returned two days later to face questioning
president roh tae-woo, who took power feb. 25, is thought to have approved the saemaul probe to discredit the former president and end his predecessor's attempts to retain power and influence within the government
some chun loyalists were purged from the governing democratic justice party earlier this month and roh blocked the former president's attempts to retain substantial power as a government adviser
roh, a former general who helped put chun in power with military backing in 1980, promised during the presidential election campaign to root out and end official corruption. the party</head>
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson said he will remain in the race as encouragement to his supporters to stick with the party
in a news conference tuesday after kansas sen. bob dole withdrew from the race leaving robertson as the lone challenger to vice president george bush, the former television evangelist said he would push on for his supporters
even though it seems obvious now that george bush will be the winner,'' robertson said, ``i can't ask people who support me ... to stay in unless i'm willing to stay in to support them.''
the robertson campaign has used many first-time participants in its well-organized campaigns in caucus states
i know some of the people who support me might not go the distance without a champion of the conservative principles that they hold. i am going to continue to enunciate those issues,'' he said
robertson predicts he will have 300 delegates when the convention opens in new orleans in august
gov. tommy g. thompson says he had no intention of urging crossover voting in wisconsin's april 5 presidential primary when he commented about democratic candidate jesse jackson
but the head of the state democratic party says she feels the gop governor's remarks amounted to a ``deliberate attempt'' to involve republicans in the democratic vote
thompson said tuesday that some news reports ``greatly exaggerated'' the comments he made to reporters in his office monday
at the news conference, thompson was asked for whom he would vote if he were a democrat. ``if i were a democrat, i would vote for jesse jackson,'' he replied
as i told reporters, i do not believe in the opposition party's political philosophy, and that certainly includes that of jesse jackson
i support the republican party ... furthermore, i urge all republicans to vote republican in the primary election.''
suellen albrecht, chairman of the state democratic party, said she felt thompson, with his comments, had made ``a deliberate attempt to involve people in the democratic primary who shouldn't be there.''
wisconsin's open primary law allows voters to choose a party column without stating party affiliation
oklahoma sen. david boren has announced that he is supporting sen. albert gore of tennessee for the democratic presidential nomination
the announcement came tuesday in a statement released by boren's office
for our party to remain a majority party and to recapture the white house, we must appeal to voters in the south and southwest and to the more moderate voters around the country who make up the bulk of the electorate
i believe sen. gore is the candidate who can best appeal to these voters,'' said boren
the senior democratic senator said he has a good working relationship with rep. dick gephardt, d-mo., and sen. paul simon, d-ill. but he said gephardt's decision to drop out of the race and simon's struggling campaign have narrowed the democratic race to three men _ gore, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson
out of the three remaining candidates, sen. gore is the candidate most attuned to our concerns in the south and southwest
he is the candidate most committed to national security and he is the candidate best equipped to handle international concerns,'' boren said
indiana republicans should fight to preserve the school reforms of recent years and reaffirm the party's commitment for more education improvements in the future, says a top aide to gov. robert d. orr
i think we're a party of high expectations, and i would hope the platform statement on education has those high expectations,'' said john r. hammond
hammond, superintendent of public instruction h. dean evans and indiana state teachers association president damon moore endorsed a continuing program of education improvements during the gop's state platform committee's public hearing on issues tuesday
platform committee co-chairman daniel r. heiser, the clerk of the state appellate courts, said he believes education improvement will be a top priority of drafters of the 1988 campaign document, which will be adopted at the party's state convention on june 9
hammond said the republican party of the 1980s will be remembered for education reform just as the gop of the 1970s was known for efforts to control property taxes
police chief daryl gates says jesse jackson has spoken out more aggressively against drug abuse than any other presidential candidate
when jackson speaks about it, it really seems to have meaning,'' gates said
the chief quipped that jackson's anti-drug speeches sound so similar to his that ``sometimes i think he's been copying my speeches.''
however, gates, a staunch conservative, refused to say who would get his vote, declaring that he was ``thankful for the privacy of the voting booth.''
gates' comments were made tuesday after the county board of supervisors approved a motion by supervisor kenneth hahn to support the chief's proposal to create a multi-agency task force to combat drug trafficking. hahn has endorsed jackson's candidacy
the agency would be comprised of members of the u.s. customs service, the federal drug enforcement administration, u.s. coast guard, u.s. attorney's office, fbi, federal aviation administration, immigration and naturalization service and the department of defense
a woman 8{ months pregnant who complained of being jailed in handcuffs for an outstanding minor traffic ticket is wanted under another name on felony check fraud charges, authorities said
kimberly taylor, 21, who complained to edgewater police that an officer unnecessarily took her from her home at 5:20 a.m. saturday for a traffic charge, is wanted under the name kimberly addington
i couldn't believe it,'' mrs. taylor said monday, after a visit to her doctor, who said the baby could arrive any time. ``it was so stupid. you'd think they'd have better things to do than bother me on a saturday morning.''
edgewater police chief henry smith said the department will continue to investigate her complaint, but noted the other warrants raise questions about her credibility
a check of records showed that taylor, under the name kimberly addington, is wanted on an arapahoe county warrant issued in january for felony fraud by check
the northglenn police department has a warrant for a misdemeanor bad-check charge, and the thornton police department wants addington for failure to appear in court on a traffic offense
taylor said tuesday she was unaware of the other warrants, saying the charges stemmed from a case of mistaken identity
she conceded, however, that she once used the name addington, and edgewater officials said she used it saturday during her arrest
two northglenn officers went to taylor's house tuesday morning to arrest her on a bench warrant issued march 2 for fraud by check, but left after neighbors said she went to the hospital
she was back home tuesday afternoon and still had not delivered her baby
she was issued a ticket by thornton police feb. 26, 1987, for driving a defective vehicle and not having a valid driver's license or proof of insurance, an adams county court official said. a warrant was issued april 3, 1987, after she failed to appear in court march 25
douglas h. ginsburg, whose nomination to the u.s. supreme court was withdrawn because he once used marijuana, will join the faculty of the george mason university school of law as a visiting professor
ginsburg, who will remain a judge on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia, was one of four new law school professors appointed tuesday
law school dean henry g. manne said of ginsburg's drug use: ``i think it had nothing to do with his qualifications to sit on the supreme court'' or his qualifications to be a professor
the law school, which opened in 1979, has about 700 students
ginsburg, who will join the faculty in september, will teach courses in antitrust law and business regulations
a five-man crew and johnson space center flight controllers are in the middle of a 32-hour simulated mission to rehearse the real flight scheduled for august 4
nasa's first post-challenger shuttle crew ``launched'' tuesday on the mission that ends today at 5 p.m., and almost immediately began to confront potential problems it might face during an actual flight
the most severe problem occurred nearly six minutes after the 9:09 a.m. liftoff, when one of three main engines shut down prematurely, forcing the crew to simulate an emergency abort-to-orbit procedure, which it did successfully
later, the crew, commanded by frederick hauck, missed its first opportunity about 3 p.m. to deploy their primary payload
eventually, the rehearsed deployment was delayed a day when difficulties developed with the satellite's stabilizing gyroscopes and a booster
efforts to troubleshoot on-board problems were hampered even more when an orbiting tdrs satellite malfunctioned, forcing the crew to communicate with mission controllers through a network of ground stations rather than the satellite network
the crew is made up of hauck, pilot richard covey and mission specialists david hilmers, george ``pinky'' nelson and mike lounge
a federal judge threatened attorneys in the cocaine-smuggling trial of carlos lehder rivas with contempt if they again mention the name of panamanian gen. manuel noriega
noriega's name came up during the testimony of british pilot andrew barnes, 32. barnes told of having his twin-engine plane sabotaged last year after g-2, the panamanian secret police, questioned him about the death of noriega's personal pilot
we are trying one case here. mr. noriega will have his chance if and when he comes to trial,'' u.s. district judge howell w. melton admonished attorney robert w. merkle and defense attorney jose quinon
lehder, 38, is on trial on charges that he conspired with a group of jacksonville smugglers to import some 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978 to 1980
noriega's name came up after barnes mentioned the panamanian strongman in a letter he wrote last month to lehder. ``this whole thing has to do with noriega's indictment in the middle district of florida,'' he said
noriega is under indictment on drug smuggling charges in both miami and tampa
after the slaying last year in colombia, barnes said he was detained and questioned for two days in panama by g-2 about the killing allegedly carried out by the medellin cartel. the government alleges lehder is one of the cartel's leaders
the suggestion was that the people i worked for had murdered the pilot. ... it was not true,'' barnes said
merkle said he did not contend lehder was involved in the killing. merkle said noriega's pilot was killed because he had stolen cocaine while flying drugs for both the panamanian leader and the medellin cartel
following his detention, barnes was ordered out of the country and left aboard his private twin-engine plane. about an hour over the ocean, one of his engines went out, and then the other started failing
with the jury out of the room, merkle said, ``g-2 removed the backs of the magnetos in his engines and tried to kill him, plain and simple.''
barnes has pleaded guilty to one charge of conspiracy to import cocaine and faces a maximum seven-year sentence
although barnes testified that he flew some 3,000 kilograms for lehder in 1978 and 1980, he admitted under cross-examination that he was not aware of any of the drug flights listed in the indictment under which lehder is being prosecuted
lehder is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, of san pedro, calif., is charged only with taking part in a smuggling conspiracy
scattered showers and thunderstorms dampened a broad area from the great lakes to the lower mississippi valley today after 50-mph winds toppled a tree into a louisiana mobile home, killing a 2-year-old boy
snow fell on northern illinois, parts of wisconsin, southeast idaho and northwest wyoming. one to 3 inches of snow was reported in southeast wisconsin, and up to 2 inches at rockford, ill., late tuesday
the heaviest rainstorms were moving from western alabama into southeast louisiana on the heels of showers and thunderstorms that struck louisiana on tuesday afternoon and evening with high winds and a tornado
the winds knocked a large tree into a mobile home near bastrop in northeast louisiana, pinning 2-year-old orlando white and his 3-year-old sister, shahonda, in a recliner chair, said police chief stan neathery
orlando died at a hospital, neathery said. shahonda was treated for leg injuries and released
the tornado touched down in central louisiana, near bunkie, destroying two brick homes and injuring a 76-year-old woman
things were hitting me from every side,'' said ethel middlebrooks, treated for cuts and bruises at a hospital. ``i said, `thank you, lord.' he could have taken me, but he must have something planned for me.''
today's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms from southern and eastern texas to the lower mississippi valley, alabama, tennessee, the upper ohio valley, and the appalachian mountains; snow showers over the northern and central rockies and the northern high plains; scattered rain showers in the northwest, with snow showers in higher elevations and strong, gusty winds across much of the nation's southwest quarter
high temperatures were expected to be in the 50s or 60s in much of the nation; the 30s or 40s in the northwest to the northern and central rockies, the northern plains and the upper great lakes; the 70s in east tennessee and west virginia and the 70s and low 80s from southern california to southwest texas and in much of the central gulf coast states and southern half of the atlantic coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 6 degrees at west yellowstone, wyo., to 75 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 60 partly cloudy; boston 36 fair; buffalo 64 partly cloudy; charleston, s.c. 60 cloudy; cincinnati 45 showers; cleveland 66 windy; miami 73 fair; new york 41 fair; philadelphia 41 fair; pittsburgh 58 fair; portland, maine 27 fair; washington 48 fair
_central: bismarck 24 partly cloudy; chicago 34 foggy; dallas-fort worth 37 partly cloudy; denver 31 fair; des moines 28 fair; indianapolis 37 cloudy; kansas city 34 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 26 fair; nashville 42 cloudy; new orleans 70 thunderstorms; st. louis 33 fair
_west: albuquerque 37 fair; anchorage 32 snow; las vegas 47 fair; los angeles 57 fair; phoenix 57 fair; salt lake city 33 cloudy; san diego 59 fair; san francisco 48 fair
_canada: montreal 36 cloudy; toronto 45 fair
a man who helped organize a citizens' revolt against drug dealing in his neighborhood says he and his family are being chased out of town by drug traffickers because he dared to speak out
rick hargraves said tuesday he decided to speed up his previous plans to move after he was threatened with a pistol outside his home this week
they really don't scare me. ... i'm worried about my wife and kids,'' said hargraves, an unemployed mechanic who has owned a house on yakima's once-quiet south naches avenue for six years
the family's plight illustrates the rising frustrations of residents on the city's east side, who are faced with discarded hypodermic syringes on lawns, open drug dealing on sidewalks, and violence in the alleys
central washington is a drug hotbed, with cocaine and heroin carried north from mexico by people posing as migrant farmworkers, officials say. the influence of drugs has sent the yakima county crime rate, particularly murder and burglary, skyrocketing
drugs are a very serious problem over here. it far exceeds what i thought i would get into when i got here'' a year ago, said robert dreisbach, head of the u.s. drug enforcement administration office in yakima
the local dea task force, in place just over a year, has made 99 arrests, many of them upper echelon dealers and suppliers, he said
this used to be a beautiful neighborhood,'' said teresa ocampo, hargraves' neighbor and like him a member of the two-week-old south naches cleanup committee. ``now kids go outside to play and find syringes and put them in their mouth.''
while many committee members have preferred anonymity, hargraves, an unemployed mechanic, was outspoken
he talked with reporters about the committee's effort to record license plates of suspicious vehicles, and the anger of homeowners at seeing their values decreasing
on monday, while hargraves and his wife, jill, were standing outside their house talking with a television reporter, a vehicle pulled up to the curb and the passenger rolled down the window, hargraves said
the driver leaned over, pointed a gun at them, made three sounds like shots being fired, and then drove away, he said. police arrested two men a short time later, but hargraves said things have gone too far
the family purchased a house outside of town about two months ago, intending to leave the neighborhood as soon as they sold their present home. mrs. hargraves said they hadn't wanted to leave before then for fear drug dealers would take over the empty house
after monday's incident, however, they decided to move out right away and found a friend who was willing to live there
if she minds her own business they're not going to bother her,'' mrs. hargraves said. ``we were fine until we started fighting back.''
police chief pleas green said hargraves made the mistake of becoming a focal point in the anti-drug efforts, especially through media interviews and photographs
the average citizen is not equipped to fight drug dealers, dreisbach said
in this area most of the drug traffickers are armed with loaded automatic and semi-automatic weapons,'' he said. ``the number of drug-related homicides and assaults shows they do use them periodically.''
it's absolutely necessary that the american people be told why these six have resigned. it appears to be unprecedented in the history of the justice department. the department isn't operating when six resign together.'' _ sen. arlen specter, r-pa., following the abrupt resignation of two top justice department officials and four aides, reportedly over the continuing investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii by a special prosecutor
we hope president reagan keeps his word. he has repeatedly said that the day the sandinistas sit down for direct negotiations with the contras, then the united states government would sit down and negotiate with the sandinistas.'' _ nicaraguan president daniel ortega, urging the united states to discuss normalizing relations because of a cease-fire accord with the contra rebels
everybody was screaming. after the bus stopped, people started hugging each other and asking if they were ok.'' _ junior high school student callie stewart of modesto, calif., after two tour buses collided with a vehicle on the san mateo bridge, injuring at least a dozen people
a custody fight over an indian child found eating garbage after she was abandoned by her mother pits illinois courts against the tribal legal system, which her attorney fears will take her from her foster parents
the girl, 6-year-old eleanor armell, has nightmares over the possibility of being taken from the custody of her foster family, ``the only parents she has ever known,'' said her attorney, cook county public guardian patrick murphy
but diane la plante, an attorney for the tribe, the potawatmis, said tuesday that the tribal system is where the case belongs
it is entirely possible'' the tribal court would rule the girl should remain with her foster family, she said
the indian child welfare act of 1978 gives tribal courts jurisdiction in custody cases involving indian children. its aim is ``to stop the erosion of the american indian family and to protect american indian children,'' ms. la plante said after juvenile court judge claude whitaker delayed ruling on a motion by murphy
murphy asked the judge tuesday to postpone enforcement of his march 18 ruling to transfer the case to the tribal court of the potawatami indian reservation in mayetta, kan
murphy sought the delay while he is appealing the ruling, but whitaker said he would not consider the request until today because murphy failed to give ms. laplante adequate notice of his motion
this involves a very real little girl ... having nightmares and getting sick'' out of fear that she will be taken from her foster parents, murphy told the judge
lorraine swett, the girl's foster mother, had planned to testify tuesday and wept after whitaker delayed action in the case
if possible, i want her to stay with me. i've had her for three years, she's just like my own,'' mrs. swett said outside the courtroom
mrs. swett, 46, is a menominee indian. she and her husband, paul, a u.s. navy officer, have four children of their own. they moved to novato, calif., from the chicago area a year ago and eleanor was allowed to go with them
i want what's best for eleanor. she's been saying she wants to stay with me,'' mrs. swett said
eleanor, who was not in court, was found eating garbage in a chicago alley in april 1985. she was suffering from tuberculosis and lice and had been abandoned by her natural mother, michelle pawless, murphy contends
ms. laplante said the tribe was slow to become involved because murphy's office did not notify the tribe of the case, as required by law. but murphy contends ms. pawless did not tell his office that she was a potawatami until late last year
the girl's father, a winnebago indian, died in a 1985 car accident, murphy said
the winnebagos were the first to seek jurisdiction over the case, but her mother objected. ms. pawless relented in october when her own tribe moved to take over the case. pot</head>
an ex-conrail engineer sentenced to five years in prison for causing 16 deaths in amtrak's worst accident might not have been high on marijuana at the time, but deserves the maximum punishment, his judge said
rick l. gates, 33, of essex, md., deserved the sentence for causing the ``indescribable tragedy'' that killed 16 people jan. 4, 1987 near chase, md., baltimore county circuit judge joseph p. murphy said tuesday
he is fortunate that i am powerless to increase the sentence,'' murphy said in sentencing gates to five years and a $1,000 fine on one misdemeanor manslaughter count to which gates pleaded guilty feb. 16. under a plea bargain. gates admitted in a statement of facts to smoking marijuana on the train and failing to make several safety checks that might have prevented him driving the three linked engines into the path of the amtrak passenger train
i don't think any fair analysis can really result in the conclusion that he was stoned on marijuana at the time,'' murphy said. ``but what he did in terms of failure to follow procedures was to show us that he didn't give a damn. he just didn't care.''
in the plea bargain, the 16 original misdemeanor charges of manslaughter by locomotive were consolidated into a single charge. the move reduced gates' possible prison time from 80 years to five years
i would like you to know i accept full responsibility. i will never be able to forget,'' said gates, who wept along with relatives of the dead as excerpts of five victim impact statements were read into the record
the violent death of our daughter ceres is the most terrible event experienced by our family,'' dr. roger horn wrote. ``our hearts were crushed along with hers.''
gates was taken into custody immediately after sentencing. he could be eligible for parole after serving about 18 months, said sandra o'connor, the chief prosecutor and baltimore county state's attorney
donna shearer, gates' public defender, said he has not had a drink since undergoing treatment and has tried to help other alcoholics. ``he's leaning toward becoming an alcoholism counselor,'' ms. shearer said, who asked the judge for a two-year prison term, plus mandatory rehabilitation
ms. shearer said she was disappointed in the sentence but doubted that an appeal would be filed
more than 175 people were injured in the crash when gates missed a track signal and drove three linked conrail locomotives in front of the 660-passenger amtrak train traveling about 120 mph
mrs. o'connor said prosecutors decided to accept the plea after the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals ruled against post-crash drug testing in january. the plea bargain was announced as jury selection was scheduled to begin
blood samples from gates and brakeman edward cromwell tested positive for drug use. gates was unhurt in the crash and cromwell, who was granted immunity from prosecution, suffered a broken leg
a national transportation safety board report blamed the accident on gates' drug use and the absence of automatic emergency brakes on conrail engines
murphy, asked by prosecutors' that the sentence be used to send a message to other transporation workers, said, ``no matter what i do, we are at the mercy of people who will simply not behave properly behind the wheel of an automobile or at the stick of an airplane
there's nothing i can do that will deter those people. ... evil will always be with us.''
two southern mississippi congressional districts have selected nominees for seats that congressmen trent lott and wayne dowdy are giving up to run for the u.s. senate
in the 4th district runoff tuesday, brookhaven funeral home director mike parker, a 38-year-old political newcomer, defeated brad pigott, a 33-year-old jackson attorney, in the democratic runoff. thomas collins iii defeated andy taggart on the republican side. collins is executive director of the mississippi veterans home purchase board. taggart is a jackson attorney
in the 5th district, state sen. gene taylor of bay st. louis defeated glenn white of hattiesburg, while 43-year-old sheriff larkin smith of gulfport outdistanced hattiesburg businessman george robert hall, 57, in the republican runoff
in a runoff race for the democratic nomination for a vacant seat on the state supreme court, former attorney general ed pittman defeated laurel attorney jon swartzfager by a 3-to-2 margin
the races were left over from contests on super tuesday
two buses loaded with teen-agers returning from a visit to the nation's capital collided on a bridge that crosses san francisco bay, injuring at least 20 people and closing the span for more than two hours
the accident tuesday night began when a car with a flat tire stopped in the fast lane of the 9{-mile-long san mateo bridge, said california highway patrol investigator nick chouprov
the buses carried 72 youngsters from modesto junior high schools. the first stopped and was struck from behind by the second, according to chouprov
the youngsters suffered only minor injuries, according to thomas mcgarry, a spokesman for eden hospital in castro valley
the most seriously injured was bus driver charles ford, 60, of oakland who was in serious condition with stomach injuries, he said. ``it took 20 minutes to get him out of the bus,'' mcgarry said
the driver of the car that stopped for the flat, xiaoyun zhou, 38, of hayward, was in serious condition with head injuries
the teen-agers from la loma and roosevelt junior high schools were en route home from san francisco international airport, where they had returned from a field trip to washington d.c
when we crashed into the other bus everybody started screaming and crying. the driver swerved but he still hit the bus,'' said kristi new, 13, of roosevelt
callie stewart, 13, also of roosevelt, said she flipped over a seat during the accident
i was sitting up and talking to my friend when i did a total flip,'' she said. ``everybody was screaming. after the bus stopped, people started hugging each other and asking if they were ok.''
some of the youngsters said police officers and paramedics got them out through the windows of the vehicles
three students who suffered minor injuries were treated and released at eden, said mcgarry. the most seriously injured was todd johnson, 12, who had a fractured arm
st. rose hospital treated seven youngsters, including two students with minor nose injuries, said spokeswoman debbie bartling. ten other students were treated at hospitals for minor injuries, mcgarry said
the bridge that links san mateo and hayward is about 20 miles south of san francisco. `home'</head>
tv evangelist oral roberts said he will ask followers to donate another $8 million for his troubled medical school, but he did not repeat last year's warning that god would call him ``home'' if the drive failed
roberts, in a taped appearence tuesday on his son's program, ``richard roberts live,'' said he would reinstate the medical missionary program that the university canceled two months ago for lack of funds
now, by faith ... we will undertake a second year of scholarship. you heard me say it the way i said it, by faith, we will go for a second year,'' roberts said on the program, which was to be broadcast today
the evangelist agreed with his wife when she said their ``faith wavered a little'' when they announced cancellation of the scholarship program
the scholarships are provided to the students, who in return work in third world countries after graduation for several years as part of the roberts ministry
in 1986, roberts announced the drive to raise by march 1987 the $8 million needed to fund the scholarships and the medical school, saying he wanted his students to concentrate on their education without worrying about tuition
in announcing that fund-raiser, roberts said god told him, ``i want you to get this going in one year or i will call you home.''
on tuesday, roberts and his wife evelyn spoke via satellite from anaheim, calif., to a gathering of students, faculty members and university trustees in tulsa. the exchange was recorded for use on his son's program
the taped segment included statements from the chief financial officer of the university, and from auditor firms who said the $8 million raised last year was used to underwrite the total costs of the medical school for one year
medical students appeared confused when roberts made the announcement to reinstate the program. mark claussen, president of the junior class at the oral roberts university medical school, spoke out
i just want this to be clear, president roberts. two months ago, all of the students here were directly told that all money would be discontinued in may,'' claussen said
you fine young men and women ... have come face to face with the heart of christianity, living by faith,'' roberts responded. ``i've got no guarantees of what will happen in the future, as we try to serve our heavenly father.''
mrs. roberts interrupted her husband and said, ``two or three months ago, our faith wavered a little and that's what the confusion is.''
a girl in tawana brawley's school claimed 18 months ago that she had been abducted and sexually abused in a manner markedly similar to the details of miss brawley's story, according to a report published today
the teen-ager, who knew miss brawley, reported that she was grabbed by men in a green car and driven to a wooded area where she was sexually assaulted, according to a report in today's daily news, citing unidentified law enforcement sources
police in poughkeepsie investigating that case found that the charges were unfounded and that the girl had made up the story apparently to cover sexual abuse committed by a male relative
details of the 1986 incident have been turned over to the task force working on the brawley case under the direction of attorney general robert abrams
poughkeepsie police turned over the files after the earlier case was brought up by an anonymous caller on a local talk radio program, the report said
investigators are trying to determine whether the other student discussed the case with miss brawley as late as nov. 23, the day before miss brawley, who was then 15, claims she was abducted
miss brawley has said she was abducted nov. 24 in a green or blue car, taken to a wooded area and then sexually assaulted by at least six white men, including one who flashed a police-type badge
she was found after four days near her dutchess county home, covered with animal feces and with racial epithets scrawled on her body
abrams spokesman timothy gilles refused to comment on the news report
officials appealed to workers to end a walkout that has shut or crippled factories in a disputed southern region, but many pledged to stay home until the government bends to their demands, reports said today
people are sitting home, home, home, without noise and without demonstrations,'' a resident of stepanakert, the main city of the disputed nagorno-karabakh region, said in a telephone interview today
a bread factory, stores, medical institutions and other essential services were operating, but many factories still were shut down, said the man who answered the telephone at the official newspaper sovietsky karabakh
people say they are going to stay away until they get a decision from the government in their favor,'' said the man, who said he was not a journalist but refused to give further information about himself
he said he could not estimate the number of people who were staying away from work. reports in the official press provided information about the situation earlier in the week
constant appeals by authorities to get people to return to work received mixed results, said reports in the newspapers, which in recent days have been providing wide coverage to the walkout
newspaper reports said 120 of about 1,500 people showed up for work at a shoe factory monday morning, an insufficient number to run the plant
we're only two or three steps from catastrophe,'' plant director vasily atadzhanyan told the labor newspaper trud. ``we will pay huge fines for not fulfilling our obligations to our customers. we say directly: not coming to work is sabotage.''
officials have warned that workers who stay away from their jobs are hurting themselves and will not convince government and communist party authorities to take the predominantly armenian region away from the azerbaijan republic and annex it to neighboring armenia
instead, authorities have unveiled a plan to spend up to $640 million to improve social and economic conditions in nagorno-karabakh
trud said people in stepanakert are grateful for the government's efforts, but that some still believed it was necessary to stay away from work to press their demand to transfer control of nagorno-karabakh to armenia
pravda, the communist party newspaper, said many residents of stepanakert also were upset about coverage of the unrest by the official press
the newspaper sovietskaya rossiya said about 100 specialists and workers appeared for work at an electrical-technical factory tuesday morning
yesterday we held yet another meeting, and again communists voted to go to work,'' plant director b. arushanyan said. ``the first results, however, are not great. but all the same we've started to work and this number will provide an example for others.''
ninety percent of the workers at a plant manufacturing construction materials appeared at work monday morning, only to walk out en masse, the newspaper komsomolskaya pravda said
sovietsky karabakh published an appeal in today's edition from the city communist party urging workers to go back to their jobs, said the man who answered the telephone at the newspaper. he declined to read it over the telephone
a woman who answered the telephone at city communist party headquarters refused to answer questions, saying she only answered to higher party authorities
about three-quarters of nagorno-karabakh's people are ethnic armenians. azerbaijanis, who are predominantly moslems, and armenians, who are mostly christians, have long been rivals
armenians began mass protests in february demanding that nagorno-karabakh be turned over to armenia. on feb. 28, ethnic rioting broke out in the azerbaijani city of sumgait, and officials said 26 armenians and six azerbaijanis were killed
official reports said tuesday that a curfew in sumgait had been lifted, and that the city was returning to normal
a support group for recovering alcoholics will look elsewhere for a new home after township officials tacked nearly two dozen restrictions on the use of an abandoned schoolhouse the group planned to buy
the parkship township planning commission's special-use permit would have barred more than 35 cars on the site, forbade its occupants from gathering outside and banned alcoholic beverages and ``mood altering substances.''
the support group, the holland alano association, ``finds it impossible to purchase the ventura school because of the onerous and unfair restrictions placed on the use of the premises,'' donald hann, alano communications secretary, read from a statement after the association's meeting tuesday
the rules were imposed monday night by the ottawa county township's planning commission on a special-use permit sought by the association, which had planned to buy the $59,500 building in a rural area north of here
the restrictions were approved after several homeowners voiced opposition, contending that the presence of the organization would destroy the peaceful character of the neighborhood
hann said the two stipulations that most bothered the association were the ones that prohibited members from using the four acres on which the schoolhouse sits, as well as the one limiting cars in the parking lot
we cannot and we will not turn away people seeking help because they happen to arrive in the 36th car,'' said hann, whose association provides a meeting place for 31 weekly meetings totaling from 250 to 300 people
regarding a restriction against gathering outside, hann said, ``it is highly unusual that owners of property can't walk about their own property,'' and added that under the restrictions, neighbors would have full use of the grounds, which includes soccer and softball fields and a playground
john horsting, chairman of the ad hoc committee formed by the commission to propose the restrictions, said the committee's decision was a tough one
the restrictions were very seriously addressed,'' said horsting. ``our first responsibility is to the township and to the people of the township.''
he declined further comment
hann said the alano association, which provides a meeting site for six alcohol groups, including alcoholics anonymous and al-anon, will bgin searching for a new building immediately. its lease on a decaying warehouse expires may 1
if we don't find a place by that time, we lock our doors,'' hann said. ``we thought an abandoned schoolhouse in the country would be ideal for us, but i guess we were wrong.''
if you've ever dreamed of making it on to the cover of a wheaties box, dream no more
general mills inc., the maker of the ``breakfast of champions,'' is inviting everyone to appear on a wheaties box. but unlike recent box subjects like walter payton and the minnesota twins, the public will have to pay
the promotion, beginning next week, offers individualized wheaties boxes for $18.95 and proof of purchase. eight weeks after sending in the money and a black-and-white picture, people will receive a single, acrylic-sealed box with their picture on the cover, the company says
customers have been writing letters to us for many, many years wondering how they could get their picture on the wheaties box,'' general mills spokeswoman kathryn newton said
the boxes also are offered for $13.95 and five proof-of-purchase coupons
a proposal to make the cranberry muffin the official state muffin wasn't a half-baked idea and didn't deserve to get jokingly panned by the legislature last weekend, elaine tabor says
it was ms. tabor's class at washington elementary school in merrill that initiated the drive last year to give the cranberry muffin official status
the proposal was still pending when assembly speaker thomas loftus decided to adjourn the democratic-controlled assembly late friday night before the senate could finish work o the 1988-89 state budget
loftus said his action was in part because the senate was spending its time discussing whether the cranberry muffin should be the state's official muffin
they (the senate) sent us the cranberry muffin bill at 11:30 p.m. and i think we snapped,'' loftus said
the senators had added a mocking amendment that would have established the egg mcmuffin as the official state breakfast and the ragamuffin as the state's official child muffin
senators passed that version on a voice vote and shipped it back to the assembly. the bill died
but ms. tabor said the situation wasn't funny for the children in her second-grade class last year
we were studying wisconsin and had visited a cranberry marsh about eight miles from here,'' ms. tabor said monday. ``we read about some students in massachussetts who had done the same thing for the corn muffin. i know it's a frivolous thing, but it's not frivolous to the children.''
a latin american organization condemned u.s. economic pressure on panama as outside interference, but also called on panama to adopt democratic reforms and hold elections
the 26-nation latin american economic system, based in caracas and created 12 years ago as a forum for latin american countries, ended an extraordinary two-day meeting on tuesday which had been requested by panama
it said the u.s. economic measures violated international law and the charters of the united nations and the organization of american states
the reagan administration has imposed economic sanctions on panama and made it clear that it wants panama's strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, ousted as leader of that nation's military, known as the defense forces
noriega has been indicted in the united states on charges of drug smuggling and money-laundering, charges that he denies
washington still recognizes eric arturo delvalle as president of panama, though delvalle was stripped of his office by the noriega-dominated legislature after trying to fire noriega
foreign minister allan wagner of peru told the assemblage tuesday, ``we have not come to defend a regime, or even less a person who has been insubordinate to civil and constitutional authority
our solidarity is with the people of panama.''
wagner called for an end to panama's political crisis ``through free elections and the removal of any obstacles that prevent this clear expression of the will of the people of panama.''
the latin american economic system noted that foreign minister jorge abadia arias of panama promised the conference panama would ``deepen its democratic system.'' the economic system said a request for economic aid by panama will be considered ``with a spirit of solidarity'' by the organization's members
the nations said they opposed foreign intervention in panama and asked the united states to honor a treaty which turns full control of the panama canal over to panama in 1999
we urge the u.s. government to revoke immediately the coercive measures it has adopted against panama,'' they said in their final communique tuesday
we reaffirm the sovereign right of all nations to decide their own economic, social and political destiny in peace and liberty, free from foreign pressure, aggression and threats.''
two black communities are claiming victories after lengthy battles against the government, which had sought to relocate one group and change the political status of the other
in one case, an appeals court ruled tuesday that the government did not have the authority to incorporate the 120,000-member black community of moutse into a homeland dominated by a different tribe
also, the government said late monday it will not attempt to relocate the remaining 8,000 residents of oukasie, a township 30 miles west of pretoria
in the moutse case, the four-judge panel ruled that president p.w. botha exceeded his powers by incorporating the community into the kwandebele homeland on jan. 1, 1986. the court said the action was taken for ``administrative convenience'' rather than in the interest of moutse residents
most moutse residents belong to the north sotho tribe, and they argued that their language and culture differed sharply from the ndebeles, who make up most of kwandebele's 400,000 residents
moutse, located northwest of pretoria, previously was part of the lebowa homeland. but the white-led government excised moutse from lebowa when it incorporated the community into kwandebele
dozens of people were killed in the unrest that followed. moutse residents staged frequent protests, and battled both local police and vigilantes from the kwandebele government
moutse, at least for the time being, does not belong to any homeland. it is a 171-square-mile region that adjoins kwandebele, an impoverished, undeveloped homeland where many of the workers ride buses for up to eight hours a day, commuting to and from jobs in pretoria
meanwhile, minister of constitutional developlment chris heunis told parliament on monday that the government would no longer try to relocate oukasie residents to lethlabile, 12 miles away
heunis abolished oukasie by decree in october 1986, but only about 5,000 of the 13,000 residents moved to lethlabile, a newly established township with some upgraded facilities. most oukasie residents preferred their old home, where they could walk to their jobs in the white town of brits
about 8,000 residents have stayed even though the government at various times cut off the water supply, stopped garbage collection, tore down the school and halted bus service in an effort to make residents leave
the government also sent in bulldozers to destroy houses of people that moved from oukasie. the town has been run largely by community organizations for the past 18 months
the government's apartheid policy establishes a racially segregated society in which south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
a 20-year-old journalism major who is a member of the young communist league has been elected student body president at the university of massachusetts
certification of the march 15 election comes before the student senate tonight
jason rabinowitz of the bronx, n.y., was elected president along with a non-communist co-candidate, shari silkof, 20
conservative opponents said the election should not be certified because of a constitutional prohibition against co-candidacies for president. but rabinowitz and silkoff said they have enough support to turn back the challenge
the winners said they built a coalition of minorities, gays, lesbians, radicals and women to defeat conservative and moderate opponents. they said communism was not part of the platform, but acknowledged that students were aware of rabinowitz's affiliation
opponents said rabinowitz was elected because of student apathy _ about 3,000 of 19,000 students voted. ^with pm-israel, bjt</head>
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar expressed concern over ``the deteriorating situation'' in israel's occupied territories and the security council scheduled an urgent meeting on the crisis
the 15-member council agreed to hold the meeting today at the request of arab nations who said it was necessitated by increasing repression of palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip
today is palestinian land day, a traditional day of nationalist protest, and israel on tuesday sealed off its occupied lands territories for at least three days to gird against unrest
arab foreign ministers and the palestine liberation organization also asked perez de cuellar on tuesday to send a new fact-finding mission to the occupied lands and disseminate u.n. information gathered there while journalists are barred
the u.n. chief later issued a statement expressing ``acute concern about the deteriorating situation in the occupied territories and especially the continued killing and wounding of unarmed civilians.''
he said he was ``particularly disturbed by recent press reports of statements in israel to the effect that the problem in the occupied territories will be resolved by force.''
he said such a policy ``can only lead to further violence.''
prime minister yitzhak shamir was quoted as saying monday, ``if the arabs of israel won't come to their senses, reality will be harder and laden with impending disaster.''
perez de cuellar said a political solution could be found only through an international peace conference with the participation of the parties directly concerned and the five permanent members of the security council _ the united states, the soviet union, china, britain and france
the security council has repeatedly condemned israel's harsh measures to put down the protests that began dec. 8 in the territories taken from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. healthy</head>
naples, a 600-pound manatee, made veterinary history and got a clean bill of health when a portable electrocardiogram machine and a cellular telephone showed her heart to be sound
tuesday was the first time transtelephonic electrocardiography had been attempted on a manatee. the use of a cellular phone greatly simplified the procedure, according to seaquarium spokesman walt robshaw
otherwise, we would have to hire a crane, put her in a sling and take her out of the tank,'' he said
dr. gregory bossart, a seaquarium veterinarian, lowered the water level in the pool, rolled naples over on her back and put the machine on her chest
the ekg signal was transmitted to a laboratory in roslyn, n.y., by putting the telephone mouthpiece over the machine. it took less than two minutes, with results back in about two hours, robshaw said
it took a while to get the results because the lab didn't have anything to compare it to,'' robshaw said
the ekg was conducted because an earlier examination showed fluid around naples' heart
what's good news for naples may be even better news for pygmy sperm whales
bossart thinks the process could help discover why the whales beach themselves. in a study of 18 dead adult whales, bossart found that all had died from congestive heart failure
he thinks the new process will enable scientists to examine whales while they are still alive
the portable ekg machine is about the size of a television remote control device, robshaw said. the cellular phone allows the unit to be used almost anywhere _ even a manatee pool at seaquarium
a european private collector paid more than $4 million for two paintings by pablo picasso and edgar degas in london, sotheby's said
the unidentified buyer on tuesday night paid $2.36 million for picasso's 1953 oil painting ``woman with dog'' and $1.85 million for ``dancer in mauve,'' a pastel degas completed in about 1878
the picasso painting of two distorted figures in strong colors was a favorite of the artist which he kept to his death
a record price for a work by the german-american artist lyonel feininger was paid by japan's fuji gallery: $1.46 million for ``the cyclists.''
it was painted in 1910 and was one of 54 early works which the artist had to leave behind when, fearing nazi persecution, he left germany for good in 1937. he sent for them but they never arrived and were only recovered in 1984, 28 years after feininger's death, after negotiations the east germany. pvs, `police sources...'</note>
a bomb exploded early today near the south african embassy in paris after demonstrations protesting the killing of an african national congress spokeswoman. no injuries were reported
in the southern port city of marseille, at least six gunshots were fired tuesday night at the windows of a building in front of the south african consulate. the gunmen fled in a car and no arrests were made
the bomb, which caused only minor damage, exploded about 3 a.m. in paris at an office building a few blocks from the south african embassy. no one immediately claimed responsiblity for the bombing
the explosion occurred a few hours after police arrested more than 80 demonstrators who broke into the south african tourism office and protested outside the residence of the south african ambassador in paris
they were protesting the slaying of dulcie september, 53, the anc representative to france, switzerland and luxembourg who was found dead tuesday outside the door of her paris office from a gunshot to the face
police sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said at the time that the killing looked like ``the work of a professional.''
the anc, the main guerrilla group fighting white domination in south africa, blamed pretoria for the killing. the south african government denied responsiblity and said the attack was related to strife within the anc, which was banned by south africa in 1960 for its anti-apartheid activities
a french foreign ministry spokesman said on tuesday that no claim of responsiblity had been received
in marseille, the gunshots were fired at 11:15 p.m. tuesday at the windows of a building in front of the south african consulate. the building was painted with the slogan, ``botha, assassin, ss.'' the slogan was apparently referring to south african president p.w. botha
in paris, 41 protestors were arrested by police tuesday night after breaking into the south african tourism office after it had closed and smashing the interior. two officers and a french journalist were slightly injured in the scuffle to eject the protesters from the office
forty-six demonstrators were arrested tuesday night outside the residence of the south african ambassador in paris for painting anti-apartheid slogans on the wall of the building. police identified the protesters only as young leftists who supported the anc and all but four were released overnight
earlier, at least 1,000 people marched peacefully in separate protests of the killing in paris
president francois mitterrand said he would ask south africa about the attack and reaffirmed his ``categoric condemnation of the regime of racial segregation.''
a colleague of ms. september's claimed that the victim had requested protection from the interior ministry after receiving threats. she also said she had been followed for several days
the interior ministry denied she had requested protection
we were never called on for the least demand for protection,'' a spokeswoman said. ``if she had asked, we would have given it to her.''
at anc headquarters in lusaka, zambia, spokesman tom sebina called the killing ``part of a deliberate south african campaign to assassinate anc members and anc leaders.'' he said ms. september went to paris in 1983 and was among the anc's ``most vigorous activists.''
the anc maintains a worldwide network of about 20 ``information offices,'' including several in europe, to lobby for support and receive aid
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which south africa's 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. 0772</first> rebels</head> 2 man in party. picks up 5th graf, `kintanar had ...'</note>
the military today said it captured the country's top rebel fighter and the no. 2 man in the communist party. president corazon aquino said the arrests marked the turning point in the battle against communism
maj. gen. ramon montano told reporters that romulo kintanar, commander of the communist new people's army, was among seven rebel leaders captured in tuesday's raids. he said authorities did not immediately realize who kintanar was because he gave a false name
the government-run philippine news agency quoted another military official as saying the chairman of the communist party of the philippines, benito tiamzon, had escaped by the time raiders arrived at his hideout in suburban quezon city
but his no. 2 man, party secretary general rafael baylosis, was among those arrested
the agency said tiamzon must have been tipped off by radio broadcasts on the arrest of his comrades in two raids at the manila suburb of san juan earlier tuesday
military officials said they believe the rebel leaders had just held or were about to convene a central committee plenum. they said search operations were continuing and they expected more arrests in the coming days
kintanar had long been wanted by the military. besides being the alleged head of the 24,000-strong new people's army, he is widely believed to be the organizer of communist urban assassination squads, called sparrow units because of the swiftness of their attacks
the sparrows first began operations in southern davao city in the early 1980s before moving out to the manila area and other urban centers
among those arrested with kintanar were baylosis and benjamin de vera, the central committee member in charge of operations on mindanao island. the others were new people's army logistics officer napoleon manuel; his wife inez; kintanar's wife gloria; and marco palo, a member of the party's liaison committee
mrs. aquino immediately hailed the arrests as ``happy news for our country'' and commended the armed forces chief of staff, gen. renato de villa, and other officers and enlisted men
it clearly demonstrates that we have turned the tide and are winning the war against the communist insurgency,'' she said in a statement read by press secretary teodoro benigno. ``the fact that they were arrested on the npa's 19th anniversary (on tuesday) attests to the admirable performance of our armed forces of the philippines. i am elated and so is our citizenry.''
montano announced the capture of kintanar when he presented the guerrilla leader and other captives to journalists at a suburban military camp where they were being held under heavy guard. the only captive not present was baylosis, who montano said refused to be photographed
montano would not let reporters ask the captives any questions
military officials did not mention the name of kintanar when they announced the arrests tuesday, identifying one of those arrested as mario asuncion _ apparently the alias kintanar used
montano told reporters that kintanar admitted his real identity when the officer confronted the rebel later. officials said the captured rebels refused to talk to interrogators and would only give their names
kintanar, baylosis and de vera were the fourth, fifth and sixth central committee members to be captured since mrs. aquino came to power in february 1986 in a civilian-military uprising that ousted president ferdinand marcos
former new people's army chief rodolfo salas, whom kintanar replaced, was arrested in 1986 while leaving a manila hospital following a checkup. last year, juanito rivera was captured in a raid on his mother's house in pampanga province north of the capital. and in february, tomas dominado was among 20 suspected rebels nabbed in a series of raids in the capital
tuesday's arrests came as the military was on a heightened state of alert in manila and several other regions in anticipation of attacks marking tuesday's 19th anniversary of the new people's army
no major rebel attacks were reported tuesday, but a japanese businessman was shot and killed in a manila suburb by an unidentified lone gunman who escaped, police said. the victim was identified as akihiro sato, 49, of tsuchiura city in japan's ibaraki prefecture
in luzon's bulacan province, two suspected communist assassins shot dead a policeman tuesday, while government troops captured a guerrilla in bataan province, military reports said
reports of attacks in the countryside often take days to reach manila. efforts</head>
tipper gore said she still supports efforts to establish a voluntary rating system for rock music lyrics as about 150 protesters, some sporting spiked haircuts and punk-rock clothing, demonstrated against the idea
mrs. gore, wife of tennessee sen. albert gore, a democratic presidential contender, spoke tuesday night to nearly 400 people at the 14th annual national issues forum, sponsored by pitzer college
the protesters, including musician jello biafra, were demonstrating against her efforts to initiate a rating system for rock music similar to that used by the movie industry
mrs. gore said she does not support censorship, but also said she is now more interested in helping the homeless and getting her husband elected president
at times chanting ``all we are saying is give rock a chance'' and ``no more censorship,'' the protesters lined two side entrances to the beverly wilshire hotel, where mrs. gore spoke
some waved signs proclaiming ``ozzy not albert,'' references to heavy-metal rock musician ozzy osbourne and to mrs. gore's husband
i just don't think any music should be censored by someone else,'' said kris wood, 20, of burbank
inside the beverly wilshire's grand ballroom, mrs. gore briefly acknowledged the demonstration
i understand that some people are outside protesting my efforts to call attention to violent and explicit song lyrics that are being peddled to children. that's certainly their privilege, but i think they've been misinformed about what my position is _ or possibly they don't care,'' she said
the author of ``raising pg kids in an x-rated society'' said she favors voluntary ``truth in packaging'' by the music industry and not censorship
most of her speech focused on the plight of america's homeless, however, a problem she said her husband would dedicate himself to solving if elected president
she showed a 12-minute video titled ``homeless in america: a photographic project,'' featuring poems and statements by homeless people. the tape was produced by several photographers working with the national mental health association and families for the homeless
we need a president who understands that homelessness isn't just a problem of those who are forced to live on the streets. it's our problem, yours and mine,'' she said
the annual national issues forum dinner sponsored by pitzer, one of the claremont colleges, has in past years featured such keynote speakers as former secretary of state henry kissinger and communications tycoon ted turner
the thunk of tennis ball machines is disturbing the serenity of some residents at this posh resort, and town officials ended up with the ball in their court
members of the ordinances, rules and standards committee pondered the issue tuesday: should use of the machines, popular with partnerless players on the peninsula's private estates and members-only clubs, be limited?
i think the people who now have them should be grandfathered in,'' mayor yvelyne ``deedy'' marix said. ``but i'm not sure that any more should be allowed.''
town council chairman nancy douthit lobbed back: ``it seems to me that when you begin regulating your neighbor's tennis game, it gets a bit heavy. supposing i had a noisy hair dryer _ should we then outlaw hair dryers in palm beach?''
three years ago, douthit was adamantly opposed to the high-pitched, whining noise made by leaf-blowers and had the town's noise ordinance amended to limit their use
the ordinance already prohibits the use during the winter season, when most part-time residents are in town, of pile drivers, jackhammers, sandblasters, dredges ``or any engines operated in such a manner as to emit odors or noises offensive or disagreeable to the inhabitants of the town.''
the committee agreed to recommend that the town council vote amend the noise ordinance to limit the use of tennis ball machines to between 9 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. during the winter and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. the rest of the year
on sundays, they would be prohibited year-round
spot freezing can save the sight of many premature infants against a disease that causes 2,600 babies to lose their vision each year, say officials at the national eye institute
the technique of using a super-cooled probe to treat infants threatened with retinopathy of prematurity has been found to be effective in about half of the 172 babies treated in clinical trials at 23 medical centers, dr. carl kupfer, director of the national eye institute, announced tuesday
kupfer said a clinical alert has been mailed to 2,300 centers to notify doctors that the freezing treatment, called cryotherapy, is effective and safe in the treatment of the eye disease
retinopathy of prematurity occurs among very low birth-weight infants born prematurely. the disease causes an excessive growth of blood vessels in the retina, the light-sensitive organ at the back of the eye. this overgrowth of vessels can cause bleeding, scarring, retinal detachment and blindness
japanese studies in the 1970s suggested that this overgrowth of blood vessels could be halted and the eye allowed to develop normally if the sclera, the white of the eye, is frozen briefly
clinical studies in the united states began in 1986. officials at the eye institute said tuesday that the results will be published in the april issue of archives of ophthalmology and in the may issue of pediatrics
of 172 infants with the disease included in the study, the officials reported a 49.3 percent reduction in the loss of sight for those diseased eyes that were treated. in one group of infants, where both eyes were affected but only one eye was treated, the study found that 45.6 percent of the untreated eyes showed an ``unfavorable outcome,'' in comparison to only 24.1 percent of the treated eyes
the freezing treatment is accomplished by touching the eye briefly with a cold probe, an instrument with a ballpoint-like tip that is cooled by a refrigerant to about minus 80 degrees. a surgeon uses the instrument to freeze pinhead-size patches on the eye
dr. earl a. palmer, associate professor of ophthalmology and pediatrics at the oregon health sciences university in portland, was the chairman of the study
he said the results should ``greatly improve'' the ability of doctors to treat rop, but he admitted that medical science still does not know precisely what causes the disease nor why the freeze treatment seems to halt the disease
a new law that forbids bearded firefighters to enter burning buildings is worrying fire officials whose departments have amish volunteers
ohio requires firefighters to wear a self-contained breathing apparatus to enter a burning building or an area with harmful fumes
the apparatus has a face piece that provides clean air from a tank the firefighter wears on his back, said john wood, basic training coordinator for the ohio fire marshal's office
on march 1, a new law went into effect that prohibits bearded men from wearing the devices because facial hair can prevent a seal from forming between the face and the face piece
most amish men are bearded and won't shave because of their religious beliefs. there are several amish communities in northeastern ohio
it makes it hard for a lot of volunteer fire departments,'' wood said. ``i really don't know what we can tell them to do.''
in trumbull county's mesopotamia township, half the population is amish, said fire chief keith williams, and three of the community's four daytime firefighters have beards
the town can't afford to give up its amish firefighters, williams said tuesday
i put out a standing order. yet if they have a structural fire during the day, i know they're going to put the scbas on and go in. they're going to disregard my standing order,'' he said
under normal circumstances, that's grounds for disciplinary action. but on the other hand, i can't condemn them for doing what they're supposed to do _ saving life and property.''
wood said communities and firefighters won't be fined for violating the law. but if a bearded firefighter gets injured fighting a fire in which he needed a self-contained breathing apparatus, the state will be able to collect half his worker's compensation pay from the community
the soviet union is establishing a cooperative bank that will partially end the government's banking monopoly by providing services to a growing group of small, privately held businesses, an official said today
the bank, which is expected to open next year, would be operated as a cooperative to serve other cooperatives, according to an interview with viktor arkhipov carried by the official tass news agency
arkhipov, first vice-chairman of the soviet agri-industrial bank, said the cooperative bank should be allowed to offer higher interests rates to savers than the 2 percent to 3 percent offered by state-run banks and to seize the property of borrowers who fail to meet payments
thus the bank will have a vested interest in the high quality of the products put out by the cooperative, in it finding a ready demand,'' he said
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, who is encouraging the formation of cooperatives, said last week that nearly 14,000 of them have sprung up since legal restrictions were eased last year
cooperatives are approved by local authorities and taxed by the government, but are privately owned. each person who works in a cooperative venture owns a part of it
cooperatives have established restaurants, make clothing, pump gas and provide other goods and services to supplement the inefficient state-run economy
tass said the cooperatives had financial returns of almost 350 million rubles, about $560 million , by march
tass said that some soviet economists think a cooperative bank is a violation of the state monopoly of financial and credit operations introduced in 1918, just after the bolshevik revolution
but arkhipov told the news agency that under gorbachev's effort to restructure the soviet economy, the state financial monopoly has been restricted to foreign economic activity
the state monopoly ``is supposed only to coordinate the activities of the financial-crediting institutions and determine general financial policy,'' arkhipov said
the cooperative bank also could finance international contracts of cooperatives, tass said. under a draft of a new law, cooperatives would have the right to trade independently in foreign markets
north korea today claimed a south korean warship violated territorial waters off its coast, the north's official radio pyongyang said
radio pyongyang, monitored in tokyo, said coast guard boats were mobilized in response to an unidentified south korean warship which was spotted tuesday in the north's ``western territorial waters off changsan-kot.''
the report said the battleship fled toward the south
the act of a military provocation like this by the south is another planned scheme to intensify the situation on the korean peninsula,'' the radio said. north korea designates all areas within 50 miles of its coasts as being within its territorial waters
on tuesday, north korea charged that u.s. sr-71 high-speed, high-altitude reconnaissance planes had intruded its air space 12 times since joint u.s.-south korean military exercises began last month. graf pvs, he cited.</note>
democrat michael dukakis today thanked connecticut voters for the primary victory that gives him momentum heading into wisconsin and the next round of presidential contests
it was a good win for us. we won with a big, big margin,'' dukakis said on nbc-tv's ``today'' show. ``but it's not the first of my victories. i've won in the south. i've won in the midwest. i've won up here in the northeast ... i'm just very pleased that people who know me best were so supportive.''
the massachusetts governor defeated jesse jackson by a 2-to-1 margin in neighboring connecticut, and regained the lead in delegates to the democratic convention
the latest associated press count put dukakis at 647.55; jackson at 634.55 and uncommitted at 500.6. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 364.8 and illinois sen. paul simon 169.5
the message ... is getting stronger and stronger every week this campaign goes on,'' dukakis told his backers tuesday night
he cited his commitment to job growth, education, housing, health care, the environment and ``a strong america that reflects our values and our principles.''
hands on his hips, dukakis also responded to those who have minimized his new england victories because of his regional advantage
it's as absurd to say this should be discounted as it is to say jesse's should be because (michigan) is next to illinois,'' he said upon returning to boston late tuesday after an evening in new york
he stuck closely to his chosen themes, avoiding any open criticism of jackson and refusing to speculate about the vice presidency
this sends us back to wisconsin and colorado with a very good boost,'' dukakis said, adding that each contest is different and that no candidate will win all of the remaining states
colorado's democratic caucus is monday and wisconsin's primary follows one day later
i look forward to going back out to wisconsin and colorado,'' both of which pick delegates next week, ``with that same strong message of economic opportunity and good jobs as someone who not only talks about those things but who's done them,'' dukakis said, underscoring the government experience that he has and jackson lacks
in a written victory statement, the dukakis campaign sought to draw attention to dukakis' vote among blue-collar white voters, who had helped jackson win in michigan
tonight, connecticut voters across all ideological lines _ and an overwhelming margin of blue-collar voters _ gave a resounding endorsement of the dukakis bid for the presidency,'' the campaign statement said
fielding questions from reporters, dukakis predicted that neither he nor jackson could hope to collect an outright majority of nominating delegates by the time the primary season ends in california on june 7
this is 15 rounds, and it's going to be a decision _ not a knockout,'' he said. ``i felt from the beginning that the field would narrow to two or three'' and that one candidate would have a ``substantial lead.''
asked how he felt after rebounding in connecticut from his surprising loss to jackson in the michigan voting four days earlier, dukakis said each race is different and ``it is the cumulative result that counts.''
israeli-backed militiamen stormed a pro-iranian guerrilla stronghold in south lebanon today after repulsing two attacks on their outposts, police reported
militiamen from the south lebanon army backed by israeli artillery fire inflicted heavy casualties on the guerrillas, police and united nations observers said
moslem radio stations in beirut said israeli soldiers also fought in the battle but police could not confirm that. the israeli army denied the reports
police said the attack occurred after the guerrillas, shiite moslems linked to the iranian-backed hezbollah movement, launched pre-dawn raids on militia posts near kfar roumman and the town of hasbaya
no accurate casualty figures were immediately available
police said a south lebanon army force, spearheaded by 12 soviet-designed t-54 tanks, drove the moslem guerrillas out kfar roumman after heavy fighting
the town, a base for the guerrillas of the islamic resistance movement, is about half a mile west of a south lebanon army base and two miles north of the shiite market town of nabatiyeh
most of kfar roumman's estimated 12,000 residents fled earlier as the battle raged. the town had come under repeated machine gun fire from hilltop army positions
islamic resistance fighters were seen withdrawing from kfar roumman. the town has been devastated by shelling,'' a police spokesman said
tanks from the south lebanon army advanced behind a fierce barrage of israeli artillery fire from u.s.-made 155-mm howitzers in the israelis' self-designated ``security zone'' north of the lebanese border, police said
the attacks, the latest in a chain of assaults by the islamic fighters, came as lebanon's moslems marked the 12th anniversary of land day, when the israelis killed six palestinians in 1976 in protests against land confiscation in the israeli-occupied west bank
a strike was also called in moslem sectors of the country to express support for the palestinians in the occupied lands. banks, schools, shops, restaurants, cinemas, government offices and other businesses shut down
palestinians in the occupied territories have been mounting violent protests against israeli rule since dec. 8. more than 110 palestinians and one israeli soldier have been killed
according to figures released tuesday by maj. gen. yossi peled, chief of the army's northern command, 236 lebanese guerrillas, mostly of the hezbollah movement, died over the past year in attacks on israelis and israeli-supported forces in lebanon. johnson</note>
the last of the nation's first test-tube quintuplets went home again after a week of observation for a breathing problem, a hospital spokeswoman says
veronica l'esperance left the hospital late monday after being observed for apnea, a condition in which she stopped breathing while eating, hospital spokeswoman carol jonson said tuesday
veronica, her brother and three sisters were born jan. 11 after their mother, michele l'esperance, was impregnated through in-vitro fertilization. the boy and two of the girls left the hospital march 7, jonson said
veronica and one of her sisters left the hospital 11 days later, but veronica went back into the hospital on march 21. she and the rest of the quints are doing fine, jonson said
officials say they can't be sure it was a prankster who planted green dye in a pool where highly radioactive nuclear fuel is stored, even though it happened on the eve of st. patrick's day
the 1,270-megawatt unit 2 reactor at palo verde nuclear generating station was not operating on march 16 when the 241,000 gallons of water turned green. the plant had been shut down feb. 20 for a three-month refueling outage
chemical analysis revealed the cause of the color change _ green dye _ but officials said it was still speculative to label the incident as the work of a prankster
we don't see any connection between the color change and the holiday,'' said don andrews, a spokesman for the arizona nuclear power project. ``we're investigating several possibilities. it may have been intentionally done. then again, it may not be.''
andrews said monday that plant security officials were investigating. he said the incident occurred in a 44-foot-deep stainless steel-lined pool that holds water in which highly radioactive fuel rods taken from the unit 2 nuclear reactor are stored after use
the rods are submerged in water that absorbs radioactive neutrons and gamma rays. andrews said the rods are being stored on-site until federal officials build an underground repository for permanent disposal
u.s. nuclear regulatory commission officials said they have determined that ``nothing harmful was added to the pool
greg cook, a spokesman for the nrc's region 5 office in walnut creek, calif., said the commission would deal harshly with anyone responsible for the prank at the $9.3 billion, triple-reactor plant
if it turns out that someone was playing a prank, that individual may need to have his sense of humor recalibrated,'' cook said. ``a nuclear power plant is the wrong place to horse around.''
since 1984, there have been at least 16 unusual incidents at palo verde, many involving unresolved mischief or suspected sabotage. but nrc and palo verde officials said they saw no connection between those incidents and the green water
a 1{-year-old boy was fatally crushed when his mother accidentally ran him over as she was parking a van, authorities said
it was an accident,'' joelie borja, 17, said tearfully. ``i just ran over him. he was running after a toy, and i didn't see him come outside.''
pablo sanchez died an hour after he stepped in front the van
this happens because people leave the doors open, and kids just run in and out at will,'' said mike marker, a traffic homicide investigator with pompano beach police
the car was traveling about 5 mph when the toddler ran underneath the passenger side of the van, police said
no charges have been filed in the case. forces</head> and two kuwaitis wounded. picks up 10th graf, `in the ...' subs last graf, `iran, which ...,' with 4 grafs to update with details of attack on kuwait.</note>
iraqi warplanes attacked and set fire to a cypriot tanker off iran's coast today. iranian rebels said their forces killed 2,000 of ayatollah khomeini's revolutionary guards in a two-day battle in southwestern iran
the kuwaiti defense ministry said kuwaiti forces clashed today with three iranian gunboats that had opened fire on kuwait's bubiyan island in the northern end of the persian gulf. two kuwaiti soldiers were wounded
and iran said its warplanes dropped 10 tons of bombs on an northern iraqi provincial capital. and iraq said it fired three long-range missiles into the central iranian city of isfahan, ancient capital of the persian empire
the iraqi-backed national liberation army of iran said in a communique telexed from its headquarters in baghdad that an assault force of 15 brigades has returned to iraq after a two-day offensive into iran's oil-rich southwestern khuzestan province
the rebel force, fighting to topple khomeini's islamic regime, claimed its forces also wounded 1,500 iranian troops and captured 508. rebel losses were listed as 30 killed and 92 wounded. the rebel force included two battalions of women fighters and tanks
the rebels claimed they captured or destroyed iranian equipment including 17 korean war-era u.s.-built m-47 tanks, armored vehicles and rocket launchers worth an estimated $100 million
the baghdad communique said the rebels decimated nine battalions of iran's 77th khorassan division in the fighting south of the garrison city of dezful
iraqi jets fired a missile into the cypriot supertanker anax, setting its engine room on fire but causing no casualties, shipping executives reported
the london-based lloyd's shipping intelligence unit said the 259,447-ton vessel was hit in an iraqi air raid, although baghdad had not reported any ship attack today
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, said iraqi planes hit two tankers off iran tuesday night. there was no confirmation of those attacks
the anax, which was also hit by iraqi warplanes dec. 2, was attacked south of iran's big kharg island oil terminal in the northern gulf with a full load of oil. it was on charter to the national iranian tanker co
both sides have resumed the ``tanker war'' in the last two weeks, hitting about a dozen vessels. two iranian tankers were set ablaze in an iraqi air raid on kharg march 19, killing at least 50 seamen
nearly 500 ships have been attacked by both sides since 1981 and nearly 300 seamen killed
in other action today, tehran radio, monitored in nicosia, reported that a squadron of iranian fighter-bombers attacked three ``important military garrisons'' in sulaimaniyeh city, an iraqi provincial capital in the northeastern mountains
the communique said dozens of people were killed in the attacks, in which the regional state-run radio and television headquarters was also hit. it was one of the heaviest bombing raids by iran's badly depleted air force reported in a year
iran said it was launched in retaliation for iraqi chemical bomb attacks on three kurdish towns in the northeast march 16-17 in which tehran claims 5,000 civilians were killed and 5,000 injured
the towns had been captured by iranian revolutionary guards, who have pushed 15 miles into kurdistan, where ethnic kurds have been in rebellion against baghdad
the iranians claim to have seized 540 square miles of iraqi territory in the two-week old offensive. iraq has admitted losing ground, but given no details
the kuwait news agency reported two kuwait soldiers were wounded today in a skirmish initiated by iranian gunboats at bubiyan island, 15 miles south of iraq's coast. it did not say if the iranian vessels were struck
shipping executives, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the iranians boats escaped kuwaiti shellfire
iran, which last year fired several missiles into kuwait waters, accuses the gulf arab state of aiding iraq in the 7{-year-old persian gulf war
a kuwaiti communique declared that kuwait, which is the closest state to the iran-iraq war zone, ``reserves the right to respond to any assault on its territory or infringement on its sovereignty.''
the attack came only a few days after the kuwaitis had approached tehran, seeking to improve relations that deteriorated sharply seven months ago
police arrested 160 men and women protesting a pending labor bill that would restrict union rights, a top union official said today
frank meintjies, spokesman for the congress of south african trade unions, the nation's largest labor federation, said members of three unions were arrested tuesday as they responded to a call for lunchtime rallies
police had said in their daily unrest report they had arrested 124 men and women in industrial areas for gathering illegally and refusing to disperse. police gave no further details, except to say that they had used batons and dogs to disperse one group
meintjies said those arrested were members of the food and allied workers union, the paper and allied workers union and the national metal workers union. they were protesting the government's labor relations amendment bill, pending before parliament, which would make unauthorized strikes more difficult and require unions to pay employers' damages for illegal strikes
most of the congress of south african trade union's 750,000 members are blacks, who have no representation in parliament
the congress issued a statement tuesday listing incidents of what it termed ``state repression'' against union affiliates during the past mongth, including detentions, police raids on offices and removal of union property and records. it has been making similar complaints for the past year, accusing the government of harassment
police replied in a statement today, saying they do not comment on ``routine police duties, such as the visiting of premises, confiscation of property.''
it also said, ``the police do not act against people because they belong to certain organizations.''
however, in the few cases of emergency detainees which have reached the courts in the past 21 months, the government has often listed membership or participation in an organization as its reason for keeping people in detention without charge
one such case is that of zwelakhe sisulu, editor of the new nation newspaper, closed last week. answering his appeal to be freed or charged with a crime, the government said he was being held because of his participation in the national education crisis committee, a lawful organization, and because of his journalistic activities. sisulu denied he was a member of the committee
the american civil liberties union is challenging an order that blocked a woman from having an abortion because her estranged husband objected to her ending the pregnancy
the woman has a constitutional right to an abortion that the judge should not have interfered with, the group said, citing the supreme court decision legalizing abortion
the aclu said it would go to court today to ask state judge david s. young to vacate the restraining order he granted last week to michael jon reynolds, whose wife jennifer franks reynolds is about two months pregnant
utah is one of four states with laws requiring wives to notify husbands of abortion decisions, said planned parenthood spokeswoman mary carlson. however, utah is the only state in which the notification law hasn't been challenged in court or appealed
the aclu said if young doesn't change his ruling, it will take the case to the utah court of appeals
we feel (the order) is shocking and a restriction of personal liberties,'' said robyn e. blumner, aclu executive director. if the order is allowed to stand, ``utah will find itself once again a target of national mockery,'' she said
blumner said the case demonstrates that the state law should be repealed
aclu spokeswoman michele parish-pixler said the u.s. supreme court has ruled that no one can stop a woman from ending a pregnancy in its first trimester. ``it's over-reaching on the part of the judge to issue any type of restraint on the first trimester,'' she said
reynolds, who is seeking a divorce and custody of the couple's 10-month-old infant as well as the unborn child, obtained the restraining order because he is morally opposed to abortion, said his attorney, evan hurst
mrs. reynolds was served with the restraining order on the day she was leaving home to have the abortion performed
mrs. reynolds' attorney, julie bryan, said the u.s. supreme court ruled in the landmark roe vs. wade decision that husbands have no veto power over their wives' abortion decisions
the high court said that when a husband and wife disagree over an abortion, ``the view of only one of the two marriage partners can prevail. inasmuch as it is the woman who physically bears the child and who is the more directly and immediately affected by the pregnancy ... the balance weighs in her favor,'' bryan said, quoting from the decision
reynolds' attorneys plan to argue that the roe vs. wade case applies only to the state, not to private individuals
orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.8 percent in february, the second consecutive monthly decline, the government reported today
the commerce department said that orders for durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $210.86 billion last month following a 0.6 percent january decline
the february drop was the largest since a 1.4 percent setback in august. the back-to-back declines were the first such since the summer of 1986
but analysts said they were not overly concerned about the setbacks, contending that manufacturing will still be one of the top performing sectors this year
they said the declines did show that economic growth slowed in the first three months of the year as businesses cut back on orders in an effort to work down a high level of unsold goods
but the production cutbacks have been less severe than once feared and economists are now much more confident that the country will be able to get through this year without a recession
the february setback included a drop of 1.1 percent in orders for durable goods, which fell to a seasonally adjusted $118.5 billion. in an advance report last week, the government had put the decline at a slightly larger 1.8 percent
orders for non-durable goods, items not expected to last three years, fell 0.4 percent in february to $97.9 billion
in the major categories, defense orders dropped 8.2 percent to $8.4 billion. without that decline, orders would have fallen 0.5 percent last month
orders in the key category of non-military capital goods fell 3.9 percent last month to $33.4 billion. this category is expected to provide major strength this year as manufacturers boost spending on expansion projects to meet growing export demand for american goods
orders for transportation equipment were one of the few categories showing strength last month, climbing 3.5 percent to $30 billion, with the aircraft component showing an even larger 6.8 percent increase
shipments of manufactured goods edged up a slight 0.1 percent in february to $207.4 billion
the basque separatist organization eta claimed responsibility today for the shooting death of a retired air force general
two men shot and killed brig. gen. luis azcarraga perez-caballero, 81, sunday as he left santa maria church in salvatierra in alava province with his family and other worshipers
azcarraga perez-caballero was the second victim in political violence in spain this year. eta also claimed the shooting death last week of a civil guard officer in the basque town of durango
eta seeks independence from spain for the three-province northern basque region. since taking up arms in 1968, eta has claimed responsibility for killing more than 600 people, mainly police, military and civil guard officers
eta stands for homeland and liberty in the basque language
in a note sent to basque newspapers, eta claimed responsibility for the slaying and said it would stop its campaign of violence if prime minister felipe gonzalez agreed to talks that would include the issue of self-determination
the gonzalez government has said it will not talk with the eta as long as the eta continues launching terrorist attacks
the government also has said talks with eta would exclude any political concessions and focus solely on a plan to get the group to give up its arms and reintegrate its members into society. universities</head>
the justice department has refiled a massive desegregation suit against alabama's public universities, alleging that state officials deliberately continued a system of separate colleges for blacks and whites
the refiling of the 21-page lawsuit on tuesday was prompted by a ruling last year by the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta, which found that significant errors had been made before and during trial in federal court in birmingham in 1985. the case was initally filed in 1983
u.s. district judge u.w. clemon had ruled that alabama maintains vestiges of a dual school system. but before he could begin the remedy phase of the case, his ruling was appealed by the state
the 11th circuit ruled that clemon, alabama's first black federal judge, should have stepped down because he took part in landmark civil rights cases when he was a private attorney
i would not agree that the case is starting from ground zero again,'' nathaniel douglas of the justice department's civil rights division said tuesday from washington
there have been efforts to resolve the case by negotiation, and we are ready to continue to do that.''
the suit filed by douglas and his staff again charges that state education officials have ``perpetuated a racial dual system in public higher education.''
the justice department said two of alabama's predominantly black schools _ alabama a&amp;m in huntsville and alabama state in montgomery _ operate near predominantly white schools and were intended for black students only, while whites attended the other institutions
justice department lawyers said evidence exists of intentions by state authorities to maintain the vestiges of the dual school system
federal attorneys cited a 1975 planning document of the alabama commission on higher education that said ``with alabama state and alabama a&amp;m to meet the needs of the state's negro citizens and with the university of alabama and auburn university as major state institutions, the state seemed relatively well served.''
the justice department said state officials continue to allocate ``far greater resources'' to the major white schools than to the predominantly black institutions
state authorities said the predominantly white and black schools in huntsville and montgomery are the result of decades-old patterns of preference by students
the reputed leader of the mafia in southern california and six associates have pleaded guilty to extortion or racketeering charges, but they denied being members of an organized crime syndicate
the plea bargains were accepted tuesday by u.s. district judge ferdinand fernandez on what was to have been the first day of the men's trial
prosecutors said the guilty pleas meant the government avoided a $1 million trial that could have lasted four months
the plea bargains were approved by justice department officials in washington after u.s. attorney robert bonner refused to accept the length of the negotiated prison terms
when the federal indictment was announced last may, bonner said, ``the main body of la cosa nostra in los angeles has been severely gutted.''
chief defendant peter john milano, 62, of westlake village, whom officials allege controls organized crime on the west coast, never admitted he was a mafia member. neither did any of the other defendants
milano, who owns rome vending co., pleaded guilty to involvement in a criminal enterprise and committing two racketeering acts. but his attorney, donald marks, said that could mean any criminal group, not just the mafia
milano faces up to a six-year prison sentence when he and the others are sentenced may 16
milano's brother, carmen, 58, of tarzana; brothers charles caci, 51, and vincent caci, 62, both of palm springs; rocco zangari, 54, of palm springs; stephen cino, 51, of las vegas; and albert nunez, 57, of camarillo, all pleaded guilty to extortion conspiracy
nunez also pleaded guilty to conspiring to distribute cocaine, and cino also pleaded guilty to making false statements
in return, prosecutors agreed to drop additional charges against the defendants and not institute any civil proceedings that could result in lawsuits or property forfeitures
nunez faces a 10-year term, cino an 18-month sentence, vincent caci and charles caci face one year, and carmen milano faces six months. under the agreement, zangari could receive probation
the trial of three more defendants was postponed until april 5 to give their attorneys time to reorganize. the trial of an 11th defendant was postponed indefinitely because he is ill
the indictment involved violations of the federal racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations statute. the los angeles case was one of several rico indictments nationwide that stemmed from a 1982 crackdown on organized crime
the prosecution was based on hours of secretly recorded tapes made in san fernando valley restaurants and parking lots in which the defendants allegedly discussed cocaine deals and plans to shake down gamblers or bookies
the indictment followed an undercover fbi investigation during which milano allegedly ordered the killing of two suspected informants, according to the indictment. the murders never occurred because of tips from informants, officials said. in israel</head>
in an effort to prove that jews and arabs can live in harmony, oil tycoon armand hammer and local jewish groups have pledged to build a $30 million community center in an impoverished arab suburb of tel aviv
we will set an example for the rest of israel and the arab world that jews and arabs can live together,'' hammer said tuesday
hammer and fellow industrialist guilford glazer said they will raise $1.6 million to help build the schools and recreation facilities in ajami-lev yaffo, a blighted suburb of tel aviv where more than 12,000 israeli arabs live
the jewish federation council of greater los angeles hopes to raise $10 million for the project
hammer, chairman of occidental petroleum, said recent violence in the predominantly arab west bank and gaza strip had nothing to do with the center's conception. the territories were captured by israel in the 1967 mideast war
planning for the community center began more than two years ago, he said
this center will bring people together,'' hammer said. ``it will restore pride and provide education and essential social services so they can have peace of mind and body. then, and only then, can they hope to plan for the future.''
the complex will feature upgraded elementary and high schools, recreation and sports facilities, a library, and an auditorium
two companies have been fined $130,000 each for the improper removal of asbestos during the demolition of an old factory, a federal prosecutor said today
the fines were imposed for violations of the clean air act, and the combined $260,000 penalty was the largest ever imposed in the nation for violation of the act's asbestos regulations, said u.s. attorney stanley a. twardy jr
consent decrees between the government and big apple wrecking corp. of middle village, n.y., and general datacomm industries inc. of naugatuck were filed tuesday in federal court in new haven
general datacomm owned the former uniroyal corp. shoe plant in naugatuck when it was razed about two years ago. big apple was the demolition contractor
the federal government charged in a june 27, 1986, complaint that the two companies failed to provide adequate notification to the environmental protection agency before removing asbestos from the demolition site. the complaint also alleged that the contractor failed to wet the asbestos during the removal and disposal process
after the complaint was filed, an injunction was imposed requiring the remaining demolition to be completed in compliance with federal regulations
in a state such as connecticut, with its constant renovation and demolition of aging industrial facilities,'' twardy said, ``it is crucial that proper precautions be taken by contractors in order to prevent asbestos from being emitted into the air.'' also calling for meese resignation.</note>
senate majority leader robert byrd called today for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii, calling meese ``the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history.''
he ought to get out,'' byrd, d-w.va., told reporters. ``the country cannot have confidence in the justice department when the top law enforcement officer obviously has to spend an inordinate amount of his time defending himself.''
he should be spending his time fighting the war on drugs, crime,'' byrd said
byrd opened his regular morning meeting with reporters by saying: ``mr. meese has become the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history.''
byrd said he usually would not call on any official to resign who hadn't been indicted for a crime, ``but we're talking about the top law enforcement officer in this country.''
it's just cloud after cloud after cloud, building in layers over his head to the point where all confidence in this agency is being seriously eroded,'' byrd said
the president ought to ask somebody, if he doesn't want to ask him himself, to ask mr. meese to step aside, step down,'' byrd said
a republican senator also called today for meese to step aside
you finally reach a place where there is a cloud of suspicion, a sufficient cloud of suspicion, that i think you owe it to the president to remove yourself,'' sen. bob packwood of oregon told reporters at an informal news conference
packwood said he did not expect reagan would ask meese for his resignation
the president will clearly not fire a friend,'' packwood said. ``the president does not do that to a friend.''
deputy attorney general arnold burns, assistant attorney general william weld and four of their aides abruptly resigned on tuesday. burns and weld offered little public explanation, but told associates they were concerned that the nearly year-long criminal probe of meese is hurting the entire justice department, according to several department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity
i don't really see how he (meese) can expect to continue to lead the department after resignations and circumstances like this,'' former attorney general elliot richardson said on the cbs show ``this morning.''
this man is the head of the chief legal agency, the law enforcement agency of the united states government. and there comes a point at which the mere fact that he is not indicted is insufficient,'' said richardson, who was attorney general during the nixon administration
i think it's just an extraordinary disaster,'' rep. barney frank, d-mass., said of the resignations. ``...the attorney general should quit. ...it's now clear that he can't run that department, that we're paying a very high price for his stubborness.''
an earthquake shook southwest iran early today and initial reports indicated there were casualties and damage
iran's official islamic republic news agency said relief teams were dispatched to dehdasht, 340 miles from tehran in the boyer ahmed province, to ``help the victims and estimate the damage.'' it did not give a casualty figure
dehdasht has a population of 105,000
it said the geophysics center in tehran registered the epicenter near dehdasht
the quake measured 5.2 on the richter scale
an earthquake of 5 can cause considerable damage. a 7 reading is a ``major'' earthquake, capable of widespread heavy damage; 8 is a ``great'' quake, capable of tremendous damage. main street</head>
the national governors' association told congress today that a sales-tax advantage held by mail-order sellers ``threatens the future of main street america.''
thousands of small retail businesses that support our communities and local citizen programs and generate jobs will not be able to compete in a market in which mail-order firms have a price advantage that is greater than the actual profit margins of these community businesses,'' said gov. george sinner of north dakota
sinner, speaking for his fellow governors, urged a house judiciary subcommittee to give the states authority to tax mail-order sales to out-of-state customers
that authority was wiped out by a 1967 supreme court ruling. the court held that a state could not require a mail-order seller to collect sales tax if the company's only contacts with the state were in mailing catalogs and delivering merchandise by mail or public package service
as a result, such giant mail-order companies as maine-based l.l. bean can sell by mail to the other 49 states for prices on which no taxes are collected. the decision does not affect companies such as sears, which have outlets in every state
representatives of state and local governments say they are losing more than $2 billion in sales taxes each year because of the inability to collect on sales by out-of-state catalog companies, television shopping clubs and the like
a house ways and means subcommittee already has approved a bill by rep. byron dorgan, d-n.d., that would allow states to require large out-of-state retailers to collect the tax. similar bills are pending before the judiciary subcommittee on commercial law
rep. jack brooks, d-texas, a judiciary member, said his bill would allow a state to require a retailer to collect sales tax only if the company regularly solicits sales in that state. it would apply only to companies whose annual gross receipts exceed $12.5 million or whose sales in a state exceed $500,000
william j. park, president of george w. park seed co., inc., greenwood, s.c., opposed the bills. he said his company's average mail order is $32 which, assuming a sales tax averaging 5 percent nationwide, would generate a $1.60 tax
it would be prohibitive to collect the estimated tax of $1.60 if the customers did not voluntarily send it. we certainly could not afford to pay it ourselves,'' park said, adding that his company averaged an after-tax net return of 3.5 percent last year
mayor bob isaac of colorado springs, colo., speaking for the national league of cities, said representatives of state and local governments are close to agreeing on how to divide revenues from mail-order tax collections among affected states, cities and counties. such an agreement is essential, he said
isaac said he does not take lightly a concern expressed by some state officials about being ordered by congress to channel some tax revenues down to cities and counties. but a reading of the supreme court sales-tax decision ``provides the rationale for concluding that such a requirement does not amount to an interference with a state's prerogative,'' isaac said
the head of the environmental protection agency has banned use of the insecticide diazinon on golf courses and sod farms because it kills too many birds, the agency said today
the decision by administrator lee m. thomas overrules an administrative law judge, who on jan. 25 found that the benefits of using diazinon outweighed the risks and recommended continued use under certain restrictions
the decision, effective on publication in the federal register in a few days, represents the first time that the use of a pesticide has been canceled solely because it killed birds, said spokesman al heier. however, the harm to birds was a large part of the reasons behind the 1972 ban on ddt
about 8 million pounds of diazinon are used each year to control insects on farms, in nurseries and around homes and gardens as well as on golf courses and sod farms. the two banned uses account for about 572,000 pounds
in september 1986, the agency announced intent to cancel golf course and sod farm use. at the time, it said it knew of 60 instances in 18 states where diazinon was a known or suspected cause of large-scale bird killings. many involved golf courses, which some species favor as feeding sites
four hundred ninety-four companies hold federal licenses to sell diazinon products. the major manufacturer is ciba-geigy corp
suzy says ... revson's a rat
but _ why should we care?
well, that's entertainment in the world of new york gossip
new york post columnist suzy, it seems, is just a little, eentsy bit miffed over a column by her upstart rival in new york newsday, james revson
revson wrote last week that he was ``a bit heartbroken'' to find that _ horrors _ suzy had written about a posh party at the metropolitan museum without attending it
specifically, revson wrote, ``suzy ticked off the names of 32 well-known people who, she wrote, had attended the party. ... well, there's a sad truth here. not one of those boldfaced folks showed up at the museum. none. zero. zilch.''
suzy (who actually has two real names, aileen mehle) wasn't pleased
yes, suzy admitted in today's column, she used a press release to write about the party in advance so she could slip away for ``a little vacation on the beautiful, windswept isle of mustique in the caribbean. it was heaven.''
and yes, she said, it's true that some of the people she said were at the party never showed up, even though they were listed in the press release
and yes, she said, ``i should have yanked the whole thing or at least the names the release said would attend.''
but is suzy contrite? not on your life
i bow in accuracy and meticulousness and decency to no one,'' she wrote. ``that is the reason i have survived as a star all these long years _ that and because in my field i am the best and the brightest there is
and dear readers, fans and publicity-seekers, i would like to go on record as telling the world that any place ... revson is, i will not be. do not invite me anywhere if you invite him. just call it a boycott _ or even a suzycott.''
revson's column made such a splash that even the august times took notice, printing a story and a picture of revson
not only did revson show himself to be a rat, suzy said today, he gave himself away as ``malicious, sneaky, ugly-mean.''
got it?
more in this space tomorrow. we hope. february, picking up 2nd graf pvs, `the government ....' a version moved on the business wires.</note>
orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.8 percent in february, the second consecutive monthly decline, the government reported today
the commerce department said orders for durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $210.86 billion last month following a 0.6 percent january decline
the february drop was the largest since a 1.4 percent setback in august. the back-to-back declines were the first consecutive drops since the summer of 1986
but analysts said they were not overly concerned about the setbacks, contending that manufacturing will still be one of the top performing sectors this year
the factory data followed a pair of upbeat economic reports released tuesday, which combined with a more stable dollar and lower interest rates to lift the stock market out of its slump
the government reported tuesday that its chief economic forecasting gauge, the index of leading indicators, posted a 0.9 percent increase in february in a performance which analysts said should lay to rest fears of a 1988 recession
there also was good news on sales of new homes. they shot up 20.3 percent in february _ the biggest monthly gain in almost two years _ after falling for three straight months
the positive economic reports helped spark a broad-based rally in stocks. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 18.57 points to 1,998.34, following steep declines last thursday and friday and a slight gain monday
about 13 stocks rose in value for every six that fell on the new york stock exchange, with 1,015 up, 467 down and 482 unchanged
the dollar surged upward from its lowest point since early january, jumping to 125.26 japanese yen in late new york trading from 123.84 yen late monday
interest rates declined, meanwhile, as bond prices rose. the treasury's closely watched 30-year bond jumped about ~ point, or $8.75 for every $1,000 in face value. its yield, which moves inversely to its price, tumbled to 8.75 percent from 8.83 percent late monday
weakness in home sales and in the leading indicators in the months following the oct. 19 stock market crash had raised fears that the 5-year-old economic recovery was in imminent danger of collapsing
housing is often the first sector to weaken in a new downturn and the index of leading indicators is designed to forecast turning points in the economy. for that reason, the february rebounds in both were greeted as good news by economists. pvs, ``he also said...</note>
jesse jackson huddled today with the top ranks of washington's political establishment, a summit meeting one participant called ``a bonding of the democratic party'' with the preacher-turned-politician
with such party luminaries as clark clifford and john white at his side, the democratic presidential candidate said the meeting was totally positive. clifford and white denied there were discussions of fears that jackson could drag the party's ticket down in the fall
no, not at all,'' said white, a former chairman of the democratic national committee, told reporters after the meeting
we only see that in the press,'' said california assembly speaker willie brown, jackson's national campaign chairman. ``maybe people don't want to say that in front of us.''
jackson said the breakfast session was ``bringing together democrats who have traditional investment in the interests of the country and the party and those who are new to the process
in this instance, we bring together old wineskins and new wine, but the old wineskins are expanding and making room for new wine,'' he added, using one of his favorite phrases from the 1984 campaign
jackson picked up the backing of white
this meeting is a new maturing of the political process in america,'' white said. ``it represents a growing-up of america. it represents a bonding of the democratic party and a bond that recognizes no class.''
the one negative that came up at the meeting, according to participants, was a question to jackson about his relationship with black muslim leader louis farrakhan
white said jackson ``quoted jesus about casting the first stone and forgiveness and so anybody who hasn't made mistakes...let's not be casting stones at each other about the past.''
farrakhan campaigned with jackson early in the 1984 campaign, but the tie was cut after the black muslim leader called judaism as ``gutter religion'' and called adolf hitler ``a great man.''
many of those attending were already jackson supporters, including former federal budget director bert lance, texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower and brown
jackson's campaign manager, gerald austin, said attendance did not indicate they were endorsing jackson, but it would give them a chance to get to know him
a lot more people want to talk to jesse jackson now than they did a week ago,'' he said in reference to jackson's big win in michigan on saturday
the victory was followed tuesday by an equally big loss in connecticut to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
jackson, however, hailed connecticut as a victory anyway, because he got 70,000 votes. he said that showed his campaign is expanding
he also said he would not react to the sharp criticism leveled at him tuesday by rival albert gore jr., but instead would ``let the people speak.''
in the first harsh attack by a jackson rival, gore, the senator from tennessee, said jackson has a ``complete and total lack of experience in the national government. he hasn't served a single day in the national government, or had a single day's experience in foreign policy.''
answering questions in new york, gore added, ``i also cannot disagree more with jesse jackson's views on many foreign policy issues. i categorically reject his notion that there's a moral equivalence between israel and the plo. ... and i am dismayed by his embrace of arafat and castro.''
jackson said he was unaware of ``any organized `stop jackson' movement'' but that in the face of his success, some democrats ``are reacting with a sense of history, others are reacting with a sense of hysteria.''
the most prominent non-candidate, new york gov. mario cuomo, said it was wrong to talk of a ``stop jackson'' movement
i reject the suggestion that it somehow presents us with a dilemma if jesse jackson wins,'' said cuomo. ``the person who gets the most votes should be the candidate and all talk of introducing somebody to stop gore, to stop dukakis or to stop jackson, that's all equally wrong.''
today's meeting, according to white, was set up even before the michigan contest
he said jackson had indicated an interest in ``meeting with the party regulars and talking about the parts of the political world he might not be familiar with.''
ann lewis, an adviser to jackson said, ``the original idea was to get jesse together with the washington establishment ... to listen to them talk about issues and policies and then to answer any questions they might have about him.'' strike</head> opening, government saying banks to reopen. no pickup</note>
the nation's three largest supermarket chains reopened their stores today, signaling a major rupture in a 10-day general strike aimed at toppling strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
the government announced that the nation's banks, closed since march 3 because of a cash shortage brought on by u.s. economic sanctions, would reopen thursday with limited service
it announced tight restrictions on withdrawals from savings and checking accounts
the gago, rey and super 99 markets in the capital were doing brisk business after panamanians rushed to buy food and essentials that have been virtually unattainable
the weakening of the strike came two days after a harsh crackdown on leaders of the national civic crusade, which is leading the anti-noriega fight. more than 20 crusade directors were arrested monday in a raid by soldiers and state security agents. most were detained overnight, then released
owners of the reopened stores could not be reached for comment. crusade leaders, who vowed to continue the strike until noriega left panama, have been reluctant to talk since their arrests. some of those not detained were said to be in hiding
the roman catholic church tuesday joined opposition leaders in calling for noriega's resignation. but noriega, leader of the 15,000-member defense forces and the power behind the civilian government, said tuesday night he had no intention of stepping down
here, it is not one man who is the problem,'' said noriega, who blames his problems on what he considers a u.s. slander campaign against him. ``this is a matter of dignity and conviction involving the entire hemisphere.''
in a speech to delegates of a solidarity with panama conference in the capital, noriega condemned the presence of the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa on the pacific end of the panama canal. it passed through the canal tuesday on its way to its home port, san diego
the u.s. defense department said in washington that the passage was ``routine.'' but noriega called it ``a threat and an aggression.'' there was no immediate indication how long the vessel would stay in the area
noriega claimed the united states had spent more than $100 million in the effort to topple him. ``but with all the gold in the world they have not been able to bring this people or this commander or these defense forces to their knees,'' he said, shaking his fist to wild applause
delegates from about 25 latin american and caribbean countries attended the conference, but few represented governments. about 400 spectators were on hand in the convention center
noriega's forces used a harsh irritant sprayed from water cannons, tear gas and birdshot to break up a march monday by 10,000 anti-government protesters. many people were beaten with rubber hoses and dozens were arrested
almost all those detained were released by tuesday. but carlos gonzalez de la lastra, a top leader of the opposition national civil crusade, was still held at a military intelligence center early today
he had not been allowed access to a lawyer or visits by family members
we're worried. we have been told by sources in the defense forces that he has been beaten,'' his wife vilma, told the associated press
gonzalez de la lastra apparently was not released with the others because he had been out on bond on a previous sedition charge
a church spokesman told a news conference on tuesday that panama city archbishop monsignor marcos mcgrath contacted noriega and the opposition and the archbishop had ``a positive impression'' about prospects for mediation
but the spokesman, auxiliary archbishop mons. oscar brown, said there's still a lot to be done, ``and because of that we cannot have an excessive optimism.''
in a statement, the church said a committee of bishops met with noriega last week and asked him ``to separate himself from his position as soon as possible.'' the statement said noriega failed to respond to the request
this critical phase of panama's 10-month-old political and economic crisis began feb. 26, when noriega orchestrated the ouster of president eric delvalle. hours earlier, delvalle had tried to fire noriega, who has been indicted in the united states on drug-trafficking charges
the reagan administration continues to recognize delvalle, who is in hiding, as president. it has frozen panamanian government funds in u.s. banks, denying this country a supply of its official currency, the u.s. dollar
indian peacekeeping troops killed 11 tamil rebels, captured three others and recovered 17 ak-47 automatic rifles from a hideout in the jungles of north central sri lanka, officials said today
sri lankan military officials, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said the attack late tuesday was in mankulam, near the district capital of anuradhpura, about 105 miles northeast of colombo. it came after rebels killed 10 sinhalese farmers in the region
the sri lankan government, meanwhile, announced a ban on all meetings opposing elections in four of the island's nine provinces
the cabinet discussed a report that certain political parties were planning to hold meetings exhorting the people not to vote in the elections,'' an announcement by the information ministry said
as this is an undemocratic step and may lead to public unrest in those areas, it was decided that no permission for such meetings should be granted by the police,'' it said
the elections are scheduled for april 28 and 436 candidates from three parties are running for 155 seats. sri lanka freedom party, the largest opposition party, is boycotting the polls and demanding the government hold general elections
the attack in north central sri lanka came after suspected tamil militants tuesday planted a bomb on a passenger bus in the same area, killing 10 sinhalese farmers and injuring 15 others
the haul of ak-47 rifles is regarded as the largest single haul of the this type of weaponry by the indian troops,'' a military official said
more than 50,000 indian troops are in sri lanka to disarm tamil militants under a peace accord signed last july. the accord grants some autonomy to minority tamils living in the north and east but it has been opposed both by tamil and sinhalese extremists
tamils say it does not give enough autonomy while sinhalese nationalists claim it grants too many concessions to the tamils
in another incident, sri lankan police today opened fire ``at a mob of more than 2,000 people who tried to storm the trincomalee police station and a nearby army camp,'' a military official reported
three policemen were seriously injured and many in the mob were wounded, the official said. trincomalee is an important port town in the eastern province
the crowd was demanding the release of all tamil political prisoners and withdrawal from the area of sri lankan security forces. the security forces are protecting sinhalese settlements in the east
more than 135 sinhalese civilians have been killed this month in attacks blamed on tamil militants of the liberation tigers of tamil eelam. the group is the largest and most powerful rebel organization
the government says the rebels are launching these attacks to drive out sinhalese and moslems from the eastern province and establish complete dominance. tamils say the government has deliberately settled sinhalese people in the area to upset the tamils traditional majority in the area
tamils, who are mainly hindu, make up about 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million people while the sinhalese, who are buddhists, comprise 75 percent
tamils say they are discriminated against by the sinhalese, who control the government and the military
a court reporter for the federal judge who sentenced millionaire industrialist victor posner in a tax evasion case has been in contact with posner's organization for a job, the judge said in court today
u.s. district judge eugene p. spellman, visibly perturbed, said he first learned of conversations between court reporter mario contillo and posner on monday afternoon
i'm not saying his conduct was illegal, but i feel it was reprehensible, especially involving a friend of 30 years,'' said spellman, referring to contillo, who the judge said was offered ``a substantial amount'' to work for posner. details of the job were not disclosed in court
posner pleaded no contest sept. 29 to evading more than $1.2 million in federal taxes by inflating the value of land he donated to a bible college as a tax exemption
posner, who had faced up to 40 years in prison in an income tax evasion case, was ordered to pay more than $4 million in back taxes and fines and to give $3 million to help florida's homeless in an income tax evasion case
the miami beach businessman, whose holdings include controlling interests in royal crown cola and arby's, also was sentenced to 5,000 hours in community service over five years
spellman called u.s. attorney leon kellner, assistant u.s. attorney neal cartusciello, who prosecuted the case, and mary clark, an attorney for posner, to a special hearing in his courtroom to discuss his findings
contillo announced last friday that he was giving up his court position, spellman said. spellman said he wanted kellner to ``to evaluate and comment if he wishes,'' on the disclosure
i don't know all the facts but i felt that as a member of the federal judiciary it was incumbent upon me to draw attention to this matter so it could be made public as quickly as possible,'' the judge said
when i found out, i went through a series of emotions ... distress and outrage ... that a member of my staff is guilty at the very least of impropriety,'' he said
efforts by the associated press to reach contillo at his office or at home by telephone today were unsuccessful. renee mottram, a spokeswoman for posner, said that contillo is not employed by posner at this time
spellman said the job conversations took place sometime after the feb. 12 sentencing of posner
posner's 1986 conviction was set aside because of jury irregularities, and he entered the no contest plea a month before he was to be retried
spellman said today it was his understanding that the court reporter gave the impression the judge condoned his job discussions, but the judge said, ``i had no knowledge of the conversations and i do not condone them.''
the judge noted that the 69-year-old posner is on probation and said: ``i have not taken this up with probation service. if they feel that mr. posner violated his probation, they have the means to bring it to the court's attention
i have no reason to believe it was other than an unthinking and stupid act.''
after the judge left the bench, kellner was asked if he intended to bring the actions to the attention of a grand jury
i am hearing this for the first time as you are. all i can say is we will take a look at it.'' up in 12th graf pvs, with 100</note>
michael dukakis celebrated his 2-to-1 connecticut primary victory over jesse jackson today as jackson met with democratic party elders and dismissed his tuesday loss as merely due to the massachusetts governor's ``home field advantage'' in new england
george bush, with the gop nomination all but in hand, called on republicans to ``keep together and get to work.'' bush won overwhelmingly in connecticut _ as he had been expected to do even before principal rival bob dole dropped out of the race on primary day
jackson met privately in washington with leaders of the party establishment, then said afterward, ``in this instance, we bring together old wineskins and new wine, but the old wineskins are expanding and making room for new wine.''
participants said the meeting was positive all around, with no discussion of reports that some democrats fear nominating jackson would lead to crushing defeat in the general election
we only see that in the press,'' said california assembly speaker willie brown, a jackson supporter. ``maybe people don't want to say that in front of us.''
democrat albert gore jr., who finished a distant third in connecticut, said today while campaigning in wisconsin that he expected no backlash from the comments he made tuesday about what he said was jackson's ``complete and total lack'' of the experience needed to be president
other candidates have been slow to criticize jackson, but gore said his own comments ``were really not that different from what i've been saying for several months.''
dukakis, on nbc-tv, said of the connecticut primary, ``we won with a big, big margin, but it's not the first of my victories.''
but this is a marathon and it's going to be all the way to the finish line. i'm just very pleased that people who know me best were so supportive,'' he said
jackson, who has beaten dukakis in two states in the last two weeks _ michigan and illinois _ congratulated the massachusetts governor but suggested geography and campaign finances played a key role
you did well with your home field advantage,'' said jackson, who also appeared on the nbc program
sen. paul simon, who barely contested connecticut, made the same point tuesday night. ``we assumed this was dukakis territory,'' he said
with 100 percent of the connecticut precincts reporting, dukakis had 58 percent to jackson's 28 percent. gore trailed with 8 percent, and simon had 1 percent
that restored dukakis' lead in the national delegate race. the latest ap count put dukakis at 647.55; jackson at 634.55 and uncommitted at 500.6. gore had 364.8 and simon 169.5
jackson swept the black vote and won about 20 percent of the white vote, according to television network exit polls. his share of the white vote was put at 5 percent in 1984
however, primary-day surveys of voters by wnbc-tv in new york suggested only one-fifth of the democrats believed the nation was ready to elect a black president. abc found that one-third of the democrats would switch to the republican side if jackson were nominated
only last week dukakis was suggesting he was the inevitable democratic nominee. now he is saying he expects a long duel with jackson
this is 15 rounds and it's going to be a decision, not a knockout,'' he said tuesday night. ``it's going all the way to the final round.''
some party heavyweights may have come to the same conclusion. jackson was meeting in washington today with the front rank of the democratic establishment to discuss issues and policy
former party chairman john white, who set up the ``summit,'' said it would allow jackson to talk with democratic leaders about ``the parts of the political world he might not be familiar with.''
jackson came under fire tuesday from gore, in the first serious attack on him by a democratic opponent. gore said jackson has a ``complete and total lack'' of experience needed to be president
we're not choosing a preacher, we're choosing a president,'' the tennessee senator said. jackson retorted: ``i assume that he is stimulated by his own status in the campaign to attack me.''
the exchange came as the two were in new york, jockeying for position in new york's delegate-heavy contest on april 19. gore was in wisconsin today, making an early-morning visit to a dairy farm where he was to milk cows and do farm chores
on the republican side, dole's departure left bush with only a nominal opponent _ former television evangelist pat robertson, who acknowledged, ``it seems obvious now that george bush will be the winner.''
as the kansas senator bowed out tuesday, he put aside his differences with the vice president
i return to the senate as the republican leader ... ready to do all i can to elect republicans in november and doing all i can for our nominee, george bush,'' he said. bush beat dole by a lopsided 71-20 margin in connecticut
if dole's delegates _ now in the uncommitted column _ go to bush, the vice president is likely to clinch the delegates needed to nominate in the next few weeks
with the republican nomination a nearly done deal, republicans were holding the first of three platform hearings today, this one on foreign policy and defense. gop chairman frank fahrenkopf and the president's daughter, maureen reagan, were among those attending
rep. richard gephardt, who dropped out of the democratic race on monday, filed tuesday for re-election to his house seat from missouri, saying he was somewhat relieved to have life return to a more usual pace
now we can go to the drug store and the movies and be fairly normal,'' he said
the senate foreign relations committee, by a vote of 17-2, today gave its approval to the historic treaty eliminating u.s. and soviet medium-range nuclear missiles
the vote sends the treaty to the full senate, which is expected to vote next month after returning from its easter recess. leaders of both parties say the treaty will win far more than the two-thirds margin it needs to be ratified
but some republicans said today the pact may be in jeopardy because of a democratic-backed amendment outlining how the treaty can be interpreted by the white house. the only dissenting votes today were cast by sens. jesse helms, r-n.c., and larry pressler, r-s.d
the treaty, signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev, requires both sides to desroy, within three years, all nuclear-tipped missiles with a range of 300 to 3,400 miles. it will be the first nuclear arms control pact requiring the destruction of weapons
sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., said the democratic amendment was ``perhaps unconstitutional and very frankly, it may change my position with respect to the treaty'' on the floor. but boschwitz supported the pact in today's vote
pressler predicted the amendment ``will lead to the defeat of this treaty because the votes aren't there.''
but sen. claiborne pell, d-r.i., the panel's chairman, said ``the amendment's importance has been exaggerated'' and predicted its eventual approval by the full senate
sen. paul sarbanes, d-md., called the pact ``a very important step forward'' for the united states
sen. alan cranston, d-calif., agreed. ``in effect, this is a small step away from the nuclear brink,'' he told his colleagues
today's vote came a day after the amendment was added, a move that left some committee republicans angry and threatening to oppose the treaty when it comes to the floor
this has been made partisan, unnecessarily in my view,'' sen. daniel evans, r-wash, said tuesday. ``no one has worked harder for this treaty than me, but i'm now going to seriously take a look at whether i can vote for it.''
evans and other republicans were unhappy about the democratic-written provision, which was added to the measure with the help of helms
the provision says no future president can change the u.s. interpretation of the treaty without the approval of congress, either through a new pact or through a separate law
the measure arises from a longstanding fight between reagan and congress over reagan's assertion that the executive branch can unilaterally change how the u.s. government interprets a treaty. congressional democrats disagree with that statement, which reagan has used to justify some tests of his star wars missile defense system
the tests would violate the original interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty
democrats want assurances that reagan or another president won't assert the same right to re-interpret treaties on the intermediate-range nuclear forces pact
sen. richard lugar, r-ind., said reagan already has agreed not to change the u.s. view of the inf treaty and said the proposal ``is a deliberate attempt to embarrass the president.''
but sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., told lugar, ``those of us on this side did not begin this process,'' a reference to reagan's assertion involving executive branch rights on treaty interpretation
helms said he offered his amendment, which he said made minor changes in the democratic-written proposal, to make sure the democratic measure was constitutional
but lugar was suspicious. ``i frankly don't know at all what this is about. i'm sure something important is going on,'' he said, but ``i don't have any idea.''
earlier in the day, the senate met in a rare secret session to talk about intelligence estimates about the size of the soviets' force of ss-20 missiles, which will be destroyed under the treaty
the soviets have admitted to having 650 of the weapons, but helms and other conservative critics argue that u.s. intelligence estimates show that the soviets may possess up to 1,000. administration officials dispute that contention
the secret session was the senate's first since october 1986. it was held in the old senate chamber, down the capitol hall from the current senate meeting place. the current chamber was unusable because it is laced with electronic cables that could be tapped
helms said later that his colleagues, ``heard some things they hadn't heard before.'' court's decision.</note>
federal funding aimed at discouraging sexual activity by teen-agers is valid despite the ``constitutionally troublesome'' ways some religious groups spent the money, the reagan administration told the supreme court today
saying that congress passed the 1981 law ``in response to grave social, economic and health costs'' linked to teen-age pregnancies, solicitor general charles fried said, ``in our view, the statute is plainly constitutional on its face.''
but fried, the justice department's highest-ranking courtroom lawyer, conceded that some of the millions of dollars spent under the law each year may have gone to promote religion
i do not dispute that there may have been some departures'' from past high court rulings on church-state relations, fried said, adding that some of those departures are ``constitutionally troublesome.''
janet benshoof, an american civil liberties union lawyer representing those who successfully challenged the law in a lower court, was asked by justice antonin scalia whether congress was empowered to authorize self-restraint among adolescents
benshoof replied, ``yes, but you can't do it by telling young girls to pretend that jesus is their date.''
at issue is whether the 1981 law impermissibly promotes religion because religious organizations obtain money under it
the court's decision is expected by july
urged on by conservative republicans, congress allowed religious groups to obtain money for programs designed to prevent adolescent pregnancy by promoting self-discipline and to mitigate problems caused by premarital sex and teen-age pregnancy
aclu lawyers, representing those who challenged the law, said it ``authorizes the use of federal funds to subsidize religious indoctrination as a means of opposing premarital sex, abortion and birth control for teen-agers.''
a federal judge here agreed, and struck down the law last year
the law, officially called the adolescent family life act but dubbed the ``chastity act'' by its opponents, has three general program categories _ care, prevention and research
care services'' include pregnancy testing, maternity counseling, adoption and referral help
prevention services'' are those aimed at discouraging adolescent sexual relations, and include programs offering counseling and family planning
the law requires programs applying for federal funding to describe how, in providing services, they will ``involve religious and charitable organizations, voluntary associations and other groups in the private sector.''
although finding that the law has a secular or non-religious purpose, u.s. district judge charles richey said it has ``the primary effect of advancing religion and fosters an excessive entanglement between government and religion.''
he noted that the law ``explicitly permits religious organizations to be grantees, and envisions a direct role for those organizations in the education and counseling components of afla grants.''
the case is bowen vs. kendrick, 87-253, 87-431, 87-462, and 87-775. leaving late april and ceremony in may, sted she leaving in march and ceremony in april.</note>
after the deaths of milton and matilda, two musk oxen given to china by the united states in 1972, a georgia widow began a one-person campaign to replace them
next month, helen miller travels to beijing for a ceremony marking the success of her efforts and the arrival of two new animals
mrs. miller said she learned that just as pandas ling-ling and hsing-hsing _ gifts from china _ had become popular at the national zoo in washington, millions of chinese children visited the beijing zoo to see the oxen
so in 1980, after learning that the oxen had died, she began a letter-writing campaign to the white house, the national zoo and officials of the u.s. fish and wildlife service
she felt it was a matter of ``national honor'' to replace the animals that had been presented when then-president richard nixon made his historic trip to china as the two nations normalized relations
i don't just think about things,'' she said in a recent interview. ``if they are worth thinking about, they are worth acting on.''
musk oxen, found only in greenland and arctic regions of north america, have heavy fur coats and horns that dip down along their heads and then up. hunted for years, they now are protected
mrs. miller eventually learned that the university of alaska had a herd of the oxen and went there. university officials agreed to donate koyuk and tanana, a pair flown to china on march 21
the chinese are very excited about it,'' said mrs. miller, who departs in late april. ``there's going to be a big presentation ceremony. it took a long time, but it was interesting every step of the way.''
the ceremony, in early may, will be attended by u.s. officials, the governor of alaska and the head of the university of alaska's school of arctic biology, she said
mrs. miller's husband, gibbs, died in 1960, leaving her with four children. after attending vocational school, she got a job as a construction estimator
i like to do things that no one else will do,'' said mrs. miller
she has been a contestant on four tv game shows, winning a brazilian vacation, two cars, a 65-foot mobile home and two furs. three of her children also have appeared on game shows
now that the oxen are in china, mrs. miller has a new project, but for now it's a secret
you put your heart in it and go to work,'' she said.``if you believe in something strongly enough, then put feet on your prayers.'' details on clash. pick up 7th pvs, `in the...' edits thereafter to trim.</note>
hundreds of arab protesters fought israeli troops today in defiance of a massive clampdown in the occupied territories. hospital officials said two palestinians were killed and 24 wounded
the army confirmed one death and said three people were wounded on land day, an annual demonstration against israeli confiscation of arab land
the west bank and gaza strip were closed, and thousands of extra police and soldiers were deployed. six arabs were killed in the first land day protests 12 years ago
police swept through the offices of a key arab news service and ordered it closed for six months
a supreme court panel denied a foreign press request to allow media access to the occupied territories, but it ordered the army to explain within 30 days why journalists should not be allowed free access
only the territories' 65,000 jewish settlers were permitted to travel freely
in beit sahour near bethlehem in the west bank, troops clashed with about 200 protesters who pelted them with rocks, waved outlawed palestinian flags and set tires ablaze
an associated press reporter in the village saw roadblocks of boulders, rusted barrels, twisted metal and garbage blocking dozens of winding streets. four tires smouldered nearby and hundreds of baseball sized rocks littered the streets
in the west bank village of deir abu mashal, 20 miles northwest of jerusalem, soldiers killed a woman and wounded her husband and two sons
the army and hospital officials gave conflicting accounts
doctors at ramallah hospital told the associated press troops entered the home of wajalah rabir, 50, while she and her family were eating breakfast and fatally shot her in the head
a visitor to the hospital quoted mrs. rabir's 17-year-old daughter, zeinab, as saying the soldiers came in and asked if there were any men in the house
the girl told the troops no men were home, but they entered anyway, the visitor said. the visitor, who spoke on condition of anonymity, quoted the girl as saying a soldier then shot one brother who started to run. other family members then lunged toward the troops, who opened fire
hospital officials said mrs. rabir's husband and two sons were in serious condition from gunshot wounds. the officials, who have been barred from speaking to journalists, insisted on anonymity
the army said the woman was shot after she attacked a soldier with a rake. ``all those hurt were hurt during a very aggressive attack on our soldiers,'' the commander said on israel radio. ``they attacked with pitchforks, axes, clubs and metal bars in a very aggressive way.''
officials at nablus' al ittihad hospital said another palestinian, khalid salah, 22, died of a gunshot wound to the back during a clash with troops in the nearby village of burqa. they said another arab was wounded in the shoulder in that clash
the army said it was investigating the death which, according to u.n. figures, brought to 121 the number of palestinians killed by soldiers since unrest broke out in the territories on dec. 8. one israeli soldier has been killed
hospital officials said 24 palestinians were wounded by gunfire, including a 12-year-old girl near hebron
in east jerusalem, police officers swept into the arab-owned palestine press service and ordered it closed for six months
ibrahim kareen, publisher of the service, said police told him the agency was being closed because it was funded by the palestine liberation organization. he denied plo funding and vowed to continue providing information
all we need is a telephone,'' kareen said
an extra 4,000 police were stationed in israel's arab sectors
telephone lines to gaza remained severed, troops warned on loudspeakers that curfew violators would be shot, and gaza and the west bank were closed to most outside traffic
reporters were barred from entering the territories without a previously arranged army escort, and army spokeswoman ofra preuss said violators would be prosecuted
the maximum penalty for entering a closed military area is five years in prison
a general strike was observed in israel's arab towns, east jerusalem and the west bank. dozens of mounted police and foot patrols moved through east jerusalem's main salah edin street. graf pvs, ``my friends</note>
senate republican leader bob dole told president reagan today ``i'm reporting back for duty,'' one day after giving up his bid for the gop presidential nomination
dole met privately with reagan at the white house and didn't comment as he left. but white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters of the comment made to reagan by dole, who had campaigned as the man who helped steer reagan programs through the senate
one day earlier, dole, who for one winter week looked like a good bet for the nomination, ended his quest for the white house, as much the victim of his own campaign's shortcomings as of george bush's success
my friends know that i am a fighter; i don't like to lose,'' the senate republican leader said in bowing to the inevitable tuesday. ``i have been beaten before, and no doubt will be again. but i have never been defeated and never will be.''
in an ad-libbed addition to his prepared speech, dole promised to do ``all i can for our nominee, george bush.''
bush, with an insurmountable delegate lead, called dole while campaigning in wisconsin to thank him for a ``very generous statement.'' he added, ``it's been a hard-fought campaign and i respect the tenacity of bob dole.''
only pat robertson remains in the gop race as a stubborn challenger to bush. robertson conceded ``it seems obvious'' that bush would be the nominee but said he won't withdraw as a candidate
dole formally withdrew surrounded by family and friends in the senate caucus room, scene of watergate and iran-contra hearings. a supportive audience of senate and house colleagues jammed the room
also present were two former senior aides to the campaign, david keene and don devine, who because of the public manner of their firings were reminders of the dole campaign's internal divisions and ineptitude
dole's withdrawal must have been painful for a candidate who, in the glow of his lead-off victory in iowa, could see the nomination almost within his grasp
he benefited in that farm state from his rural, humble roots in neighboring kansas, and the contrast with the patrician bush. his victory in the nation's first delegate contest left bush a stunned third-place finisher behind dole and robertson
for the next week, critics called bush a failed campaigner and dole appeared on a winner's roll. even his own pollster told dole that he would likely win new hampshire, riding a surge in popularity built on his iowa success
but the dole campaign, thinking it could coast across the finish line, did not answer tough, last-minute bush television ads that suggested dole would raise taxes
fiercely and historically opposed to taxes, new hampshire voters dealt dole a loss from which he could not recover. dole later described his failure to answer the bush ad as his big mistake
dole's campaign was beset by internal divisions and vacillation. critics said it was a reflection of dole himself, calling him a consummate legislator but lacking in an executive's ability to delegate authority or organize
after new hampshire, dole's campaign went into a tailspin. it seemed to unravel in embarrassingly full view
campaign manager bill brock, in a struggle for control, fired keene and devine as reporters watched. he ordered the two off the campaign plane in florida
dole's strategy for winning the white house had been based primarily on winning the first two contests, and when he fell short in new hampshire his candidacy collapsed
he found himself far behind bush in the southern primaries on super tuesday three weeks later. unable to focus his energies on his best opportunities, he lost everywhere. in one night, bush moved halfway to a delegate majority
dole couldn't turn the race around in illinois and was effectively out of the running
in a metaphor of his sputtering campaign, a live 30-minute television broadcast in illinois _ planned in 11th-hour desperation _ was ruined by an electronic glitch
dole was always dogged by a reputation for meanness born of his hatchet-man role as the 1976 vice presidential nominee. he was unable to shake it this time around
bitter on the night of his new hampshire loss, dole snapped at bush during a joint, live network television interview for ``lying'' about his record
he was frustrated by a feeling he still had to run against ronald reagan, the man who defeated both dole and bush in the 1980 gop race. bush, reagan's loyal vice president, inherited much of the president's support
i'm sort of running against the ghost of ronald reagan,'' dole once said
dole campaigned gamely last week in wisconsin, his campaign jet and entourage gone. but bush had a massive lead in the polls
by week's end, dole appeared to be weary of waging a campaign that was only going through the motions
one thing you learn how to do pretty well in our business is to count,'' he said in withdrawing. ``you come to trust your instincts to tell you when it's over, and in my heart i know the time is now.''
the city council unanimously approved a law requiring pit bulls to wear muzzles in public, the first of its kind in the nation
the measure, approved monday, still must be ok'd by provincial authorities
there has been a recent increase in publicity over attacks by pit bulls, which are becoming very popular in the netherlands. nationwide, there are about 6,000 of the dogs
a pit bull terrier killed a horse in the southern city of eindhoven this month, and several people have been injured in recent pit bull attacks
although written with the pit bull terrier in mind, the gouda law would order muzzling for ``a breed designated as dangerous (by the city fathers) or any of its descendants obtained by cross-breeding.''
pit bull owners convicted under the new bylaw would face a $2,600 fine
world rice stocks are expected to fall by more than 30 percent this year to about 35 million tons, the u.n. food and agriculture organization reported wednesday
a report by the fao's intergovernmental group on rice said the change in the world rice market from one of surplus to limited supplies and rising prices was due largely to adverse climactic conditions
it also said some countries had adopted measures to reduce output
the fao group warned that another year of falling output could cause serious food security problems
the reduction in rice stocks was described as ``particularly acute'' in major producing countries in the developing world, such as china, india, bangladesh, burma, indonesia, malaysia, pakistan, thailand and sri lanka
in the united states, stocks were forecast to fall by more than 50 percent to 800,000 tons by the end of 1988
a nigerian plane coming to collect a cargo of cows overshot the runway after landing at a danish airfield, police said wednesday
one person was injured and the dc-8 was badly damaged when it slid about 100 yards off the runway in the town of billund on tuesday, said acting police commissioner bjarne jensen said
the plane, carrying eight crew members, was to transport cattle to egypt, he said. the cause of the accident was not known
the third installment of a four-part easter series, ``strangers no longer,'' concerns with the protestant-catholic convergence toward unity, dealing with official dialogues
from across christianity's denominational spectrum, reactions to a proposal for unity have poured into the headquarters of the world council of churches in geneva, switzerland
the response has been tremendous,'' said the rev. gunther gassman, a lutheran and director of the council's faith and order commission, an inclusive protestant-roman catholic-eastern orthodox unit that is compiling the appraisals
it's a unique thing in the history of the ecumenical movement,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``never has there been so much interest and discussion of a church document throughout the world.''
roman catholic, protestant and eastern orthodox denominations, 170 of them from around the globe, have sent official responses to an agreement jointly produced by their thinkers on a reintegrated faith
bem,'' it's called, standing for the central aspects of baptism, eucharist (celebrating the lord's supper) and ministry
sometimes called the ``lima text,'' it was produced by a commission of 120 theologians, bible scholars, historians, clergy and lay leaders at a meeting in lima, peru, in 1982
we have become increasingly aware of our unity in the body of christ,'' they said. ``sadly divided churches have been enabled to arrive at substantial theological agreements. we believe many significant advances are now possible.''
to that end, bem circulated among the churches for five years, translated into 35 languages. after pondering, the denominations have now voiced their assessment, the broadest ever attained in an ecumenical accord
it's a towering achievement,'' said the rev. john hotchkin, ecumenical officer for u.s. catholic bishops. ``it could serve to put a new floor under the ecumenical movement. it's a very important landmark.''
the vatican also appraised the document, generally commending the results, but asked for further elaborations, especially on the ministry
the responses are being distributed to the churches in six volumes, with the last two still to be compiled. a summary will be considered by the joint commission at a meeting in august 1989, and any clarifications and adaptations will be taken care of before the final document is presented to churches by 1991
then it's up to them,'' gassman said. ``our strong hope is that they act on it in the next 10 years, initiating some form of eucharistic sharing. many of them are ready to do so now.''
bem offers concordant beliefs about key functions of the church, drawing on common biblical roots and christianity's centuries prior to the 1054 schism that separated rome and eastern orthodoxy and the 16th-century protestant break from rome
the document challenges present-day churches to affirm this common, early core of faith. baptism of infants as well as adults is recognized, with precedents for each in practices of the early church
regarding the eucharist, the approach goes behind the medieval catholic doctrine of ``transubstantiation,'' upholding instead a broader concept of christ's ``real presence'' in celebration of the lord's supper
on the ministry, bem recommends a threefold tier of bishops, presbyters and deacons. most major churches have all three, but usually refer to presbyters as pastors, priests or ministers. some protestant bodies avoid the term bishop but have parallel overseeing offices under other titles
the responses have been as varied as the denominations. the vatican's 40-page response wasn't as long as the salvation army's 70 pages, the longest. the shortest, a half page from the presbyterian church of new zealand, simply said fine, let's go with it
we've made an enormous lot of progress in the churches' acceptance of each other,'' said the rev. john deschner, a united methodist from southern methodist university's perkins school of theology in dallas, who chairs the world council commission. ``a trust has developed among protestant, catholic and orthodox churches that is beyond what we'd ever dared hope
bem culminates the rising pleas for increased acts of mutual recognition of members and ministry, a kind of unity of mutual hospitality, welcoming each other in each other's denominational context, acknowledging each other before god.''
paving the way for bem has been a swelling profusion of dialogues and surprising accords among the denominations
on national and international levels, the bilateral talks have gone on 20 years between teams of catholics with lutherans, with methodists, with anglicans, with baptists, with disciples, with eastern orthodoxy, with presbyterians, with pentecostals, with evangelicals
at the same time, protestant bodies have met with one another, scrutinizing their respective views, seeking closer understanding and concurrence
it has become a vast, interconfessional conversation, a constant to-and-fro hum of inquiry, explanation, discovery and, often surprisingly, consensus
the talks probe the tangle of mutual misconceptions, mistaken impressions and caricatured images accumulated through centuries of alienation from one another
they seek to clear up where each really stands. on many points, it turns out to be together
for instance, lutherans and anglicans in separate dialogues with catholics determined they basically agreed on a key issue of the 16th-century protestant reformation that had divided them
protestants emphasized ``justification by faith'' alone, that salvation comes only through faith in christ's forgiving grace, and asserted that rome claimed the church dispensed grace for earned merit
but it turns out that arguments in the heat of old battle were misconstrued on both sides. they now agree _ as the u.s. lutheran-catholic team put it _ that ``our entire hope of justification and salvation rests on christ jesus'' and his forgiving grace
similarly convergent views have been found about the papacy itself, with anglicans and lutherans agreeing on the benefit of a unifying center, a presiding bishop of a pastoral rather than juridical kind, responsible to regular ecumenical councils
the deluge of dialogue reports have dealt with virtually all basic issues of churchmanship _ spirituality, scripture, apostolic succession, conversion, worship, grace, authority, the holy spirit, family, mixed marriages, salvation and papal primacy, usually with degrees of agreement
so much is happening, there is so much development that it's hard to keep up,'' said catholic brother jeffrey gros, who heads the faith and order office of the u.s. national council of churches
in a book summarizing a score of such understandings, ``growth in agreements,'' lutheran scholar harding meyer and reformed scholar lukas vischer say the dialogues ``constantly point beyond themselves,'' so the main aim no longer is ``just reaching of consensus but translation ... into practice in the living fellowship of the churches.''
many issues remain unsettled between rome and protestantism on such issues as ordination of women, which catholicism and orthodoxy forbid. but anglicans and catholics, in new talks, are discussing it
different shades of understanding, terminology and doctrinal nuances also linger, as do conflicts on social issues such as abortion and divorce, along with bureaucratic inertia
the ecumenical movement is a glacier,'' said lutheran bishop herbert w. chilstrom, head of the newly unified evangelical lutheran church in america. ``it moves slowly, but it does move.''
the court presiding over the nazi war crimes trial of retired u.s. autoworker john demjanjuk will announce its verdict on april 18, the government said wednesday
demjanjuk, 67, is accused of being ``ivan the terrible,'' the guard who operated gas chambers that killed 850,000 jews at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland
if convicted, demjanjuk could be sentenced to death. the ukrainian-born defendant claims he is a victim of mistaken identity
demjanjuk was extradited to israel in february 1986 from the cleveland suburb of seven hills
his trial ended feb. 10 after a year of testimony. the three-judge panel reopened hearings for two days in march to introduce new evidence at the request of defense attorney yoram sheftel
sheftel presented the court with statements from 12 camp survivors who did not identify demjanjuk as ``ivan.''
at the beginning of the hearings, five prosecution witnesses identified demjanjuk as the treblinka camp guard from photographs
the prosecution's key piece of evidence is an alleged ss card stating that demjanjuk was trained as a concentration camp guard. demjanjuk says the card is a forgery
edgar faure, the brilliant statesman who died wednesday at the age of 79, was hailed by friends and foes alike for his political savvy, intelligence and wit
faure occupied every important post in the french government except the presidency during a career that spanned four decades
president francois mitterrand, a fellow socialist, called faure ``a remarkable man who marked the history of our republic.''
jean-marie le pen, presidential candidate from the extreme-right national front, praised faure's ``intelligence and tolerance,'' despite ``our differing conceptions of political action.''
the bespectacled, balding father figure, known to the french simply as ``edgar,'' was best remembered as one of the nation's most progressive education ministers
under gen. charles de gaulle, during the 1968 student uprising, he masterminded vast reforms that allowed french universities more autonomy
faure was a member of the french academy and wrote books on subjects ranging from french oil policy to modern china
a renaissance man, faure even wrote musical scores. under the pseudonym edgar sanday, he published detective novels
faure was born on aug. 18, 1908, in the southwestern city of beziers, where his father, an army doctor, was stationed. he graduated from high school at the age of 15, earned his doctorate in law at 19 and was a practicing lawyer at 21
he was fluent in russian, and years later, would stun a soviet trade delegation negotiating without a translator for four hours straight, stumbling only once _ over the word ``corkscrew.''
yet he had an old-fashioned sense of honor and once challenged a prominent magazine reporter to a duel for having questioned in print his motives for reducing taxes on race horses. notoriously near-sighted, he was already waving the pistol when a colleague managed to talk him out of it
faure's successful law career was interrupted by world war ii. in 1942, faure and his wife lucie meyer, the elegant publisher of a political review, fled france for algiers
after the war, he was financial adviser to socialist governments led by his close friend pierre mendes-france
in 1947, he was elected to public office for the first time, serving as a deputy for the jura department in eastern france
from that time on, he served in the cabinets of numerous prime ministers, holding more ministerial appointments than any other public official
faure's first wife, lucie meyer, died in 1977. he is survived by his second wife, marie-jeanne vuez, and two daughters. burial will be saturday in paris following services at his church and at the national assembly
cocke county officials knew they had to come up with $345,000 quickly to keep public schools open after spring break. so they decided to sell the county-owned hospital
the deal negotiated between the county and baptist health system, which was renting the hospital, benefits everyone, but primarily prevents the nightmare of closing schools, county executive charles lewis moore said tuesday
we can't have that,'' he said. ``that's absolutely not satisfactory to anyone. one concern was that some seniors who have scholarships and financial assistance would lose it, plus it would affect employees and parents.''
the $1 million sale was approved 20-0 by the cocke county legislative body on monday night
the county lawmakers then provided the school system with $200,000, the minimum on which the schools could operate the rest of the term, and agreed to invest the remainder in an industrial park
the sale includes a 74-bed hospital, a 56-bed nursing home and a building housing three doctors' offices. baptist health system, based in knoxville, had leased the hospital since 1982, and last year extended that lease through 1999
at any point during those 17 years, baptist had the option of buying the hospital for $1.58 million, or $580,000 more than the actual sale price
but county officials say they can get roughly $3.6 million out of the deal in interest on the remaining $800,000, plus money saved because the deal exempts the county from funding care of indigents at the hospital for the next 12 years. that had been costing about $35,000 a year
county officials praised baptist health for coming to the county's rescue
we frankly had not intended to buy right now,'' said robert chandler, president of baptist health system. ``but they were having some financial problems, especially with funding the school system. so we felt we could help by buying now. helping the schools was our main motivation.''
march 25
red wing (minn.) republican eagle on george bush's presidential campaign:
if there's any political fallout over the civil rights restoration act, it's likely to land on george bush
although his support of a presidential veto will enhance his standing with conservatives, it will hinder his efforts to attract blacks and other minorities into the republican party
democrats are sure to exploit the issue. ... once again, he's perceived to be (president reagan's) puppet
democrats will take any fallout they can get. if the election is close, the failure of the republican party to attract more blacks and minorities because of bush's stance on the veto might be the difference
march 25
the honolulu advertiser on the cease-fire in nicaragua:
some sort of humanitarian aid for the contras is necessary for the period of phasing down and out. withdrawing our troops from honduras _ with no arms left behind _ is necessary
at some point, there must be talks between washington and managua on a more normalized relationship
many will continue to question whether the whole contra operation was necessary and worth the cost in terms of bloodshed in central america and damage in the u.s. government process
there may have been better ways to deal with whatever dangers the sandinistas pose in the region
yet it could end up a no-lose situation for president reagan. if the cease-fire and peace process work, there is little doubt he will say that his tough policy worked. and if they fail, he can blame the congress and others for killing off the contras
march 27
the evansville (ind.) courier on preventing teen suicides:
we are shocked and saddened by the three suicides involving present and former reitz high school students. yet our grief now must give way to concern
there seems no direct connection among the three, other than what experts call a copycat syndrome. one person commits suicide; another troubled individual learns of it, even sees it as an escape from despair, and the chain reaction begins
it's critical now that those closest to students _ parents, school personnel, classmates _ see that the chain is broken. ..
talk to your children, talk to your classmates, and if you're troubled yourself, seek someone who will listen _ no problem is so insurmountable
so often when we learn of suicide, we hear the word helplessness. no, we can't help those who have already taken their lives, but for others who may be troubled, we are not helpless, especially now that our consciousness has been raised so tragically
we must be alert; we must care; we must talk
if the two sides trying to force changes in the 1990 census both get their way, the results would nearly balance one another, a population expert said wednesday
the census bureau is under pressure to exclude illegal aliens from its national head count. traditionally, it counts everyone living in the country
groups which have filed suit to ignore the aliens contend large concentrations of them could result in in some states gaining seats in the house of representatives at the expense of other states
meanwhile, other groups want the final census totals to be increased to account for people who may be overlooked in the census _ most often blacks and hispanics living in urban areas
at stake are the 435 seats in the house, which are distributed among the states on the basis of population
if both sides get their way, the only change would be a flip-flop of one seat from california to georgia,'' said william o'hare, director of policy studies for the independent population reference bureau
o'hare told a breakfast briefing for northeast and midwest members of congress that he estimates their region will lose 14 house seats following the 1990 census. that would continue a trend evident over the last several decades, he noted
using estimates of the number of illegal aliens and undercounted minorities, he said that deleting the one group and adding in the other would make little difference in the long run
the only change, he said, would be that california would gain five new seats instead of six, while georgia would add two rather than just one
that's easy to understand, since there are so many undocumented aliens in california,'' he commented
o'hare's study of potential changes in house seats _ based on 1990 projections with no adjustments _ calls for california to be the big gainer, adding six house seats, followed by florida with a gain of four and texas adding three
expected to pick up one seat each are virginia, north carolina, georgia, and arizona
on the other hand new york would lose three seats. states losing two apiece would be pennsylvania, ohio, illinois and michigan. expected to lose one house seat are massachusetts, wisconsin, iowa, kansas, west virginia and montana
two mixed-breed dogs attacked a seeing eye dog, causing trauma that may make the $10,000 animal useless as a guide, its owner said
ollie, an australian shepherd owned by linda watson, 34, will be off his feet for about two weeks with bite wounds to the left front leg and neck. his life was saved tuesday by two passersby who kicked and beat the attacking dogs with a wrench and broom until they gave up
ms. watson and a co-worker were walking during their lunch break when ollie was attacked
when they were beaten off, the attacking dogs retreated into the home of their owner, joseph frances beasley, so animal-control officers couldn't impound them, said jimmy dykes, supervisor of escambia's animal shelter
but dykes said officers cited beasley for failure to have the dogs vaccinated and licensed
ms. watson said that while ollie will recover physically, the attack may make him aggressive. ``if that's the case, i've lost a dog worth $10,000,'' she said
two laboratory workers died of a rare brain infection called creutzfeldt-jakob disease, and both might have resulted from on-the-job exposure to contaminated tissue, doctors report
the cases were reported in separate letters to the editor in thursday's new england journal of medicine
in one letter, douglas c. miller of new york university medical center described the case of a 62-year-old woman who had worked in a medical lab for 22 years. her duties included preparing slices of human brains
after she died of creutzfeldt-jakob disease, doctors discovered she had worked with tissue from two people who had also died of the disease 11 and 16 years earlier
miller said the woman's illness ``most likely'' resulted from occupational exposure
in the other letter, lucian sitwell and colleagues from ottawa civic hospital in canada outlined a similar case in a 75-year-old physician who dissected tissue, mostly from animals, in a medical school
sitwell said the man may have been exposed to tissue from sheep that had scrapie. some experts theorize that scrapie and creutzfeldt-jakob disease are caused by the same, so far unidentified infectious agent
creutzfeldt-jacob diseases causes slow, progressive loss of mental faculties. it has been spread through transplants of brain tissue and corneas as well as growth hormone derived from human pituitary glands. pvs bgng ``meanwhile bush...; delete final graf</note>
vice president george bush would have ``no reluctance'' to criticize jesse jackson if he is the democratic nominee, a spokesman said today
bush, rejoicing in his clear path to the republican presidential nomination, is starting to focus on the general election campaign, including strategy against his eventual democratic opponent
if jackson is the nominee, we will feel very willing to attack him on the issues. there will be no reticence, there will be no reluctance,'' bush spokesman pete teeley said aboard air force ii
jackson's democratic rivals have left jackson alone until recently, working under the conventional assumption that jackson could not win the nomination. but as jackson racks up win after win, sen. albert gore jr. has expressed a willingness to criticize jackson on the issues and his lack of experience in government
bush, assured of the gop nomination, will continue to campaign hard to guard against complacency, teeley said
it feels great,'' bush declared tuesday, giving a thumbs-up sign to reporters after learning of the withdrawal of sen. bob dole, the same day bush sailed to an overwhelming win in the connecticut primary
meanwhile, bush organizers are scurrying to find new ways to keep attention focused on the candidate now that he is without a major gop rival
for one thing, bush plans to continue to make high-profile campaign appearances in states with key primaries _ including new york, pennsylvania, ohio and california
the immediate task ahead is unity,'' bush told a gop dinner tuesday night after his connecticut victory was announced. ``we republicans have no reason for complacency.''
he said that republicans now must present their party as ``a big party with big open doors.''
the challenges we face will never be met unless we meet them together, hand-in-hand, as brothers and sisters, as blacks and whites, as northerners, southerners, east and west, the wealthy and the wanting,'' he said
he complimented dole for a ``very gracious statement'' in dropping out of the race. ``i know exactly how he must feel. i was there, eight years ago,'' bush said, referring to his unsuccessful 1980 presidential bid
not all bush supporters were as jubilant about recent developments as were the vice president and his top strategists
wisconsin gov. tommy thompson, said that dole's exit could hurt bush's chances in the fall campaign now that ``it's obvious he's going to win the nomination.''
i can't see the fact that the vice president doesn't have any more opposition is that good for him. it's good to have a primary,'' said thompson, a strong bush backer
thompson, who has been accompanying bush in his three-day campaign swing in advance of the april 5 wisconsin primary, said many wisconsin independents and some republicans are now likely to vote in the democratic primary
those individuals who come out of a hotly contested primary can use it as a springboard to solidify the party,'' thompson said
the republican governor, who earlier in the week had suggested he would vote for democrat jesse jackson were he a democrat, indicated jackson would be hard for bush to beat in november
he (jackson) is a viable candidate. he's very exciting. i like the guy,'' thompson said
gop officials in wisconsin urged party members who had supported dole against crossing over and voting in the democratic primary next week
and top bush aides conceded that lack of a contest could steal the spotlight away from their candidate
we're going to have to display some creativity'' in keeping bush's candidacy before the public, said bush aide peter teeley
although bush is running virtually alone for the gop nomination, it will be at least a couple of weeks before he can gain enough delegates for a majority at the gop convention
assuming he wins every delegate that can be won from now on, he would cross that threshold on may 3, when ohio, indiana and the district of columbia hold their primaries. but if he picks up dole's delegates _ now counted as uncommitted _ he could go over the top as early as april 15, when minnesota holds its gop state convention
bush's sole remaining challenger is former television evangelist pat robertson, who has but 17 delegates
bush had said he would keep on campaigning hard, right up until the time dole announced he was retiring from the race. dole's exit makes the april 5 gop primary moot
it changes some of the dynamics. it removes some of the tension,'' bush said of dole's withdrawal
i don't like running against other republicans,'' he added
bush said he had called dole to ``congratulate him on a hard-fought race...he has been a worthy warrier and a tough competitor.''
bush said that, while he intends to continue to ``campaign'' in key states, ``the schedule will be somewhat lighter. and i'll have more time to flesh out the issue positions.''
the landlord of a building where 150 narcotics officers conducted a raid will reimburse police for the cost of the bust and to move innocent tenants to safer apartments, authorities said
the agreement was part of a judgment in san mateo county superior court announced tuesday
district attorney jim fox said it is the first in the region in which law enforcement officials successfully sued apartment building owners under a state nuisance abatement law intended to combat drug dealers
the action ``sends a message to property owners that they have an affirmative duty'' to stop drug dealing in their buildings, fox said
there were more than 75 drug-related arrests at the building from june 1985 to the december bust, when 22 people were taken into custody
the landlord, 2001 manhattan apartments inc., of sausalito, agreed to pay $25,000 in civil penalties, $7,500 to the drug task force and $2,500 to the east palo alto police for the cost of enforcing drug laws at the building
the owners also have paid $13,000 in relocation expenses for eight families
president reagan named a former deputy california attorney general, phillip d. brady, as deputy counsel to the president wednesday
brady, 36, will succeed jay stephens in the position. brady has been deputy assistant to vice president george bush since 1985. before that he was in the justice department
he was deputy attorney general of california in 1978 and 1979
the president also announced the appointment of william j. landers, 36, now with the justice department, as associate counsel to the president. landers was deputy city attorney of los angeles in 1978 and 1979
the white house also announced two judicial nominations the president plans to make. it said he will nominate simeon timothy lake iii, 43, of houston, tex., as a u.s. district judge for the southern district of texas and karl s. forester, 47, of harlan, ky., as a u.s. district judge for the eastern district of kentucky
two flight attendants for royal swazi airways were charged wednesday with illegal possession of 40,000 tablets of the sedative mandrax
the defendants, princess makhosazana dlamini and norsa nerina mkhwanazi, were not required to enter a plea but were ordered to return to court tuesday
bond was set at the equivalent of about $1,175 for each woman and ordered them to surrender their passports until the case is settled
prosecutor peter mwangi said ms. dlamini and ms. mkhwanazi were arrested sunday after they arrived at jomo kenyatta international airport aboard a royal swazi airways flight on which they had worked
a man has been ordered to work 200 hours at an animal shelter after he admitted trying to kill a stray dog with arrows
joseph t. irvine of las vegas says he will appeal his conviction tuesday of injuring, torturing or abandoning an animal
justice of the peace bill jansen ruled irving was not legally justified when he armed himself with a hunting bow and shot the dog twice
the judge could have imposed a six-month jail term and a $1,000 fine, but said community service at the animal shelter might teach irvine respect for animals
the dog, which has since been adopted and named lucky, sat in a chair in the courtroom tuesday
irvine claimed the animal followed him into his home after he tried to befriend it. he said he shot the dog once in the head with an arrow, then decided it was not enough and loaded the bow, then ``let him have it again.''
nasa on wednesday asked the nation's schoolchildren to select a name for the space shuttle that will replace challenger, destroyed in an explosion in 1986
the agency, in cooperation with the council of chief state school officers, invited teachers to enter their students in a national competition to name the orbiter, now being built and scheduled for its maiden flight in 1992
the orbiter-naming program responds to a basic human impulse to name things,'' the announcement said. ``nasa's first orbiters were named after sea vessels used in research and exploration. the tradition of naming an orbiter after an exploratory or research sea vessel will be continued.''
the three remaining shuttles in the fleet are discovery, atlantis and columbia
nasa said the name challenger had been retired, in honor of the seven astronauts killed in the explosion
the announcement said the name chosen should not only identify an american spacecraft but also should capture the spirit of america's mission in space
announcements of opportunity will be distributed soon to elementary and secondary teachers and principals. entry packets will be available in may
to enter, elementary and secondary school students will form teams and research a name,'' nasa said. ``each team will prepare a related classroom project to support and justify the name selected.''
there will be two entry divisions, covering kindergarten through the sixth grade and seventh through 12th grades
students in public and private schools in the united states and u.s. territories, department of defense overseas dependents' schools and bureau of indian affairs schools are eligible
each state, territory and agency will announce one winner in each division in march 1989. nasa will announce the final winner for each division and the name selected for the new shuttle in may 1989. agreement sent</note>
house leaders reached final agreement today on a package of $48 million in ``humanitarian'' aid to nicaragua's contra rebels and to children injured in that country's long civil war
the proposal had been worked out in negotiations over the last two days between house speaker jim wright, d-texas, minority leader robert michel, r-ill., and other leaders, who gave it their final approval today
agreement sent the measure to a house floor vote later today, and it was expected to receive a strong bipartisan majority. that would send the bill to the senate on thursday, where easy passage also was expected, and authorize the first u.s. aid to the rebels in a month
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said the package was being examined by the administration but said it was ``encouraging'' and ``moves in the right direction.''
it sends a message to the contras that they are not abandoned, that we do care about them and want to keep them healthy and a viable force,'' said rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who participated in negotiations to draft the compromise
and it lets the sandinistas know that it's important to the united states congress that the talks that take place down there take place with good faith, and that they move toward democratization,'' edwards added
as part of the deal, wright was to send a letter to president reagan pledging ``fair and orderly'' consideration for any future request the administration might make for new military aid if the central american peace process breaks down, said rep. david bonior, d-mich., leader of a democratic task force on the contra issue
but wright would retain control over the precise timing of a vote on such an aid package and the rules under which it would come before the house, bonior said
a cease-fire verification commission, made up of nicaraguan cardinal miguel obando y bravo and organization of american states secretary general joao baena soares, would have ``substantial'' say in whether new military aid is warranted, bonior said
the package would provide aid to keep the contras together while they spend the next 60 days in cease-fire zones during negotiations for a longer-term truce
it would send about $2.7 million monthly in food, clothing, medicine and shelter to the rebels over the next six months. an additional $1.5 million in communications gear, subject to approval by the cease-fire commission, would push the total six-month rebel aid package to $17.7 million
that rate of aid is the same as the rebels were getting prior to feb. 29, when the last u.s. assistance ran out
an identical amount would go into a new program to care for children injured in the seven-year civil war, bonior said
the package also would provide $10 million to finance the verification commission, set up as part of last week's cease-fire agreement to ensure adherence to terms of the cease-fire worked out in sapoa, nicaragua, between the contras and the leftist managua government
the bill would provide additional money for transportation of the aid, but that amount was not included in the $50 million figure
the money would be administered by the state department's agency for international development, bonior said. aid would get $2.5 million in the bill to cover administrative costs
one of the most contentious issues in the negotiations was whether reagan should be guaranteed the right to a quick, guaranteed vote in congress if the sandinistas renege on promises of amnesty and restoration of civil liberties, and hostilities break out anew
republicans, wary of promises made by the leftist government, had insisted such a guarantee was needed as insurance that the sandinistas would live up to their end of the bargain
in a compromise, wright drafted a letter to reagan assuring the president of a chance to submit a proposal for new military aid if the peace process becomes derailed, and to have the proposal treated fairly
that means that the measure would be considered by the appropriate house committee and could come to the floor for a vote, but under conditions determined by wright, said bonior
reagan would be urged to get the advice of the verification commission before making any such request, but would not be forced to do so
any new aid for the contras would have to conform to the requirements of the cease-fire reached last week. that agreement said the contras would receive only humanitarian aid and that the aid would be routed through ``neutral organizations.'' the cia has delivered past u.s. aid supplies to the rebels
in remarks tuesday in managua, nicaraguan president daniel ortega urged congress not to approve any aid that would conflict with the agreement, which he defined as allowing provision of civilian clothes, medicine and food, but not uniforms or boots
president reagan put in a plug for the superconducting super collider wednesday, saying it is more than an ``arcane interest'' to a few research specialists
reagan has asked congress for $365 million to begin construction of the super collider, which would be the world's largest particle accelerator
the scientific community is divided on the project, some regarding it as a key to the technological future, and others saying it would drain needed money from more worthwile research
i know that some people may question the practical applications of the superconducting super collider,'' the president told a group of high school science students and others in the white house rose garden
the strange world of subatomic particles, they may think, will never be more than an arcane interest to a few highly specialized scientists,'' he said
but the truth is the practical applications of this new technology are already changing the way we live. every time someone turns on his desk computer, makes a phone call or plays a video game, he is plugging into that mysterious world of quantum physics. the superconducting super collider is the doorway to that new world of quantum change.''
the students in the audience were part of a program established in 1985 to give top science students from each state a chance to work for two weeks in the summer at national laboratories in the washington area
reagan approved construction of the super collider in january, 1987. a site is to be selected next january in either arizona, colorado, illinois, michigan, new york, north carolina, tennessee or texas
the projected cost to build the 53-miles-around tunnel that comprises the super collider is more than $4 billion
six nobel laureates, four of whom were present for wednesday's ceremony, wrote reagan that the project ``represents america's commitment to the pursuit of excellence in basic scientific research.''
the letter was signed by were james watson cronin, val logsdon fitch, sheldon lee glashow, burton richter, samuel c.c. ting and steven weinberg. all but fitch and glashow attended
ex-president richard nixon will appear april 10 on the nbc-tv show ``meet the press'' for an hour-long interview _ his first extended television appearance in eight years, the network said wednesday
there are no set conditions for the interview,'' said nbc news vice president tim russert, who had tried to get nixon on the weekly program for three years
following the appearance on ``meet the press,'' nixon will appear in a three-part interview with bryant gumbel on nbc's ``today'' show. nixon's last long television interview was in 1980 on the abc-tv program ``20-20.''
the ``meet the press'' taping will be april 9 in washington, said nbc spokesman bill mcandrew. the program will be broadcast unedited, he said
meet the press'' moderator chris wallace will be joined by anchorman tom brokaw and commentator john chancellor in quizzing nixon, who resigned under threat of impeachment in august 1974
nixon will appear live on the april 11 ``today'' show, with the following two days featuring taped highlights of his interview with gumbel
cbs is dropping its low-rated tuesday lineup of comedies and putting ``cagney &amp; lacey'' back in its monday night time period
cbs is facing a third-place finish in the prime-time ratings this season for the first time ever and was trying to add more half-hour comedies to its drama-heavy schedule
the critically acclaimed ``frank's place'' was spared the ax tuesday night and will be returned to the schedule shortly, cbs said. it had been moved from monday to tuesday in the schedule shakeup earlier this month. ``cagney &amp; lacey'' will replace ``wiseguy'' on monday, but ``wiseguy'' also will return soon, cbs said
trial and error,'' ``coming of age'' and ``my sister sam'' have had their last tuesday broadcasts, and cbs announced no plans to bring them back. those comedies, plus ``frank's place'' were the four lowest-rated network shows in last week's nielsens
cbs will replace the tuesday lineup with theatrical movies in the meantime, and the detective series ``houston knights'' will return april 26
democratic presidential hopeful jesse jackson and key members of his party's establishment held a summit meeting wednesday, showing, he said, that ``old wineskins are expanding and making room for new wine.''
jackson huddled for a breakfast meeting with more than two dozen well-known figures in the party. afterward, they said no one had brought up reported party concerns that his nomination could damage democratic chances of winning the white house next november
we only see that in the press,'' said california assembly speaker willie brown, jackson's national campaign chairman. ``maybe people don't want to say that in front of us.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jackson are locked in a tight race for the lead in national convention delegates, after a big jackson win in the michigan caucuses last weekend and a dukakis victory in the connecticut primary tuesday
in addition to private concerns about jackson, another democratic contender, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, has begun strong criticism of jackson's experience and his stands on issues
i categorically reject his notion that there's a moral equivalence between israel and the plo,'' gore said tuesday in new york. ``and i am dismayed by his embrace of (plo leader yasser) arafat and (cuban president fidel) castro.''
jackson brushed aside those criticisms, and gore sought a meeting with jackson late wednesday in washington before jackson was to fly to wisconsin to campaign for the primary there next tuesday
after the breakfast meeting, former defense secretary clark clifford, one of the solid figures of the party establishment, had nothing but praise for jackson
what he is also doing is bringing a new maturity to the american political scene,'' said clifford. ``his candidacy could not have occurred 50 years ago, 25 years ago, or perhaps even 10 years ago. it is ... an important breakthrough in our constant seeking to bring more fairness to our political process.''
jackson said the breakfast brought ``together democrats who have traditional investment in the interests of the country and the party and those who are new to the process.''
in this instance, we bring together old wineskins and new wine, but the old wineskins are expanding and making room for new wine,'' he added, using an image he used frequently in his 1984 campaign
former democratic party chairman john white, who put together the breakfast, is joining the campaign as an informal adviser
this meeting is a new maturing of the political process in america,'' white said. ``it represents a growing-up of america. it represents a bonding of the democratic party and a bond that recognizes no class.''
participants in the breakfast said one concern about jackson was posed to him in a question about his relationship with black muslim leader louis farrakhan
white said jackson ``quoted jesus about casting the first stone and forgiveness and so anybody who hasn't made mistakes ... let's not be casting stones at each other about the past.''
farrakhan campaigned with jackson early in the 1984 campaign, but the tie was cut after the black muslim leader called judaism a ``gutter religion'' and called adolf hitler ``a great man.''
mcdonnell douglas corp. became the pentagon's top research contractor in fiscal 1987, winning awards totaling $1.7 billion, the defense department said wednesday
among educational and non-profit entities, the massachusetts institute of technology continued to hold down the top ranking, winning research contracts during the year worth $407.6 million
the johns hopkins university was close behind with awards totaling $354.9 million
overall, the pentagon increased its spending on research by more than 10 percent during fiscal 1987, with awards reaching a grand total of $21.8 billion. that compared with $19.8 billion in fiscal 1986
much of last year's increase appeared related to work on president reagan's star wars anti-missile system. the amount of money invested in research on ``missile and space systems'' climbed from $6.9 billion in fiscal 1986 to $7.9 billion in fiscal 1987
moreover, the martin marietta corp. _ a key star wars contractor _ vaulted from fifth place in the fiscal 1986 rankings to second place last year with contract awards rising from $695.3 million to $1.6 billion
the latest figures are contained in a report prepared annually by the pentagon to rank the top 500 companies or non-profit groups performing ``research, development, test and evaluation'' work. the rankings are based on a review of all contracts totaling $25,000 or more awarded during the fiscal year that ended last sept. 30
mcdonnell douglas, whose overall ranking as the nation's largest defense contractor was announced just a month ago, displaced the lockheed missiles &amp; space co. in assuming the top spot for research. mcdonnell douglas' research contracts climbed from $928 million in fiscal 1986 to $1.7 billion in fiscal 1987
because of martin marietta's abrupt rise, lockheed fell to 3rd place in the research rankings, winning contracts in fiscal 1987 worth $1.54 billion compared with $1.48 billion the year before
the remainder of the top 10 included the boeing co. in 4th place with awards totaling $1.2 billion, followed by the grumman aerospace corp., $901.5 million; general electric co., $784.4 million; raytheon co., $593.8 million; trw inc., $556.6 million; rockwell international corp., $494 million; and ibm, $470.9 million
the $407.6 million in research contracts won by mit was enough to give it the 11th place ranking overall. in fiscal 1986, mit had won contracts worth $363.9 million and was ranked 14th overall
among other educational and non-profit entities, johns hopkins was 2nd in fiscal 1987 with $354.9 million and a 15th ranking overall, followed by the mitre corp., $347.5 million, 16th overall; the aerospace corp., $338.9 million, 18th overall; and charles stark draper lab inc., $164.7 million, 26th overall
all told, the top 500 concerns accounted for 97 percent of the total research contracts awarded, or $21.2 billion. the top 500 included 380 businesses, 100 educational and non-profit organizations, three u.s. government agencies and 17 foreign contractors
the research awards to foreign concerns totaled $114.3 million, up only slightly from the $106.9 million reported in fiscal 1986. the leading foreign contractor remained the same, the canadian commercial corp., with awards totaling $25.9 million
a dispute between government agencies over the questions to be asked on the 1990 census has been settled, the census bureau reported wednesday
friday is the deadline for the bureau to tell congress the questions it intends to ask americans in the national head count
the issue has been clouded by a disagreement with the white house office of management and budget. that agency wanted to reduce paperwork by deleting some questions and reducing the number of people who get the more complex long form
the two agencies have agreed that all 106 million households in the nation will be sent the short form, while the more detailed long form will go to 17.7 million. census had wanted to sent it to nearly 20 million households, omb to limit it to 10 million
short form questions on plumbing facilities and condominiums will be switched to the long form, as omb suggested. but other questions will be retained, including the cost of uilities
some things that were asked in the 1980 census will be dropped in 1990. these include employment five years earlier, marital history, weeks spent looking for work, number of bathrooms, air conditioning and heating equipment, presence of an elevator and type of fuel used for cooking and heating water
once keith haring was an outlaw, an artist who repeatedly was ticketed by police for drawing white chalk stick figures on black poster advertising boards in subway stations
but on tuesday he was back in the subway, this time with the blessing of the transit authority, which is placing on subway cars and in stations 5,000 haring-designed posters that urge young people to read
fill your head with fun! start reading!'' say the posters, which feature a drawing of a kid's head filled with amusing, haringesque creatures
this is great,'' haring said as he autographed copies of the poster in a station. ``it's come full circle.'' but deleting last 5 grafs pvs, meanwhile, sen., to trim</note>
the reagan administration said today it is considering new sanctions against panama to force the ouster of strongman manuel antonio noriega, but it appeared no action was imminent
other sanctions are being actively considered,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. however, an administration official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said ``nothing's imminent.''
on capitol hill, meanwhile, two republican lawmakers introduced legislation that calls on president reagan to renegotiate the panama canal treaties to allow u.s. troops to remain in panama past the year 2000
the canal treaties negotiated with panama in 1979 provide for the transfer of the canal to panama on dec. 31, 1999
the legislation introduced by rep. robert walker of pennsylvania and new york rep. jerry solomon would allow independent u.s. action to defend the canal as well as permit u.s. troops to remain in panama past the year 2000
separately, sen. alfonse m. d'amato, r-n.y., said today that noriega's troops have harassed and beaten canal employees. ``there is a continuing pattern of escalation'' in panamanian actions against the canal, he said in an interview on abc-tv's ``good morning america.'' he did not elaborate
beyond applying new sanctions, the administration is raising the prospect that the u.s. military may be used to protect the estimated 50,000 american citizens in panama against possible harassment by that country's security forces
fitzwater appeared to open the door to that possibility tuesday after an incident the previous evening in which panamanian troops confiscated the tapes of four u.s. television networks and briefly detained several american journalists
discussing the harassment against americans, fitzwater said, ``it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can and, while we have said that we don't plan to go in militarily, it's also important to note that there are limits.''
but when president reagan met with senior advisers tuesday afternoon to discuss the panama situation, use of military force was not discussed, according to an administration official who asked not to be identified
the official said other options were discussed for bringing pressure to bear on panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega, the de facto head of what the united states considers to be an illegal government
it was not clear whether fitzwater's comments represented a genuine re-evaluation of u.s. policy or were part of the continuing war of nerves between the administration and panama's military-dominated government
one major deterrent to military intervention is that any such move would generate a hostile reaction throughout latin america. most delegates attending a conference of latin american representatives in venezuela on monday and tuesday called for the u.s. to exercise restraint
in recent days, the administration has been weighing the possibility of imposing additional sanctions against panama
u.s. officials, who asked not to be identified, said reagan could invoke the international emergency economic powers act, which would give him broad discretionary authority to limit private u.s. transactions with panama. one example would be the suspension of all air service between the two countries
over the past month, administration actions have effectively cut off the flow of dollars into panama, leaving the country near insolvency. reagan has called on noriega to step down
there was a new sense of urgency here tuesday over signs of an accelerating deterioration of the situation in panama. on monday, thousands of anti-government demonstrators were routed by government forces with the help of shotguns, tear gas and water cannon. witnesses said several people were injured and dozens arrested
later, security agents forced their way at gunpoint into the offices of four american networks at a local hotel and confiscated tapes of the demonstration. eight foreign journalists, including americans, were detained for several hours before being released
shortly before fitzwater spoke, ousted panamanian president eric arturo delvalle, whose authority the united states continues to recognize, appealed for the creation of a u.s.-led international force to oust noriega
delvalle, who has spent the past month in hiding, made his appeal through panama's ambassador, juan b. sosa, who has been acting as delvalle's representative in washington and has refused to relinquish the embassy to a replacement appointed by panama's new government
while criticizing the violence used against panamanian demonstrators, the focus of the remarks by both fitzwater and state department spokesman charles redman was on the harassment of the american journalists
their comments evoked memories of grenada when the united states and several friendly caribbean nations sent forces into that country five years ago and ousted the leftist government there
the u.s. rationale was that hundreds of american medical students on the island faced potential danger
fitzwater said, ``we are certainly concerned by this threat to americans and find it a very difficult turn of events and one that is contrary to assurances that we have received in the past.''
two disneyland hotel employees who opted for whiskers over work were fired when they reported to their jobs still sporting facial hair, a violation of new rules
mike searles, a hotel engineer who has a walrus-style mustache, and mike ferrington, a bartender who wears a beard, gave the hotel no choice, disneyland spokesman bob roth said tuesday
searles had worked at the hotel for more than 10 years, roth said. he was unaware how long ferrington had worked there
the walt disney co. bought the hotel, across the street from disneyland, from the wrather corp. in january. with the purchase came a dress and appearance code for the hotel's 1,600 employees
the code, established for disneyland employees in 1957, requires men to be clean shaven and keep their hair short. men cannot wear gold chains or earrings or have visible tattoos. it also prohibits women from having long fingernails or wearing eyeshadow
searles and ferrington were among six hotel employees suspended last week for three days without pay and told they would be fired if they didn't shave. two have complied and two others also face dismissal, roth said,
at least 12 male hotel employees have filed union grievances. the five unions have vowed to fight the rule
william ball was sworn in wednesday as the nation's 67th secretary of the navy, pledging to keep his forces ``strong and prepared'' to meet any challenge
standing in an ornate old executive office building room first used by navy secretary richard thompson in 1879, ball said that by maintaining military strength, the united states ``preserve the peace and ultimately extend the special gift that is freedom the world over.''
president reagan, making remarks at the swearing-in ceremony for his former legislative liaison, said ball had ``won the respect of the leaders of both parties.'' he said ``i've repeatedly turned'' to ball for help and advice in recent years
white house chief of staff howard baker swore in ball as several cabinet officers, members of congress and military officers looked on. after thompson, who served under president rutherford b. hayes, 14 navy secretaries used the room, heavily decorated in naval motif
will takes over the navy at a critical time,'' reagan told the audience. ``the defense budget (requested by the administration) has now been cut for four consecutive years. and yet we must maintain the gains this administration has made in rebuilding our naval and military capabilities. the 600-ship navy remains our goal.''
ball, 39, succeeds james webb, who resigned in a dispute with defense secretary frank c. carlucci over pentagon budgetary priorities, including a delay in reaching the 600-ship level for the navy
reagan said ``will's job will be to skipper our naval forces through some troubled waters while keeping our navy and marine corps team second to none.''
keeping re-enlistments high and the quality of our recruits the best it's ever been, will be will's other big assignment,'' he said
in brief remarks, ball noted that he had recently visited the uss coral sea, which had just returned after six months of duty in the mediterranean sea with the u.s. 6th fleet
on that great ship, i was immediately able to see one of the many legacies that you will leave to history,'' ball told the president
it is indeed written on the faces of those coral sea sailors, in their spirit and their dedication. ... it signifies what you have done ... for our seagoing people, who are proud once again.''
attorney general edwin meese iii, the subject of a still widening criminal investigation, ought to step down, two senators said today but president reagan said of meese: ``i have every confidence in him.''
meese is ``the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history,'' senate majority leader robert byrd told reporters and if reagan doesn't want to ask him to quit he should find someone else to ask him
sen. bob packwood, r-ore., echoed byrd: ``you finally reach a place where there is a cloud of suspicion, a sufficient cloud of suspicion, that i think you owe it to the president to remove yourself.''
but reagan, almost in reply, told reporters during a ceremony honoring young scientists in the white house rose garden, ``he's been a friend for over 20 years. i have every confidence in him. ... i'm not going to comment any further.''
meese has said he won't step down and he repeated that assertion as he left his office tuesday night
meese's future became a subject of speculation and debate in the aftermath of the resignations of two top justice department aides who acted, according to informed sources, out of fear of being tainted by the attorney general's mounting legal problems. the sources declined to be identified
then came a new development, with the disclosure that independent counsel james mckay has widened his probe by subpoenaing payroll records and other documents of the washington chapter of the multiple sclerosis society in connection with a $40,000-a-year job meese's wife, ursula, got with the group in 1985
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said today reagan saw no need for meese to step aside in light of the resignations of associate attorney general arnold burns and william weld, head of the justice department's criminal division, and four of their top aides
another top justice department official, solicitor general charles fried, said the resignations were leading him to reconsider his own future at the justice department
fitzwater said that reagan has not has any discussion with meese about the leadership vacuum at justice, ``that i am aware of.''
operations will continue at the justice department,'' fitzwater said. ``no change that i am aware of (is in progress). the justice department is operating fine. people are out there doing their job. he (reagan) thinks the justice department is operating just fine.''
fitzwater also declined to comment on byrd's call for meese's resignation
he ought to get out,'' byrd, d-w.va., said. ``the country cannot have confidence in the justice department when the top law enforcement officer obviously has to spend an inordinate amount of his time defending himself.''
he should be spending his time fighting the war on drugs, crime,'' byrd said
byrd opened his regular morning meeting with reporters by saying: ``mr. meese has become the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history.''
it's just cloud after cloud after cloud, building in layers over his head to the point where all confidence in this agency is being seriously eroded,'' byrd said
washington attorney james bierbower, legal counsel for the multiple sclerosis society and a board member, said the records concerning mrs. meese's job were delivered to mckay's office on monday
the independent counsel is trying to determine whether longtime meese friend e. robert wallach used his influence to help get mrs. meese the job, said several sources familiar with the probe, speaking on condition of anonymity
sens. arlen specter, r-pa., and carl levin, d-mich., demanded that meese explain why burns, weld and four of their aides abruptly quit on tuesday. specter, a member of the judiciary committee, said it may be necessary to convene hearings if an explanation is not forthcoming
burns and weld offered little in the way of public explanation, but they told associates they were concerned that the nearly year-long criminal probe of meese is hurting the entire justice department, according to several department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity
weld, who as an assistant attorney general oversees all federal criminal investigations, told assistants at a final staff meeting that the continuing investigation of meese and wallach was casting a ``cloud'' on the justice department, according to several department sources
weld quit as of the close of business tuesday, telling his staff he didn't want to get in ``50 fights'' and have ``blood on the floor,'' said the sources. burns will stay on until april 22
meese did not learn the two were quitting until burns and weld walked into his office tuesday morning and informed him of the decision. several department sources characterized meese as ``shocked.''
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater confirmed that burns and weld had met with white house chief of staff howard baker a week earlier. ``the gentlemen indicated they wanted to resign, or they were disenchanted, and they were advised to talk to the attorney general about that. that's the proper way to do it, the proper course of action,'' fitzwater said
asked if reagan had been told about the conversation, fitzwater said, ``i don't believe so.'' he said he was not aware of any subsequent talks between baker and the two officials
meese has been under investigation for nearly 11 months by mckay, the independent counsel who last may 11 began looking into meese's involvement with the scandal-plagued wedtech corp
the investigation later expanded to include his involvement in a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project, with the independent counsel trying to determine whether meese may have been paid off by wallach or others in exchange for helping wedtech or the pipeline project
regarding the new area in the meese probe, wallach's lawyer, san francisco attorney george walker, was quoted in today's post as saying wallach played a ``peripheral'' role in getting mrs. meese the job at the ms society
however, bierbower said the idea for hiring mrs. meese came from the chapter's executive director, jeanne bradley, who was pleased with mrs. meese's volunteer work
walker said wallach had ``suggested the possibility'' of the radio job, and bierbower said a foundation run by the family that owns the station ended up paying mrs. meese's $40,000 salary for the ms society job she took instead
one justice department source said weld has frequently expressed an interest in returning to massachusetts to seek political office, and didn't want to be associated with the department because of meese's continuing legal problems
weld, a former u.s. attorney in boston who has prosecuted a number of important public corruption and white-collar crime cases, is widely mentioned as a potential republican gubernatorial candidate. he also has said he wants to run for the u.s. senate, the source said
the four stars of nbc's ``golden girls'' were nominated wednesday for the second annual american comedy awards to be presented on abc in may
actresses bea arthur, estelle getty, rue mcclanahan and betty white, were nominated as funniest female performer in a leading role in a television comedy series
tracey ullman, who stars in her own show on fox broadcasting, was the fifth nominee in the funniest female performer category
in addition, miss white was nominated for a lifetime achievement award. many of the performers were nominated in two or more categories
the awards, staged by george schlatter, will be presented during a two-hour abc special may 17 at the hollywood palladium
this year's lifetime creative achievement award goes to blake edwards, who is being honored for such movies as ``the pink panther,'' ``10'' and ``victor-victoria.'' his newest movie, ``sunset,'' starring bruce willis and james garner, will be released this spring
here are the other nominations:
funniest male performer in a leading role in a tv series: dana carvey, ``saturday night live''; michael j. fox, ``family ties''; pee-wee herman, ``pee-wee's playhouse''; david letterman, ``late night with david letterman''; garry shandling, ``it's garry shandling's show.''
funniest female performer in a tv special: roseanne barr, ``on location: the roseanne barr show''; carol burnett, ``carol, carl, whoopi & robin''; teri garr, ``trying times''; bette midler, ``the 1987 academy awards''; lily tomlin, ``american comedy awards.''
funniest male performer in a tv special: johnny carson, ``tonight show's 25th anniversary''; herman, ``pee-wee herman's prime time special''; jay leno, ``jay leno's family comedy hour''; david letterman, ``5th anniversary special''; robin williams, ``comic relief 87.''
funniest actress in a motion picture: cher, ``moonstruck''; goldie hawn, ``overboard''; holly hunter, ``broadcast news''; diane keaton, ``baby boom''; bette midler, ``outrageous fortune.''
funniest actor in a motion picture: nicolas cage, ``raising arizona''; john candy, ``planes, trains and automobiles''; danny devito, ``throw momma from the train''; steve martin, ``roxanne''; robin williams, ``good morning, vietnam.''
funniest supporting female, tv or movie: julia duffy, ``newhart''; olympia dukakis, ``moonstruck''; madeline kahn, ``mr. president''; carol kane, ``the princess bride''; rhea perlman, ``cheers.''
funniest supporting male, tv or movie: albert brooks, ``broadcast news''; billy crystal, ``the princess bride''; vincent gardenia, ``moonstruck''; woody harrelson, ``cheers''; john larroquette, ``night court.''
funniest female standup comic: roseanne barr, elayne boosler, whoopi goldberg, bette midler, lily tomlin
funniest male standup comic: jay leno, david letterman, jackie mason, eddie murphy, robin williams
male comedy club standup comic: wayne cotter, john mendoza, bob nelson, emo philips, jerry seinfeld
female comedy club standup comic: diane ford, carol leifer, paula poundstone, rita rudner, judy tenuta
funniest female performer of the year: cher, holly hunter, bette midler, lily tomlin, tracey ullman
funniest male performer of the year: jay leno, steve martin, jackie mason, garry shandling, robin williams
female lifetime achievement: imogene coca, phyllis diller, goldie hawn, gilda radner, betty white
male lifetime achievement: milton berle, george burns, art carney, johnny carson, jack lemmon. prison</head>
after searching three years for his son, gerald murphy finally met him only hours before the 21-year-old was sentenced to life in prison for murder
murphy said he was a college student in 1967 when his girlfriend became pregnant and gave the child up for adoption
today was the first time i made any physical contact with him _ to reach out and shake  murphy on monday, after the anne arundel county circuit court sentenced michael gregory woods to life in prison without parole. woods was convicted of first-degree murder jan. 19
what a tragic thing this is. i fehis hand,'' saidel deprived in a sense, but i'm glad i answered the question of what happened to him,'' murphy said
on july 2, woods shot and killed michael boyd, a 25-year-old national security agency employee
boyd's wife jody claimed her husband beat her and their three children. she asked woods, a friend of hers, to kill her husband
in return, she promised to give him and his two teen-age conspirators her husband's $25,000 life insurance, according to court testimony
michael woods was the first man in maryland to receive the life-in-prison- without-parole sentence. it went into effect july 1, the day before the murder
murphy, 46, who has a wife and three children in california, flew from his home in loworkbooks and sandwiches in an increasing number of school backpacks each day. it is a pill, no bigger than button candy, prescribed to help hyperactive youngsters get through their multiplication tables, spelling tests and geography lessons. some parents describe ritalin as a godsend, but its success may be leading to its excess. as many as 1 million children may take the drug, and happy results encourage more doctors to prescribe it, sometimes with less triumphant results
am-r is for ritalin ii, an ap extra by fred bayles and scott mccartney for tuesday ams, april 5, will move as b0484-b0485
with:
am-ritalin and tom, a personal look by ap writer strat douthat, whose son takes ritalin, b0486
am-ritalin-expert advice, what parents should ask, b0487

detroit _ her school principal had urged her mother to make the four-hour drive from rural northern michigan. now 11-year-old chrissie sat in a windowless office where a psychologist peppered her with questions. the morning would end with doctors at the attention deficit disorder clinic of children's hospital telling chrissie her baffling problems at home and in school would mean treatment with the stimulant ritalin
am-r is for ritalin iii-clinic, an ap extra by lee mitgang for wednesday ams, april 6, will move as b0488

west birmingham, mich. _ one pupil takes the drug ritalin to calm his hyperactivity and help him pay attention. the teachers challenges a visitor to guess who. chris was the obvious choice. the third-grader fidgeted in his chair, got up several times to sharpen his pencil, drummed his fingers, asked questions repeatedly and never seemed to hear the answers. the guess was wrong. the child on ritalin was a slender boy with flaming red hair who calmly sailed through a reading comprehension quiz and listened attentively to a lesson on homonyms
am-r is for ritalin iii-school, an ap extra by lee mitgang for wednesday ams, april 6, will move as b0489
with:
am-ritalin-utah, a look at the state with the highest ritalin consumption, b0490

warsaw, poland _ a curious new program is going out over poland's state radio every monday morning. it's called ``the west speaks,'' and it is composed entirely of excerpts of polish-language broadcasts by radio free europe, the voice of america, the british broadcasting corp. and other western radio stations
am-poland-radio, for friday ams, april 8, moving as b0475
rancho seco nuclear power plant, shut down for 27 months, was restarted today after plant officials received final approval from the federal nuclear regulatory commission
an electronically transmitted letter from the nrc approving the restart arrived at 6:53 a.m., said kerry shearer, a spokesman for the sacramento municipal utility district, which owns the plant 25 miles southeast of sacramento
the letter was in response to an official approval request sent by the authority to washington on tuesday
authority nuclear chief carl andognini ordered restart of the plant at 7:04 a.m., shearer said. starting up the plant will take eight to 10 hours
we're obviously very, very happy to have come to this point after 27 months of effort,'' said shearer
the plant, whose reactor is a twin of the three mile island reactor in pennsylvania, has been closed since a severe overcooling accident in december 1985
the startup process will be completed later wednesday when operators finish diluting the amount of boron in the reactor's cooling water and withdraw control rods, shearer said
the combination brings the reactor to the point where the nuclear chain reaction is self-sustaining,'' he said. officials call that milestone ``criticality'' and plan to operate the reactor for 10 to 14 days before beginning to produce electricity
on tuesday morning, operators finished testing repairs made to the plant's electrical system over the weekend. a valve problem and excessive vibration in two back-up diesel generators were also fixed over the weekend
but opposition to the plant has grown during the long series of restart delays. a majority of the sacramento city council, including mayor anne rudin, and at least one county supervisor have announced support for a june ballot measure calling for the plant's closure
a citizen-sponsored initiative calls for immediate shutdown of the plant. a competing smud-sponsored measure asks voters to approve operation of the plant for at least 18 months
the utility has spent more than $400 million during the past 27 months to overhaul equipment and management at the plant, which has generated an average of only 40 percent of the electricity it was designed to produce since it was opened in 1975
michael remy, director of the group sponsoring the plant closure initiative, said the utility was under pressure to restart the plant because a major delay could diminish public support for the facility. picks up 9th graf pvs, ``yes, there was ..''</note>
gov. evan mecham's son lied in his testimony on an impeachment allegation that the governor misused $80,000 from his protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, the company's former bookkeeper told the senate today
dennis mecham, general manager of mecham pontiac, said last week that the dealership was in ``very strong'' financial shape, but former bookkeeper lee christman testified today that the company actually needed hundreds of thousands of dollars when it borrowed the $80,000 in july 1987
on tuesday, dennis mecham announced that the dealership was being sold because of lagging sales blamed on bad publicity that has dogged his father since he took office in january 1987
asked today by defense lawyer jerris leonard whether she contacted prosecutors on her own initiative, ms. christman answered, ``yes, when i heard dennis lie.''
leonard immediately objected, and the presiding officer said ms. christman's answer went beyond what the question sought
later, ms. christman told prosecutor william french she was upset with dennis mecham because she felt he had blamed her for things that were not her fault
democratic sen. jesus ``chuy'' higuera, then asked if there were other instances in which she believed the governor and his son had not told the truth
they were misstating various facts which would lead one to believe that the inefficiencies were in the accounting office, rather than the fact that there was a lack of money,'' ms. christman said
french asked ms. christman, ``was there an immediate need for cash in july 1987?''
yes, there was,'' she answered. she said dennis mecham had told her the company needed $497,000 in cash flow, and that he called her to his office and handed her an $80,000 check
did he use the word `protocol fund?''' french said. ``yes,'' she answered
ms. christman worked for mecham pontiac from november 1986 to february 1988, when she said she was asked to resign because someone else was hired to handle the computer
the financial condition of mecham pontiac has been a central issue in the charge that mecham miused the protocol fund by loaning to $80,000 to the dealership. the charge is the second of three impeachment charges against him
after the prosecution finished its case with rebuttal testimony from ms. christman and another witness, the senate was expected to consider whether to vote on the first two impeachment articles, even though no testimony has been heard during the month-long trial on the third charge _ that mecham concealed a $350,000 campaign loan
a vote to convict the first-term republican governor would automatically remove him from office
dennis mecham said tuesday, ``the confusion and questions this avalanche of negative publicity has caused ... has forced my family to come to this decision to sell mecham pontiac while the condition of the company remains solvent and saleable.''
mecham also faces a may 17 recall election spurred in part by actions and comments that critics have considered slurs against blacks, jews, homosexuals and the japanese
oldsmobile dealer kemp biddulph, whose dealership is next door to mecham's in suburban glendale, said he hoped to close the purchase by may 1
in the impeachment trial, the prosecution claims the dealership desperately needed the $80,000 loan to meet its payroll in july 1987, but that the governor's protocol fund, which was derived from inaugural proceeds, was public money
the defense claims, however, that the dealership was in good financial shape at the time of the loan, which was intended to provide higher interest to the protocol fund. defense witnesses have insisted the fund was private money
last week, a motion to allow an immediate vote on the first impeachment charge that the governor tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official was withdrawn when many senators voiced opposition
the third impeachment charge is also the subject of the governor's april 21 criminal trial, and mecham has insisted that allowing the senate to hear testimony on that charge might jeopardize his chances of a fair trial
some senators have said they do not want to run the risk of forcing the criminal charges to be thrown out. others, however, including majority leader bob usdane, a republican, have insisted lawmakers should hear evidence on all three charges before voting on any of them
also on tuesday, a maricopa county superior court judge refused to dismiss the criminal charges against mecham. the defense had claimed the governor was a victim of selective prosecution and was charged under the wrong law
judge michael ryan also refused to separate the governor's case from that of co-defendant willard mecham, his brother and 1986 campaign treasurer
elsewhere, opening arguments were expected this afternoon in the political extortion trial of mecham's former aide, sam steiger
president reagan said he sent 3,200 crack u.s. troops because honduras was in trouble, but reports of border fighting with nicaragua were vague and the americans had orders to stay out of it
reagan said he was supporting an ally and warning the sandinistas. skeptics in washington and tegucigalpa said the purpose was to drum up aid for nicaraguan rebels, which congress had rejected
arrival of the first american troops march 17 coincided with reports from washington that nicaragua had built up a force of 4,500 troops in the bocay border region
they said up to 2,000 sandinista soldiers with soviet-made artillery and aircraft had crossed into the jungles of eastern honduras, pursuing contra rebels, and president jose azcona hoyo was asking for help
high-ranking honduran military sources said about 4,000 hondurans had surrounded the 2,000 nicaraguans but no fighting was reported. they said honduras was sending more troops to the region
no casualty figures were reported during the crisis, which began march 15 and lasted 10 days. nicaragua said its soldiers did not cross the border
now that the men of the 82nd airborne division and the 7th light infantry division have gone home, questions remain about the display of american might
the reagan administration said the soldiers would conduct exercises in a show of force designed as a measured response to the crisis. some of them trained 40 miles from the border and 70 miles from where fighting was said to have occurred
azcona said in a march 18 news conference that he counted on support from the united states in case of more sandinista aggression. his press secretary, lisandro quesada, then told the associated press in an interview: ``this is nothing more than an exercise in case honduras enters into war.''
gen. policarpo paz garcia, a former honduran chief of state, said this week: ``i think the sandinistas did not intend to invade honduran territory. what happened is that nicaraguan troops were in pursuit of the contras and committed the error.''
paz, who governed in 1979-1981 before civilian rule was restored, said the honduran army ``is prepared to repel any aggression. ... i wouldn't have asked the united states for soldiers.'' he spoke in a radio interview broadcast tuesday
according to a survey published wednesday in el heraldo, 42 per cent of tegucigalpa residents polled agreed with the u.s. decision to sent troops and 47 percent opposed it
as the white parachutes of hundreds of american paratroopers filled the sky over palmerola air base march 17, the reagan decision was being challenged here and in washington
it came when the sandinistas and u.s.-supported contra rebels had announced plans for direct cease-fire negotiations in nicaragua
although there were charges that the u.s. troops were sent as a ploy to get more contra aid, azcona told the ap he asked for help because his country was in danger
on monday, he said in a telephone conversation: ``at no time were there pressures from the united states that my government ask for help (with) the incursion of sandinista troops in our territory.''
honduran congressmen said at the time that they were not informed of a sandinista incursion and learned through the news media that azcona had requested help
newspapers published editorial cartoons questioning the operation
la prensa depicted uncle sam telling azcona and other leaders: ``there's an invasion in honduras'' while they looked around saying, ``where, where, where?''
ruben palma, president of the small opposition christian democratic party, declared: ``the united states is provoking a direct confrontation betwen nicaragua and honduras with the strategic aim of obtaining aid for the anti-sandinista counterrevolutionaries.''
president daniel ortega of nicaragua said the same
despite denials from managua of an incursion, u.s. congressmen on a fact-finding mission in honduras said they had proof
a well-informed source in tegucigalpa said the sandinistas pursued about 600 rebels into honduras and nearly captured a contra supply depot before two bombing raids by the honduran air force drove them back
the presence of the united states troops was beneficial for honduras _ for our people and for the national security,'' azcona said as the first americans left for home monday
the last of the sandinistas had retreated into honduras by thursday of last week, the day after ortega's government and contra leadership signed a preliminary cease-fire agreement
azcona expressed support for peace efforts in nicaragua
we're friends of dialogue and peace,'' he said. ``if the nicaraguan want to reach an agreement and there are no more shots or conflicts in our neighboring country, then the hondurans will be the first to benefit.''
theodore picou, a jazz saxophonist and composer who toured internationally with his musical groups, has died of lung cancer. he was 53
picou, who died sunday at his home, is credited with teaching and influencing many saxophonists, including harold land, herman riley and charles owens, relatives said
picou was born in calexico, calif., on april 19, 1934. his parents were creole, from the new orleans area, and french and creole music influenced the family, said his sister, cecile
picou's family moved to san diego when he was a child, and he began taking music lessons at 4. his mother bought him his first saxophone, and he was playing publicly by age 13
teddy picou and his jazz quartet were playing locally until recent weeks. his last recording was ``experience,'' which featured his own compositions
with his quartet and another group, ted picou and his band, he toured africa and europe as well as the united states
survivors include his former wife, bernestine picou of san diego, two sons, a daughter and his mother. services were scheduled thursday
the army on wednesday padlocked the arab-owned palestine press service, cutting off a key source of information in a campaign to curtail media coverage of arab unrest in the occupied territories
the news service, which reports on activities in the west bank and gaza stip, was ordered closed for six months
we were just too efficient. that's what we got closed down for,'' reporter john mellor told the associated press
in another slap against the media, the supreme court rejected a foreign press appeal for access to the west bank and gaza strip, which have been closed since monday. but the judges ordered the government to explain within 30 days why reporters should not be allowed free access to the areas
the moves indicated the importance israel attaches to curbing news coverage. prime minister yitzhak shamir and other government officials have accused the media of fueling nearly four months of violence in the occupied territories
the army said journalists would be prosecuted if found violating the access ban, which carries a maximum penalty of five years in jail
lawrence grossman, president of nbc news, rejected the government view that a media presence had aggravated the problems
there hasn't been a single killing of an arab when the cameras are there,'' grossman said in an interview with the jerusalem post
he added that israel was ``putting itself in the least favorable imaginable position in view of south africa's reputation.'' in south africa, police have the right to close an area to journalists at a moment's notice
israeli officials have been particularly sensitive about comparisons of israel's treatment of palestinians with the treatment of blacks in south africa. in that country, the black majority has no voice in national affairs
the order against the palestine press service, signed by west bank commander maj. gen. amram mitzna and taped on the agency's door, said the closure was ``necessary for maintaining public safety and public order.''
army troops ordered agency staffers out of the office and placed two large padlocks on the doors. in defiance, the agency clamped on two padlocks of its own
it's a horrible day. the army has now made the blackout in the occupied territories complete,'' the agency's publisher, ibrahim kareen, told the ap. he said four of his staffers have been arrested since unrest began dec. 8
the army has arrested more than a dozen arab journalists who have acted as interpreters for foreign reporters
the order, the first ever against the 11-year-old agency, was authorized under 1945 emergency regulations imposed by the british in pre-israel palestine
kareen said officials told him they were closing the agency in part because israel believed it received funding from the palestine liberation organization. kareen denied plo funding and said the real reason for the closure was that his agency provided tips to journalists about palestinian deaths or injuries far more quickly than the army
the supreme court heard 2{ hours of arguments wednesday on an appeal from the foreign press association, which sought a reversal of monday's order closing the occupied territories until early friday
yisrael leshem, an attorney for the association, argued the closure order was a blow to freedom of the press and set a dangerous precedent
if the army makes this condition now, what's to stop them from banning coverage of any event?'' leshem said. he criticized as insufficient pool coverage arrangements offered to journalists who went in with an army escort
a military officer argued the army arrangements actually helped reporters by protecting them from demonstrators
although the closure order remained in effect, robert slater, president of the foreign press association, said he considered the decision ``a great victory'' because the government was required to explain its decision
we weren't fighting for five minutes or 10 minutes in the territories,'' slater said. ``we were fighting for the principle. this order sends a clear signal to the army that in the near future we should be permitted to enter the territories freely.''
president corazon aquino and military officials claimed a major victory over communist rebels wednesday after the capture of the rebel army's leader and the communist party's no. 2 man
romulo kintanar, commander of the new people's army, and rafael baylosis, secretary-general of the communist party of the philippines, were captured in raids tuesday, along with the rebel army's logistics officer and another high-ranking party member, officials said
mrs. aquino hailed the arrests as ``happy news for our country'' and commended armed forces chief of staff gen. renato de villa and other officers
it clearly demonstrates that we have turned the tide and are winning the war against the communist insurgency,'' she said. ``the fact that they were arrested on the npa's 19th anniversary attests to the admirable performance of our armed forces of the philippines. i am elated and so is our citizenry.''
the 24,000-strong npa is in its 20th year of a violent struggle for power. the military was on a heightened state of alert in manila in anticipation of rebel attacks marking the anniversary
kintanar had long been wanted by the military. besides heading the npa, he is widely believed to be the chief organizer of communist assassination squads known as ``sparrow units'' because of the swiftness of their attacks
the squads have been blamed for killing more than 150 police officers and soldiers on manila streets since last year
the rebels are now demoralized,'' maj. gen. ramon montano, philippine constabulary chief, declared at a reception for retiring military officers
montano said kintanar initially gave authorities a false name and it was not until much later that they realized who he really was
the others arrested with him and baylosis were benjamin de vera, the central committee member in charge of operations on mindanao island; npa logistics officer napoleon manuel; manuel's wife, inez; kintanar's wife, gloria; and marco palo, a party liaison officer
defense secretary fidel v. ramos described the arrests as a ``big blow'' to the communists and attributed their capture to a unified and more efficient military
but brig. gen. rodolfo biazon, manila's military commander, warned that the rebels were far from paralyzed
it will disturb some of their programs,'' biazon said. ``but to say that this is defeat for the communist movement may not entirely be correct because we are fighting an idea, and the idea is still there.''
biazon said he expected more arrests soon
brig. gen. honesto isleta, a military spokesman, said troops ``almost captured'' party chairman benito tiamzon. isleta declined to elaborate
the official philippine news agency said tiamzon had been tipped off about the arrests of his comrades in the manila suburb of san juan and was gone when troops arrived at his hideout in suburban quezon city
police clashed with about 250 stone-throwing moslem fundamentalists who attacked a theater troupe, a security source said wednesday. one student was killed and four were injured as officers dispersed the crowd
the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the incident took place tuesday night at the village of kodeya, 25 miles from the southern provincial capital of assiut
he said it wasn't known what killed 23-year-old mohammed kotb. one of the four wounded students was in critical condition, he added
in a statement read to the associated press by telephone, a fundamentalist spokesman claimed the student was killed by police gunfire
the moslem group went out through the village in a peaceful march of protest ... when police attacked them with tear gas and opened fire on the demonstrators, killing the student mohammed kotb,'' the statement said
the spokesman, who refused to give his name, said forces then surrounded the village, raided homes and detained fundamentalists
the spokesman said the students were protesting a ``dancing party'' organized by security forces
the security source, however, said the fundamentalists attacked a theater troupe performing a play about islam and peasants. the troup had been invited to perform by the government's culture club at the village
around 250 moslem fundamentalists from the village and nearby villages gathered in a mosque after evening prayers and then moved to the hall where the play was being performed, carrying stones and rocks,'' the source said
he said the students, from a teacher training college, ``attacked the hall and tried to destroy the building,'' but security forces surrounded them and used tear gas and sticks to disperse them. he did not say whether police made any arrests
police forces guarded the building until the play was finished, the source said
the southern assiut province has been a hotbed of fundamentalist agitation for almost a decade
fundamentalist students armed with knives, bicycle chains and stones, attacked an assiut university campus parade on march 7, denouncing it as an anti-islamic ``dancing and singing party.'' in the ensuing clash with security forces, two students and two policemen were wounded
the coast guard's 295-foot eagle, the government's only tall ship, returned to the united states on wednesday after two months down under to help celebrate australia's bicentennial
the square-rigged, steel-hulled bark entered the breakwater at 8 a.m. and led a two-hour boat parade through the los angeles-long beach harbors before docking at the long beach naval station
the eagle and its 175-member crew are visiting briefly on a return voyage to the ship's new london, conn., homeport. the ship departs friday and continues its voyage via acapulco and the panama canal
the public was invited to board the ship thursday
a seagoing classroom for cadets at the coast guard academy in new london, the ship was built in germany in 1936 as a training ship for german navy cadets. it was seized as a war prize in world war ii
a fire apparently started by candles in an apartment without electricity spread through three floors of a building wednesday, killing a baby and injuring a score of people, authorities said
firefighters backed a fire truck through an eight-foot fence and smashed aside a car to get to a shaft where they raised a ladder and rescued people through fourth- and fifth-floor windows, said fire capt. ed brown
the fire in the south bronx, reported at 1:39 a.m., broke out on the third floor and extended through the fourth and fifth and into the roof, brown said
the baby who died was identified as chantel nelson, 4 months. firefighters found her father unconscious and rescued him, brown said
two firefighters who tried to get to the baby's apartment were seriously injured and hospitalized, said deputy fire chief joseph dibernado
department spokesman john mulligan said marshals did not immediately declare a cause of the fire but said it probably was due to carelessness with candles. electricity and gas had been off for more than a month in the apartment, he said
ten of 15 injured firefighters and five residents went to hospitals, said mark rothstein of the emergency medical services. most suffered smoke inhalation, said mulligan
he said 10 families were driven out by the fire. embezzlement</head>
the younger brother of former president chun doo-hwan was arrested early thursday on corruption and embezzlement charges in connection with a multimillion-dollar financial scandal, prosecutors said
court sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said warrants for the arrest of chun kyung-hwan and three of his aides and associates were issued shortly after midnight
the warrants were executed later thursday
thursday's arrests brought to nine the number of suspects in custody in the scandal involving the semi-official saemaul development movement
earlier, five suspects, including two of chun kyung-hwan's brothers-in-law, were jailed tuesday on charges of embezzlement and fraudulent land sales
all nine are either saemaul officials or former leading members of the nationwide organization
prosecutors said the younger chun, who led saemaul between 1981 and 1987, embezzled at least $9.3 million and built up a fortune in land, stocks and business interest
senior prosecutor kang won-il, who has headed the investigation, said wednesday the younger chun would initially face six charges, including corruption, embezzlement, tax evasion and violation of laws governing special economic and financial crimes
if convicted, chun faces punishments ranging from 10 years in prison to the death sentence
we have enough evidence to incriminate them,'' kang said after questioning the four men for more than 36 hours
chun doo-hwan, who has not been implicated in the scandal, is on a private tour of the united states. he met with president reagan at the white house last week
opposition parties are demanding that he return to seoul immediately to explain his role in the scandal. opposition leaders have charged that the former president was involved in the affair
saemaul, founded in 1971 to promote urban and rural development, evolved into a powerful organization involved in activities ranging from building model communities to promoting urban clean-up campaigns
prosecutors say the younger chun, who was appointed to head the group by president chun in 1981, used his position to divert government and private donations, sell influence and pressure businesses to make gifts of money, land and stocks
he resigned as saemaul chief in 1987 after being linked to organized crime. he fled to japan april 18 when news of the government probe surfaced, but returned two days later to face questioning
during the inquiry, about 200 government officials and business leaders have been questioned about corruption and a possible coverup to protect former president chun and his family. none of them has been formally implicated
however, prosecution sources said wednesday night that more people might be charged
the chun administration has long been suspected of widespread corruption. but during its authoritarian administration, criticism of the president and his family were not tolerated and allegations of corruption were routinely ignored
president roh tae-woo, who took power feb. 25, is thought to have supported the saemaul investigation to discredit the former president and end his attempts to retain power and influence within the government
some chun royalists were purged from the governing democratic justice party earlier this month, and roh blocked the former president's attempts to retain substantial power as a government adviser
roh, a former general who helped put chun in power with military backing in 1980, promised during the presidential election campaign last year to root out and end official corruption
veronica l'esperance, the last of the nation's first test-tube quintuplets to leave the hospital, rejoined her brother and four sisters at home after a week of observation for a breathing problem
the quint, born jan. 11, left william beaumont hospital late monday following observation for apnea, a condition in which she stopped breathing while eating, hospital spokeswoman carol jonson said tuesday
the children's mother, michele l'esperance, was impregnated through in-vitro fertilization
saying, ``i did not come for the money,'' jihan sadat signed on recently for $50,000 with the university of maryland to lecture and develop a peace studies program
i could make double this on the lecture tour. i came to continue my husband's work,'' said the wife of slain egyptian leader anwar sadat. mrs. sadat will speak about middle east problems and the changing roles of women there. her price has dropped following the outcry two years ago when she was paid $314,000 to teach one course at the university of south carolina
what we are paying her is the equivalent of an advanced associate professor's salary or a beginning salary for a tenured professor. with her life experiences and credentials, we believe she's a bargain at this price,'' said edward azar, head of the university's center for international development and conflict management
he said mrs. sadat's salary comes from the university of maryland foundation, which receives donations for research
tabatha foster, a kentucky toddler who's the longest survivor of a five-organ transplant, is moving up on hospital charts in her battle to survive
doctors at children's hospital of pittsburgh upgraded her condition to fair on tuesday. the 3-year-old madisonville, ky., girl received a new liver, pancreas, small intestine and parts of a stomach and colon on nov. 1. she had suffered from a congenital defect known as short gut syndrome
she may have lost prince andrew, but actress koo stark picked up ``substantial'' cash by way of libel damages and a public apology wednesday from a newspaper that claimed she was bitter over losing out in love to sarah ferguson
express newspapers, owners of the mass-circulation star which printed the article headed ``she's welcome to him...'' in february 1986, apologized to miss stark and said it regretted any embarrassment to her
her attorney, keith schilling, told high court judge michael davies: ``the article quoted a number of bitter remarks which miss stark was quite falsely alleged to have made about prince andrew
it also purported to give, again quite falsely, miss stark's comments about miss ferguson.''
putting into action her hit record ``a lesson in leavin,''' country singer dottie west is moving on from her third husband, alan winters
west, who won a grammy for her 1964 recording ``here comes my baby,'' cited irreconcilable differences and cruel and inhuman treatment in the divorce petition filed in williamson county chancery court on friday
west, 56, married the 33-year-old winters, who is also her sound and light operator, on june 28, 1983, in nashville
a lot is riding on ``lonesome dove,'' a television miniseries based on novelist larry mcmurtry's texas tale
cbs is gambling more than $15 million and four nights of november prime time slots that the lone star story of a cattle drive and two old texas rangers will fare better in the ratings than other long miniseries have in recent years
the cast, filming near here this week, includes robert duvall, tommy lee jones, anjelica huston, danny glover and ricky schroder
ivana trump has a chance at some hot tips on how to run a big-time hotel offered by the owner of a boarding house in a town with a population of 361 people
the wife of new york real estate magnate donald trump has been invited to drop down and pick up some of the finer points of the hospitality trade at mary bobo's boarding house
the boarding house, which opened in 1908 in this rural community, is known for its southern hospitality and tennessee food served in a wooden building surrounded by a white picket fence
lynne tolley, proprietress of the boarding house, made the invitation in a letter tuesday to mrs. trump after learning that she will run new york city's plaza hotel, which her husband recently purchased for $390 million
mrs. tolley didn't say whether she would give mrs. trump tips on how to negotiate a salary. at the time of the plaza purchase, trump announced his wife would work for $1 and all the dresses she can buy
welcome to atlanta. if you are going down the escalator, you will be entering the transportation mall ...''
millions of travelers each year hear the message at hartsfield atlanta international airport, and the woman whose voice is behind the words says they've given new meaning to her life
lee mcallister's taped announcement began running when the new midfield terminal opened in 1980. ``people immediately wanted to know who the voice was, and i made sure word got around,'' she said
she now has more than 1,800 radio and tv commercials to her credit and is always a hit at parties. ``people are always saying, `do the airport voice, lee, do the airport voice,''' she said
airport officials hired ms. mcallister because ``we needed someone who could guide people through the airport, whose voice was calm, collected and soothing,'' said j.r. mcintyre of the atlanta airlines terminal corp. ``it's kind of like the cowboys who sang to the herds.''
the helicopter ride to cleveland metropolitan general hospital took just 12 minutes, but when it arrived, there was another passenger on board
four-pound, 1{-ounce calvin williams was born tuesday seven weeks premature as his mother, dina williams, 29, of lorain, was being rushed from amherst hospital to metro general, which has a neonatal intensive care unit
when the staff at amherst realized mrs. williams was in labor, they contacted metro general for a life flight helicopter, said metro general spokesman george stamatis. the helicopter, carrying two pilots, a nurse and a doctor, arrived at amherst within a half-hour, and soon after that, it was aloft again with mrs. williams
mrs. williams said contractions became more severe during the flight. ``i kept saying it was too early,'' she said from her hospital bed. ``then i figured it would wait until we got here, but it didn't.''
five minutes before the helicopter landed at metro general, nurse cathy gilman and dr. peter capicotto delivered calvin
a girl awaiting a triple transplant operation got one special wish _ to meet entertainers siegfried and roy _ but was denied a second one when they refused to make her younger brother disappear
cassandra james, 9, of las vegas is awaiting a trip to pittsburgh children's hospital for a heart, liver and kidney transplant
the make a wish foundation learned she wanted to meet the illusionists, and arranged the visit tuesday night after their show
roy told cassandra to ``hang in there and be tough.''
her problems began with a strep throat infection that traveled to her kidney when she was 2. doctors later discovered her liver was too swollen to permit a kidney transplant, and suspected her heart was also diseased
orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell for the second month in a row in february, but analysts said the 0.8 percent decline was not a cause for alarm
the commerce department said wednesday that orders for durable and non-durable goods dropped to a seasonally adjusted $210.86 billion last month following a 0.6 percent decline in january
the february setback was the biggest since a 1.4 percent drop last august and marked the first time that factory orders have fallen for two consecutive months since the summer of 1986
economists said the declines showed that businesses did cut back on orders in the early part of the year in an effort to trim high levels of unsold goods that had built up in the final three months of 1987
while this process will dampen growth, economists said it appeared that the cutbacks had been moderate and would set the stage for faster growth in the months ahead
the economy is expanding at a moderate pace. we are not looking for either a boom or a bust,'' said bruce steinberg, an economist with merrill lynch in new york. ``although we had declines in orders in the past two months, those declines came off a very high level of demand in the fourth quarter.''
even with the two months of declines, total factory orders were 8.3 percent higher than a year earlier, reflecting the strong growth in manufacturing demand in 1987. analysts also noted that the backlog of unfilled orders continued to grow in february, rising by 0.8 percent to $412.3 billion, indicating production will have to remain high to fill those orders
economists expect manufacturing to be one of the major sources of strength for the economy this year as american companies continue to benefit from a weaker dollar, which has made their products competitive again on world markets
this export boom is expected to spur u.s. companies to boost their investment spending plans for new plant and equipment, further adding to overall economic growth
however, the february report said the key category of non-defense capital goods fell 3.9 percent, although the sector was still 23 percent higher than a year ago. this category is considered a good gauge of business spending plans on capital equipment
jerry jasinowski, chief economist for the national association of manufacturers, said the weakness in stock prices and fears about higher inflation rates may be causing some companies to lower their investment spending somewhat
the february decline in factory orders included a drop of 1.1 percent in orders for durable goods. these items, expected to last three or more years, fell to a seasonally adjusted $118.5 billion last month. an advance report last week had put the decline in those orders at a sharper 1.8 percent
orders for non-durable goods fell 0.4 percent in february to $97.9 billion
orders for military equipment fell 8.2 percent to $8.4 billion last month, but military demand was still 14 percent higher than a year ago. without the drop in defense orders, total orders would have fallen by a slightly smaller 0.5 percent in february
orders for transportation equipment were one of the few areas of strength last month, climbing 3.5 percent to $30 billion. the aircraft component showed a 6.8 percent increase
orders for primary metals, such as steel, edged up 1.4 percent and were 26 percent higher than a year earlier
orders for electrical machinery fell 7.4 percent, while orders for non-electrical machinery were off 5.4 percent
shipments of manufactured goods edged up 0.1 percent in february to $207.4 billion
treasury secretary james a. baker iii told congress on wednesday that he strongly disagrees with proposals to forgive some of the third world's debt, now over $1 trillion
i believe this path leads both debtors and creditors off the cliff,'' he said. ``this approach would irreparably politicize the debt problem.''
forgiveness would distract both debtors and creditors from the need to make reforms, encourage repudiation of debt and shift the risk on bank loans to taxpayers, including u.s. taxpayers, he added
i simply cannot endorse such schemes,'' he told the senate appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations
he argued for a u.s. contribution to increase the capital of the world bank, the largest single source of aid loans to third world countries. he said pulling out of the world bank or the inter-american development bank, as some critics have suggested, would reduce u.s. influence and make it more likely that they would act contrary to u.s. interests
but he said the reagan administration would not ask congress for money to bring the united states up to date in the year beginning sept. 30 on its arrears in payments to the world bank. he said west germany, kuwait and saudi arabia had reduced their contributions because of the u.s. shortfalls and he was sorry about that
he promised that the reagan administration, before it leaves office, will ask that the money be furnished in the 12 months following oct. 1, 1989
rep. david r. obey, d-wis., told secretary of state george p. shultz earlier this month that the arrears should be paid before a new contribution is sought. obey, chairman of the house appropriations foreign operations subcommittee, predicted there will be trouble in congress for the administration's request
baker said the administration will not ask for new contributions to the inter-american development bank until the borrowing countries, which now control lending, give the u.s. government greater power over new loans
during baker's testimony, sen. don nickles, r-okla., complained of the bank's internal spending. he said it:
_recently moved into one of the most expensive new buildings in washington at a cost of $225 million
_spent an average of more than $100,000 each on separation pay for departing employees
_had an average of 35 claims a year on its health insurance for each employee
we agree that's the kind of thing that has to be cleaned up,'' baker said, but did not confirm nickles' figures
baker clashed with sen. daniel k. inouye, d-hawaii, chairman of the subcommittee, over plans to help other countries refinance as much as $16 billion owed to the united states for weapons and other military aid. inouye said regulations proposed by the treassury could add as much as two percentage points to borrower's costs
about $5 billion worth of israel's debts would be affected, and the high cost of refinancing might discourage other countries from using the plan, inouye said
u.s. servicemen joined west german firefighters wednesday in piling sandbags to protect the city of wiesbaden from the floodwaters of the swollen rhine river
thousands of volunteers have pitched in the past three days to protect people's lives and property from flooding
six people are believed to have died in flood-related accidents
floodwaters slowly receded in most of west germany on wednesday, but the situation along the danube river in central bavaria state was still critical after the worst flooding in 70 years. about 3,500 bavarians had fled their homes
in wiesbaden, u.s. air force security police and west german firefighters worked to shore up dikes on the rhine river with sandbags
we had 70 security police working out there all night with west german firemen,'' u.s. air force spokesman hans ostertag said
no major flooding problems were reported wednesday in wiesbaden, near frankfurt, as the rhine receded from dangerous levels
residents of ahofling, a bavarian hamlet 12 miles east of regensburg, stayed up tuesday night trying to keep the danube from inundating their homes
most of the 415 residents of ahofling were up all night filling sandbags to bolster a dike,'' said herbert zeitler, a state spokesman
the waters are receding slowly but there is still danger of breaks in the dike,'' said zeitler
zeitler said property damage ``will run in the millions'' of dollars
the bavarian interior ministry warned the situation could again worsen if warmer weather accompanied by heavy rains speeds up the spring thaw of snow in mountainous areas
the ground is saturated and it will take several months before it will again be able to absorb any large amounts of water,'' the ministry said in a statement
in bonn, chancellor helmut kohl issued a statement expressing condolences to the familes of those who died in the floods and gratitude to people who pitched in to help avert further catastrophes
armenians threatened to continue a general strike paralyzing the main city of a disputed southern region until the government agreed to make the region part of aremenia, newspapers reported wednesday
for the first time, an official soviet newspaper, komsomolskaya pravda, used the word ``strike'' to describe what was previously was referred to as truancy or absenteeism in stepanakert, the central city of azerbaijan's nagorno-karabakh region
the soviet press generally uses the word ``strike'' only to describe labor unrest in the west. but komsomolskaya pravda, the organ of the youth organization komsomol, took advantage of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's drive for openness to break from tradition
the daily also provided the first official confirmation that the strike was part of a series of labor protests in stepanakert and that the walkout started march 24, not saturday as other newspapers have indicated
all but essential services such as bakeries and dairies, some public transportation and medical clinics were reported to be shut down in stepanakert, a city of more than 33,000 people. the government has lost millions of rubles in revenue because of the strike, newspapers said
we're only two or three steps from catastrophe,'' vasily atadzhanyan, the director of a shoe factory, told komsomolskaya pravda. ``we will pay huge fines for not fulfilling our obligations to our customers. we say directly: `not coming to work is sabotage.'''
only about 120 of 1,500 workers showed up for work monday at the shoe factory, the newspaper said
people are sitting home ... without noise and without demonstrations,'' said a man answering the telephone at the official newspaper in stepanakert, sovietsky karabakh. ``people say they are going to stay away until they get a decision from the government in their favor.''
the communist party newspaper pravda said many stepanakert residents were upset that soviet newspapers were not accurately reporting the dispute
we want everyone to know the truth. the absences from work will continue until our matter is settled,'' pravda quoted one resident as saying
early press coverage claimed that armenians, who are mostly christian, and azerbaijanis, who are mostly shiite moslem, live together in harmony. it blamed the unrest, in which at least 32 people have died, on a few ``extremists.''
authorities have been meeting with residents to urge them to return to their jobs and vowed not to bow to pressure to annex predominantly armenian nagorno-karabakh to armenia
instead, authorities have unveiled a plan to spend up to 400 million rubles, or $640 million, to improve social and economic conditions in the aremenian-dominated region
the labor newspaper trud said people in stepanakert were grateful for the government's efforts but that some still believed it was necessary to stay away from work to press their demand
the newspaper sovietskaya rossiya said about 100 specialists and workers appeared for work at an electrical-technical factory tuesday morning
ninety percent of the workers at a plant manufacturing construction materials appeared at work monday morning, only to walk out en masse, komsomolskaya pravda said
armenians began mass street rallies and strikes in stepanakert on feb. 13. the turmoil spread to the capital of the armenian republic, yerevan. on feb. 28, ethnic rioting broke out in sumgait, a industrial city in azerbaijan, and officials said 26 armenians and six azerbaijanis were killed
a hindu ascetic has been standing for three months in the western state of gujarat to collect funds for a shelter for holy cows
ramanuj vaishnavdas, 24, has been on his feet under a tree in front of a temple in palanpur town day and night to collect 5,551 rupees (about $427). he wants to build a shelter for the cows, which are considered holy and an image of the mother by the hindus
the sadhu, or ascetic, takes a break only for 15 minutes every morning for his ritual bath, the united news of india news agency reported wednesday
he sleeps and eats _ only one meal a day _ while standing
cow shelters and orphanages are common in india, where cows roam freely on the streets and often are a traffic hazard. cow slaughter is illegal in many of india's 25 states
a federal law aimed at encouraging chastity among teen-agers provides money to religious groups that, in one instance, advised ``young girls to pretend that jesus is their date,'' the supreme court was told wednesday
we're not saying that chastity cannot be a secular value, but it has been misused'' by religious groups funded under the 1981 law, argued janet benshoof, an american civil liberties union lawyer
as a result, she contended, the law unconstitutionally promotes religion
but the reagan administration's top-ranked courtroom lawyer defended the law
solicitor general charles fried conceded that ``there may have been some departures'' from past supreme court rulings on church-state relations by some private organizations carrying out the law's purpose. but he said such ``constitutionally troublesome'' spending of federal money has been corrected, and that the law can be carried out in a constitutionally acceptable way
the law, known as the adolescent family life act, was passed by congress ``in response to grave social, economic and health costs'' of early-adolescent pregnancy, fried said
he noted that religiously affiliated groups for years have participated in government programs dealing with juvenile delinquency, foster care, adoption and drug prevention
the disputed law, sponsored by former sen. jeremiah denton, r-ala., and ushered through congress by fellow conservatives, provided millions of dollars for three general program categories _ care, prevention and research
care services'' include pregnancy testing, maternity counseling, adoption and referral help
prevention services'' are those aimed at discouraging adolescent sexual relations, and include programs offering counseling and family planning
the law requires applicants for funding to describe how, in providing services, they will ``involve religious and charitable organizations, voluntary associations and other groups in the private sector.''
the law also allows religiously affiliated organizations to receive money for such programs
a federal judge here struck down the law last year, ruling that its primary effect is to promote religion and that it fosters an excessive entanglement between government and religion
the administration then asked the supreme court to salvage the law. the justices are expected to announce their decision by july
benshoof acknowledged that federal money may be used to cope with the problem of teen-age pregnancies. more than 1 million unmarried girls become pregnant each year, and about half obtain abortions
but the aclu lawyer added that the 1981 envisions a constitutionally suspect ``union between government and religion.''
not once in seven years has (the department of health and human services) questioned the religiousity of any institution receiving aid'' under the law, benshoof contended
when justice antonin scalia asked whether congress could spend money to encourage self-restraint by teen-agers, benshoof said groups receiving the money ``can't do it by telling young girls to pretend that jesus is their date.''
the aclu says a virginia organization that received $150,000 under the law offered such advice
plans by salvadoran guerrillas to escalate their war against the u.s.-backed government reinforce their ``well-deserved reputation for ruthless and indiscriminate violence,'' the state department said wednesday
the rebel plan was disclosed by the insurgents' high command at a news conference with foreign journalists in guerrilla-held territory. among other steps, the rebels said they intend to target u.s. military advisers for assassination
state department spokesman charles redman said the united states obviously ``will not be intimidated by threats against its personnel. the u.s. commitment to assist the democratic government of el salvador, backed by a strong bipartisan consensus, remains firm.''
the rebel leaders said they plan to increase attacks in san salvador, the capital, targeting the country's upper class, to use surface-to-air missiles against military helicopers and to step up attacks against military installations
redman said the proposed rebel offensive ``once again confirms their disregard for the well-being of the salvadoran people and their commitment to achieve power and install a totalitarian dictatorship at any price.''
two greenpeace volunteers scaled nelson's column on wednesday to protest acid rain pollution
the two men, who made their ascent in five hours using equipment, were arrested and charged with breaching the peace when they descended the 170-foot landmark in trafalgar square later in the day, greenpeace officials said
joe thompson, 26, and john stevenson, 30, started their ascent on the column at 4 a.m. and reached the statue of admiral horatio nelson, a 19th-century british naval hero, about five hours later
during their descent, they unfurled a banner reading ``stop acid rain'' on the column
thompson and stevenson, both from sheffield in northern england, used climbing ropes and harnesses. the environmental group wanted to highlight what it considers government complacency over acid rain damage
it urged prime minister margaret thatcher's government to allocate part of the estimated $8.2 billion in electricity price increases in the next four years to fighting acid raid, caused mainly by sulfur and nitrogen emissions from coal-fueled power plants and factories
sears, roebuck and co. has agreed to halt sales of lawn darts, following a federal complaint about the potentially dangerous sports items, the consumer product safety commission said wednesday
sears agreed in a consent decree to stop selling lawn darts within a week, the commission said
the decree settles charges that the nationwide retailer offered lawn darts for sale without required warning labels and in areas near toy sales
lawn darts are an outdoor game in which large, pointed darts are tossed at targets on the ground. they can pose a serious hazard, with three deaths reported in the last 18 years and an estimated 670 annual injuries, the safety agency said
federal regulations require warning labels on the darts and prohibit their sales in or near toy sales areas. they are permitted to be sold as sporting goods
sears' prompt response to the commission's concerns should serve as an example for manufacturers and other retailers of lawn darts,'' said commission chairman terrence m. scanlon
the agency asked that consumers report injuries or improper sales of lawn darts by calling it at 1-800-638-2772
wheat farmers should be provided with some kind of incentive to sell grain on the open market rather than have to forfeit it to the government when price support loans come due, the national association of wheat growers said wednesday
frank johannsen, association president, said wheat farmers deserve the same kind of consideration given corn producers who are being allowed to keep their grain under federal price support for an additional year
that was a reference to agriculture secretary richard e. lyng's announcement tuesday that price support loans for some old-crop corn and sorghum will be extended a year longer than their normal maturity dates
johannsen, a bayard, neb., wheat farmers said in a statement released here that the association is ``seeking a way to encourage growers to settle their maturing loans'' by paying them off with generic certificates. the certificates are issued by usda as payment-in-kind under crop programs and can be exchanged for surplus commodities owned by the department's commondity credit corp
if the price support loans are not repaid, a farmer must forfeit the grain to the ccc, which cancels the debt
once the ccc takes over the grain, it must be moved into government storage. much of the ccc wheat is currently being sold back into the market in weekly auctions
since current estimates are that it costs the government at least 20 cents a bushel to move, store, catalog and exchange forfeited wheat through weekly auctions, our proposal won't cost anything extra and it will reduce some of the government's logistical problems,'' johannsen said. ``it has the added benefit of keeping wheat moving in the pipeline of our much-improved market.''
besides, he said, grain farmers ``have a right to expect even-handed treatment'' from the department. ``forcing farmers to forfeit their loans only broadens the government's role in markets.''
hundreds of arabs defied a massive security crackdown and battled israeli troops in the west bank on wednesday to mark a palestinian anniversary. soldiers killed four arabs and wounded 39 others, officials said
the army's toughest restrictions in more than 20 years of occupation failed to contain the violence. the measures included mass arrests, the deployment of thousands of extra police, restrictions on media coverage and a ban on palestinians traveling in occupied areas
we can't say that land day was quiet. it was not,'' said west bank commander maj. gen. avraham mitzna
the day commemorates a confrontation on march 30, 1976, when israeli arabs protested the forced sale of 1,600 acres of their land for jewish settlement. six arabs were killed
wednesday's fatalities brought the arab death toll to 123 since the unrest began dec. 8, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has also been killed
the army closed the arab-owned palestine press service for six months, further illustrating the seriousness israel attaches to reducing media coverage
the agency, the only arab information service, has been a vital source of breaking news for foreign journalists since israel ordered the territories closed monday
the army barred reporters from entering the west bank and gaza strip except in news pools with an army escort. army spokeswoman ofra preuss said reporters violating the ban would be prosecuted with the maximum penalty being five years in prison
u.s. television networks and some journalists entered the territories with military escorts. others slipped through alone _ taking back roads, accompanying jewish settlers or posing as tourists
in arab towns throughout israel, about 30,000 israeli arabs waved palestinian flags and chanted anti-occupation slogans as helicopters circled overhead. about 4,000 extra police were deployed
in street battles in a half-dozen areas around the biblical city of bethlehem, troops clashed with arab protesters who hurled rocks, bottles, metal bars and raised the outlawed palestinian flag
officials at beit jalla hospital said 12 arabs were wounded
in the village of beit sahur, where tradition says shepherds spotted the star signaling jesus' birth, about 200 arab protesters clashed with troops who responded with tear gas and live ammunition, arab witnesses said
witnesses said one palestinian was shot and wounded in the demonstration
mitzna said the high casualty toll was the result of army orders to crush plo-ordered protests on land day
the high number of casualities was caused by the active, immediate and forceful measures of our units everywhere there was an attempt to violate order,'' mitzna said
mitzna said four arabs were killed by army gunfire and 45 to 47 injured, most from shooting and some from tear gas and beatings. hospital officials said 39 of the injured were shot
in deir abu mashal, a west bank village 20 miles northwest of jerusalem, troops killed a 50-year-old woman and wounded three other family members. the army and hospital officials gave conflicting versions of the clash
doctors at ramallah hospital said the troops entered the home of wajalah rabir while she and her family were having breakfast and fatally shot her in the head
the soldiers came in and asked if there were any men in the house,'' mrs. rabir's 17-year-old daughter, zeinab, said in quotes relayed by a visitor at hospital
the daughter said she told the troops no men were home, but they entered anyway. a soldier shot one brother who started to run and other family members then lunged toward the troops. the soldiers opened fire, she said
mitzna said the clash began when soldiers entered the village to search for arabs who allegedly fired four shots at an army roadblock
inside the village there was violent resistance to arrests and as a result ... a woman was killed who participated in a brutal attack on soldiers,'' mitzna said
the commander of the unit said mrs. rabir was shot when she used a rake to strike an unconscious soldier
in the village of burqa, troops opened fire on arab protesters, killing khalid salah, 22, officials at al ittihad hospital in nearby nablus said
the other two fatalities were identified as abdel kareem mohammed halakha, 25, of the village of shuyukh near hebron and hosni omar shaheen, 24, of yamoun north of nablus, arab reports said
the three-day crackdown in the occupied lands began late monday and early tuesday. the 850,000 palestinians on the west bank were ordered confined to their villages while the 650,000 arabs on the gaza strip were prohibited from leaving their homes
in washington, the state department defended israel's authority to maintain order in the territories but said it should be exercised in a humane way
spokesman charles e. redman supported assertions by assistant secretary of state richard schifter that israel ``not only has the right but the obligation'' to restore order in the violence-beset territories it has held since the 1967 six-day war
land day, an annual day of anti-israel protest, marks a bloody clash between israeli troops and arab citizens over land confiscation
it also has become a day for palestinians in the occupied lands to show their opposition to israeli rule
the day commemorates a confrontation on march 30, 1976, when israeli arabs called a general strike to protest the forced sale of 1,600 acres of their land for jewish settlement
the protest, at first peaceful, turned violent when arab crowds attacked army vehicles with rocks, knives, crowbars and firebombs. troops fired shots to disperse protesters
six arabs were killed and 31 wounded. hundreds more were arrested
officials blamed the israeli communist party, rakah, for inciting the protest. but many saw the occasion as a sign that the israeli arab community, which now numbers 700,000, would never be an integral part of the country
since 1976, land day has been a source of tension and violence. angry protests have broken out in israel and the occupied territories, although no fatalities occurred until this year
authorities, fearing major disturbances this year, closed the west bank and gaza to journalists. west bank residents were confined to their towns and villages for three days while residents of the gaza strip were ordered to stay in their homes
the republican party, with front-running george bush as its likely presidential nominee now that his chief rival bob dole is out of the race, turned to platform matters and focused on foreign policy as it opened hearings wednesday
at the end of the carter years, the united states was weaker and soviet relations were strained,'' jeane j. kirkpatrick, a former u.s. ambassador to the united nations, told a gop panel at the start of the first of three 1988 national platform hearings
at the end of ronald reagan's presidency, the united states is stronger and relations with the soviets are stronger,'' said mrs. kirkpatrick
wednesday's session on foreign policy matters will be followed by hearings in kansas city, mo., on may 31, and los angeles on june 30, in advance of the gop national convention in new orleans aug. 15-18, where a platform will be produced
the may session will focus on education, child care and neighborhood development matters, while the june hearing will concentrate on economic growth
vice president bush is leading the gop presidential delegate race. dole, a senator from kansas who had been his main challenger in the early primaries and caucuses, withdrew from the contest on tuesday, leaving pat robertson still running but far behind bush
mrs. kirkpatrick, who provided a foreign policy overview at the platform hearing, said the most important accomplishment of the reagan administration has been to ``demonstrate through domestic and foreign policy the power of freedom.''
she said progress has been made during reagan's tenure in rebuilding american military forces and bringing terrorists to justice. she added that progress also has been achieved in u.s.-soviet relations
former reagan administration officials, think-tank representatives and members of congress testified before the republican platform committee panel on what they saw as the successes of the reagan years and on their views of the carter era and of the democratic presidential candidates
more than 60 legislators and former officials arranged to testify on issues including those involving central america, international terrorism, u.s.-soviet relations, defense resources, veterans, and reagan's proposed strategic defense initiative, also known as star wars
l. francis bouchey, a member of the council for inter-american security, accused leading democratic candidates michael dukakis and jesse jackson of attempting to return to what he called the ``failed years of the carter administration.''
bouchey accused the democrats of ``neo-isolationism and on-again, off-again support of the nicaraguan resistance fighters.''
rep. bill green, r-n.y., urged the party to ``be in step with the majority of americans, including american women.''
women may well determine who is the next president. they probably will decide some senate and congressional races this november,'' green said in a statement released before his testimony
it would not be smart for a political party to ignore or anger such voters. yet there is a danger of the republican party's doing just that,'' he said
the panel included gop national committee chairman frank j. fahrenkopf jr.; maureen reagan, co-chairman of the republican national committee; sen. robert w. kasten jr., r-wis.; rep. jerry lewis, r-calif.; chuck hardwick, speaker of the new jersey state assembly; and delaware gov. michael n. castle. `and'</note>
an adviser to jesse jackson said wednesday he detected the beginnings of an anonymous ``stop jackson'' movement in the democratic party, and a southern party chairman acknowledged there is ``an awful lot of apprehension out there'' about the possibility of jackson's nomination
democratic establishment leaders gathered here with jackson, and after that meeting, jackson supporter rep. mickey leland of texas said he understood an effort to stop jackson was afoot
leland said he did not know who was behind the attempt, and said he knew of no party leaders joining such a movement. but he said it did not appear to be confined to southern white democrats
there is some movement afoot,'' leland said. ``we can't put our hands on it. we don't know who the leader is. but we do understand ... different players of the democratic party have been approached.''
he named democratic national chairman paul kirk and house speaker jim wright as among those approached. contacted later, kirk and a spokesman for wright said no one had talked to them about keeping the nomination away from jackson
i haven't talked to anyone, and no one's approached me,'' said kirk, who earlier this week rejected talk of a movement to block jackson
although jackson fell substantially behind michael dukakis in connecticut's primary tuesday, his 2-to-1 victory in michigan on saturday has forced democratic leaders to confront the possibility that jackson could end the primary season as top vote getter and perhaps delegate leader
in recognition of that, a group representing the top ranks of washington's old-line democratic establishment _ including presidential adviser clark clifford, former party chairman john white and one-time mondale aide richard moe _ met with jackson over breakfast at a downtown hotel
they came away praising jackson and insisting they wouldn't be party to any effort to block him
i don't think there will be at this particular time, especially from the south, a stop jesse jackson movement,'' said charles whitehead, state democratic party chairman from florida, after the session
whitehead acknowledged widespread concern among democrats about the prospect of jackson winning the nomination, however. in the wake of michigan, some democrats have privately voiced the fear that the liberal black jackson could prove an unelectable nominee in the fall and damage other democratic candidates
i would be less than honest with you if i didn't tell you there is absolutely an awful lot of apprehension out there among an awful lot of democrats about the nomination of jesse jackson,'' whitehead said. ``sure there is
they're afraid of nominating someone that they consider unelectable,'' he said
but whitehead, whose state primary was won by dukakis, the massachusetts governor, said there was ``that same apprehension about nominating an eastern liberal.''
you've got a fear there if you nominate an eastern liberal, you've nominated another (walter) mondale,'' who lost 49 states as the 1984 nominee, he said
most democratic party insiders have said this week that any public effort to block jackson would be damaging and alienate blacks and other voters the party will need in the fall, no matter who the nominee is. ``you can't win with him and can't win without him,'' one political source said, speaking on condition of anonymity
another source close to democratic party politics said concerns among party leaders had eased with the connecticut vote following ``two days of gnashing of teeth.''
he said a feeling was growing that jackson was strengthening the party with new voters, and that they should not be discouraged by suggestions jackson would be denied the nomination. but, he contended, the remaining calender of big-state primaries decreases the likelihood jackson would end up with the most delegates
fueling talk of a stop-jackson effort was a campaign begun this week by alabama democratic chairman john baker. he suggested in a letter to party leaders around the south that they form a group of unpledged convention delegates who will commit themselves to ``the most electable'' presidential candidate
baker denied his effort was aimed at jackson, but he came under fire in his own state. a black state senator, michael figures of mobile, a jackson supporter, accused baker of racist remarks
it's not my intention to sound racist,'' baker said. ``but i need to be candid, and i need to talk practical politics. we've got to think who can beat george bush and the rest of the republicans.''
israel's surrogate militia raided a south lebanon town in tanks wednesday with support from helicopter gunships, killing seven people, wounding 15 and knocking down scores of houses, police reported
the assault on the shiite moslem town of kfar roumman at 9:45 a.m. coincided with a general strike and joint lebanese-palestinian demonstration in lebanon's moslem sectors in solidarity with the 4-month-old arab rebellion in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
police and u.n. observers said militiamen of the south lebanon army in 12 soviet-designed t-54 tanks advanced to kfar roumman, half a mile west of the ``security zone'' israel maintains in south lebanon, and fought guerrillas of the hezbollah, or party of god. the tanks were supplied by israel, which captured them from arab armies
police said sla militiamen killed five civilians and two hezbollah fighters in a house-to-house search of kfar roumman, a town of 2,000 people, and pulled back to the security zone four hours later
israeli helicopter gunships strafed kfar roumman with machine guns, police reported
they said the militiamen advanced behind a barrage of 155mm howitzer fire from israeli positions in the zone
according to the police report, kfar roumman was hit with more than 140 rounds from tank cannon and mortars before the assault and 13 people were wounded. they said two other people were wounded by shells that fell on nabatiyeh, a market town nearby
a police spokesman said the militia apparently was pursuing hezbollah fighters who attacked two of its outposts before dawn
islamic resistance (hezbollah) fighters were seen withdrawing from kfar roumman. the village has been devastated by shelling,'' said the spokesman, whose name was withheld in keeping with regulations
u.n. peacekeeping observers in the south said israeli troops and sla militiamen had expected attacks on land day, which marks a clash on march 30, 1976, between israeli troops and arab citizens over land confiscation in the occupied territories
banks, schools, shops, restaurants and other businesses were closed in beirut, the northern port of tripoli, the bekaa valley of east lebanon and the southern ports of sidon and tyre. the strike was called by the national committee in support of the palestinian uprising
several demonstrations were held in jordan, most of whose citizens are palestinian. more than 500 students chanting ``revolution until victory!'' rallied at the jordan university campus in amman
about 10,000 palestinian and lebanese leftists marched in moslem west beirut, escorted by police and carrying banners. similar demonstrations were reported in sidon and tyre
banners reading ``the youngsters of lebanon praise the uprising in palestine'' and ``down with shultz's (peace) plan'' were among those raised in beirut
leaders of palestinian groups, some of them at odds, and representatives of several leftist militia factions united in the throng that marched across beirut's main corniche mazraa thoroughfare
it was the strongest lebanese expression of solidarity with the palestinians since the invading israeli army drove the palestine liberation organization out of the country in 1982
vice president george bush, moving quickly to put distance between himself and the controversy surrounding attorney general edwin meese iii, said wednesday the justice department ``has to be above reproach.''
bush said he was troubled by the resignation of top justice department officials, but ``i'm not going to pass judgment'' on whether meese should resign
the republican presidential candidate, in a statement devoid of any support for the embattled attorney general, said meese must make up his own mind on quitting
bush said meese would not hold the top law enforcement post in a bush administration
campaigning for the first day without a major gop rival, bush was peppered by reporters with questions on the meese controversy
two top justice department officials quit on tuesday amid reports of meese's mounting legal difficulties
clearly eager to keep the matter from becoming a campaign issue, bush told reporters, ``morale in (the) justice (department) is very important.''
it seems to me that the justice department has to be above reproach.propriety,'' he said
speaking for himself, bush said, ``i want to hold an ethical standard so high that there's no perception of wrongdoing.''
asked whether meese would be attorney general in a bush administration, the vice president said, ``no, nor would any other member of the (reagan) cabinet, because i want to have a new cabinet.''
when a reporter suggested that bush's position on whether meese should resign remained unclear, bush responded: ``that's what i intend.''
he also said he didn't think the affair would rub off on his campaign, but suggested, ``i'm sure my opponents will try to use it.''
i'm not going to prejudge mr. meese. i'd like to find out a little more about what is happening here,'' bush said
meanwhile, bush told a lunchtime rally that it didn't matter to him which candidate the democrats finally nominate
i will take on whoever the democrats put up,'' he said
as to whether republicans would prefer running against democrat jesse jackson rather than michael dukakis, bush said, ``i don't plan to get in there and fine-tune what's happening on the democratic side.''
bush wrapped up three days of campaigning in wisconsin. during his visit, he picked up the endorsement of former rivals rep. jack kemp and sen. bob dole quit the race, giving him a virtual lock on the gop nomination
bush aides said the vice president would skip a visit back to wisconsin that had been tentatively planned for monday so he can focus his attention on consolidating his support and planning future campaign appearances
spokesman pete teeley said dole, who withdrew from the gop race on tuesday, was expected to make campaign appearances on bush's behalf _ but specifics had not been worked out
a french jet fighter crashed and exploded wednesday near a nuclear power plant, but officials said the facility could have withstood the force of the impact if the plane had hit it
the pilot of the mirage jet fighter was killed when his plane went down at 9:20 a.m. about a mile from the isar plant at the bavarian village of ohu
federal and state officials said the concrete domes covering west german nuclear plants are strong enough to withstand a direct hit from a plummeting airliner, so there was no risk of a nuclear accident
there was no danger at the power plant,'' said edith volz, a spokeswoman for the state-run bavarian utilities in munich. ``the complex is protected by heavy concrete walls and the reactors are safe from plane crashes.''
the mirage burst into flames and exploded on impact, spreading debris over a wide area, police said
the fighter took off from the strasbourg-entzheim air base outside of strasbourg, france, and was on a ``totally routine, low-altitude mission,'' according to a french air force spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity in keeping with defense ministry regulations
the french defense ministry identified the pilot as lt. thierry millet, 26, and said he was not flying unusually low or close to a nuclear facility
france has military forces based in west germany, and its military aircraft frequently fly training missions over west german territory
anti-nuclear activists used the incident to renew criticism of atomic power plants and of low-level military flights that are common over bavaria
opposition social democrats in bavaria said they would bring the matter up for debate in the state's parliament
this is proof that the authorities have underestimated the dangers posed'' by military training flights, said dietmar franzke, a social democratic state delegate
the plant at ohu is an 870-megawatt isar i reactor, which began producing electricity in 1977. isar ii, a 1,300-megawatt reactor that is also located in the area, is not yet on line, officials said
military aircraft are barred from flying over nuclear power plants, according to alfons metzger, a spokesman for the bavarian interior ministry
in bonn, defense ministry officials said there were no signs indicating the french pilot had failed to adhere to those regulations. acquaint.</note>
exiled stage director yuri lyubimov expressed his desire to return to the soviet union in an unusual newspaper interview that could signal official willingness to allow him to come back
lyubimov was interviewed by the government newspaper izvestia in madrid, where he viewed four perfomances by moscow's taganka theater of maxim gorky's ``mother.''
lyubimov, 70, founded the taganka theater and over 20 years turned it into moscow's most popular modern theater with his avant-garde productions
the director struggled constantly with censors. in july 1983 he was allowed to travel to london to stage fyodor dostoyevsky's ``crime and punishment'' amid speculation authorities did not want him to return
in march 1984 he was thrown out of the communist party, and four months later his soviet citizenship was revoked
lyubimov has staged productions around the world since then. he took israeli citizenship this year and has moved to jerusalem with his wife, katalin, and son, peter. he is almost never mentioned in the official press
in its article on tuesday, izvestia stressed that soviet writers and artists have more freedom under mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms, in a possible effort to show the differences between lyubimov and authorities have narrowed enough to allow him to return
lyubimov reiterated his previous statement that he would like to return to work in the soviet union if he were guaranteed artistic freedom, but that he was making no political demands
we are talking only about the creative side of my life,'' he was quoted as saying
after more than four years abroad, ``in order to once again gain strength, survive, one needs to stand on his native land, on which he was raised, where his fathers and grandfathers lived,'' lyubimov said
even while he has been exiled, he told the newspaper, he has concentrated on staging productions that acquaint the world with russian culture
he praised the more open literature that is being published under gorbachev's policy of glasnost, and said, ``it is necessary to come, to see, and to work in the theater.''
on year ago, lyubimov and a group of other exiled scientists and artists wrote an open letter expressing their doubts about gorbachev's reforms, calling the soviet union a ``gravely sick country.''
the letter was printed by the weekly moscow news, and the writers were criticized bitterly in the official media, which accused them of wishing evil on their native land
izvestia reported that taganka's current director, nikolai gubenko, who also was present at the interview, said the theater wants lyubimov to return and see what it is doing. ``after that, he himself can decide his fate,' gubenko was quoted as saying
lyubimov was quoted as saying his meetings in madrid with taganka actors he once directed were ``good and difficult at the same time.''
sen. bob dole said wednesday that his failed presidential campaign had made serious tactical mistakes but added that they weren't the main reason for his downfall
in an interview a day after he quit the presidential race, the kansas republican expressed some of his frustrations over his unsuccessful battle with vice president george bush for the gop nomination
the bottom line is that you can't beat ronald reagan,'' dole said. ``i was running against ronald reagan jr. in the south.''
that was a reference to bush's success in campaigning as reagan's vice president and logical heir. ``it's just this promotion idea that you just ought to go up the ladder,'' dole said
he also said republican party ``winner-take-all'' rules in the primaries and caucuses contributed to his exit from the campaign
if delegates were divided proportionally, he said, ``i'd still be in the race.''
asked the one thing he would do differently in his campaign, dole replied: ``keep the press off the plane.''
he complained that reporters on the campaign plane ``sit back there and they scheme up these little things and the next thing they're in time or newsweek.''
dole said he thought he had received some unfair news coverage during the campaign. for example, he singled out the numerous stories written about one of his kansas associates, dave owen, who resigned as national finance chairman of the dole campaign in january after reports raised questions involving his financial dealings
but apart from all that, dole said that his campaign organization had blundered, particularly in new hampshire and south carolina, and that those mistakes weakened his candidacy early in the nominating process
for example, he did not respond to last-minute new hampshire television ads by bush raising questions whether dole cowld increase taxes. in addition, his campaign spent heavily early in the nominating process, which caused problems in later contests
south carolina we probably should have bypassed instead of getting in there,'' said dole
bush's win in south carolina, he maintained, delivered a boost to the vice president and helped him sweep the super tuesday primaries that followed in the south, including north carolina, missouri and oklahoma _ states the dole campaign had hoped to win
now had we won new hampshire, we still would have had a tough race,'' dole said
illinois was the next battleground after super tuesday, and dole said, ``i knew that we weren't going to win illinois and i knew then it was probably over.''
he said many of his friends and advisers urged him to remain in the presidential race even when it appeared he had almost no chance to win the nomination
you can't do it unless you've got the money,'' said dole
the campaign, he said, would end with a ``little debt'' but he said he didn't know the exact amount
overall, dole said, he was pleased with the fund-raising ability of his campaign and said he had ``good organizations in a number of states.''
but he expressed reservations about the management of the campaign, saying, ``i think as far as organization, i'm not certain whether we had enough direction.''
dole did not criticize william brock, his campaign chairman who directed the operation, but said the national political director, norman watts, ``i don't believe was strong enough.''
james and suzy are having a tiff. and to the delight of gossip-loving new yorkers, they're having it out in public _ in the columns they write for new york newsday and the new york post
it began last week, when james _ that's james revson, newsday's new society columnist _ wrote that he felt ``cheated and used'' by suzy, who wrote in the post about a party she did not attend
what specifically bothered revson (one of the revsons, of revlon cosmetics fame) was that suzy mentioned 32 people who supposedly were at the party, but only 12 of whom actually showed up
suzy was on vacation (``on the sunswept isle of mustique'') when both her column and revson's appeared. but by wednesday she was back. and suzy _ that's just plain suzy to you, aileen mehle to her friends _ was furious
in a column that combined the tact of joan rivers with the politesse of sean penn, suzy called revson ``a liar,'' ``a rat,'' a ``know-nothing,'' ``a nut,'' ``a jerk'' and ``a snake.'' among other things
to be sure, suzy admitted she had written about the party, thrown by metropolitan museum chairman (and new york times publisher) arthur ``punch'' sulzberger, in advance. she said it was the only way she could get out of town for her vacation (which was ``heaven.'')
and yes, she said, it's true that some of the people she said were at the party never did show up
and yes, ``i should have yanked the whole thing or at least the names the (press) release said would attend.''
but is she apologizing? not a chance
i bow in accuracy and meticulousness and decency to no one,'' she wrote. ``that is the reason i have survived as a star all these long years _ that and because in my field i am the best and the brightest there is.''
and dear readers, fans and publicity-seekers, i would like to go on record as telling the world that any place rat revson is, i will not be. do not invite me anywhere if you invite him. just call it a boycott _ or even a suzycott.''
the target of the suzycott says he is unimpressed. ``i'm not joining it,'' he said. ``i refuse to join it even if she asks me.''
revson said he thought suzy's column ``showed a certain lack of restraint on her part. ... i didn't know that a lady knew those words, or how to spell them.''
on a serious note,'' he added, ``columnists are journalists, columnists are reporters, and there are ethics. and nobody is allowed to break those.''
is he worried about the effect of the suzy controversy on his fledgling column?
i'm delighted,'' said revson, obviously holding to the theory that any publicity is good publicity. ``the next time i see her, i may buy her a drink.''
a city fire investigator wednesday said that three cubans who died battling a blaze at their consulate might have been saved if firefighters hadn't been kept outside the building for 15 minutes
investigator jacques plouffe criticized the cuban consulate for not informing the fire department of tuesday's fire
we might have saved three lives,'' he said
havana radio, monitored in miami, identified the dead as pablo gonzalez martinez, 35, an official at the trade office; norma goderich, 33, wife of a vice-consul; and jose perez salbaluco, 35, a consulate guard
they died fighting the blaze which apparently started on top floor of the four-story mansion
the blaze took 100 firefighters more than three hours to bring under control. its cause was under investigation
authorities first learned of the blaze when security guards at a nearby luxury apartment building reported smoke coming from the consulate roof
firefighters then rushed to the consulate but were held back for about 15 minutes before they were allowed to enter the building, located on the slopes of mount royal
by the time they got in, the fire was out of control
we had a little trouble getting in because there was nobody to answer the door,'' said the district fire chief, guy lafortune, who arrived about 7:30 p.m. ``they weren't expecting us because nobody (at the consulate) had called an alarm and everybody in the building was upstairs fighting the fire.''
under the 1963 vienna convention, authorities of the host country, such as police and firefighters, cannot enter consular premises without permission
consul-general lourdes urrutia only let the firefighters in after she received permission from cuban officials in ottawa
lafortune said the firefighters were allowed to fight the blaze on condition that they did not enter certain areas of the building
men were stationed at certain doors to keep us away. there was no fire in those areas,'' said lafortune
lafortune said his men had a hard time fighting the flames because every window on the fourth floor was either barred or heavily shuttered and nailed closed
he said he saw about a dozen guns of various kinds on the walls inside
firefighters said it was easier to get into the cuban consulate than into the nearby soviet consulate when it caught fire in january 1987. soviet officials tried to put out that fire with buckets of snow and a garden hose before firefighters were let in
in 1972, when the cuban trade commission in the north end was firebombed and one cuban was killed, cubans held firefighters and police off with submachine guns
and in 1954, the soviet embassy in ottawa burned to the ground after officials refused to allow firefighters to fight the fire
investigator plouffe said it took him and his partner armand villette about 25 minutes to gain entry to the building wednesday to retrieve some tools
a rabies outbreak in nearby chester county has prompted health officials to warn residents to avoid wild animals and take extra measures to protect pets and farm animals
the problem is big, and it is growing,'' harold russell, chief veterinarian for the county health department said tuesday. ``what we are seeing is the tip of a very massive iceberg.'' eastern parts of chester county are some 20 miles west of philadelphia
he warned the rabies virus, which last week forced officials to kill a horse, is likely to spread into philadelphia, especially among raccoons in the city's sprawling fairmount park
a total of 23 rabies cases have been confirmed in chester county this year, compared to 36 in all of 1987, said ruthie ketterer, secretary for the state health department's acute infectious disease division
lancaster county, the next county west of chester, has reported 37 cases. the total for the state for 1988 is 101, ketterer said
dr. robert sharrar, director of philadelphia's office of health promotion and disease control, said wednesday the city was monitoring the rabies situation in chester county and surrounding counties and states
the last known case of human rabies in philadelphia was in 1938, and the last case in a dog was 1948, he said. health officials declared the city rabies free in 1975, but would revoke that designation at the first rabies case and recommend rabies treatment for anyone bitten by dogs or cats thereafter, he said
rabies is a viral disease that attacks the brain and is almost always fatal. a vaccine for humans and dogs was developed by louis pasteur in the 1880s and scientists are working to develop an oral vaccine which would work when eaten by wild animals
government agents confiscated nearly 685 pounds of cocaine aboard an ecuadorean boat traveling through the panama canal, a pro-government newspaper reported wednesday
the report in critica said agents of the national department of investigations detained the ship isla baltra after receiving information from ecuadorean police about the cargo
the boat was headed for barcelona, spain
critica said the ship was stopped as it completed its transit of the canal, boarded by navy squads and special anti-narcotics agents, then taken to the port of balboa where it was searched
the illegal drug was found in 278 packages in a container of prefabricrated building material aboard the ship, the report said. it did not say if any arrests were made or give the estimated value of the drug
the united states has called for the ouster of panama's strongman, gen. manuel noriega, since he was indicted on drug-trafficking charges in february in florida. he says he is innocent
prices farmers got for raw products this month averaged the same as they did in february but still were 7.4 percent above march 1987, the agriculture department said wednesday
the department's agricultural statistics board reported higher prices for lettuce, cattle, eggs and broiler chickens, while farmers received lower prices for hogs, milk, wheat and sweet corn
the price of lettuce increased sharply from february to march but was well below record levels during the november through january 1988 period,'' the report said. ``calf prices dropped slightly from february to march but were at the second highest level since june of 1979.''
prices of cattle sold for beef were the highest since may 1979, the report said. hog and wheat prices decline from february, while corn prices rose slightly
department economists say net cash income of farmers may be in the range of $50 billion to $55 billion this year, down from the record level of $57 billion in 1987. that is the difference between cash receipts and cash expenses during the calendar year
consumer food prices are expected to rise 2 percent to 4 percent this year, compared with a 4.2 percent average increase in 1987
according to the preliminary march figures, based mostly on mid-month averages, the index for crop prices was up 0.9 percent from february and averaged 10 percent more than a year ago
commercial vegetable prices rose 11 percent from last month but were down 7.1 percent from march 1987
higher prices for lettuce and tomatoes were major contributors to the increase in the (vegetable) index,'' the report said. ``the increase was moderated by lower prices for sweet corn, asparagus, celery and onions.''
lettuce prices were reported at $21.30 per 100 pounds, compared with $11.10 in february and $35.60 in january
the index for livestock and livestock products was down 0.7 percent from february but was 4.2 percent above march 1987. prices were higher for cattle, eggs and broilers but were lower for hogs and milk
march farm commodity prices averaged 130 percent of a 1977 base used for comparison, according to the preliminary figures, the same as in february. a year ago the march index was 121 percent
no new figures for farm production costs were included in the report. those have been confined to quarterly averages because of budget cutbacks
in january, however, farm expenses were unchanged from last fall but averaged 4.4 percent above a year earlier. the next quarterly figures will be reported in april
the report said:
_cattle averaged $68.40 per 100 pounds of live weight nationally, up from $67.40 in february and the $59.30 reported for march 1987. those are averages for all types of cattle sold as beef
_hogs averaged $41.90 per 100 pounds, compared with $45.80 in march and $47.40 a year earlier
_corn, at $1.84 a bushel, was up from $1.83 in february and the average of $1.47 per bushel a year earlier
_wheat prices at the farm, according to preliminary figures, averaged $2.64 per bushel, compared with $2.79 in february and $2.57 a year earlier
_rice averaged $8.46 per 100 pounds, compared with $8.97 in february and $3.62 a year earlier
_soybeans were $5.93 per bushel, compared with $5.97 in february and $4.73 a year earlier
_upland cotton was reported at 56.9 cents per pound, compared with 56.8 in february and 47.5 cents in march 1987
_eggs were 50.8 cents per dozen, compared with 46.9 cents in february and 54.4 cents a year earlier
_milk was $12 per 100 pounds, compared with $12.30 in february and $12.50 a year earlier
_broilers were 27.5 cents per pound, live weight, compared with 25.7 cents in february and 29.1 cents a year ago
seven hundred of the u.s. troops sent to honduras on march 17-18 left palmerola air base for the united states and a u.s. spokesman said the rest will be home by thursday
the guys that turn out the lights will be leaving tomorrow (thursday),'' said maj. gary hovatter, u.s. military public affairs officer at palmerola
hovatter said planes left at a rate of about one an hour wednesday carrying the 700 soldiers and equipment back to fort ord, calif
president reagan sent 3,200 american soldiers to honduras after president jose azcona hoyo asked for help. azcona said that sandinista troops from neighboring nicaragua had invaded honduras in pursuit of contra rebels
the sandinistas reportedly retreated after the honduran air force twice bombed the border region, but the u.s. troops stayed on to finish emergency training exercises with honduran troops at five bases throughout honduras
the soldiers from the 82nd airborne division at fort bragg, n.c., and the 7th light infantry division at fort ord began to return home monday
hovatter said the last of the soldiers, about 80 from the 82nd airborne, would leave thursday after ``policing up the place.''
the united states maintains a permanent operation of about 1,100 to 1,500 soldiers in its joint task force bravo operation at palmerola, the largest and most important u.s. military headquarters in central america north of panama
the base is about 40 miles northwest of tegucigalpa, the honduran capital
hovatter said by telephone wednesday that ``some of the planes are carrying more equipment than people.''
the americans brought about 2.3 million pounds of equipment with them, including two tanks, 12 105mm howitzers, machine guns, ammunition and helicopters
it's gone very smoothly,'' hovatter said of the redeployment. ``we've had minimal delays and no incidents or accidents.''
sen. paul simon, entering territory staked out by fellow democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson, stood in front of a chrysler corp. plant wednesday and declared he is more qualified to take workers' concerns to the white house
when asked whether he has hesitated criticizing jackson for fear of offending black voters, simon said: ``you have to be careful. you don't want to be perceived as anti-black.'' but he added, ``i don't have problems running against anyone.''
i'm not here knocking others,'' simon said, ``but i think experience is one of the things you should look at.''
jackson had led an emotional rally earlier this year at the auto plant, where 5,500 workers are scheduled to be laid off by the end of september. jackson's support for the workers and his call to end ``economic violence'' won him the endorsement of the united auto workers union local 72
simon, at a news conference next to the plant, said he has a similar message plus the congressional experience to translate it into action
i have been fighting for (workers') policies on the washington scene, not just with speeches,'' simon said. ``i offer not only passion, but programs.''
simon, who won the march 15 illinois primary, is campaigning for support in wisconsin's primary april 5. ``i'm going to do well in wisconsin,'' he said, ``and we're going on to atlanta,'' site of the democratic national convention july 18-21
about 20 simon supporters were on hand for the news conference, along with some auto workers
i think he is speaking for the workers as well as jackson,'' said bill seep, an employee of the plant
another employee, phil haney, said he expected the workers to stay unified behind jackson, though he added some might choose simon when they cast their ballots. ``you can't fault anyone who votes for simon,'' he said
simon said he would try to rebuild the country's manufacturing base by removing tax breaks for companies that move jobs overseas and by giving corporations incentives to boost production in the united states
he added that he came to kenosha ``because of this plant and what it represents. what we have had is an administration that has elevated and sanctified greed.''
he accused chrysler of deciding to halt production without giving enough consideration to the impact on the workers and the community. `navel.' picks up 10th graf pvs, bgng: arnaud de.</note>
some unification church members are upset because their church founder, the rev. sun myung moon, believes one of his followers from zimbabwe is the reincarnation of his son, according to a report published wednesday
the affair began last fall at the unification theological seminary in upstate new york, where a senior named charles was believed to be hearing and relaying messages from moon's deceased son, ``lord'' heung jin nim, the washington post said, quoting former and present church members
heung jin nim was killed in an automobile accident in 1984 at age 17
according to the post account:
dick richard, a former seminary student who recently left the church, said that in ``mid-november, i was told there was a black brother from africa who had been prepared by jesus ... and that heung jin nim had assumed his body.''
it obviously scared a lot of people there .. but they went along with the whole thing because it came from reverend moon, the messiah.''
the reincarnation incident has caused what some followers of moon are calling the biggest theological upheaval in the 34-year history of the unification church, in part because the zimbabwean reportedly has been slapping church members and elders
officials at the washington times, which is owned by church members, have tried to distance themselves from the affair
from the bottom of my navel, i don't want to know about this,'' said ron godwin, the times' senior vice president for business. ``i know that such a person exists and that he's been preaching in the church, but i will walk a mile not to get involved.''
arnaud de borchgrave, chief editor of the times, at first dismissed the young zimbabwean as a plant from communist north korea
the north koreans have had a very strong presence in zimbabwe since day one,'' de borchgrave said in an interview from paris
it just sounds so ridiculous,'' de borchgrave said. ``the nameless zimbabwean _ that strikes me as suspicious right there. ... i've asked people, `who the hell is this zimbabwean?' and nobody can tell you.''
john rees, co-owner with de borchgrave of a private intelligence newsletter, ``early warning,'' said de borchgrave's ``attitude was primarily one of concern that it would make the paper look ludicrous.''
the zimbabwean, who has taken the name of heung jin nim, has been traveling to church parishes around the world, preaching
this guy talks non-stop,'' said john raineri, a photographer for the world and i, sister publication to the times. ``i've seen him speak for three days straight he doesn't rest the whole time.''
one of the most disturbing aspects of the affair, church members say, is violence attributed to the zimbabwean
the president of the times, bo hi pak, was admitted to georgetown univeristy hospital for tests last dec. 9-17, saying he had recently fallen down a flight of stairs. no injuries were found, but later pak underwent surgery in south korea to repair a damaged blood vessel in his skull, according to times executives
pak is moon's closest deputy, and stories that he had been injured spread quickly through the church. kate tsubata, a church member, was skeptical until she heard a church elder describe a meeting in which moon was asked about the reincarnated son's reported violence
the elder said that ``even colonel pak had been beaten,'' tsubata said. ``he just let it drop. ... it was quite significant.''
tsubata spoke of a friend who was slapped repeatedly by the zimbabwean. ``he described them as stinging slaps to the face, causing him to see stars,'' she said. ``but afterwards, he felt good.''
gordon anderson, secretary-general of the moon-financed professors world peace academy, reported similar behavior during a church ceremony in the world missions center in manhattan. the zimbabwean walked among the 100 church members present, listening to their confessions and instructing them to repent, usually through prayers or fasting
he did slap, but he didn't strike hard enough to hurt anyone. he cuffed me on the ear a little bit,'' anderson said. pell comment. picks up 17th graf pvs, bgng: republican senators</note>
the senate foreign relations committee recommended overwhelmingly wednesday that the senate ratify a historic treaty to eliminate all u.s. and soviet medium-range nuclear weapons
this is a small step away from the nuclear brink,'' said sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said following the committee's 17-2 vote
it means the elevator of nuclear escalation will finally stop and hopefully descend,'' said committee chairman claiborne pell, d-r.i
cranston said his head count shows no more than five senators will vote against the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty when the full senate takes up the treaty, probably late next month. ratification requires a two-thirds senate majority, 67 votes if all 100 senators are present and voting
the only dissenting votes inside the committee were cast by sens. jesse helms, r-n.c., and larry pressler, r-s.d. helms has worked vigorously to derail the treaty
the resounding committee vote papered over a bitter partisan dispute over an amendment added to the treaty on tuesday with the aim of assuring that the meaning of the pact cannot be reinterpreted by a future president without the consent of congress
many moderate republicans said the amendment represented a partisan jab at president reagan and his administration's reinterpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty to permit the deployment of a star wars missile defense system
several gop lawmakers said the controversy may cause them to reassess their support of the treaty and cranston said he may be willing to search for a compromise when the senate debates the issue
the treaty, signed dec. 8 by president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, requires both sides to destroy, within three years, all nuclear-armed missiles with a range of 300 miles to 3,400 miles
these include all soviet ss-20 and other medium- and shorter-range missiles aimed at targets in western europe and all of the smaller force of u.s. pershing 2 and ground-launched cruise missiles stationed in europe and aimed at the soviet union
the treaty is the first accord in the history of arms control to require the actual destruction of the missiles that carry nuclear warheads. and it is the first to require on-site inspection to verify compliance with its terms
the foreign relations committee voted after 21 days of hearings in which scores of expert witnesses testified. the senate intelligence and armed services committees also conducted an intense examination of the agreement and recommended it be adopted, the latter voting its approval, 18-2
the armed services committee did express some lingering concerns, and in final testimony on wednesday, ambassador maynard glitman, the chief u.s. inf negotiator, responded to them
glitman said ``futuristic'' weapons such as lasers and particle beam generators are in fact banned by the treaty if they are carried on ``weapons delivery vehicles'' within the prohibited range
the soviets, the ambassador said, ``understand that all future (weapons) systems falling within the criteria will be banned.''
and if an unarmed medium-range missile were to strike and destroy a target through impact alone, it would be considered a weapon if it had been designed for that purpose, he said
later, sen. sam nunn, d-ga., the armed services chairman, said glitman's statement had not resolved the issue and that he would seek a more definitive clarification during senate debate
nunn said he might seek passage of an amendment to the treaty requiring the administration to obtain a specific statement from the soviets acknowledging that they had agreed not to produce, deploy or flight test futuristic medium-range weapons
pell told a news conference this issue is one of several hurdles facing the treaty on the senate floor. he said he is hopeful all obstacles can be overcome and the treaty ratified before reagan's summit meeting with gorbachev in late may
if it is not, he said, reagan will be embarrassed and in a weakened position to pursue the far more significant strategic arms reduction treaty aimed at cutting u.s. and soviet intercontinental missile forces by up to 50 percent
republican senators complained at length about the committee's 12-7 decision on tuesday to add the provision aimed at ensuring that administration testimony and official description of the treaty is ``authoritative'' and binding
the provision says no future president can change the u.s. interpretation of the treaty without congressional approval, either by senate ratification of a new treaty or by the house and senate passing a separate law
it very frankly may change my position in response to the treaty,'' said sen. rudy boschwitz, r-minn., contending the measure was aimed at the strategic defense initiative and the administration's reinterpretation of the abm treaty
cranston said the measure was worded to apply only to the inf treaty, not to any other pact or to future accords
but boschwitz insisted it was politically motivated. ``i think we are making a great mistake. it weakens the value of the treaty very substantially. i would hope that on the floor of the senate we would be able to remove this provision.''
pressler called the amendment, ``mischievous and partisan.''
it will lead to the defeat of this treaty entirely because (with it), the votes aren't there,'' he said
the new executives of united press international said wednesday that they intend to turn the deficit-plagued news service into a profit-making organization within two years by eliminating about 150 jobs, focusing on business news and embarking on joint electronic ventures
there'll be no liquidation of upi,'' declared chairman earl w. brian
president paul steinle said upi ``will remain a full-service, 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week, worldwide supplier of news and information.''
the two executives, who gained operating control of upi from mexican publisher mario vazquez rana on feb. 19, said they were determined to reverse upi's persistently heavy losses, which average $2 million a month and totaled $20 million last year
brian told a news conference in this washington suburb that his ``turnaround business plan'' calls for stabilizing the company within three to six months and making a $100,000 profit in the july-september quarter of 1989
to achieve the turnaround, brian said he expects to raise $15 million in permanent equity financing, mostly from outside investors. in the meantime, he said, $5 million in bridge loans will be made available by wnw group inc., aided by infotechnology inc
brian is chairman of wnw group, the media investment company that operates upi, and of infotech, a new york-based information technology and venture capital firm
the upi executives said they are committed to ensuring that the 81-year-old wire service survives and flourishes into the 21st century
vazquez rana rescued upi from chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings in june 1986 by purchasing the company for $41 million. he reportedly put an additional $50 million into upi before he relinquished control of his stock for 10 years to brian's wnw group in february for an undisclosed cash payment
the new executives said upi will save $10 million in the first year in administrative cost controls, $5 million in staff reductions and $5 million in deficit financing
there have been published reports that 400 or more editorial personnel alone would be laid off at upi,'' steinle said in a statement. ``in fact, there will be fewer than 150 net staff reductions, and less than 100 of those will be editorial. ... at this time, we do not anticipate further cutbacks.''
the executives said this means that the current 1,280 upi employees worldwide will be reduced 14 percent to about 1,130 employees through layoffs, early retirements and attrition. the biggest percentage of layoffs will occur in administrative positions, brian said
steinle said wire service guild officers were briefed on the plan wednesday morning. ``their response was polite,'' he said. ``they were interested, i think they were pleased.''
sean mccormally, chairman of the guild's negotiating committee, said the union agrees that upi needs stability. ``we believe the logical next step toward stability is for management to reach a fair and equitable contract with its employees,'' he said. ``that added stability should prove attractive to potential investors.''
upi officials said contract negotiations already had begun. guild members at upi have been working without a contract since april 30, when the old one expired. upi management declared an impasse in contract talks and instituted a new set of ``work rules'' in november
mccormally said the union is happy that steinle had promised no further layoffs beyond the 150 announced wednesday. ``but we are insisting our members have the protections guaranteed by a contract and by effective union representation,'' he said
the company executives stressed that the 180 upi bureaus worldwide will continue virtually unchanged
asked how upi would improve news coverage with fewer employees, steinle said the staff will be ``not as large but more focused,'' concentrating on stories most in demand by subscribers while providing full coverage of the major stories of the day
brian said no existing upi services, such as photos or sports, will be dropped, although he said money will be saved by transferring a spanish-language translation desk from upi headquarters in washington to latin america, possibly mexico city
the executives said upi will concentrate on areas with major client support, such as state and regional reporting, and will emphasize technical reporting that local news media are unable to provide
this includes an increased emphasis on business and financial news and analysis and its effect on the consumer, plus more and better reporting in areas such as health, science, law and medicine,'' steinle said
brian said upi's ``patchwork quilt'' communications system will be streamlined and its ``shoebox accounting system'' will be modernized. he predicted additional savings by pooling upi's resources with those of other companies offering the potential for joint ventures in the information industry
for example, he said that within the next few months, upi will be ready to take part in a new, low-cost electronic news and information service called dbc supernews and to provide new regional business and stocks reports around the country
brian said supernews will allow anyone with a personal computer at more than 28 million cable television sites to receive news on any subject via satellite from financial news network, a 24-hour cable tv network that is a subsidiary of infotech
the news would be gathered by comtex scientific corp. from upi and other major news sources in a venture also involving data broadcasting corp., an fnn subsidiary
brian said upi is looking at dozens of other possible ventures, including data base and electronic feeds to corporate and government users and serving as distributor for other information products
upi's national managing editor, bill ferguson, said one example of how productivity will be increased is the use of a computer system that can edit a story automatically in three separate styles for newspapers, radio and television
we will still be the second major news service in the united states, not quite as large as we were before, but certainly more focused, with more business systems behind it, with more chances of surviving over a longer period of time and hopefully with more success,'' steinle said
said brian: ``we have an established and successful track record in turnaround management. we know how to operate companies within their means and we have links to other companies with significant future joint-venture potential for upi in the information industry.''
steinle said upi will constantly assess market reaction to its services. ``as a market-driven company, we will supply what the market wants and is willing to pay for,'' he said
the treasury department announced wednesday it was selling $2.56 billion in 20-year bonds to the government of mexico as part of an innovative effort to help solve that country's debt problems
mexico will pay $492 million in cash for the zero-coupon bonds, so-called because they are sold at a deep discount from the face amount and pay no interest until they mature
the sale of the u.s. securities was the final step in an innovative procedure unveiled last december. mexico sought to induce foreign banks to forgive a portion of their loans by offering, in exchange, smaller quantities of mexican government bonds that would be backed by collateral consisting of u.s. treasury securities
banks were asked to bid for the bonds, offering to cancel their loans at a discount
backers of the plan had hoped to reduce mexico's debt burden by up to $10 billion, but when the bids were opened on march 2, the amount of debt reduction amounted to a disappointing $1.1 billion
the mexican finance ministry rejected nearly half of the bids it received as insufficient. the bids accepted would retire $3.66 billion in debt at an average discount of 67.66 cents on the dollar, offering $2.56 billion worth of mexican bonds in exchange
the $2.56 billion in zero-coupon bonds sold by u.s. treasury on wednesday will be used as collateral to back up the mexican bonds
a machine that sends a shockwave into the body to break up kidney stones is effective and less risky than invasive surgery, a panel of experts concluded wednesday following a conference at the national institutes of health
the panel, organized to reach a consensus on how best to treat and prevent kidney stones, recommended use of the extracorporeal shockwave lithotriptor to treat kidney stones smaller than 2 centimeters in diameter. it said that a combination of therapies, which may include surgery, may be needed for larger stones
the lithotriptor, introduced in the united states in 1984, uses a fluid shockwave, generated by an electrical pulse, to break up stones in the kidney or in the duct that drains the kidney. once the stones are broken up, they can be more easily passed out of the body. the procedure routinely does not require surgery
more than a half million people have been treated with the lithotriptor worldwide, the panel said, and it has been proven to be effective
but the experts cautioned that because lithotriptsy is new, ``the long-term effects of the therapy are unknown.''
dr. fredric l. coe, a professor of medicine at the university of chicago and chairman of the panel, said there have been reports of elevated blood pressure among some lithotriptsy patients, and there have been cases where the therapy causes kidney injury. he said these problems need to be further studied
for kidney stones larger than 2 centimeters, the panel recommended the use of a combined therapy that would include a surgical procedure called nephrolithotomy. using this technique, surgeons make a small incision near the kidney and then insert a flexible tube that can be manuevered to the site of the kidney stone. by manipulating instruments through the tube, the surgeon can break up the kidney stone and remove it
coe said the panel recommended a therapy system in which stones larger than 2 centimeters would be removed by nephrolithotomy. small stones or fragments could then be treated with lithotripsy. later, if needed, a second removal surgery could be performed. he said this combination was preferrable to repeated sessions of lithotripsy
open surgery, where a wide incision is made and the kidney exposed, is required now only in rare cases involving special types of stones or other physical factors, coe said
kidney stones account for seven to 10 of every 1,000 hospital admissions in the united states. there are seven to 21 cases of kidney stone annually for every 10,000 persons. though the stones may cause great pain, they are rarely life-threatening
coe said about 70 percent of all kidney stone cases can be treated using lithotripsy
for prevention of stones, the panel recommended the use of medication for certain types of stones, a modification of diet where indicated, and increased fluid intake. increased urination, caused by a higher fluid intake, the panel said, can lower the concentration in the urine of chemicals that tend to form stones
kidney stones are formed when chemicals in the urine crystalize. about 80 percent of the stones are formed of calcium oxalate crystals. others are of calcium phosphate salts, uric acid, cystine or a combination of magnesium, ammonium and phosphate
fashion students at florida state university are putting their design talents to work for children stuck with cumbersome or awkward medical devices
parents of handicapped children buy ready-made clothes, then slash them and cut them to make them fit,'' emma kittles, a professor of clothing, textiles and merchandising said wednesday. ``it's almost impossible to buy clothing to fit the devices their children have to wear.''
kittles has challenged a class to design clothing that is functional, comfortable and has style. their results will be compiled in a step-by-step teaching manual on designing clothing for disabled children
thinking of children 2 to 13, the students must design clothes that would be easy to put on and would camouflage any medical devices
for children in wheelchairs, the students must design outfits that eliminate excess folds and bulk and that are made of fabrics that don't chafe
another challenge for the students is designing clothes that make it easier for children to dress themselves with the help of front or side fasteners, such as velcro, large snaps and zippers with large tabs
children are at the stage that they are learning things to make them independent; one of those things is dressing themselves,'' said kittles. ``but even if the child cannot dress himself, the therapist and parents want clothing that is easy to manipulate on these children.''
because each child's needs are different, the students will interview the parents before measuring, buying fabrics and designing outfits. the child also shares personal preferences, such as favorite colors
the roman catholic patriarch of jerusalem, in a vatican radio interview wednesday, appealed to christians and ``responsible politicians'' to work for peace in the holy land
monsignor michel sabbah, a palestinian, said unrest in the israeli-occupied territories seemed worse as ``we celebrate holy week by reflecting on the suffering of christ and of the people of jerusalem and of all those in prison, dead, injured and suffering from hunger.''
he said the church could only pray and ``appeal to the whole world, to all the responsible politicians ... to put an end to this human tragedy that we have been living for so many years.''
sabbah, the first arab patriarch for latin rite catholics in the holy land, did not criticize either israelis or palestinians for the violence, and said both groups were suffering
he told the station in the telephone interview that he did not think the violence would disrupt easter ceremonies in the region. but he said is appealing to all christians to pray that political leaders can bring peace to the holy land
the head of the environmental protection agency has overruled a hearing examiner and banned use of the insecticide diazinon on golf course and sod farms in an effort to protect birds, epa said wednesday
agency administrator lee m. thomas said the major manufacturer, ciba-geigy corp. of greensboro, n.c., had ``failed to show by a preponderance of the evidence that even a single acre of turf will be destroyed if diazinon is canceled, much less that golf course or sod farm operations will be significantly affected by turf replacement costs.''
epa spokesman al heier said it was the first time epa had acted against a pesticide solely to protect birds, though the harm to birds was one reason ddt was banned in 1972
chief administrative law judge gerald harwood in january upheld ciba-geigy's contention that the benefits of use under additional restrictions outweighed the risk to birds
but thomas's decision, signed tuesday and released wednesday, said the company's benefits case was ``singularly weak.''
ciba-geigy's contention that the risk (to birds under new restrictions) would be low is undermined by the critical flaws in its field studies,'' thomas wrote
even disregarding those flaws, some risk to birds would remain, thomas said, and ``these risks are not justified by the benefit of avoiding a negligible cost increase to golf courses and sod farms.''
other insect control measures should add less than 0.5 percent to operating costs of golf courses and sod farms, thomas said
he said that ``unblemished golf courses and lawns are not as significant as the benefits to public health programs and food crops'' normally at issue in pesticide decisions
evidence of the benefits of maintaining price competition among products, avoiding turf damage and the comparative safety of diazinon ``is either nonexistent, speculative or in conflict with more persuasive evidence,'' thomas wrote
many bird species find golf courses and sod farms good feeding grounds, especially in urban areas where these large expanses of green are easy to spot from the air. they ingest the chemical both from the insects they eat and from directly eating small pellets of the chemical
the agency has said it knows of 60 instances in 18 states of bird kills where diazinon was the known or suspected cause. anywhere from one to 800 birds were killed in these cases, and epa believes the deaths are significantly underestimated
diazinon has other uses on farms, in nurseries and in gardens that are not affected by thomas' ruling. about 8 million pounds a year are sold, of which 512,000 pounds is used on golf courses and 60,000 pounds on sod farms, the agency said. diazinon is contained in 494 licensed pesticide products
ciba-geigy spokesman skip ragland said the company still believed its product could be used safely, but had not had time to study thomas' decision. the company could begin a court appeal, but ``we don't know yet how far we're going to take this,'' ragland said
maureen hinkle, a lobbyist for the national audubon society, praised thomas' decision and noted that other pesticides frequently kill birds
we hope it will be a precedent for other pesticide decisions affecting birds,'' she said
sikh radicals killed 15 more people in punjab, bringing the death toll to 50 in three days of attacks linked to their violent separatist campaign, police reported wednesday
attacks blamed on sikh militants have taken at least 580 lives already this year in punjab, india's main agricultural region and the only state where sikhs are the majority. the death toll for all of 1987 was about 1,000
this week's violence has included the first successful use of rocket-propelled grenades against police. izhar alam, the punjab police chief, said he believes arms are being smuggled in from pakistan
seven people killed tuesday night were members of two sikh families in the amritsar district adjacent to pakistan, alam said
many attacks involve random fire. on monday night, gunmen killed 10 people at a sikh wedding party, including the bride and groom. a survivor said the raiders shouted that family members were police informers
although members of the sect have a majority in punjab, sikhs make up only 2 percent of india's 800 million people, more than 80 percent of whom are hindus
targets of the sikh gunmen include moderate sikhs who oppose a separate state, as well as hindus. at least 328 of this year's victims have been sikhs
an increasing worry for punjabi authorities is the more powerful weaponry being introduced, including grenade launchers and ak-47 assault rifles
no casualties were reported in the first attack with rocket-propelled grenades, made on a police barracks last week. on tuesday night, however, 10 men were wounded by grenades fired at a truck carrying paramilitary personnel of the border security force in the gurdaspur district north of amritsar
police found an underground arms cache in the amritsar district sunday that included 14 soviet-made rpg-7 launchers along with he-80 anti-tank grenades, said s.s. virk, a senior officer of the paramilitary central reserve police
alam's claim that arms have come from pakistan conforms with indian allegations that pakistan arms the militants, a charge the government in islamabad denies
the rightist arena party has withdrawn from vote counting in the march 20 election, claiming others are trying to deprive it of victory, officials said wednesday
election officials announced soon after the election that arena, an abbreviation of republican nationalist alliance, had defeated the christian democratic party of president jose napoleon duarte
it appeared at the time that arena would get at least 31 of the 60 national assembly seats under the system of proportional representation, with about 22 being assigned to christian democrats
arena left the count tuesday night by taking its representative off the three-member central elections council, which does the tallying. it was protesting a council decision to consider challenges to the elections of three arena candidates
francisco merino, the party's council representative, said the other members wanted to make a ``game of the vote tallies in order to change the results of the elections.''
the other members are the council president, mario samayoa of the christian democrats, and arturo mendez azahar of the conservative national conciliation party. two votes are enough to approve any decision
roberto d'aubuisson, the former army major who founded arena, told reporters recently that if his party did not receive 31 seats it would be a case of ``fraud and we will withdraw from this democratic process.''
alfredo cristiani, president of arena, said in a television interview wednesday: ``the people are being defrauded. this could explode at any moment, something difficult to stop (could) occur.''
in a recent interview, samayoa denied the accusation of fraud in the vote-counting, which he said ``only exists in the mind of those who have manipulated the information about the results in their favor.''
he said officials completed the official tallies and assignment of seats last saturday for 11 of the 14 provinces, but some recounts would be needed in the other three because of challenges
the arena upset presented duarte, a staunch u.s. ally, with dim prospects for his last year in office. presidential elections are set for march 1989
arena benefited from popular discontent about duarte's failure to meet his 1984 campaign pledges of improving the economy and ending the 8-year-old civil war with leftist guerrillas
both unemployement and the annual inflation rate are estimated at 40 percent
the death of chairman james howard of the house public works and transportation committee paves the way for a relatively obscure californian to take over the panel, and for possible shifts among subcommittee leaders
rep. glenn anderson of los angeles is acting chairman of the public works panel and its ranking democrat. anderson's top aide, jeremiah bresnahan, asked wednesday if the lawmaker would want to become the panel's permanent chairman, said, ``i can't imagine he wouldn't want to be.''
other legislators and committee aides, asking to not be identified, said it appeared certain that anderson would become committee chairman, probably next month, and that he was not likely to be challenged for the job
anderson, 75, is a former california lieutenant governor who was elected to the house in 1968. he is a strong union supporter who has been an advocate for many projects the committee oversees, but he has been one of the least visible members of the panel's leadership
the real question is whether anderson will choose to retain his chairmanship of the surface transportation subcommittee when he takes control of the entire committee. that subcommittee, which oversees enormous highway, water and mass transit programs, is generally considered the most desirable on the committee
under house rules, anderson could retain both posts
robert maitlin, an aide to rep. robert roe, d-n.j., who ranks behind anderson in seniority, said it is ``very doubtful'' roe would give up his chairmanship of the science, space and technology committee to take over the surface transportation subcommittee
rep. norman mineta, d-calif., said he might be interested in heading the surface transportation subcommittee if anderson vacated the job. mineta now chairs the committee's aviation subcommittee
house democratic rules call for a nominee to head a committee to be selected by the democratic steering and policy committee, a panel of 31 democratic representatives dominated by the party's leadership. that selection must then be approved by a vote of the 257 democrats in the house, and then by the entire house
the 60-year-old howard, d-n.j., died last friday, a day after being stricken with a heart attack while playing golf in suburban maryland. pesticide</head>
environmental protection agency scientists can foresee no risk to humans or other organisms from a proposed field test in maryland of a new genetically engineered pesticide, the agency said wednesday
the pesticide, if eventually approved, would be used against the european corn borer
crop genetics inc. of hanover, md., applied to both epa and the agriculture department's animal and plant health inspection service to test the new substance on its farm near ingleside, md., and at the agriculture department's research station at beltsville, md
the report by microbiologists and plant pathologists from the hazard evaluation divison of epa's pesticides office said the properties of the engineered organism and results of lab tests on mice ``indicate that there are no human health risks.''
the report said it is difficult to transfer the organism from one plant to another except on the blades of cutting tools, and the engineered organism eventually should die out in competition with the natural strain
for this small-scale field test, providing all the containment, monitoring and contingency procedures are adhered to, we can foresee no risk to non-target insects and no effect on endangered species,'' and the organism may be used, the group said
the report will be considered at a public meeting april 18 of a subcommittee of epa's pesticide scientific advisory panel. the panel's report is expected in time for a decision on the permits in may. support</head>
a senior pentagon official said wednesday the soviet union has been sending money to philippine insurgents, but he said the rebels' growth is slowing and they are not now targeting americans in the country
richard l. armitage, assistant secretary for international security affairs, also praised the capture tuesday of several top communist rebel leaders in the philippines, saying, ``this has to have a devastating effect on the morale'' of the new people's army
armitage told a congressional subcommittee hearing that he found ``dramatic differences'' during a recent visit to manila, compared to one 18 months earlier
he said president corazon aquino's government now has people who genuinely care about the health of the nation. the debate in manila, he said, is no longer over whether the president will survive coup attempts but how successful she will be during the rest of her term, which ends in 1992
asked by rep. robert mrazek, d-n.y., whether there has been any soviet support for the rebels, armitage said, ``in terms of equipment, none. in terms of money, sure.''
in the first public claim by an administration official that there is soviet support for philippine rebels, armitage said soviet money goes to the communist party of the philippines and is then funneled to the new people's army. he gave no other details
armitage said that the up to 16,000 armed and another 10,000 unarmed rebels also receive money from groups in europe, australia, new zealand and the united states, and they are known to have held discussions with north korean and vietnamese representatives
no outside group is known to have sent arms to the rebels since a shipment of about 150 weapons by the palestine liberation organization in the early 1980s, he said
the defense official said growth of the insurgency has been about 2 percent annually, compared to 20 percent during the last year of president ferdinand e. marcos' regime, which was replaced by mrs. aquino's government in a february 1986 revolt
he noted that no american servicemen have been killed in the philippines since two american airmen and a retired u.s. soldier were gunned down last october
communist rebels claimed responsibility for the killings and said more u.s. soldiers would be killed. but armitage said he believes it was the work of a local rebel group that backfired and not the result of a communist central committee policy
assistant secretary of state gaston j. sigur appeared before the appropriations subcommittee on foreign operations to defend administration proposals for $257 million in aid for fiscal 1989. this is $90 million less than congress appropriated for the philippines last year
sigur noted there are also congressional proposals for the united states to lead an international effort to raise $5 billion for the philippines over the next five years
he also pointed to the possibility of additional aid in connection with the agreement allowing u.s. use of clark air base, subic navy base and other military facilities in the philippines. a review of the bases agreement begins in manila next week, with money a key issue
the iran-u.s. claims tribunal has sharply curtailed hearings because of iranian claims that iraqi missile attacks are keeping its lawyers and witnesses from appearing in the hague, sources said
the 6-year-old tribunal is charged with arbitrating billions of dollars of u.s. and iranian financial claims arising from the 1979 islamic revolution which overthrew the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi
three of four scheduled hearings have been canceled since march 7 at iranian request
one western source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said wednesday that the cancellations mean only one claim is expected to be heard by the nine-judge tribunal between march 7 through may 25
no hearings are set during the moslem holy month of ramadan from april 18-may 20
current cases have taken at least six years to reach the hearing docket, which is set months in advance
both iraq and iran have been engaging in missile attacks on population centers in their 7{-year-old war
in a major case involving the delaware firm combustion engineering co., the iranian agent to the tribunal, mohammed k. eshragh, wrote the tribunal that ``representatives and attorneys in the above-mentioned case cannot travel to the hague due to the present circumstances prevailing in iran.''
he requested cancellation of the hearing, a tribunal source said wednesday. the request was granted march 22
that case, scheduled for an april 11-13 hearing, involved a claim against the iranian government and two of its agencies for engineering and inspection services provided to steel mills in iran
eshragh has refused official comment on the situation in tehran, but tribunal sources _ speaking on condition of anonymity _ said he recently claimed iraqi missile attacks had forced evacuation of 1 million residents from the capital, a city of approximately 6 million
the sources said eshragh claimed iranian attorneys were unreachable and airline service from tehran was disrupted
eshragh was not available for comment at the bureau of iranian legal services in the hague
officials at the tribunal have tried to verify independently eshragh's claim that iranian parties to the cases were unavailable
the independent sources that we have seen ... would support the statement made by the iranian agent,'' said a tribunal source
other hearings canceled included one scheduled april 15 on a claim by the silver springs, md., firm of tadjer-cohen associates inc. against an iranian government bank. the claim involved an undetermined amount of unpaid invoices for supervision of an iranian construction project. the hearing was called off march 24
a march 9-10 hearing in a case brought by fairfield, conn.-based general electric corp. was called off march 8. that claim, brought against the iranian government and several of its agencies, sought millions of dollars in compensation for aircraft engine parts shipped to iran
still on schedule is a hearing april 14 involving a claim by the california firm near east technological services usa, inc. against the iranian air force for unpaid spare parts shipments
the tribunal source said that hearing has apparently not been canceled because it will be handled by iranian lawyers already in the hague
the tribunal has so far awarded about $1 billion to american claimants and about $60 million to iranians, plus an undetermined amount of interest to claimants on both sides
the arbitration panel was established by the 1981 algiers accords, which brought freedom to american hostages held at the u.s. embassy in tehran for 444 days in 1979-81
it is the only known forum for official contacts between u.s. and iranian officials.  ss to elite guard sted secret police. picks up 11th graf pvs, about 1,000 ...</note>
a bomb exploded near the south african embassy here wednesday, a few hours after police arrested more than 80 people protesting the assassination of an african national congress official
in the southern port city of marseille, at least six gunshots were fired tuesday night at a building in front of the south african consulate. the gunmen fled in a car and no arrests were made
no injuries were reported from the bomb which exploded about 3 a.m. wednesday at a paris office building a few blocks from the embassy. police said no claim of responsiblity had been received
late tuesday night, police arrested 41 demonstrators who broke into and smashed the south african tourism office, and 46 others who painted anti-apartheid slogans on the home of the south african ambassador in paris
police identified the protesters only as young leftists who supported the anc. all but four were released overnight
they were protesting the slaying of dulcie september, 53, the anc representative to france, switzerland and luxembourg, who was found dead tuesday outside the door of the anc's paris office. she had been shot in the face
police sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said at the time that the killing looked like ``the work of a professional.''
the anc, the main guerrilla group fighting the apartheid government of south africa, blamed pretoria for september's death. the south african government denied responsibility and said the attack was related to strife within the anc, which was banned by south africa in 1960
a french foreign ministry spokesman said tuesday that no claim of responsiblity had been received
in marseille, the gunshots were fired at 11:15 p.m. tuesday at the windows of a building in front of the consulate. the building was painted with the slogan, ``botha, assassin, ss,'' a reference to south african president p.w. botha and to adolf hitler's elite guard, the most powerful instrument of nazi power
about 1,000 people marched peacefully in a separate protest in paris tuesday evening
president francois mitterrand said tuesday he would ask south africa about the attack and reaffirmed his ``condemnation of the regime of racial segregation.''
a colleague of ms. september's claimed that she had requested protection from the interior ministry after receiving death threats and being followed. the interior ministry denied that ms. september had requested protection
if she had asked, we would have given it to her,'' a ministry spokeswoman said
ms. september came to paris after spending five years in a south african prison for her outspoken criticism of apartheid
ms. september's sister, stephanie arendse, said that after she was released from prison ``she became quiet and didn't talk about her politics so much.''
in an interview published wednesday in the south african daily, the cape times, mrs. arendse said the family was uncertain whether ms. september's body would be returned to south africa for burial
ms. september, the oldest of three daughters and a teacher by training, was tried in 1963 along with 10 others for treason and sabotage and sentenced in 1964 to five years in prison, at the age of 29
on her release in 1969 she was placed under house arrest and confined to wynburg, in northern cape province
mrs. arendse said her sister left south africa on an exit visa in 1973 and settled in london, where she attended a nursing school
she was an administrative secretary at the anc's lusaka, zambia, headquarters and served in other capacities before 1984, when she became representative for france, luxembourg and switzerland
an anc spokesman on tuesday called ms. september one of the organization's ``most vigorous activists.''
jean and leonard peck, having breakfast wednesday with democratic presidential candidate albert gore, said they didn't mind having that media crowd in their kitchen _ they'd seen it all before
exactly 12 years earlier, a georgia peanut farmer, jimmy carter, had visited the wisconsin dairy farm family on his way to the white house
i guess we have a popular farm,'' leonard peck, 67, said after gore, his press entourage and secret service agents left. ``it's a lot of work, but it's a thrill,'' said his wife. ``i think it worked better this time because we had been through it before.''
gore, a senator from tennessee, spent tuesday night at the peck farm. he put on work clothes and helped prepare cows for milking and put straw in animal stalls before joining the family for a breakfast of pancakes, sausage and a family specialty made with cornflakes, ice cream, strawberries and cream
gore's farm background came through. ``you could tell that he knew his way around the farm and he could handle a fork and acted at home with the cows,'' leonard peck said
an aide to presidential hopeful albert gore says jesse jackson may be using easter as a ``political pulpit'' if he solicits campaign funds during a sermon sunday
if we were to use easter sunday as a political pulpit, you guys in the newspapers would beat us to death,'' mike veit, gore's colorado campaign coordinator, told the denver post tuesday
if we went in and raised money in a sunday church service, you'd beat us up even worse,'' added veit, stressing his comments reflected his views and not those of gore
colorado's presidential caucuses will be held the day after easter, and campaign staffers for gore, a senator from tennessee, and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis have been reluctant to schedule big political events for the religious weekend
jackson is to deliver a sermon sunday at the first baptist church in denver's capitol hill, where the pastor says jackson's appearance will be part of a worship service, not a political rally. but the pastor says three collections will be taken _ one for the churches, one for missionary work, and one for jackson's campaign
democrats are soliciting corporate donations to help pay for their national convention in atlanta this summer, and they're offering some political plums in return
a four-color brochure sent out this week to 600 corporations in georgia and the southeast offers tickets to the convention, choice hotel rooms, transportation and exclusive parties to those willing to chip in
this convention provides a unique opportunity for corporations to get their message across to governors, members of congress, foreign ambassadors,'' says nancy parrish, a fund-raising consultant who helped design the convention sales package
a $15,000 contributor would get two convention tickets, access to a hospitality suite, rooms at area hotels and seats on vip buses running between hotels and the convention site
for $200,000, a contributor will receive floor seats or a skybox, a private reception room, more hotel rooms, exclusive parties and limousine service
a poll says massachusetts gov. michael dukakis leads jesse jackson among democrats likely to vote in new york's april 19 primary but jackson has an edge among those strongly committed to a candidate
according to a chicago sun-times-gallup poll released tuesday, dukakis was the only democrat to lead vice president george bush among new york voters. in general election matchups, dukakis led bush 49 percent to 41 percent, while bush led jackson 55 percent to 31 percent
of the new york democrats interviewed, 44 percent preferred dukakis, 28 percent favored jackson, 3 percent chose tennessee sen. albert gore and 2 percent backed sen. paul simon of illinois
but only 14 percent of democrats who said they were strongly committed to a candidate planned to vote for dukakis, while 21 percent favored jackson
the results were based on telephone interviews with 1,205 registered new york voters conducted between friday and sunday. the sample included 421 likely to vote in the democratic primary and 329 in the republican primary. the margin of error was 5 percent among democrats and 3 percent for general election matchups
a fast-moving storm brewing in the southwestern united states dumped up to a half a foot of snow on parts of utah on wednesday and threatened wyoming and colorado with heavy snow
utah's higher elevations got 6 inches of snow before skies cleared wednesday afternoon. salt lake city received 3 inches of snow in six hours; in utah's western desert, tooele got 5 inches
snow advisories were issued through thursday morning for southwest utah and the northern and central mountains of colorado, where up to 8 inches was expected. a winter storm watch also was posted for south-central and southeastern wyoming, where up to 10 inches of snow was forecast
farther south, showers and thunderstorms developed along a stationary front extending from texas' lower rio grande valley across louisiana into mississippi
the eastern united states continued to enjoy unseasonably warm weather, with highs in the 70s from the central and eastern gulf coast to the middle atlantic states
heavier rainfall totals for the six-hour period ending at 1 p.m. est included 1.56 inches at alexandria, la., and 1.29 inches at baton rouge, la
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 24 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 87 at the southwest regional airport in fort myers, fla. the early morning low for the nation was 3 degrees above zero at international falls, minn
thursday's forecast called for showers and thunderstorms extending from the southern and central appalachians through the mid-mississippi valley and across much of the southern and central plains. rain was expected from kentucky and tennessee into kansas, oklahoma and northern texas. snow was forecast for the central rockies and the central high plains, eastern colorado and western nebraska. fair skies should prevail over the rest of the nation
high temperatures should be below 50 degrees from much of the rockies to the upper great lakes, including highs only in the 30s and upper 20s from northern arizona across much of colorado and wyoming to western south dakota. highs should reach in the 60s and 70s from the southern and central pacific coast through southern arizona and the southern high plains to the southern and mid-atlantic coast, and in the 50s in most of the rest of the nation
ferdinand marcos, the exiled former president of the philippines, says negotiations for a return to his homeland are under way and he will likely go back ``very soon,'' a published report said
if i have a political role to play, we will negotiate that later,'' marcos was quoted as saying in the latest edition of paris match, which goes on sale thursday
the philippine government has said it sent emissaries to talk to marcos in january and february. mrs. aquino has said that before marcos returns, he must give back billions of dollars he allegedly stole during his 20-year rule. marcos has denied stealing any money
negotiations have started between the government of mrs. (corazon) aquino and myself,'' marcos was quoted as saying in an interview in his exile home in honolulu. ``these negotiations are continuing at this moment and going very well. i hope that we can very quickly set the date of my return, as well as the conditions.''
asked when he would return, he responded, ``man proposes and god disposes ... i will be going home very soon,'' the magazine said
marcos fled the philippines during a civilian-military revolt in the wake of fraud-tainted feb. 7, 1986 presidential elections in which both he and mrs. aquino claimed victory. mrs. aquino revoked his passport
in the paris match interview, marcos was quoted as expressing his admiration ``for the way mrs. aquino is confronting all sorts of problems.'' but he also expressed fears that her government could soon disintegrate
the communists will then have a free field to immediately take power,'' he is quoted as telling the weekly photo magazine, in a reference to leftist rebels
for me the only way to make a contribution to national unity is to return to my country, with respect for all conditions we can agree to.''
marcos also is quoted as saying that he needs to return for health reasons, especially old war wounds acting up, and to settle lawsuits filed against him since he was deposed. graf pvs, bgng: fellow presidential</note>
michael dukakis cautiously began speaking of differences between himself and jesse jackson on the middle east and domestic policy wednesday, signaling a delicate new phase in their struggle for supremacy in the democratic presidential race. jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. tangled more openly
jackson canceled a planned meeting with gore on wednesday, citing comments gore made about him the day before, which he called ``more personal than principled.'' gore, sounding irritated, responded: ``there is no reason why anyone should think jesse jackson ought to be treated differently from any other candidate in this race.''
gore had said jackson did not have the experience necessary for the presidency
fellow presidential hopeful paul simon said he, too, has better credentials for the white house than jackson, and spoke frankly about the dilemma that has plagued democrats since jackson moved to the front ranks of the presidential contenders. ''you have to be careful. you don't want to be perceived as anti-black,'' he said
jackson, an outsider if there ever was one, broke bread with the inner circle of the democratic party establishment in washington. he said it showed that ``old wineskins are expanding and making room for new wine.'' but a congressional supporter said he detected the beginnings of a ``stop-jackson'' movement taking hold elsewhere
the democrats who met with jackson said they wanted no part of that. but florida party chairman charles whitehead said, ``i would be less than honest with you if i didn't tell you there is absolutely an awful lot of apprehension out there among an awful lot of democrats about the nomination of jesse jackson.''
jackson scored a landslide victory over dukakis in the michigan caucuses last weekend that stunned some party leaders
some of them say privately they fear that if nominated, the black, liberal former civil rights leader would lead democrats to an election-day loss that might jeopardize democratic control of the congress. on the other hand, party leaders are afraid of offending the millions of black voters jackson brings to the polls, knowing that their support will be needed to produce a general election victory
dukakis regained his footing with a victory in connecticut's primary tuesday night by a margin of 2-1 over jackson, and holds a narrow lead in convention delegates, 647 to 634. gore trails with 364. it takes 2,082 delegates to win the nomination
the democratic maneuverings in advance of monday's colorado caucuses and tuesday's wisconsin primary contrasted sharply with the serenity on the republican side
bob dole reassumed the mantle of republican senate leader following his withdrawal from the presidential race. he went to the white house and told president reagan he was ``reporting back for duty.''
in an interview, he said he made serious tactical mistakes in his campaign, but he added that the real problem was ``you can't beat ronald reagan.''
i was running against ronald reagan jr. in the south,'' he said in a reference to vice president george bush who campaigned as reagan's right-hand man
bush campaigned in wisconsin, but he hardly needed to. former television evangelist pat robertson is his only remaining rival, and the only question left is when the vice president will garner the final delegates needed to clinch the nomination
but there was enough twisting and turning on the democratic side for both parties
dukakis, under pressure from party officials to develop a more compelling campaign message, spoke for the first time of differences between himself and jackson
from time to time differences will arise. ... we have differences over the middle east, we have differences about certain aspects of domestic policy, and how to build a strong economy, how to create good jobs and those will come out over time,'' he said on cbs' ``this morning.'' he didn't elaborate
dukakis wasn't the only one jabbing at jackson
sen. simon, who needs a strong finish in wisconsin, clearly had jackson in mind when he said, ``i offer not only passion, but programs. ... i am here. i have been fighting for (workers') policies on the washington scene, not just in speeches.''
gore, who took issue with jackson on middle east and other issues on tuesday, said wednesday that his remarks were ``really not that different from what i've been saying for several months.''
gore had said in new york the day before that jackson has a ``complete and total lack'' of experience needed to be president
the tennessee senator, who has done poorly since he won several states on super tuesday, campaigned in wisconsin, and said, ``i think we're going to surprise some people in this state.''
jackson himself expressed pleasure at his breakfast meeting with party leaders from around the country, including former chairman john white, one-time defense secretary clark clifford and other democratic insiders
white called it a ``bonding of the democratic party'' and said the subject of jackson dragging the party down to defeat was discussed ``not at all.''
but someone at the table asked jackson about the 1984 controversy that surrounded his relationship with black extremist louis farrakhan. white said jackson ``quoted jesus about casting the first stone and forgiveness and so anybody who hasn't made mistakes ... let's not be casting stones at each other about the past.''
jackson himself said he saw no evidence of a concerted movement to stop his nomination
but rep. mickey leland of texas, a supporter, said he did
there is some movement afoot,'' leland said. ``we can't put our hands on it. we don't know who the leader is. but we do understand ... different players of the democratic party have been approached.''
he named democratic national chairman paul kirk, and house speaker james wright as among those approached. contacted later, kirk and a spokesman for wright said they had not been approached about stopping jackson
several of the largest insurance companies are offering sharp discounts in premiums for drivers of cars with air bags, the safety devices that inflate and protect a driver in a serious accident
usaa, the country's sixth largest insurance company, announced wednesday a premium discount of up to 60 percent for personal injury and medical coverage for air bag-equipped cars
the company also said it would contribute $300 to the purchase or lease of a 1988 car equipped with an air bag
state farm mutual automobile insurance co. on tuesday announced a premium discount of from $3 to $24 for cars equipped with air bags or passive belts, which automatically wrap around a car occupant
robert f. mcdermott, chairman of usaa, told a news conference he expected air bags to be available as an option or standard equipment in several million cars within the next 18 months
with safety belt use levels of 50 percent, we estimate we will annually save 4,400 lives and prevent 73,000 moderate to critical injuries,'' he said. ``with air bags and a 50 percent belt use rate, the number of lives saved doubles to 8,800 and injury reduction more than doubles to 151,000.''
the auto industry in the past has complained that while insurance companies have campaigned to get air bags into cars they have not offered car owners financial incentives to order the safety devices. testing</head>
a preliminary injunction barring random drug testing of 9,400 civilian army employees was set aside by a federal appellate court tuesday while it considers the justice department's appeal of a lower court order
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals here granted a stay that was sought by the justice department of the preliminary injunction issued by u.s. district judge thomas f. hogan on march 1
hogan had ordered the army to stop random urine testing of civilian army employees, finding that the practice was an ``excessively intrusive'' search prohibited by the constitution
the preliminary injunction was issued in a case brought by public employee unions representing civilian army employees at ft. stewart, fla.; aberdeen proving ground, md.; and the sharp army depot in lathrop, calif
the injunction banned random testing of all 9,400 civilians in sensitive jobs who were subject to the anti-drug program, including pilots, guards and police officers on military bases
in issuing the injunction, hogan had expressed regret that it ``removes what might be a powerful weapon from the nation's arsenal in the campaign against illegal drug use, but the values represented by the constitution and fourth amendment are transcendent.''
citing a legal precedent that allows stays of judicial decisions when a party is likely to prevail on the merits of a dispute, circuit judges stephen williams, james buckley and d.h. ginsburg said ``a stay is warranted in this case.''
kenneth t. blaylock, president of the american federation of government employees, expressed disappointment that the appellate judges had set aside the injunction against random testing. he said the union was ``determined to continue its fight to protect employee rights under the constitution.''
justice department spokesman amy brown said the department was pleased with the court's decision to stay hogan's order. the army had no immediate comment
no date has been set for a hearing on the department's appeal in the case. ground at atlanta during the incident, picking up 9th graf pvs, `an unidentified...'.</note>
for the second time in her career, flight attendant nancy holt has given cardiopulmonary resuscitation to save a stricken passenger
this time, john d. farmer jr., 62, of jacksonville had run to catch his flight monday from atlanta to jacksonville and arrived at the plane just before it began taxiing from the gate at atlanta's hartsfield international airport
he asked if he could sit in the first-class section until he caught his breath, ms. holt said. noting his heavy breathing and gray color, ms. holt asked if he wanted oxygen
he said yes, took a few breaths and toppled over,'' she said. the plane was taxiing toward the runway at the time
that man weighed over 200 pounds,'' said john fors, an atlanta businessman who was aboard the plane. ``that 110-pound lady pulled him off the seat and began cpr.''
ms. holt, who has worked for delta air lines for 10 years, remembers wondering as she pulled farmer to the cabin floor how she would move him
i got the strength from somewhere,'' she said. ``i put him on the floor and he was dead; there was no pulse and no breath.''
in the meantime, ms. holt's supervisor called rescue personnel at the airport
an unidentified doctor aboard the plane assisted her in continuing cpr, ms. holt said. paramedics revived the man, however, ms. holt said
he was clinically dead,'' said mark johnson, an atlanta fire bureau paramedic. ``we helped save his life,'' but he stressed that ms. holt's quick action was primarily responsible
that person deserves equal praise or more.''
farmer told johnson he had been discharged from a hospital just five weeks ago with a heart problem and had exerted too much effort trying to catch the plane
about eight or nine years ago, ms. holt revived a passenger who had suffered a heart attack aboard a delta flight, she said
cpr proficiency is part of flight attendant's training, she said, and ``you never forget it.'' to bill</note>
the senate passed 62-28 on wednesday a bill designed to revitalize the devastated u.s. uranium industry and restructure the government's own failing program to sell enriched fuel to nuclear power plants
the bill, which faces an uncertain future in the house, also would establish a $1 billion fund to clean up or stablize large, mildly radioactive piles of uranium tailings at 26 sites in seven western states. the cost would be shared equally by uranium mill owners, nuclear utilities and the government
among its more controversial provisions, the legislation _ which took six years to clear the senate _ would:
_impose a schedule of escalating fees on nuclear utilities that load their reactors with more than 37.5 percent foreign uranium. beginning in 1995, however, utilities could buy up to half their uranium from foreign suppliers without penalty. opponents, including sens. bill bradley, d-n.j., and daniel evans, r-wash., argued that this would violate the spirit of the recent free trade pact signed with canada, a leading exporter of relatively inexpensive, high-grade ore. bradley and evans lost an attempt, 47-45, to delete the import restrictions from the bill
_settle the nuclear industry's debt to the u.s. treasury for past purchases of enriched uranium at $364 million. opponents argued that the figure should be as high as $8.8 billion
_convert the department of energy's uranium enrichment program, supposedly self-financing but a multibillion-dollar loser since the mid-1970s, into a corporation owned by the government. if and when the enterprise begins turning profits, the treasury could sell the stock in a bid to recover previous investments
sen. j. bennett johnston, d-la., who guided the measure through his energy committee, said it is ``the culmination of six years of legislative effort to fashion a sound, sensible and well-balanced program to address the challenges we face today in the uranium industry and the nuclear fuel cycle
we're not here to debate the canadian trade deal,'' johnston said. ``let's keep american jobs at home.''
he estimated the bill would restore 20,000 jobs in the uranium mining industry, which has dwindled in this decade to 2,000 workers at just three mines. and he estimated the uranium enrichment workforce, cut by half since 1980, could be restored to at least 12,000 jobs
the national taxpayers union, the environmental policy institute, the union of concerned scientists, the u.s. public interest research group and environmental action all opposed key provisions of the bill, particularly the feature which limits the government's recovery of uranium enrichment costs to $364 million
the groups argued that charging just $364 million is an unprecedented bailout for the nuclear industry since the white house has estimated that the industry should be billed $3 billion and the general accounting office said the government should charge $8.8 billion
the 1954 atomic energy act required the government to be fully compensated for its enrichment of nuclear fuel used by commercial utilities
enrichment is a critical process in nuclear power. it involves increasing the percentage of fissionable material in natural uranium from 0.7 percent to about 3 percent, the amount necessary for use in light-water reactors
when the government began enriching commercial fuel in 1969, the united states was the only free-world supplier of the service for nuclear utilities and business was booming. predictions of burgeoning demand led to the expansion of the three doe plants, and, even then, all capacity was committeed
but then came a drastic decline in the demand for nuclear power, with utilities canceling plans for more than 100 additional reactors since the late 1970s. meanwhile, two european consortiums and the soviet union began to supply foreign utilities with enriched uranium, and by the 1980s, the u.s. monopoly had dropped to 50 percent of the market. even some u.s. utilities found it cheaper to buy foreign uranium
adding to the government enrichment program's woes was the fact that the energy department contracted with the tennessee valley authority for billions of dollars worth of electricity to operate its production plants. but when demand fell off, that electricty wasn't used _ even though tva charged for it anyway. the senate legislation settles that long-term debt at $1.2 billion
benjamin netanyahu, who gained prominence as an articulate defender of israel's policies in his post as ambassador to the united nations, announced his resignation wednesday
netanyahu became israel's permanent representative to the united nations in september 1984 after serving two years as the deputy chief of mission at the israeli embassy in washington
he is known for his forceful views on terrorism and is the editor of a 1986 book called ``terrorism: how the west can win.''
netanyahu, 39, plans to compete for a seat in the parliament, running as a candidate of prime minister yitzhak shamir's right-wing likud bloc, israel radio said
i have accelerated my resignation because, as i think, we are facing fateful decisions,'' netanyahu said on israel television. ``i think we must ... create a policy based on the correct reading of the international map.''
as an ambassador, i could not voice my thoughts. i certainly plan to do so and to influence the policy,'' he said
he said that ``israel has to maintain a full military control over all the territory west of the jordan river'' and reject the u.s. peace proposal, which he called a ``dangerous plan.''
israel has faced nearly four months of unrest in the occupied west bank of the jordan river and the gaza strip, which it seized in 1967
netanyahu, the son of a cornell university professor, has lived in the united states most of his life. he attended high school in philadelphia and studied business administration at the massachusetts institute of technology
his education was interrupted when he returned to israel in 1967 for a five-year stint in the army, during which he reached the rank of captain
netanyahu's brother jonathan was killed during israel's 1976 rescue of hostages in entebbe, uganda.   
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis, seeking a way to open a lead over jesse jackson, began wednesday to show how he might deal with his charismatic rival _ by stressing his government experience
dukakis sought to sidestep any direct criticism of jackson, whose campaign has boosted the democratic party with many new voters who will be needed in the november election. but he indirectly raised the issue of qualifications
i think (voters) want to know which one of us has the strength and the experience and the values to lead this country, to build a strong future. ... that's what this race is all about, that's what the presidency is all about,'' dukakis said at a statehouse news conference
jackson's victories on super tuesday and in michigan have made him dukakis' principal challenger, and dukakis has been struggling to find an effective way to fight off jackson without alienating jackson's backers
dukakis was drawing fire from another democratic contender, sen. albert gore jr., who accused him wednesday of being overly reluctant to specifically spell out his differences with jackson
he was asked: why would you make a better president?'' gore said of dukakis. ``he said, `i'm not going to answer that question. i think that's ludicrous.''
however, dukakis has been using the experience theme to separate himself from jackson, who has never held elective office
i'm a doer. i just don't talk about these things. i've created jobs. i'm building housing for families of low and moderate income,'' dukakis told an interviewer on the cbs ``this morning'' show
but at his boston news conference, dukakis was at pains to say he considers himself on friendly terms with jackson
we get along. we enjoy each other's company. he knows about the things we're doing here. we know about the things he's doing,'' the governor said
pressed, however, dukakis mentioned two broad areas in which he and jackson differ
we don't agree on middle east policy. we don't agree on some aspects of economic policy here in the united states,'' dukakis said
he refused to go into detail, promising to do so in a speech in wisconsin later this week
dukakis said he spoke to jackson by telephone wednesday morning, just hours after taking a 2-to-1 victory over jackson in the connecticut primary. however, the massachusetts governor refused to say what the two men discussed
a house committee urged the federal aviation administration on wednesday to block a plan by eastern airlines for a cargo carrier to fly eastern passenger flights in the event of a strike
in a report, the house government operations committee said orion air inc. of raleigh, n.c., should not be allowed to fly eastern aircraft until orion corrects ``major deficiencies'' noted in an april 1987 faa report
the committee is of the view that prudence and common sense dictate that orion not be graduated to the ranks of a passenger carrier pending a full and complete resolution of the major problems cited in that report,'' the panel said
orion officials have said they have corrected most of the problems cited by the faa
the committee also recommended that the government require eastern to notify passengers if their flights are to be operated by orion personnel
earlier this year, eastern signed an agreement under which orion would hire and train up to 400 pilots to fly eastern aircraft if the airline's pilots honor a possible walkout by the carrier's mechanics
the pilots' union has challenged that arrangement in court. on tuesday, u.s. district judge barrington d. parker issued a preliminary injunction blocking eastern from proceeding with its orion plan
construction crews scrambled wednesday to repair a cracked sewer main as million of gallons of raw sewage flooded nearby bodies of water, endangering fish and forcing industries to close
health advisories warning residents against fishing in local waterways remained in effect, as did three plant shutdowns ordered monday in hopes of curbing further environmental damage from toxic chemical discharges
a 20-foot section of the 11-mile sewer main _ the only link between muskegon and the county wastewater management system _ had to be replaced after construction crews discovered two small cracks in the section monday
but before the section could be replaced, the entire main had to be drained, releasing about 10 million gallons of untreated sewage into sanford's bayou
from 30 million to 40 million gallons of raw sewage was expected to be released into local waterways before completion of the repairs, expected thursday, said michael vandenheuvel, chief sanitarian for the muskegon county health department
ron woods, environmental engineer for the state department of natural resources, said preliminary tests showed there definitely would be a fish kill in sanford's bayou, but that none was expected in muskegon lake or muskegon river
we're optimistic that the lake will be able to assimilate the waste,'' said woods, who added that the sewage leak ``is among the worst i've ever seen.''
vandenheuvel said the released sewage posed only a slight health risk to humans
just as a precaution, we don't want people drinking that water or fishing in it,'' he said. he predicted the health warning would be lifted in about a week
vandenheuvel said a small leak had been detected in the pipe in january and that repairs had been scheduled next month. though the cracks required quick action, he said, drainage of the main would have been necessary in either case
there's just no way to shut that big pipeline down without draining it,'' he said
to drain the pipeline, construction crews tuesday cracked open the broken section of the main with a power shovel, resulting in a 30-foot geyser of raw sewage and industrial waste, which flowed into the bayou and eventually into muskegon lake
the wastewater vaporized, and the resulting steam cloud was carried over the jackson hill neighborhood by a moderate wind. the county health department reported several complaints of the stench, but said it posed no health risk to residents
officials urged residents to reduce the number of times they wash clothes, take showers or flush toilets while repairs were being done
five hundred employees were laid off temporarily at one of the three large muskegon plants ordered closed monday night to prevent the discharge of toxic chemical wastes
at the s.d. warren co. paper mill in muskegon, the treatment system's largest single source of wastewater, nearly half the company's 1,060 employees were told to report to work only after the main was repaired, company officials said
at sealed power corp.'s piston ring division, about 50 employees were laid off monday night, but were recalled wednesday. company officials said the plant would begin limited operations again wednesday night, hauling wastes by trucks directly to the wastewater management system
lomac inc., a chemical manufacturer in egelston township, has maintained full employment levels
the afl-cio on wednesday awarded its once-bitter rival, the international brotherhood of teamsters, sole oranizing rights to attempt unionizing the adolph coors co.'s lead brewery at golden, colo
the labor federation ordered one of its veteran affiliates, the machinists union, to halt efforts to organize the same 3,200 coors workers, saying the teamsters had a much better chance of succeeding
the decision was an outgrowth of the teamsters' decision last october to reaffiliate their 1.6 million members with the afl-cio. the union had been expelled 30 years earlier on charges of corruption
last september, before the teamsters reaffiliation, the labor federation had awarded sole organizing rights to the machinists union at coors. but the teamsters challenged that ruling as soon as they were readmitted
facing ongoing organizing efforts by the teamsters over the past two years, coors and the afl-cio last august ended one of the most prolonged and heated labor-management disputes in the country
in that agreement, the labor federation brought to an end its 10-year-old nationwide boycott of coors beer. in exchange the company agreed to forgo erecting legal roadblocks often used by management against an attempt by an afl-cio-affiliated union to organize its workforce
but that was before the teamsters were again an afl-cio affiliate. and teamsters officials admitted they had concerns now about how the coors-afl-cio pact will hold up in the face of the federation's decision wednesday
we're elated,'' said charles klare, director of the teamsters' 100,000-member brewery and soft drinks division. ``but there's a lot to be found out yet. we've got to meet with coors and determine if they accept the fact that the afl-cio picked us.''
the machinists union had argued before murray finley, a former president of the amalgamated clothing and textile workers union who was picked by afl-cio president lane kirkland to arbitrate the dispute, that the teamsters should give up the coors effort based on last september's decision
the teamsters countered they had an ongoing organizing campaign at coors a year before the machinists entered the picture and had gotten more than 30 percent of the workers at golden to sign teamster union cards
kirkland agreed with the teamsters, according to witnesses at the arbitration proceedings
it was a black-and-white case, based on the facts,'' said vicki saporta, the teamsters' director of organizing. ``we were there first and they didn't even have a single card signed. we're also the predominant union in the industry. we have contracts at all 12 anheuser-busch breweries covering some 9,000 workers.'' appointed, congressman asking for subcommittee hearing, quotes from later funeral service, remove outdated and redundant material. pickup 11th graf pvs, `there's a tremendous...' subs 19th graf, bgng `chavis' father' to delete first reference to britt.</note>
a special prosecutor was appointed wednesday to investigate the death of julian pierce, an indian activist running for a judgeship who was eulogized as robeson county's ``best hope for change.''
the appointment by the state attorney general's office was made at the request of county district attorney joe freeman britt, who had been pierce's opposition in the race for the superior court judgeship
pierce, who was found dead saturday, has been mourned by supporters who at first said they suspected he was killed because someone did not want a lumbee indian to be elected judge. more than 2,300 people attended a funeral and a memorial service for the activist wednesday
sheriff hubert stone said pierce's slaying was apparently the result of a broken romance, not a political vendetta, but that he was still investigating comments made by sandy gordon chavis. chavis had has been charged with murder in the incident; another man involved in the shooting committed suicide tuesday, officials said
senior deputy attorney general jim coman, a member of the attorney general's special prosecution unit, was appointed special prosecutor in the case, said john simmons, a spokesman for attorney general lacy thornburg
coman said he hoped to begin meeting with investigators next week
earlier, rep. harles rose, d-n.c., whose district include robeson county, said he has asked for a congressional criminal justice subcommittee, headed by rep. john conyers, d-mich., to hold a hearing in the county
the only role a subcommittee would have would be to look at how the federal government is interfacing down here,'' rose said. ``i want to know, is this county getting the kind of federal help it needs?''
about 1,500 people attended a memorial service at pembroke state university and 800 mourners later jammed a small church in maxton for pierce's funeral
he was loved. he was respected,'' said the rev. johnnie chavis during services at the sycamore hill independent holiness church. ``that says a lot more than we can say about a lot of people.'' the minister said he was a distant relative of the man who was arrested
pierce's family filled up half of the seats in the 400-seat church. several hundred others sat on wooden chairs outside
at the pembroke memorial service, christine griffin, acting co-director of lumbee river legal services, said pierce's compassion was ``overwhelming and all-consuming.''
he was the best hope we had,'' mrs. griffin told the packed auditorium. ``if he were here, he would say to us not to use the same weapons that were used against him to bring about change.''
we will keep up the peaceful fight for change through the courts and through the ballot box,'' said the rev. joy johnson
he was our first real hero for meaningful change in robeson county,'' said johnson. pierce had been the legal services executive director until he resigned to run for judge
despite the arrest of sandy gordon chavis, indian leaders said racial tension would not go away
there's a tremendous amount of suspicion ... that perhaps all the answers have not been put forward,'' vernon bellecourt, a representative of the american indian movement, said wednesday
chavis said that john anderson goins, also 24 and a lumbee indian from pembroke, shot and killed pierce, stone said. goins committed suicide tuesday
stone said the killing appeared to stem from goins' personal problems with 16-year-old shannon bullard, the daughter of pierce's girlfriend, ruth locklear. the sheriff said goins may have felt pierce helped ms. locklear get trespass warrants against him
although he hasn't entered a formal plea, chavis has told a family friend he was not involved in the slaying, the news and observer of raleigh said. the newspaper said chavis told ruth godwin that goins asked him saturday to go for a ride
the two stopped near pierce's home, but chavis said he thought goins was getting out of the car to go to the bathroom, the newspaper reported
i heard three shots,'' chavis said, according to mrs. godwin. ``i was stunned.''
stone declined comment on whether chavis knew goins' intentions
goins left flowers, a teddy bear and some cards on the doorstep of his former girlfriend's home before he killed himself, officials said
chavis' father, ronald, helped bring the suit that prompted the general assembly to create a separate superior court district for robeson county
the law was intended to help a non-white candidate get elected in a county where blacks and indians make up 58 percent of the registered voters
under state law, britt, who is white, will become judge because he is now unopposed. gov. jim martin said he would meet thursday with indian leaders calling for a special legislative session to allow an opponent in the may 3 vote
the sheriff expressed regret at his comment tuesday that the slaying was ``just another murder.'' ``one person's life is just as important as another's,'' stone said
in lumberton, a bomb threat emptied the robeson county courthouse on wednesday, but employees were allowed to return in less than two hours. no bomb was found and officials said they did not know if the threat was connected to the pierce case
the supreme court, in a case of particular importance to rural areas, was urged wednesday to compel states to provide free bus transportation for poor school children
duane houdek, representing a family challenging busing fees in north dakota, said the state unlawfully discriminates against some people who have trouble affording the busing charges
the bismarck, n.d., lawyer was asked by justice byron r. white whether north dakota is constitutionally required to provide transportation for poor people
that's a fair characterization'' of his argument, houdek replied
but some justices indicated their decision, expected to be announced by july, could be based on narrower grounds. they said the question may be whether north dakota discriminates improperly because it treats some school districts differently than others
north dakota law provides free bus transportation to those living in districts that have reorganized to broaden their tax base and improve education. only those districts that have not reorganized are allowed to charge parents for busing costs
the law was intended to spur reorganization while assuring people in those districts they would not have to pay for transportation
attorney general nicholas spaeth of north dakota defended the system as ``permissible geographic discrimination'' that does not unfairly harm the poor
it's one way economic benefits are dispensed,'' he said. he argued that the law does not deprive anyone of a public school education
the law was challenged by paula kdrmas from rural dickinson, n.d. she said the statute denied equal educational rights to her daughter, sarita, because the family could not afford a $97 annual bus fee
ms. kdrmas has driven sarita the 16 miles to school rather than pay the fee
george t. dynes, a lawyer representing the local school district, said it would have been cheaper for the kdrmas family to pay the bus fee _ which he said would be about 1.7 cents per mile
bus service in dickinson is offered for a fee to elementary school students who live more than three miles from school and to high school students who live more than four miles away
the north dakota supreme court upheld the law, saying local school officials rationally may decide their limited resources are needed for services other than transportation
a statutory scheme under which a school district offers to provide student transportation at considerably less expense to the parent than self-transportation would entail does not constitute a deprivation which offends either federal or state equal protection rights,'' the state court said
the case is kdrmas vs. dickinson public schools, 86-7113. grafs after 18th graf bgng: he denied ... to update with arad, lughod comments. picks up 19th graf pvs bgng: redman, on ...</note>
the state department on wednesday defended israel's authority to maintain order on the west bank and gaza, but said it should be exercised in a humane way
spokesman charles e. redman supported assertions by assistant secretary of state richard schifter that israel ``not only has the right but the obligation'' to restore order in the violence-beset territories it has held since the 1967 six-day war
schifter said at a congressional hearing tuesday that israel also was obliged ``to use appropriate levels of force to accomplish that end.''
in nearly four months of protests and disorder, 121 palestinian arabs and an israeli soldier have died in clashes. schifter, who is in charge of the state department's human rights office, also testified the united states had protested israeli ``brutalization'' of palestinian prisoners and ``random beating of civilians.''
schifter sought to distinguish those actions from dealing with violence and violent protests
abdeen jabara, president of the american-arab anti-discrimination committee, called wednesday for schifter's dismissal because of his comments
schifter is apparently more concerned about israel's image than he is about human rights,'' jabara said
the state department has consistently opposed the use of live ammunition, bone-breaking beatings and tear gas in confined places against stone-throwing demonstrators,'' he said. ``schifter's testimony ... yesterday contradicted this established policy.''
but redman supported the official, saying: ``what ambassador schifter said is exactly the same thing that the secretary (of state george p. shultz) and myself and every american authority has always said
first, israeli authorities have a duty to preserve order. that kind of duty has to be carried out with a certain authority. there's no doubt about it. but it also has to be carried out in as humane a way as possible.''
redman said ``we have never hesitated, in the latter sense, to express our concerns or criticism of particularly activity or excessive use of force.''
about 75 pro-palestinian demonstrators protested peacefully outside the israeli embassy's gates for an hour wednesday afternoon
lofting flags of the palestine liberation organization, the demonstrators chanted: ``palestine, yes! israel, no! victory, victory, plo,'' and ``no more beatings, no more crime! israel out of palestine.''
this was the first protest at the embassy since the supreme court last week knocked down rules that had kept all demonstrations _ peaceful and otherwise _ at least 500 feet away from foreign embassies. authorities still are allowed to keep potentially violent protests away from embassies, but no violence or arrests occurred
the israeli embassy's press office refused to comment on the demonstration or the new rules concerning such protests
moshe arad, israel's ambassador, blamed the deaths in west bank protests wednesday on the palestine liberation organization, which he said is inciting ``warfare.''
we are faced with a situation in the west bank, in gaza, in which elements are interested, especially the plo, in inciting to violence, promoting violence and making sure no dialogue is possible,'' arad said on pbs's macneil@lehrer ``newshour.''
shultz, meanwhile, met with a group of israeli and arab reporters and defended his proposal to hold mideast negotiations beginning may 1
shultz will fly to rome on thursday and then to israel on sunday night to begin five days of shuttling to israeli and arab capitals
he denied in the session with reporters he would invite leaders of the countries to a united nations peace conference
arad, on pbs, said that although israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir had ``reservations'' about a middle east peace initiative proposed by shultz, israeli government is united in welcoming the secretary's return to the region next week
you will find the israeli government interested and keen to pursue this dialogue,'' arad said
ibrahim abu-lughod, a member of the palestine national council, urged shultz to open talks with the plo
during shultz's trip to the region in late february and early march the palestinians declined to meet with shultz but lughod, also interviewed on pbs, said that on shultz's return visit palestinians may meet the secretary. the palestine national council is the so-called legislative arm of the plo
redman, on another subject, expressed regret that israel had ordered the closing of the arab-owned palestine press service in jerusalem. he said the result would be to restrict reporters' freedoms
khalil jahshan, president of the council of presidents of national arab-american organizations, said, ``we find the administration's mild criticism of israel morally bankrupt.''
in letters to shultz and to president reagan, jahshan wrote, ``it is our conviction that the united states government is contributing to the worsening situation in the israeli-occupied territories by failing to make it absolutely clear that it will not tolerate the escalating oppression of palestinians.''
jahshan, who requested a meeting with reagan, called on the united states ``to ensure that impartial observers be permitted access to the territories to help ensure that innocent people are not massacred.''
the first stage of the $600,000 world cup grand prix chess competition opens in brussels on friday, beginning a new and lucrative battle among the world's top chess players
the top-ranked 25 players internationally will each compete in four of the six world cup tournaments during 1988-89. the overall champion will get $100,000, in addition to winnings from the individual tournaments
the card for the opening $104,000 tournament in brussels is headed by soviet anatoly karpov, the former world champion; dutchman jan timman and swiss veteran viktor korchnoi
world champion garri kasparov, a favorite to win the overall competition, will sit out the first tournament
the world cup is organized by the grandmasters association, established recently by some of the world's best players to counter the influence of the world chess federation
after the world championship, the world cup grand prix provides the biggest prizes for the international grandmasters
the world cup is aimed at increasing the popularity of chess and making it more accessible to the media, while providing more money for top players. organizers it will provide continuous competition, unlike the world championship, held every few years
the world chess federation said in a statement that the world cup competition was ``a great step in the promotion of chess.''
each of the six tournaments will involve either 16 or 18 of the selected players. the three best tournament finishes of each player will count for the final standings
other stages of the competition will be held in belfort, france; reykjavik, iceland; barcelona, spain; rotterdam, the netherlands; and skelleftea, sweden
the three-week brussels tournament is dominated by six soviets while players from hungary, the united states, switzerland, yugoslavia, cuba, britain, sweden, and the netherlands are also scheduled to take part
the world cup players were selected on the basis of their international ranking
the next world championship tournament is scheduled in 1990, while the next two-year world cup is set for 1990-1991
democrat richard a. gephardt, out of the presidential race but still campaigning on the trade front, called on lawmakers wednesday to save the heart of his plan to fight foreign barriers with import curbs
i think that we can come up with something that will be positive,'' the missouri congressman told a house-senate conference committee that is drafting a compromise version of rival 1,000-page trade bills approved by both houses last year
gephardt told reporters earlier that he would push for the conference committee to adopt his plan as it was approved by the house. the senate takes a differing approach to unfair foreign trade barriers
but gephardt seemed to acknowledge that his plan was bound to be modified by the conference committee in the long run, something that lawmakers have been conceding for weeks
he said any final version should focus on key countries employing unfair trade practices as part of a systematic trade strategy. wholesale negotiations should be shunned in favor of working on major trade trouble spots, gephardt said
mandatory retaliation is needed when negotiations fail, he noted, saying ``you have to have a stick in the closet.'' but he added that flexibility is necessary in dealing with trading partners and thus the president should have the power to waive retaliation when necessary
the conference committee stopped short wednesday of action on any of the major issues remaining before it puts the finishing touches on a compromise
i'm not going to kill myself to have that guy downtown say he's going to veto everything,'' said rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of a house-senate conference committee on trade legislation
it was the latest democratic comment on a drumroll of warnings from the reagan administration that the bill could be inviting a veto. the vice chairman, sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said tuesday that he was tired of hearing veto threats
rostenkowski said he still hoped to wrap up work by the close of business on thursday, when lawmakers leave on their spring break. but it remained unclear that he could meet that deadline
we're what you call clearing away brush,'' said rep. william frenzel, r-minn. ``we're to the small sapplings now and we haven't gotten to the part of the forest where the big redwoods are.''
besides the gephardt amendment, lawmakers have not resolved what the bill should do to overhaul existing law under which u.s. industries endangered by surges in foreign competition can obtain import restrictions from the government
whether to ban toshiba products because of that company's sale of submarine silencing equipment to the soviets remains undecided, as do provisions involving third world debt and requiring foreign owners of u.s. property to disclose their identities and the extent of their holdings
bentsen is campaigning to hang onto a senate provision to repeal the windfall profits tax on oil companies, a move that is opposed by rostenkowski
new protests that the bill already has been diluted came from lawmakers representing industrial areas where japanese imports have cut into jobs
i doubt that i can vote for it,'' rep. ed jenkins, d-ga., told the conference committee. ``because i don't want to be a part of some great trade bill that has no teeth and doesn't do anything at all for the industry of this country.''
the house has given up an awful lot and the administration has gotten a lot of what it wants and the senate has also,'' rep. don pease, d-ohio, said. ``the final product ought to be a legislative product and not just a product of the administration and ratified by us.''
rostenkowski and bentsen repeated their goal of producing legislation that president reagan would be willing to sign
or one that would embarrass him if he vetoes it,'' rostenkowski said
in a speech in richmond, va. on monday, reagan threatened to veto the legislation if it contained mandatory import curbs, forced disclosure of foreign ownership or a measure requiring employers to give notice of plant closings or large-scale layoffs
the plant-closings provision was adopted by a house-senate panel tuesday night. rostenkowski was asked wednesday if he regarded it as a permanent feature of the legislation
i see it as a big problem for getting the president's signature,'' he replied. update with contra reax. picks up 12th graf pvs bgng: the legislation ...</note>
the house overwhelmingly approved on wednesday a $48 million package of humanitarian aid for the contra rebels in nicaragua and for children injured in nearly seven years of civil war
the aid bill, passed on a 345-70 vote, was portrayed as a gesture of u.s. support for a temporary truce reached last week between the rebels and the sandinista government, and for continuing talks aimed at achieving a long-term end to hostilities
the hope is that this will lead to political instead of military processes now taking over'' in nicaragua, said house majority leader thomas foley, d-wash
this war is over, whether some like it or not,'' said rep. leon panetta, d-calif
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said after the house vote, ``we are pleased and look forward to the vote tomorrow in the senate.''
despite producing the first strong bipartisan vote on u.s. policy toward nicaragua in more than five years, lawmakers showed more weariness than joy as they plodded through two hours of debate
it is not the magic key to facilitate a cease-fire in place or fruitful negotiations and all the rest,'' said minority leader robert michel, r-ill., who said it has become clear congress is no longer inclined to grant the military aid he would prefer. ``but for the moment it's the only thing we have to give.''
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, noting the years of previous acrimony on the issue, called the broad support for the bill ``very impressive'' and said it should ``provide encouragement to both sides in central america.''
some democrats called the vote another victory for wright on the central american issue, which he has dominated on the u.s. side since a five-nation peace accord was signed in guatemala last aug. 7
the speaker has invested tremendous risk, and has been almost totally successful in saying, `i'm going to stick my neck out for peace down there,''' said rep. mike lowry, d-wash
senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., promised speedy consideration on the other side of the capitol, and it appeared likely that the matter could come to a vote on thursday
officials of the nicaraguan resistance, a miami-based umbrella group of the contra rebels, said they were elated with the package
this is what we have been waiting for, for a long time _ a broad bipartisan aid package for the resistance,'' said alfredo cesar, a director of the resistance. he said it sends ``a strong political message to central america in general and to the world that the united states is not abandoning the resistance fighters in the mountains.''
the legislation would renew aid to the rebels, whose last u.s. support ran out feb. 29, and keep them together as a fighting force while they wait in cease-fire zones inside nicaragua for a long-term truce to be worked out with the sandinista government
it sends a message to the contras that they are not abandoned, that we do care about them and want to keep them healthy and a viable force,'' said rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who participated in negotiations to draft the compromise
and it lets the sandinistas know that it's important to the united states congress that the talks that take place down there take place with good faith, and that they move toward democratization,'' edwards added
the agreement, made possible by a 60-day cease-fire reached by the two warring sides last week, broke a weeks-long deadlock in congress over whether to keep up the flow of u.s. aid. the house had killed efforts to provide new supplies to the rebels on two earlier occasions this year
in agreeing to the deal, republicans accepted wright's assurances that he would give any future request from president reagan for military aid for the rebels ``fair and orderly'' consideration
the white house apparently dropped its past insistence on an ironclad legal guarantee of an expedited vote, settling instead for the pledge contained in a letter from wright to the president and to minority leader robert michel, r-ill
wright's pledge says reagan can ask congress for additional rebel aid if nicaragua's leftist government violates the march 23 cease-fire or any later peace accord and if the contras continue to observe its terms. wright would send reagan's request to the appropriate house committee, which would have 10 days to act and return the measure to the full house for action
wright said other than the 10-day limit on committee consideration, the letter simply laid out the normal procedures of the house and in that sense represented a relatively small concession
the letter suggests, but does not require, that reagan first get advice on whether new military aid is warranted from a verification commission established by the march 23 agreement to oversee the cease-fire
the commission includes nicaraguan cardinal miguel obando y bravo, a government critic who is seen as partial to the rebels, and joao baena soares, secretary general of the organization of american states, who is aligned more with the leftist government
under the bill, $16.2 million in ``humanitarian'' aid _ defined as food, clothing, medical supplies and family support payments _ would be sent to the contras at a rate of $2.7 million a month for the next six months. it would be delivered by a neutral organization instead of the cia, which has delivered past aid when hostilities were under way
of that amount, $2.2 million is earmarked for a miskito indian contra group which already had reached its own peace accord with the sandinistas
the rebels would get another $1.5 million to buy communications gear, deemed essential to keeping contra troops in touch with their commanders during the cease-fire period. that pushes the total rebel aid to $17.7 million
an identical amount would go to create a new program of medical and humanitarian help for children who have been injured or suffered as a result of the civil war, which has claimed some 40,000 lives since 1981
in addition, the legislation provides $10 million to pay expenses of the verification commission and $2.5 million to pay administrative overhead for the state department's agency for international development, which would handle distribution of the money. with u.s. businesses paying taxes to government; picks up 11th graf pvs, ``owners of ...</note>
supermarkets, pharmacies and small shops opened for the first time in 10 days wednesday as a nationwide strike aimed at toppling gen. manuel antonio noriega began to fall apart
despite the defections, alberto boyd, president of the national council of private enterprise, said he and other strike leaders were not ending their effort to get rid of noriega
in washington, the reagan administration said it was considering new sanctions to force out noriega, but it appeared no action was imminent
the reopening of the capital's gago, rey and super 99 supermarkets signaled the first crack in a work stoppage that closed an estimated 90 percent of the nation's business and industry
later, the city's leading pharmacies reopened, as did some small clothing and other dry goods stores in the central business district
traffic, extremely light for days, began to build again on panama city's streets, with the usual jams of buses, taxis and private autos developing at major intersections
grocery stores were doing a brisk but not extraordinarily heavy business. customers were required to pay in cash and appeared to be buying mostly essentials
the government said some of the nation's banks, closed since march 3, would reopen thursday, but only to process old checks
even with a limited reopening of banks and some stores, there appeared to be no hope of a quick infusion of cash that would permit a return to normal commerce in the money-short nation
the cash crisis is due in part to u.s. economic sanctions against noriega, who is charged in the united states with drug trafficking. as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces, noriega is the real power behind panama's civilian government
some u.s. companies, including miami-based eastern airlines and harrison, n.y.-based texaco, inc., this week paid the government $5 million owed for taxes, a diplomatic source who spoke on condition of anonymity said wednesday
owners of the reopened grocery stores could not be reached for comment, but angelica guinard, a leader of the opposition national civic crusade leader, said they had been under strong government pressure to reopen
she said the pressure included threats of confiscation of their goods and personal threats against themselves and their families
however, an executive of the gago supermarket chain, the city's largest, said his company's stores opened ``because we have to pay our employees, and if we didn't open, we wouldn't have anything to do it with.''
he spoke on condition of anonymity
a woman leaving a rey supermarket in one of panama city's middle-class neighborhoods said she had bought only essentials: rice, milk, beans and soap
the kids don't understand,'' she said. ``they want to know why we don't have the kinds of things we had before.'' but she said the eldest, who turned 8 on saturday, is catching on
he said, `mommy, you can't throw a party for me because noriega won't leave,''' she said. she wouldn't give her name
felix navarro, a wholesale fruit and vegetable dealer who closed down his own business in the strike, carefully studied prices on five-pound bags of rice before choosing one
pointing to the rice and a container of cooking oil, he said, ``i had $100 in cash at the beginning of the month, and after i buy these, i'm broke.''
panama's chronic cash shortage worsened last month when noriega fired president eric arturo delvalle, touching off a panic run on the banks that eventually forced their closure
the united states aggravated the crisis by imposing a number of economic sanctions, including the freezing of millions of dollars in panamanian government funds held by u.s. banks
the reagan administration continues to recognize delvalle, who is in hiding, as panama's president
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters in washington on wednesday that ``other sanctions are being actively considered'' to force noriega's ouster
sen. alfonse m. d'amato, r-n.y., said noriega's troops have harassed and beaten panama canal employees. ``there is a continuing pattern of escalation'' in panamanian actions against the canal, he said in an interview on abc-tv's ``good morning america.'' he did not elaborate
on tuesday, noriega condemned the presence of the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa on the pacific end of the panama canal. it passed through the canal tuesday on its way to its home port, san diego
the u.s. defense department said in washington that the passage was ``routine,'' but noriega called it ``a threat and an aggression.'' there was no immediate indication how long the vessel would stay in the area
public universities in alabama are not racially biased, despite the accusations of a u.s. justice department lawsuit, a lawyer for the major state university said wednesday
we feel the same as we always have _ that we're not guilty of segregating our schools,'' said robert l. potts, an attorney for the university of alabama system. ``when we get to the merits of the case in court, i think we'll prove that.''
the federal government suit was filed tuesday in u.s. district court. it was first filed in 1983, but had to be refiled after an appeals court ruled that the judge who heard the first case should have disqualified himself because he had participated in landmark civil rights cases as a private attorney
i would not agree that the case is starting from ground zero again,'' said nathaniel douglas of the justice department's civil rights division in washington, d.c
there have been efforts to resolve the case by negotiation, and we are ready to continue to do that.''
the refiled suit charges again that state education officials have ``perpetuated a racial dual system in public higher education.''
the justice department said two predominantly black schools, alabama a&amp;m in huntsville and alabama state in montgomery, are close to mainly white schools and were intended for black students only, while whites attended the other institutions
justice department lawyers said evidence exists of intentions by state authorities to maintain vestiges of a dual school system
federal attorneys cited a 1975 planning document of the alabama commission on higher education, one of the defendants, that said ``with alabama state and alabama a&amp;m to meet the needs of the state's negro citizens and with the university of alabama and auburn university as major state institutions, the state seemed relatively well served.''
the suit also names as defendants the state, gov. guy hunt, and several universities in the system. spokesmen for both the governor and for auburn university said they had no comment for the present
the suit said the state continues to allocate far more money to the major white schools than to the mainly black ones
state authorities contend the predominantly white and black schools in huntsville and montgomery are the result of decades-old patterns of preference by students
in 1985, u.s. district judge u.w. clemon ruled after a five-week trial that alabama maintains vestiges of a dual school system. before he could begin the remedy phase of the case, his ruling was appealed
the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta ruled last year that clemon, alabama's first black federal judge, should have stepped down because of the rights cases he handled when he was a private attorney. `ridiculous'</head>
a planned meeting between two democratic presidential rivals collapsed wednesday, with jesse jackson saying albert gore had launched an attack on him that was ``more personal than principled.'' gore called jackson's charge ``ridiculous'' and said he was merely holding his rival to the same standard as any other candidate
the two traded charges a day after gore unleashed a broad assault on jackson's record as without experience and said he was dismayed by jackson's associations and middle east policies
in his latest remarks, gore defended his earlier criticism and said he had mentioned nothing that could be regarded as personal
there is no reason why anyone should think jesse jackson ought to be treated differently from any other candidate in this race,'' gore told reporters. ``that's not a personal attack, and i'm surprised he would see it as a personal attack.''
i think it's ridiculous,'' gore said. ``he's a major contender for the white house. is he to be immune from any questioning of his position on the issues or his approach to the campaign? it's ridiculous.''
gore commented at a news conference upon arriving in washington from a campaign trip through new york and wisconsin. only moments earlier, jackson had passed through the same private air charter terminal
the two had met on monday and, according to both campaigns, agreed to set aside time wednesday afternoon at national airport for a meeting since their schedules coincided. but late wednesday the meeting was canceled, the gore campaign saying it was jackson's move
before departing on his own trip to wisconsin, jackson told reporters the two were planning to meet
but jackson said that as a result of ``his attacks, which were more personal than principled, it's not necessary to meet at this time.''
jackson said they would meet ``at some future time.''
gore was informed of jackson's comments and responded, questioning whether anyone believed he should ``bend over backwards to not say anything that might possibly be interpreted as critical'' of jackson
is there supposed to be a separate standard?'' he asked. ``is there supposed to be some unwritten rule why jesse jackson cannot be criticized, why his positions have to be just sancrosanct and nobody can say anything about them for fear somebody will just misinterpret what your saying? i have from the start of this campaign treated him exactly the same as every other candidate in this race.''
i don't think he really wants to be treated differently, and if he thinks about it he won't really see a criticism of his positions as a personal attack.''
gore also took aim at dukakis, the delegate leader who was considered the frontrunner for the nomination, at least until his massive loss to jackson in michigan last weekend
gore faulted dukakis for what he said was a refusal to even contrast himself with jackson when asked
he was asked: `why would you make a better president?''' gore said of dukakis. ``he said, `i'm not going to answer that question.' i think that's ludicrous.''
on wednesday, however, dukakis moved cautiously to contrast some of his positions with those of jackson. he mentioned the middle east and domestic policy as points of difference, but declined to provide specifics
the chief contra military field commander, who has expressed reservations about the rebel truce with the nicaraguan sandinistas, said wednesday he supports the truce agreement and will comply with it
col. enrique bermudez, who has said he doesn't trust the sandinistas, told reporters his concerns about the truce do not mean he opposes contra leadership on the touchy issue
we understand there can be differences, but during negotiations we have to have a single position,'' he said at a news conference
as an indicator of that continuing mistrust, the contras said wednesday they have filed a formal complaint with the nicaraguan government about the way the sandinistas handled the weekend release of 100 political prisoners, a release called for in the truce agreement
contra spokeswoman marta sacasa said the rebels gave the sandinistas a list saturday of the 100 contras they wanted released, but only nine or 10 of those prisoners released were on the rebel list
she said the sandinistas had made a ``verbal agreement'' to use the contra suggestions but their response ``does not show enough good faith or trust.''
bermudez's comments wednesday came at the same time that contra directors are taking to the miami airwaves to calm opposition and fear in the nicaraguan community that the contra leadership gave up too much
fourteen nicaraguan exile leaders held a news conference in miami on monday to call for the contra leadership's resignation
sometimes it's very easy, sitting here in miami, to say, `my god, look what's been agreed to in sapoa,' without remembering that the fighting men, who are dying in the mountains of nicaragua, have been abandoned'' by congress, said director alfredo cesar, one of the leaders who helped negotiate the cease-fire. sapoa is the nicaraguan border town where the truce talks were held last week
congress has voted against continued military aid for the contras, though the house on wednesday approved a package of humanitarian aid
speaking on radio station waqi-am, cesar denied the truce was tantamount to surrender
but he said an armed guerrilla movement has been allowed to stay in place, while its leaders travel to the capital to discuss the nation's future
there is no precedent for this _ not even in guatemala, a democratic country, which requires that the communist guerrillas put down their arms before discussing the country's future,'' cesar said tuesday
a group of chinese students studying in america published an open letter this week, urging their government in beijing to abandon a new policy that will slash the number of china's students abroad
the letter, which began appearing in chinese-language newspapers on tuesday and wednesday, said the policy would be detrimental to china's drive to develop its economy
it also said the policy would force many chinese students in america to return home before obtaining their degrees
an american china expert linked the policy change to concerns in beijing that chinese students studying in the united states are becoming too westernized
the letter echoed an earlier petition, signed by 1,000 chinese students and sent to beijing in january 1987. that letter opposed conservative political policies in china
we are only asking that the right to study and complete our degrees be restored to us,'' said pei minxin, a 30-year-old doctoral candidate at harvard university. pei was one of 21 chinese ``coordinators'' who included their telephone numbers in the letter, inviting students who supported their position to call in and add their name to the list
so far, he said, more than 800 chinese students nationwide had contacted the coordinators and pledged to sign the new letter, which will be sent to beijing soon
we are not planning to use this movement as an excuse to stay here permanently,'' said pei, whose request last week to extend his passport was denied by chinese authorities. ``we just want to finish our degrees and go back to china.''
currently, about 40,000 chinese students are studying outside of china, 27,000 of them in the united states
under the new education policy, china will send only 3,000 students abroad this year, the overseas edition of the people's daily reported feb. 15
student sources in new york said chinese officials told them only 20 percent, or 600, would be sent to the united states. last year, 8,000 chinese students came to america
the policy also calls for strict limits on how long chinese students can stay abroad, according to a copy of an official document obtained from chinese sources in new york
the document says students seeking a master's degree must complete it within one or two years, and students working for a doctorate have only five years to finish it
that rule could be particularly onerous for many chinese, who come to the united states needing time to improve their english
zheng wanzhen, press councilor for the chinese embassy in washington, acknowledged that fewer students would be sent abroad but denied there was a policy change
it's just that they have been sending too many students to america,'' he said. china will send students to other countries like the soviet union, east germany, japan and western europe, he said
merle goldman, a professor of history at boston university, said the policy change marked a shift away from the liberal slant of chinese leader deng xiaoping, who opened the country to the west in the 1970s
not many students are returning to china and the chinese want them back,'' she said.the feb. 15 people's daily said of the 36,000 chinese who have come to america, only 8,817 have returned
in addition, ms. goldman said, when they do come home ``they are already infected by the political values of the united states. they absorb western political ideas and that could be troublesome for the chinese state.''
ms. goldman said premier li peng was responsible for the shift, which began last year when he took over as acting premier. israeli speakers. no pickup</note>
arab leaders and the plo bitterly condemned israel's crackdown in the occupied territories and called wednesday for an international peace conference to create an independent palestinian state
in an emergency security council meeting, israel rejected a conference and asked instead for direct negotiations with its neighbors
u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun accused the arabs of ``extreme rhetoric'' and said secretary of state george p. shultz will seek a forum in his forthcoming middle east mission that would permit direct negotiations leading to a comprehensive settlement
the 15-member council heard 10 speakers denounce israel's occupation of lands captured from the arabs and call for a u.n-sponsored peace conference involving all parties to the conflict, including israel, the plo and the five permanent members of the council
they denounced israel's sealing off the west bank and gaza, its imposition of a curfew and banning of journalists. saudi arabian and libyan envoys compared israel's treatment of palestinians to nazi persecution of jews
the council adjourned without a resolution or a vote but agreed to meet again to consider the situation in the occupied territories. since the palestinian protests began in december, the council has condemned israeli practices as violating palestinian human rights
farouk khaddoumi, the top envoy of the palestine liberation organization, told the council, ``peace can only be established through an end to israeli occupation and security can only reign if an independent palestinian state is established.''
khaddoumi is director of the plo political department, its equivalent to foreign minister. he accused the united states of supporting repression in the occupied territories and said washington encouraged prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel, whom he called ``a terrorist.''
the united states, he said, is using its veto power to prevent the security council from adopting measures that would prevent israeli ``crimes'' against palestinians
he said the palestinian people would never accept israel's proposal of autonomy as a substitute for sovereignty
the united nations recognizes the plo as the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people
israel considers the plo a terrorist organization
israeli ambassador johanan bein, the deputy permanent representative, condemned recent plo broadcasts which he said exhorted palestinians to throw rocks and attack israeli security forces with knives
the plo solution is dissolution of israel,'' bein said. ``this will not be the case. the plo has shown it will continue to fight to the last palestinian child, but this will never constitute a basis for peace, but only for violence.''
he said israel regrets the loss of life of arab or jew, ``but when confronted by unbridled mob violence, with stones, iron bars, fire bombs and even live ammunition, it has no alternative but to attempt to quell the violence and restore order.''
foreign minister ahmed taleb ibrahimi of algeria told the council ``it is high time for resolute action'' by the world community and asked for a u.n.-sponsored middle east peace conference to set up a palestinian state
there will only be peace,'' ibrahimi said, ``if there is total and unconditional evacuation of israel from all arab territories.''
ibrahimi is the leader of a high-level arab delegation visiting new york
more than 120 palestinians and one israeli soldiers have been killed since riots began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
speakers on the wednesday agenda included ibrahim massoud, minister of state for foreign affairs of saudi arabia; foreign minister farouk al-shara of syria, and chedli klibi, the arab league secretary-general
diplomats said earlier that a resolution and vote were unlikely, because resolutions critical of israel often are vetoed by the united states
two white police officers were convicted of murder wednesday in the killings of two black men said to be drug dealers
the rand supreme court convicted both sgt. robert van der merwe, 30, and capt. jack la grange, 40, on two counts of murder and one count of intent to murder after a three-week trial
van der merwe testified he shot the men because la grange duped him into believing they were linked to the african national congress guerrilla movement
i believed that what i was doing was in the national interest and it would never have occurred to me to question an order from an officer,'' he said
the blacks, who were alleged drug dealers, were killed in separate attacks last september and october
van der merwe testified he knew of ``clandestine operations'' in which security police carried out missions to kill suspected anc operatives
i realize that such actions are illegal in terms of the law, but i deem them lawful in terms of head office orders,'' he said
both van der merwe and la grange had pleaded innocent. they could face the death penalty, although there was no immediate word on sentencing
the anc is the main guerrilla group fighting apartheid, the system of racial segregation in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs and the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts and services
in other developments wednesday:
_police arrested 106 men and women demonstrating tuesday against a labor bill which would restrict union rights, according to frank meintjies, spokesman for the congress of south african trade unions, the nation's largest labor federation
police said in their daily unrest report for the preceding 24 hours that they arrested 124 people in industrial areas for gathering illegally and refusing to disperse. they gave no details, except to say they used batons and dogs to disperse one group
_authorities also reported that an unknown gunman wounded a 28-year-old municipal policeman in the chest in soweto, the black township outside johannesburg
_police said they used batons to disperse people gathered outside a court building in the mixed-race township of wynberg in cape town, but reported no injuries or arrests. no reason for the gathering was given
the star newspaper reported that the police charged a crowd of friends and relatives of 11 people on trial on treason charges in wynberg courthouse. magistrate a.s. mccarthy ordered the courtroom cleared after defendants and court spectators joined in singing a zulu anthem, ``god bless africa.''
_in pretoria, police cordoned off streets around the union buildings, where the government has its offices, and declared it an emergency area when 70 students from eight universities gathered to present petitions to president p.w. botha's office
the petitions protested last month's banning of 17 anti-apartheid organizations and recent government restrictions on protest activity on campuses
_in grahamstown, in eastern cape province, four black residents of uitenahage township were sentenced to death wednesday for the murder of a youth activist they allegedly believed had become a police informer. the sentences brought to 50 the number of people on death row for offenses connected with the three years of nationwide unrest from 1984-1987. fitzwater response to query on mrs. reagan and others wanting meese to go. picks up 13th graf pvs bgng: on tuesday ...</note>
senate majority leader robert byrd on wednesday called attorney general edwin meese iii ``the crown jewel of ... sleaze'' and urged him to quit, but meese said ``there's no reason to resign'' and president reagan reiterated his support for his old friend
meese, the focus of an 11-month criminal investigation that has sapped justice department morale, also predicted that solicitor general charles fried would not follow the path of two other officials who shook the department on tuesday by turning in their resignations
business is operating as usual at the justice department,'' meese told reporters. he said replacements were being sought for the two aides who resigned, that ``the management team is very strong and everything is going along well.''
asked by reporters whether he would quit, meese responded: ``no, not at all. there's no reason to.''
a republican, sen. bob packwood of oregon, joined other members of the senate in calling for meese to step down
deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld, who oversaw all federal criminal investigations, resigned because they were concerned that meese's continuing legal difficulties were damaging the effectiveness and credibility of the justice department, said department sources, speaking on condition of anonymity
at a meeting wednesday in meese's justice department office, fried, who ranks fourth in the justice department hierarchy, refused to give an immediate answer when meese personally urged him not to join burns and weld, the sources said
fried told the attorney general he would consider what to do in the next few days, the sources said
asked about the meeting with fried, meese said, ``i don't talk about my conversations with my top management people, but i have no doubt that mr. fried will remain a strong member of the management team.''
meese called at the white house late wednesday and met for 15 minutes with chief of staff howard baker, but spokesman marlin fitzwater said their discussion was about judicial appointments
fitzwater said meese did not meet with reagan and the two had not discussed the matter of the resignations, but he added, ``i'm sure the president will discuss it with him at some point.''
he did not say when. meese is expected to be at the white house again on thursday for a cabinet meeting
there have been reports indicating mrs. reagan is among those who want meese to go. fitzwater was asked why meese remained on the job when baker, vice president george bush and mrs. reagan were known to want him out
i don't think any of that is true,'' fitzwater replied. asked if he was denying it, he said, ``i don't know. i've never heard it said. i've never heard anybody say that.''
bush said wednesday he was troubled by the resignation of top justice department officials, but ``i'm not going to pass judgment'' on whether meese should resign. mrs. reagan has not publicly expressed an opinion on the attorney general's status
on tuesday, fried, who argues the government's position in supreme court cases, told the associated press the resignations had prompted him to reassess his own future. he said he needed time to think the matter through
congressional reaction against meese was strong the day after the resignations of burns, who is the no. 2 justice department official, and weld
mr. meese has become the crown jewel of the sleaze factor in reagan administration history,'' byrd, d-w.va., told reporters. he said that if reagan doesn't want to ask meese to quit he should find someone else to ask him
he ought to get out,'' said byrd. ``the country cannot have confidence in the justice department when the top law enforcement officer obviously has to spend an inordinate amount of his time defending himself. he should be spending his time fighting the war on drugs, crime,'' byrd said
but reagan, almost in reply, told reporters during a ceremony honoring young scientists in the white house rose garden, ``he's been a friend for over 20 years. i have every confidence in him. ... i'm not going to comment any further.''
of meese, packwood said ``you finally reach a place where there is a cloud of suspicion, a sufficient cloud of suspicion, that i think you owe it to the president to remove yourself.''
sen. arlen specter of pennsylvania, a republican member of the senate judiciary committee, declined to call for meese's resignation but said the attorney general owed the american people ``a full public explanation as to why his deputies have left.''
there's no doubt in my mind that it is very harmful to the republican party and could hurt our nominee in the fall,'' specter told reporters. ``but it is even more harmful to the country. i'm concerned as an american.''
specter accused byrd of trying to make the controversy over meese a partisan issue
when senator byrd starts to mix his metaphors and talk about crown jewels and sleaze it's totally inappropriate,'' specter said
the criminal investigation of meese launched last may 11 by independent counsel james mckay is continuing and so far has delved into his involvement through longtime friend e. robert wallach with scandal-plagued wedtech corp. and a $1 billion iraqi pipeline
mckay widened the probe this week by subpoenaing payroll records and other documents of the washington chapter of the multiple sclerosis society in connection with a $40,000-a-year job meese's wife, ursula, got with the charity in 1985. investigators are examining wallach's role in helping mrs. meese get the job
fitzwater confirmed that burns and weld had met with baker last week
the gentlemen indicated they wanted to resign, or they were disenchanted, and they were advised to talk to the attorney general about that. that's the proper way to do it, the proper course of action,'' fitzwater said
the spokesman said reagan ``has been briefed on the concerns and complaints of burns and weld. he just wanted to be kept informed.''
he said the two officials met with baker on march 16 and then again tuesday morning before they resigned. ``certainly the president was briefed on that meeting,'' fitzwater said
on capitol hill, sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., said meese ``has shown no willingness to resign, but he ought to at least step aside because he can't run the department of justice. he's lost all effectiveness.''
sen. dennis deconcini, d-ariz,. said he also is drafting a letter to meese calling on him to resign because of his ``lack of credibility and confidence.''
but sen. orrin g. hatch, r-utah, said meese should remain in office ``until the special prosecutor comes up with his conclusions.''
if he concludes there was impropriety that's another question,'' hatch said
byrd, leahy, deconcini and hatch all are members of the senate judiciary committee, which oversees operations of the justice department
jessica mcclure, whose rescue from a midland well attracted international attention, arrived wednesday to help raise funds for a boy with serious lung problems
jessica, who turned 2 last saturday, will participate in a balloon release thursday to benefit 5-year-old brennan bolin, said benefit coordinator bonnie arnold
the families of the children are acquainted and that is how jessica got involved, according to mrs. arnold
jessica and her mother, cissy mcclure, were flown to lancaster municipal airport on a private plane for a noon reception, said mrs. arnold
brennan has idiopathic pulmonary hemosiderosis, a rare condition in which bleeding occurs within the lungs' lining
mrs. arnold, wife of lancaster mayor walter d. arnold iii, said the boy needs a heart-lung transplant at the university of minnesota
they're hoping that unless anything goes wrong, he will be weaned from steroids for six weeks, as of june 1, and he will be relocating to minnesota to await a donor,'' she said
the surgery will cost $650,000 and all but $125,000 is covered by insurance, she said
lancaster residents had already donated $15,000 even before thursday's official start of the fund-raising campaign
jessica will release the first balloon, followed by children from lancaster elementary schools, said mrs. arnold
these children will have each donated one dollar to brennan's cause. their name and a special message will be in each balloon,'' said mrs. arnold. ``there will be a drawing among those children for two toys signed by jessica.''
mrs. arnold says the boy's grandmother, sue ellen nall, lives in midland, where jessica fell into an abandoned water well last october. it took 58 hours for rescuers to get the toddler out in a dramatic, nationally televised climax to her ordeal
a task force to help the lancaster boy was organized by first united methodist church
a bomb damaged a textile plant in cordoba early wednesday and more than 20 telephoned bomb threats were received in buenos aires, police reported
bombs exploded in three buenos aires movie theaters tuesday, wounding four people, including a national policeman who lost a hand and an eye
president raul alfonsin blamed ``terrorists'' trying to ``put an end to democracy'' for the explosions
in addition to the blast at the pompas brothers plant in cordoba, an industrial city in central argentina, and the three theater explosions in the capital, 16 bombings have been carried out or attempted since january. most were in buenos aires
telephoned threats were reported throughout the day wednesday but no bombs were found, officials said. banks, hospitals, municipal buildings and shopping arcades were evacuated because of the calls
a group has left leaflets at most bombing sites carrying the initials ``o.a.s.-m.r.p.'' the meaning of the initials is not known
officials say the group is thought to be linked to former lt. col. aldo rico, 44, who led two unsuccessful rebellions in army units during the past year
rico, however, issued a communique wednesday night denying any connection with the bombings
the uprisings he led were the most serious threats to alfonsin since his civilian government took office in december 1983, ending nearly eight years of military rule
rico's communique said the bombings were ``contrary to the essence of `operation dignity,''' his effort to win pardons for officers accused of human rights violations during the government's 1976-83 campaign against suspected leftist subversives
at least 9,000 people were abducted and vanished without a trace during what became known as the ``dirty war'' under military rule in argentina, officials say
the former colonel is being held at the magdalena military prison 60 miles south of buenos aires
eighteen months before tawana brawley's alleged abduction, a schoolmate told police a markedly similar story of being kidnapped and sexually assaulted, according to broadcast and published reports
in a story published wednesday, sources told the daily news that the unidentified teen-ager reported to police in 1986 that she had been abducted by men in a green car and taken to a wooded area and attacked
the charges were investigated by the poughkeepsie police, who determined that they were unfounded and apparently fabricated to cover up sexual abuse by a male relative, the news said
the rev. al sharpton, an adviser to the brawley family, angrily denounced the news story, and he and one of the brawleys' attorneys, alton maddox, asserted that it had been leaked by state attorney general robert abrams, the special prosecutor in the case
it's ridiculous to take a story that no one has established that tawana had any knowledge of and imply that she was trying to use it,'' sharpton said
a spokesman for abrams, timothy gilles, declined to comment on the reports, but denied that abrams' office had been the source of the story
the case has received wide attention, in part because the family has refused to cooperate with officials, accusing them of racial bias in their handling of the investigation
poughkeepsie radio station wkip said a woman saying she was the mother of a girl with a similar story called the station's nightly talk show last week. the station rebroadcast parts of that interview wednesday
the caller, who declined to give her name, said during the broadcast that miss brawley and her daughter had talked at a shopping mall the night before miss brawley's disappearance last november
the girl eventually recanted her story, the woman said
miss brawley, who was reported missing for several days in november, has told her family she was abducted in a green or blue car, taken to a wooded area and sexually abused by six white men. one of the men flashed a police-like badge, she said
four days later she was found near her family's former apartment in wappingers falls, dazed, covered with animal excrement and with racial epithets written on her body. miss brawley is black
a state-owned magazine says a ranking libyan visited egypt in an attempt to mend relations between the north african neighbors, which have been at odds for years and fought a brief border war in 1977
in the edition appearing thursday, the weekly al-mussawar said col. abdel-fattah younis farag came to cairo after egypt allowed the return of four libyan warplanes whose pilots landed on the wrong side of the border march 1 because of bad weather and lack of fuel
on monday, libyan leader moammar gadhafi said he was withdrawing his forces from the border and asked nothing in return. he said libya would not use force to get president hosni mubarak's government to renounce the peace treaty egypt signed with israel in 1979
mubarak reacted to that gesture wednesday by warning gadhafi not to conceal terrorist plans behind expressions of good will
al-mussawar said farag, commander of the border military zone, came to thank mubarak for returning the soviet-built mig-23s. the magazine did not say if he met mubarak, but said the colonel was expected back in cairo soon to ``continue talks with the egyptian leadership.''
it said farag was close to gadhafi and visited egypt several times before, trying with little success to ``open a dialogue.''
in his comments wednesday, mubarak questioned the motive for gadhafi's statement that he was opening the border
might it be to smuggle in bombs?'' the president said at a political meeting in giza province. ``i strongly warn him. i know all his tricks.''
his comments, carried by the middle east news agency, apparently referred to charges that gadhafi arranged bombings in cairo and other cities in 1975-76
egypt also has said it suspected libya of laying mines in the gulf of suez and red sea that damaged 20 ships in the summer of 1984
mubarak said gadhafi's statements ``have no impact on relations.''
gadhafi recently freed and repatriated 36 egyptian prisoners, among them three soldiers whose return mubarak had requested publicly. egypt sent home five members of the libyan air force who flew to egypt last year in three separate incidents but who did not request asylum
libyan-egyptian relations soured in 1972 when egypt rejected gadhafi's proposal that the two countries merge. they got worse when the late president anwar sadat made the american-mediated camp david agreements with israel in 1978 that led to the peace treaty. detail on how program is used. picks up 7th graf, `the computer...'.</note>
a computer program that helps doctors figure out which patients have suffered heart attacks could prevent about 175,000 intensive care admissions each year, saving an estimated $85 million, its developers say
the program, produced by doctors at brigham and women's hospital in boston, is intended to help emergency room physicians determine whether patients with chest pain actually had heart attacks
in testing on 4,770 patients at six hospitals, they found that the program could have reduced needless admissions to the coronary care units by nearly 12 percent
they cautioned, however, that the program should help doctors, not take their place, and ``should never override common sense.''
a report on the project, directed by dr. lee goldman, was published in thursday's new england journal of medicine
the program is the latest of a variety of efforts intended to let doctors take advantage of computers when making complicated decisions about patient care
the researchers entered about 50 variables involving patient history, physical examination results and electrocardiogram findings into the computer. the computer program than used these variables to determine whether patients actually had suffered a heart attack or not, according to the journal
the computer and the doctors were equally adept that spotting true heart attacks. both missed 12 percent of them. however, the computer was better at ruling out heart attacks among people who had not suffered them
the researchers noted that sometimes the doctors were better than the computer at evaluating patients
the doctors estimated that the program could help doctors avoid about 175,000 admissions to intensive care units for heart patients each year. they said that even if these patients were put in other hospital wards, the program could help save at least $85 million annually. attack by iran reported against supertanker. no pickup</note>
iranian gunboats struck at the cypriot supertanker haven near the entrance to the persian gulf at dawn thursday and set it on fire, shipping executives reported
the executives said the raid near the strait of hormuz was apparently in retaliation for an iraqi attack wednesday on a different cypriot supertanker under charter to iran
they said the 109,700-ton haven came under attack by the the iranians at dawn off the emirate of ras al-khaimah
salvage tugboats rushed to aid the stricken tanker, but it was not known immediately if the crew suffered casualties or what the extent of damage was. the gulf-based executives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, did not know the haven's destination
iran attacks neutral commercial vessels in the southern gulf near the strait of hormuz on a ship-for-ship basis in the so-called ``tanker war,'' in which about 500 vessels have been hit by both sides in the 7{-year-old iran-iraq war, with about 300 seamen killed
in other developments in the iran-iraq war, iranian rebels operating from iraq claimed to have killed 2,000 iranian revolutionary guards in a two-day battle in the oil-rich khuzestan region of southern iran. a statement from the national liberation army of iran said its force of 15 brigades had returned to iraq
iraq said it fired three long-range missiles into isfahan, a city in central iran, and its planes bombed iranian towns. tehran radio said the missiles killed five people in isfahan, wounded several and destroyed houses and a mosque
dispatches from iran's official islamic republic news agency said iranian planes dropped 10 tons of bombs on sulaymaniyah, provincial capital of northern iraq, and hit border towns with 14 short-range missiles. iraq said civilians, including three children, were killed in missile and shelling attacks
also, the kuwaiti government and shipping agents said three iranian speedboats fired from several hundred yards away wednesday at bubiyan, a kuwaiti island off iraq, wounding two soldiers. iran denied it
iraqi warplanes wednesday raided the 259,447-ton cypriot supertanker anax chartered by iran and set it on fire 70 miles south of kharg, the executives reported earlier. it was the seventh strike reported in 11 days on a tanker owned or leased by iran
iranian retaliatory strikes are mainly carried out by speedboats, darting from the southern gulf island of abu musa. the iraqis usually attack by warplanes using radar-guided missiles in the northern gulf near iran's big kharg island oil terminal
the anax, also hit dec. 2, is part of a fleet that shuttles iranian oil from kharg to makeshift terminals in safer waters 450 miles down the waterway
no injuries were reported on the anax. a fire in the engine room was said to be under control, but lloyd's shipping intelligence unit in london described the ship as ``dead in the water.''
in reporting the tanker raid wednesday, iraq said its jets scored an ``accurate and effective hit'' on a ``large maritime target.''
shipping agents, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said iranian speedboats sped away from kuwait's bubiyan island after wednesday's attack, which appeared to be for propaganda purposes rather than to cause damage. the reports did not say what weapons were fired, but iranian speedboats normally carry machine guns and grenade launchers
bubiyan is about 20 miles from iraq's faw peninsula, part of which iran seized early in 1986
iran considers kuwait an ally of iraq in the war that began in september 1980. panel say</head>
the scarcity of blacks in the news media continues to hinder the nation's understanding of poverty in the united states, the head of a 1968 presidential commission on race relations said wednesday
there is no way, i think, that the white community can be informed regarding conditions in the black inner cities ... without the use, employment and advancement of blacks and other minorities as reporters, as editors and executives within the media,'' said david ginsburg, former executive director of the kerner commission appointed by president lyndon johnson
ginsburg and three other members of the commission took part in a seminar on minorities in the news media sponsored by the commercial appeal newspaper in memphis
the former commission members said racial divisions and poverty are as rampant in the united states today as when the kerner report was filed in 1968
we've actually begun to go backward,'' said former commissioner fred harris, a political science professor at the university of new mexico and former u.s. senator
the kerner commission was appointed by johnson following ghetto riots that erupted across america in the 1960s
in its report, the commission chastised the news media for failing to hire very many blacks or report fully on poverty in the central cities
they have not communicated to the majority of their audience _ which is white _ a sense of the degradation, misery, and hopelessness of living in the ghetto,'' the report said
ginsburg, a washington, d.c., attorney, said the news media are poised to repeat that mistake because they have not been sufficiently vigorous in hiring blacks and other minorities
the american association of newspaper editors has got it on their agenda, but they are not doing enough,'' he said
ginsburg offered statistics during a break in the meeting which said that minority hiring in the newsrooms of daily newspapers nationwide was 6.3 percent last year, while the minority population was about 25 percent, he said
ginsburg said during a panel discussion that while some news organizations have done well in hiring and promoting minorities, blacks have generally found it easier to be elected to government positions than to find jobs in the media
we're electing more blacks officials by far then we are employing blacks and other minorities in the newsrooms. to say this is unconscionable is almost an understatement,'' ginsburg said
former commission members katherine g. peden, president of an industrial development company in louisville, ky.; and james c. corman, a washington, d.c., lawyer, also participated in the meeting
british soldiers began returning home wednesday from the first major military exercise held by britain in the falkland islands since it freed them from argentine occupation in 1982
argentina and other latin american nations had fiercely denounced the reinforcement exercise, calling it aggressive. britain denied the allegation
the whole exercise has been worthwhile,'' maj. gen. neil carlier, commander of british forces on the remote south atlantic islands, said wednesday
we have proven that we can reinforce with speed, and maintain the integrity of the airfield.''
the deployment of nearly 1,000 troops in an exercise codenamed fire focus began march 7 and military officials said it ended with no injuries and no accidents
the maneuvers involved bringing troops, planes and equipment 8,000 miles from britain
on the island, 2,000 permanently stationed soldiers also took part in the exercise
britain freed the colony after a 74-day conflict which left 712 argentines, 255 britons and three falkland islands civilians dead
argentina, which is 325 miles west of the islands, claims the falklands are an inheritance from the days of spanish colonial rule and were stolen by britain, which has ruled them as a colony since 1833
a woman who feared to seek medical help as a tumor swelled in her abdomen eventually doubled her weight before having the 130-pound malignant growth removed, her doctor said wednesday
barbara louise jones, 55, is almost completely recovered from the december operation to remove the ovarian tumor, said fort worth surgeon dr. j.e. way
i went to the doctor monday and my blood pressure is up a little, but other than that, i'm doing fine,'' said miss jones, who is 5-foot-1{
in the three years preceeding her operation, miss jones said she at first thought she was gaining weight, then realized something was seriously wrong
but miss jones said she delayed seeing a doctor because she feared she would suffer the same type of painful death as her mother, who died of ovarian cancer in 1973. her maternal grandfather and an uncle also died of cancer
she was forced to retire early from her job as a school district purchasing agent last march. by july, she was unable to drive a car or move about without tiring
in november, she finally decided to seek medical attention and was referred to way. within two weeks, the tumor was removed
way said he had to cut a 4{-foot incision in miss jones' abdomen to remove the malignant tumor. he said most ovarian tumors are detected when they are 1-1{ inches
there's nothing typical about this,'' way said. ``you can find a lot of tumors that weigh 5 to 30 pounds, and those are humongous tumors.''
the 1988 guinness book of world records lists a 1905 case of a 328-pound ovarian cyst as the largest tumor in history. oddly enough, the woman in that case also was from texas; the reference book says she recovered fully
way said the tumor was fixed to the walls of miss jones' abdomen and stretched her skin almost paper-thin. he said what made the surgery difficult was keeping the taut skin from breaking and the tumor from rupturing
if the surgery had not been done, way said, more tumors could have developed, the tumor could have become so large it would have caused respiratory problems, it could have ruptured and spread cancer throughout her body, or it could have blocked her ability to digest food
he said that all of the cancerous growth was removed and although miss jones must have regular checkups for a recurrence, she is now in good health
miss jones said she would recommend that others who suspect they have cancer to see their physicians early
i realize now how dangerous it can be and could have been for me,'' she said
a commission probing the deaths of 14 hospital patients has accused two former state health ministers of corruption, misuse of power and other charges, according to a report submitted wednesday to state lawmakers
the report by chaktawar lentin, a retired bombay high court judge, also criticized what it called widespread corruption among government officials responsible for overseeing health care and the pharmaceutical industry
lentin, whose report was submitted to the maharashtra state assembly wednesday by the current state health minister, ram meghe, recommended criminal investigations of bhai sawant and baliram hiray, two former health ministers
lentin's report said the two were ``guilty of corruption, misuse of ministerial power and authority, dereliction of duty and (were) unfit to hold a ministerial post.''
sawant told the assembly he denied the allegations
meghe announced that inquiries would be held
the state government set up the commission following the deaths of 14 patients at the j.j. hospital in bombay after they were given contaminated glycerine in january and february 1986
lentin's report was completed nearly four months ago but his findings were not made public until this week
critics have charged that the state government's decision not to release the report until wednesday encouraged slipshod work in india's drug companies
lentin said that the medication linked to the deaths of the 14 hospital patients had been mixed with the lethal diethylene glycol. it was manufactured at the alpana pharma company located in nanded, a town in maharashtra
the commission also said it found corruption among senior officials of the government's food and drug administration. the report said that inquiries should be held into the behavior of four senior officials of the agency
the entire structure of the (agency) has been corroded by rampant and unabashed corruption, indiscipline, naked favoritism, crude nepotism and gross ministerial interference at every stage and a sense of non-accountability all around,'' lentin said in his report
the state government announced the suspension of four doctors at the j.j. hospital on recommendation of the commission. charges will also be filed against four drug manufacturing companies
premier-designate ciriaco de mita told leaders of his christian democratic party on wednesday he is close to agreement with socialist leader bettino craxi on forming a government
it would be italy's 48th government since world war ii
the forecast is by next week the cabinet will be formed,'' said christian democratic official francesco d'onofrio, who was at the meeting
president francesco cossiga tapped de mita after premer giovanni goria, also a christian democrat, resigned march 11. many consider de mita, the leader of the dominant christian democrats, the most powerful politician in italy
still, he has been forced to negotiate his program point by point with craxi, who heads the second largest party in the proposed coalition of christian democrats, socialists, republicans, social democrats and liberals
de mita told party leaders wednesday that agreement was near on most issues that must be resolved to win approval from the proposed coalition parties, d'onofrio said. the premier-designate said that one difficulty still to be overcome was distribution of cabinet posts, d'onofrio reported
he said de mita also needs one important concession from his own party _ permission to remain party leader for another year
defections by christian democrats in secret votes in parliament hindered goria's ability to govern from the beginning
customs authorities said they seized 198 pounds of colombian cocaine with a street value of about $22 million wednesday and arrested two men
a customs and excise spokesman, who under british practice refused to be identified, said it was the second largest haul of cocaine in britain
earlier, customs said it seized two tons of marijuana, worth about $5.6 million, at tilbury docks in east london from a container ship that came from port harcourt, nigeria
six men and a woman were charged wednesday with smuggling the marijuana, which customs said was hidden in a cargo of compressed rubber bales. initial discoveries of the cache were made more than two weeks ago
customs agents from london's heathrow airport made the cocaine haul but officials refused to give details except to say the two arrests were in surrey, a county neighboring london
last november, customs found 457 pounds of cocaine worth about $90 million in a container on a ship at southampton. with house passage of aid bill, contra leader signals acquiescence. picks up 22nd graf pvs, most nicaraguans ...</note>
a contra radio station said wednesday the u.s.-backed rebels had attacked sandinista soldiers, violating a truce days before a formal 60-day cease-fire was set to go into effect
government and rebel representatives ended two days of technical meetings tuesday night by agreeing to set up five zones in which the rebels were to gather on friday, the start of the cease-fire
an agreement signed last week by the leftist sandinista government and the contras called for the cease-fire in an effort to end more than six years of war
both sides declared a truce march 21, the start of the unprecedented talks that produced the fragile peace agreement. but reports reaching the capital this week indicated several violations by the contras
a transcript of a broadcast wednesday by the rebel's clandestine radio september 15 said: ``nicaraguan resistance commandos cause casualties to the pro-soviet army.''
it was not clear how the reported violations would affect peace talks
according to the transcript, the honduras-based radio station reported three attacks by contra troops on government soldiers in zelaya province along the caribbean coast and in northern matagalpa province. it did not say when the raids took place
the defense ministry said it had no reports of combat. but the pro-sandinista newspaper el nuevo diario quoted unidentified military sources as saying contra rebels killed four civilians and kidnapped two saturday in central chontales province
there also have been reports that renegade rebels opposed to the cease-fire agreement are staging attacks
a communique at the end of technical talks held monday and tuesday in the southern border town of sapoa said the two sides had agreed in general terms on the size and location of the cease-fire zones
two zones will be in the northern part of the country, two on the caribbean coast and one in the south, it said. their exact locations were not disclosed
last week's peace pact does not mention the laying down of arms, an issue that will likely be discussed in the next technical meeting, set for april 5, or discussions scheduled for april 6 in managua between high-ranking sandinista and contra leaders
on monday, contra commander diogenes hernandez membreno, known as fernando, vowed that the combatants would not put down their arms ``until nicaragua is a democracy.''
under the peace agreement, the sandinistas will grant freedom of expression, release political prisoners and allow rebel leaders to take part in national talks. the contras, in turn, agreed to gather in the cease-fire zones and accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization, such as the international red cross
in washington, the house if representatives overwhelmingly approved a $48 million package of humanitarian aid wednesday for the contras and for children injured in the fighting
the bill was portrayed as a gesture of u.s. support for the temporary truce and for continuing talks aimed at achieving a long-term end to hostilities
u.s. aid to the contras ended feb. 29
in miami, the chief contra military field commander, col. enrique bermudez, told reporters he supports the truce agreement and will comply with it. he has expressed reservations, saying he doesn't trust the sandinistas, but he said wednesday his concerns do not mean he opposes contra leadership on the issue
the transcript of the rebel radio broadcast wednesday cautioned contra combatants that agents of the ``communist sandinista dictatorship'' were telling troops the war had ended and they should put down their arms
the arms of the commandos of liberty are the only guarantee for the nicaraguan people, and these (arms) will never be turned in while nicaragua is not a free and just democracy,'' it said
most nicaraguans turned their thoughts away from the war and began vacations to mark holy week. many looked for gasoline, which is in short supply, to fuel their trips to the pacific coastal beaches
banks, government offices, stores and most restaurants closed on wednesday
la prensa, the opposition newspaper, took the rest of the week off, citing a shortage of soviet-supplied newsprint. the two government papers were closed until monday
the chairman of harrods department store, where bluebloods browse, played hired helper for a day wednesday, slicing meat at the butcher's counter
other executives joined mohamed al-fayed in serving customers, because the boss believes ``everyone has to feel that the customer comes first, always first.''
the egyptian entrepreneur and his two brothers bought the huge store in fasionable knightsbridge three years ago
people have to feel that you are just like them, not the man who owns the place,'' said al-fayed, who wore a straw hat with his cleaver wednesday
executives ``should not just sit there like gods, they should experience the contact with the customer,'' he said
he is a ``practical man,'' al-fayed said, and enjoyed working at the meat counter. he helped out for a time in fruit department too, accompanied by a bodyguard
harrods was founded by charles harrod in 1849. al-fayed began a $320 million restoration in 1987 that will take 3{ years. he and his brothers bought harrods and the parent house of fraser plc for $984 million in march 1985
marxist rebels raided two farm cooperatives operated by peasants, killing a manager at each operation and destroying agriculture equipment, police said wednesday
about 30 guerrillas of the leftist shining path movement attacked a sugar cane and fruit farm tuesday in the andes foothills, about 70 miles north of lima, police said. on monday, rebels raided a grain and cattle operation near huancayo, about 130 miles east of lima
the rebels accused the manager of each farm of supporting the government and shot and killed them, police said. the rebels blew up trucks and tractors before withdrawing, police said
the cooperatives are among dozens organized by the government and operated by peasants. rebels have repeatedly attacked such farms in an effort to derail government efforts to improve peru's agricultural system
the mao-inspired shining path, which seeks to install a marxist regime, launched its insurgency in the impoverished rural highlands nearly eight years ago. the government says more than 10,000 people, mainly mountain peasants, have been killed in the violence
one nephew of mayor w. wilson goode remained in serious condition wednesday with leg wounds and another continued refusing to cooperate with police in a separate shooting, authorities said
james goode, 30, was shot monday night during a robbery in a house that neighbors said is a drug users' hangout, according to police. his cousin arnold goode, 26, was shot in the left hand last week outside a gas station, police said
james goode remained in serious but stable condition wednesday at the misericordia division of mercy catholic medical center, according to the ellen karasik, the hospital's director of communications
police said he was robbed of about $90
officers arrived to find 59-year-old thomas fuller, who lives at the house, at the door and goode lying on the floor. fuller said he was upstairs when the shooting occurred, and he rushed down in time to see a man with a shotgun run out the door, according to police
police said wednesday they did not know why goode was in the house
lt. joseph witte said police had not confirmed neighbors' statements about drugs at the house
the only thing we have is what the neighbors say it is,'' he said
police have issued a warrant for anthony stokes, charging him with aggravated assault, simple assault, burglary and robbery. ``i believe he was identified by a witness in the house,'' witte said
meanwhile, arnold goode continued to refuse to cooperate in the investigation of his shooting march 22, witte said
after the shooting, goode checked into the presbyterian-university of pennsylvania medical center with a gunshot wound to his left hand but left abruptly before the consultation ended
the mayor has acknowledged that both men are his nephews but has refused further comment
pe-pe, the father of mexico's beloved panda family, was put under medical observation after two tumors were found, the director of the chapultepec zoo said wednesday
it is a matter of two inflamed tumors, but we have just about discounted the idea that it could be cancer,'' maria elena hoyo said
china gave pe-pe and his mate, ying-ying, to mexico in september 1975. they have four surviving offspring by natural conception, the largest such panda family outside of china
ms. hoyo said a general examination is planned april 11 or 12 to determine what caused the tumors
she said the 13-year-old panda weighs 249 pounds, down from his usual 275 to 285 pounds. pandas have a life expectancy of about 20 years
amnesty international said wednesday that british soldiers who killed three unarmed ira members on gibraltar may have deliberately avoided capturing them, killing one guerrilla who lay wounded on the ground
the london-based human rights group said it is investigating the killings and has written prime minister margaret thatcher asking for an explanation of what happened
the group said ``there are a number of circumstances which suggest that the three were deliberately targeted by the security forces and killed without challenge, and that no attempt had been made to capture them.''
the letter to mrs. thatcher said it ``was the government's responsibility to provide a full and public account of the circumstances surrounding this incident,'' an amnesty statement said
british security forces shot the three march 6 as they walked toward the spanish border on the british island colony. britain said the irish republican army members planned to plant a bomb on gibraltar
the shooting aggravated british-irish relations and was followed by an upsurge of violence in the british province of northern ireland
at the burial of the guerrillas march 16, a protestant gunman armed with grenades killed three people and injured 68. at the funeral three days later for one of those victims, a mob attacked and killed two british soldiers who drove into the area
amnesty said the three guerrillas were watched for weeks while they allegedly planned a bombing attack but no attempt was made to arrest them during this period
the statement quoted witnesses as saying the three were shot without warning and ``that at least one of the victims, having fallen to the ground after an initial gunshot, was shot several times while lying helpless and incapacitated.''
it noted that the government rejected demands for an inquiry into the shootings, despite such calls by lawmakers
amnesty also said it intends to send observers to the inquest into the deaths, expected to be held in gibraltar in may
the mainly roman catholic irish republican army is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland. it wants to unite the predominantly protestant province with the mainly catholic republic of ireland
since sectarian and political violence flared in northern ireland in 1969, 391 british soldiers and 172 members of the ulster defense regiment, a locally recruited militia, have been killed there. self-defense</head> hotline, questioning suspect who says he killed mother bear in self-defense, no charges filed yet. no pickup.</note>
wildlife officials who found three ``cold, frightened'' abandoned black bear cubs in a telephone booth said wednesday they're questioning a suspect who claims he fatally shot the bears' mother in self-defense
the mother's head and claws were found in a bay city-area residence tuesday night after department of natural resources officials received a tip on its toll-free poaching hotline, said lt. jay larson of the department's mio office
he's claiming it was self-defense,'' larson said of the suspect, whom he would not identify. ``he's claiming he was out rabbit hunting and the bear attacked him.''
the suspect on wednesday led wildlife officials to the bear's carcass in a swamp in the au sable state forest in crawford county, in the northern lower peninsula
mark lutz, a state conservation officer, rescued the cubs last week after an anonymous caller said he had found them in a trash container in rural crawford county. the man said he would leave them in a telephone booth from where he was calling, 18 miles east of grayling
the caller was gone when lutz arrived. but the cubs, two males and one female about 2 months old, were in a milk crate wrapped in canvas
they were cuddled up, cold, frightened and wet,'' lutz said
the cubs have been turned over to the wildlife recovery association in midland, which will attempt to find a permanent home for the bears, probably in zoos. the past week of handling by humans probably has left them unable to return to the wild, said caretaker barb rogers
larson said it was unclear who placed the original anonymous call to the department, but guesses it may have been one of three people who were in the rabbit hunting party
the suspect is not being held and no charges have been filed, but there may be charges filed later, larson said
before the animals were turned over to the wildlife recovery association, lutz and his wife, june, cared for them at their grayling home
the cubs joined the lutzes' 9-week-old daughter in being bottle-fed, mrs. lutz said. the couple carefully let their 3{-year-old daughter and visitors to the house watch and pet the 7-pound animals
they had a cute little growl,'' mrs. lutz said, but added: ``they had pretty good claws on them already. they were teething, like a puppy.''
within two years, the bears will weigh 200 to 300 pounds. says</head>
a former u.s. marine who allegedly led a coup attempt against president samuel doe has killed himself, the government said wednesday, and 13 other people have been charged with treason
government spokesman emmanuel bowier said joseph robert kaipaye committed suicide in view of police, but he did not say how. unconfirmed reports said kaipaye jumped from a sixth-floor window of the executive mansion
officials said kaipaye was the purported leader of a plot to assassinate doe and take over the government, but no details about him were given, including his birthplace and his military service
twelve people were arrested on march 22, including gabriel kpolleh, leader of the banned opposition liberia unification party, and another alleged ploter later turned himself in to police, bowier said
he said three more people were arrested later and six men remained at large, including a captain and two army sergeants
police confiscated m-16 rifles, uzi submachine guns, hand grenades an m-1 rifle and military uniforms, bowier said
the government said the plotters met march 16 to plan doe's assassination and the overthrow of his government. it said they planned to display doe's body on national television
bowier said none of those apprehended was executed. he said only that kaipaye committed suicide, in the presence of another defendant, after talking with his wife and a friend
bowier said some of the accused people were cooperating in the police investigation
doe came to power in a bloody april 1980 coup and has been the target of several assassination attempts. an attempted coup on nov. 12, 1985, resulted in more than 600 deaths and the destruction of the village of the ringleader, former brig. gen thomas quiwonkpa, who was killed in the attempt. with comment from mecham, picking up 6th graf pvs, `but democratic...'.</note>
the arizona senate dismissed the most serious of three impeachment charges against gov. evan mecham on wednesday and moved toward considering a verdict on the two charges already heard
the vote was a surprise to most involved, including the senator who made the motion, republican wayne stump, who had predicted it would get no more than three votes
several of those who voted to dismiss said they were doing so in order to avoid prejudicing mecham's upcoming criminal trial on the charge that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan. that would have been the subject of evidence on the third impeachment charge and stump said it would have put the governor in ``quasi-double jeopardy.''
the motion passed on a simple majority with 16 of those present voting in favor and 12 voting no. two senators were absent
mecham refused to comment directly on the trial, saying it would be ``inappropriate.'' but in an upbeat speech to republican precinct committeemen a few hours after the senate vote, he said he was confident that he would not be removed from office
i can get along with the legislature an let bygones be bygones as far as i'm concerned and we can work together,'' mecham said. ``i'm here to serve the people of arizona.''
those who voted yes to dropping the third impeachment count included all 11 senate democrats, leading to speculation that the democrats believe they have enough votes to oust the republican governor from office without hearing the third count
but democratic sen. peter rios disputed the theory, saying he had other reasons for voting as he did
i think this needs to be brought to a conclusion,'' he said of the 5-week-old impeachment trial, ``and this is my view of one way to bring it to a conclusion.''
it would take a two-thirds senate vote to remove mecham. if he is convicted, senators could then take another vote and bar him from ever holding office again. in his criminal trial, he faces a potential maximum sentence of 22 years in prison if convicted
the senate vote was to dismiss the third count ``with prejudice,'' meaning the senators could not decide to change their minds and reinstate the charge at a later date
mecham's lawyers, jerris leonard and fred craft, were jubilant as they left the senate. leonard said he would tell mecham: ``governor _ one down and two to go!''
we should not put gov. mecham or any other person in double jeopardy,'' said democrat jones osborn of yuma
before the vote, other senators had urged putting the third charge in abeyance while they vote on the first two, which allege that mecham misused $80,000 from a protocol fund and obstructed and investigation of an alleged death threat by a staff member
if the governor is exonerated, he ought to know that so he can go on to other things,'' said democrat carolyn walker. ``if he is convicted, the state ought not to have to go through the agony of this trial a day longer.''
the governor's trial on felony charges related to the $350,000 campaign loan begins april 21 in maricopa county superior court. mecham, 63, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, also faces a recall election may 17
the senate's action cleared the way for final arguments to begin on the two remaining counts originally lodged by the house or representatives. arizona supreme court chief justice frank x. gordon told senators to return thursday to discuss proposed legal instructions. he said the trial would then recess until monday when arguments would be heard
the surprise decision came after the senators heard rebuttal prosecution testimony on the second of the three charges against the governor, then met in secret for nearly an hour to discuss whether to continue with the third charge or take a shortcut
the secret session was held over objections from republican sen. peter kay who said he felt the public was entitled to hear debate on such a crucial issue
in her rebuttal testimony, a former bookkeeper for mecham's car dealership accused mecham's son dennis of lying under oath
i felt the truth should be known,'' said lee christman, who portrayed mecham pontiac as plagued with unpaid bills in july 1987, when the governor took a disputed $80,000 loan from a protocol fund
she said she came forward to testify ``when i heard dennis lie.''
the first allegation about which the senate heard testimony was that mecham tried to thwart an investigation into an alleged death threat by a staff member
mecham says his car dealership didn't need the $80,000 loan from the protocol fund and his son testified last week that the car dealership in suburban glendale was in glowing financial health at the time
the prosecution says mecham pontiac needed money desperately, and the governor misused state funds to get it. the defense contends the money was private
dennis mecham announced tuesday that the dealership has been sold because of plummeting sales. he blamed bad publicity engendered by his father's political battles
under questioning by prosecutor william french, ms. christman testified that mecham pontiac needed at least $497,000 in july just to pay its bills
we had trouble through may and june,'' she said. ``it became critical that funds had to be brought in.''
defense attorney jerris leonard, trying to paint ms. christman as a disgruntled fired employee, noted that she had contacted prosecutors before she was subpoenaed to testify
you took the effort to contact them?'' asked leonard
yes, when i heard dennis lie,'' she said
she explained later that she felt the younger mecham improperly blamed her for bookkeeping problems she had inherited from a former employee. her testimony also indicated that dennis mecham had lied about the business' financial shape and his father's motivation for borrowing the funds
mecham, a first-term republican, is accused of misusing the funds raised by his inaugural committee. he has said he made the $80,000 loan only because he wanted to increase the fund by paying higher interest than it was getting at the bank
he also testified he was aware of no particular financial problems at mecham pontiac and didn't keep up with the business regularly after his son took over as general manager in 1986
a man turned down for residency at a apartment because of his blindness says he'll drop a discrimination complaint now that he's been accepted as a tenant
larry tomecek, 35, says he'll move within a few weeks into a $350-per-month apartment at a condominium building at deerfield beach
these people said they are sorry, that they made a mistake,'' he said tuesday at a news conference at his attorney's office here. ``i accept their apology.''
tomecek has lived with his parents near delray beach since the condo directors rejected his application on feb. 22, saying they feared that he might cause a fire or trip on stairs and that they might be sued
tomecek's discrimination claim in broward county also will be dropped as soon as the keswick b condominium association picks up moving costs for his personal belongings, which are in storage, said larry corman, tomecek's attorney
i'm glad it ends on a happy note,'' said morris barnett, one of five keswick b directors. ``we want to help him and everything. it should have never happened, and i'm glad it's straightened out. we want to get a truck and move the stuff in for him.''
u.n. talks on a cease-fire in the persian gulf war hit a snag tuesday as iran put off sending an envoy to new york as promised
talks between secretary-general javier perez de cuellar and a high-level iranian official, scheduled for wednesday and thursday, were delayed indefinitely at iran's request, u.n. officials said. no reason was given
iraq was to send an envoy next monday and tuesday, but the postponement and iranian charges of chemical warfare by baghdad were expected to delay, if not scuttle, the discussions
perez de cuellar had invited both iran and iraq to send representatives for the fourth round of talks since the security council adopted a cease-fire resolution last july 20. he has expressed frustration at the delay in putting a truce into effect
iran's envoy was expected to be the deputy foreign minister, mohammad larijani. iraq had not named a representative
diplomats were pessimistic about a breakthrough and halt to the 7{-year-old conflict. they cited a bitter iraqi letter to perez de cuellar on monday and his own sharp retort, and an increase in gulf warfare
iraqi foreign minister tariq azia on monday sent a letter attacking the secretary-general for allegedly siding with iran. the u.n. chief retorted tuesday that iraqi charges were out of place
the united states has been pushing for an arms embargo against iran to force the tehran government to comply with the cease-fire
the diplomatic situation has been complicated by reports of iraqi use of chemical weapons. iran charged that more than 5,000 people, mostly iraqi kurds, were killed and 7,000 injured in chemical weapons attacks earlier this month. it said the worst-hit area was territory in iraq that had been captured by iran. unborn baby</head>
a woman who a prosecutor said had an ``obsession to have a child'' was found guilty but mentally ill tuesday of first-degree murder in the death of a pregnant woman who was strangled and her baby crudely cut from her womb
the state district court jury also found darci pierce guilty but mentally ill of kidnapping and child abuse charges. the seven-man, five-woman jury returned the verdicts after about six hours of deliberations over two days
mrs. pierce, 20, had pleaded innocent by reason of insanity in the july 23, 1987, death of cindy lynn ray, 23, who was 8{ months pregnant
authorities said mrs. ray was abducted from the parking lot of a kirtland air force base health clinic and was driven to the manzano mountains east of albuquerque, where she was strangled and a key was used to cut her unborn bay from her body. the baby survived
mrs. pierce was arrested after she went to an albuquerque hospital with a newborn girl and doctors determined she had not given birth
both mrs. pierce and the victim were married to airmen at the kirtland base
district judge richard traub set sentencing for april 29. mrs. pierce could receive life imprisonment on the murder conviction, an additional 18 years on the kidnapping charge and 18 months on the child-abuse charge
in his closing arguments monday, assistant district attorney harry zimmerman said the evidence showed mrs. pierce had planned her actions and knew what she was doing
zimmerman said mrs. pierce elected to take a baby ``to satisfy her obsession to have a child and, perhaps more important, to save her marriage.''
but defense attorney john bogren, a public defender, told jurors that witnesses during the trial testified mrs. pierce suffered from a mental illness and multiple personality disorder
it is a bizarre crime. it deserves a bizarre explanation,'' bogren said
under state law, a jury finding of guilty but mentally ill means the person does not meet the legal tests for insanity but had a substantial mental disorder that impaired judgment at the time of the crime
the defendant is subject to standard sentences but the state corrections department is required to provide counseling and treatment ``as it deems necessary.''
bogren said an appeal will be filed
mrs. ray's husband, samuel, returned to his home state of utah with the infant girl, named amelia, and her 2-year-old brother
veterans groups tuesday praised a state supreme court decision overturning the death sentence of a killer of two young girls because testimony about his combat trauma in vietnam was barred
the news from california is very welcome,'' barry kasinitz, spokesman for the 38,000-member vietnam veterans of america, said hearing of phillip lucero's successful appeal
post-traumatic stress disorder is in fact curable in many instances,'' kasinitz said. ``the biggest problem with the death penalty is that it's the only penalty that's not reversible.''
just two weeks ago, another vietnam veteran, wayne felde, died in louisiana's electric chair after arguing unsuccessfully that flashbacks from vietnam drove him to murder
i am appalled that the american people are willing to execute vietnam veterans who may be imprisoned through no fault of their own,'' said veterans activist george gorman of redondo beach, calif., who receives disability benefits for post-vietnam trauma. ``i consider that an act of vengeance and blood lust.''
the seven justices unanimously reversed lucero's death sentence monday, saying potentially favorable evidence, some of it related to his reaction to vietnam, was excluded from the penalty phase of his trial
the court upheld the conviction of lucero, 42, for murdering neighbor girls ages 7 and 10 in yucaipa in april 1980. lucero's sentence will not automatically revert to the alternative of life without possibility of parole, however, because the court voted 6-1 not to rule out a new penalty trial
prosecutor john kochis of san bernardino county said his office would review the ruling and check availability of witnesses from the 1981 trial before deciding whether to seek a new sentencing trial
justice stanley mosk, the lone dissenter who wanted the court to order a life sentence for lucero, said he did not mean to countenance violence by veterans
i do believe, however, that this defendant deserves compassion from a society that in the first instance taught him to kill,'' mosk said
california is not among the several states that have laws explicitly allowing a defense based on post-vietnam stress, said michael satris, lucero's lawyer
lucero spent 7{ years in the army, much of it in vietnam, after lying about his age and enlisting at 16. a psychiatrist testified that he had the symptoms of post-traumatic stress _ emotional isolation, sleep disturbance, loss of memory and concentration, ``survivor guilt,'' and recurrent flashbacks
on the day of the killings, the psychiatrist said, lucero, already under stress from marital problems, may have suffered flashbacks triggered by the cackling of a goose and the sound of police helicopters searching for the girls
the psychiatrist was allowed to testify, but was attacked by the prosecution as a ``hired gun.'' the court said a counselor from a veterans administration hospital, who was prepared to testify that lucero was probably driven by post-vietnam trauma, might have been more persuasive but was not allowed to testify
republican bob dole, who for one winter week looked like a good bet for the republican presidential nomination, has ended his quest for the white house as much the victim of his own campaign's shortcomings as of george bush's success
my friends know that i am a fighter; i don't like to lose,'' the senate republican leader said in bowing to the inevitable tuesday. ``i have been beaten before, and no doubt will be again. but i have never been defeated and never will be.''
in an ad-libbed addition to his prepared speech, dole promised to do ``all i can for our nominee, george bush.''
bush, with an insurmountable delegate lead, called dole while campaigning in wisconsin to thank him for a ``very generous statement.'' he added, ``it's been a hard-fought campaign and i respect the tenacity of bob dole.''  
the house armed services committee has voted to make some of the navy's most sophisticated technology available to japan to help defend western pacific seas against the soviet union
the decision came tuesday as the democratic-controlled panel voted 48-4 approval of a bill authorizing the pentagon to spend $299 billion in the fiscal year starting oct. 1
the committee also cut president reagan's request for star wars anti-missile spending and his plan to put multiple-warhead mx missiles on western railroads
labor unions have suffered their first major loss in the senate since democrats gained a majority in the 1986 election, as senators refused to guarantee warnings to workers facing on-the-job exposure to toxic chemicals
the senate's rejection on tuesday of a bill to require notice for workers exposed to carcinogens and other job hazards ended a string of union victories this congressional session. in earlier industry-labor showdowns, the senate had approved measures to ban most uses of lie detector tests and require advance notice of plant closings
sens. howard metzenbaum, d-ohio, and edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chief sponsors of the worker notice bill, could get only 42 of the 60 votes needed to cut off an eight-day filibuster led by sen. orrin hatch, r-utah
the roman catholic church joined opposition leaders calling for the resignation of gen. manuel antonio noriega, but the strongman remained defiant, saying he will not yield to u.s. aggression
the church, which called for noriega's resignation on tuesday, also said it has made preliminary contacts with the strongman and his opposition in a mediation effort aimed at resolving panama's crisis
the general, commander of the 15,000-strong defense forces and the power behind the civilian government, said in a speech tuesday night to a solidarity with panama conference in panama city that he has no intention of resigning
contra and sandinista negotiators agreed on the cease-fire areas where rebels will begin gathering friday, and president daniel ortega urged the united states to discuss normalizing relations with nicaragua
the negotiators identified the cease-fire zones tuesday at the end of two days of talks in the southern outpost of sapoa, but failed to resolve other crucial issues, including when the contra rebels will lay down their arms
citing the cease-fire accord signed last week by sandinista and contra rebel leaders, ortega said in a speech tuesday the united states should begin negotiating a return to normal relations with his leftist government
a broken romance, not political assassination, was the motive behind the shotgun killing of an indian judicial candidate by a lumbee indian who later committed suicide, a sheriff says
another indian, sandy gordon chavis, 24, was charged with first-degree murder tuesday as an accomplice in the slaying of julian pierce, a popular, 42-year-old legal services lawyer who was running for superior court judge in racially troubled robeson county
county sheriff hubert stone, who had initially called pierce's killing an assassination, said a friend of chavis, john anderson goins, 24, had been having problems with his girlfriend, whose mother was pierce's fiancee. news digest: wash _ contra aid; wash _ arms treaty; wash _ justice-resignations; beit sahur, occupied west bank _ israel; baton rouge, la. _ swaggart; undated _ political rdp; panama city, panama _ panama; kuwait _ gulf rdp.</note>
a contra radio station said wednesday the u.s.-backed rebels had attacked sandinista soldiers, violating a truce days before a formal 60-day cease-fire was set to go into effect
government and rebel representatives ended two days of technical meetings tuesday night by agreeing to set up five zones in which the rebels were to gather on friday, the start of the cease-fire
an agreement signed last week by the leftist sandinista government and the contras called for the cease-fire in an effort to end more than six years of war
president reagan said he sent 3,200 crack u.s. troops because honduras was in trouble, but reports of border fighting with nicaragua were vague and the americans had orders to stay out of it
reagan said he was supporting an ally and warning the sandinistas. skeptics in washington and tegucigalpa said the purpose was to drum up aid for nicaraguan rebels, which congress had rejected
arrival of the first american troops march 17 coincided with reports from washington that nicaragua had built up a force of 4,500 troops in the bocay border region
the army on wednesday padlocked the arab-owned palestine press service, cutting off a key source of information in a campaign to curtail media coverage of arab unrest in the occupied territories
the news service, which reports on activities in the west bank and gaza stip, was ordered closed for six months
we were just too efficient. that's what we got closed down for,'' reporter john mellor told the associated press
a judge on wednesday lifted a ban prohibiting a woman from obtaining an abortion despite her estranged husband's wishes, but the utah court of appeals quickly issued its own restraining order halting an abortion
district judge david s. young ruled that although michael reynolds may have the right to be consulted about any abortion involving his estranged wife, jennifer, mrs. reynolds had the ultimate authority over whether to carry the fetus to term
within an hour of young's ruling, the appeals court scheduled a monday hearing to consider reynolds' appeal
an adviser to jesse jackson said wednesday he detected the beginnings of an anonymous ``stop jackson'' movement in the democratic party, and a southern party chairman acknowledged there is ``an awful lot of apprehension out there'' about the possibility of jackson's nomination
democratic establishment leaders gathered here with jackson, and after that meeting, jackson supporter rep. mickey leland of texas said he understood an effort to stop jackson was afoot
leland said he did not know who was behind the attempt, and said he knew of no party leaders joining such a movement. but he said it did not appear to be confined to southern white democrats
jesse jackson is running for president on a liberal platform he calls ``the opposite of reaganomics'' _ raising taxes on the rich, slashing pentagon spending, creating a national health program for all, doubling the budget for education and raising the minimum wage
jackson, who has finished first or second in most of the democratic presidential primaries and caucuses and is close behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the delegate chase, has cast himself as the candidate of the working class, farmers, the jobless, the hungry, the homeless and others who have not prospered in the reagan years
economic violence haunts the lives of most americans,'' jackson said in a policy paper
reducing class size in public schools is very expensive and likely a ``a waste of money and effort'' for those seeking improved student achievement, according to a study issued wednesday by the department of education
there now are 24 pupils in the typical public elementary school classroom, down from 30 in 1961. past research has indicated classes would have to be reduced to 15 students to have any appreciable impact on student impact, the study said
but that would cost upwards of $69 billion and require the hiring of 1 million new teachers at a time when schools already are having difficulty filling faculty vacancies, according to tommy m. tomlinson of the department's office of educational research and improvement
ronald james says he drove with a radar detector in his car for years without an accident. but his insurance company dropped him anyway and eventually hit a roadblock that forced it to restore his coverage
the maryland insurance commissioner two weeks ago, citing data that drivers like james are no more likely to crash than drivers who don't carry radar detectors, threw out geico corp.'s rule against underwriting drivers who own radar detectors
it was under that rule that geico canceled james' policy, but a trade association called radar won him reinstatement and filed a complaint with state officials
james and suzy are having a tiff. and to the delight of gossip-loving new yorkers, they're having it out in public _ in the columns they write for new york newsday and the new york post
it began last week, when james _ that's james revson, newsday's new society columnist _ wrote that he felt ``cheated and used'' by suzy, who wrote in the post about a party she did not attend
what specifically bothered revson (one of the revsons, of revlon cosmetics fame) was that suzy mentioned 32 people who supposedly were at the party, but only 12 of whom actually showed up
there are at least four men in new york prisons who have something in common with a new inmate, robert chambers: they all killed somebody in new york city on aug. 26, 1986
but the similarities end there. unlike the killer of jennifer levin, they are serving their time in obscurity. no camera-wielding mobs hounded them when they surrendered, no tabloids splashed their names in headlines
all four cases were in the impoverished south bronx, uptown from the grassy spot in central park where the former prep school student killed miss levin, from the bar on manhattan's east side patronized by chambers, miss levin and other affluent young people
for many years, french filmmaker louis malle didn't think he wanted to deal with a very traumatic memory of his childhood
it was like my secret, something i didn't want to talk about, even less so make a film about,'' he said. ``but it stuck with me so vividly that 10 years ago i decided to give it a try.''
the result of his painful recollection is ``au revoir les enfants'' (``goodbye, children''), one of the five nominees for the academy award for best foreign language film of 1987
au revoir les enfants'' epitomizes the kind of films entered this year in oscar's foreign-language category. most of the movies are highly personal, either in the subject matter or the years of devotion given to the project by the filmmaker. the other nominees are:
_ ``babette's feast'' (denmark), based on a short story by isak dinesen, tells of two unmarried and very pious sisters who take a french political refugee, babette, into their home in norway in return for housekeeping. she later repays them with her art: the feast. the director, gabriel axel, spent 14 years trying to get his movie made
_ ``course completed'' (spain), about a depressed writer who escapes to the seashore after a failure and is followed by an old flame and his bothersome son. the film was co-written, produced and directed by jose luis garcia
_ ``the family'' (italy), an epic history of 80 years in the life of a roman family, told with loving care by ettore scola (``la bal'')
_ ``pathfinder'' (norway), written and directed by nils gaup, a tale of revenge by a lapp boy whose family is killed in a raid
malle based ``au revoir les enfants'' on his experience as a boy of 11 during the german occupation of france. his well-to-do paris family sent him to the safety of a catholic boarding school in fontainebleau. there he became friends with a brilliant jewish boy who was being hidden from the gestapo by a priest. the ruse was uncovered, and three jewish boys as well as the head priest were sent to their deaths in concentration camps
i began writing notes when i was making a film of the same period, `lacombe lucien' (1974),'' malle remarked in an interview. ``i decided there were little things there, but not necessarily a film
after i had been working in america a few years, all those things came back, maybe because i was far from home. my childhood returned so strongly that i tried to put it into a screenplay
maybe i decided to make peace with (my memories),'' he said. ``also i reached the point that i thought i should give it away, that it was interesting enough to make it into a film so other people could share it with me
from that point i was really exhilarated and excited. i wasn't sure i would make a good film, but i was sure the material was really strong. once i had the first draft of the screenplay, i started preproduction and i worked with great enthusiasm. it was like a deliverance in a way.''
malle told his associates from the beginning that he would not make the film unless he found two remarkable children for the leading roles because they had to carry the whole movie. after interviewing hundreds of parisian boys over a five-month period, he found his actors: gaspard manesse and raphael pejto, both inexperienced in film work
axel is a danish director who has divided his career between his native land and france. he became obsessed with a dinesen story about a woman who escaped a 19th-century french revolution to serve as cook for a pair of devout spinsters in a remote danish village. formerly a world-class chef, the refugee (stephane audran) devotes her entire winnings in a lottery to a feast in honor of the spinsters' late minister-father
fourteen years ago when i tried to make the film, the french said, `ok,' the danes said, `no,''' recalled axel, who needed the backing of both countries. ``i went from producer to producer to producer, and they said, `you can't make a film with no story, no action, no dialogue.' they did not see the possibilities.''
axel needed between $2.5 million and $3 million to make ``babette's feast.'' he could understand the danish reluctance: ``there are only 5 million people in denmark, and even if every one of them went to the movie, it would not be enough to show a profit.''
the danish film institute finally provided 75 percent of the budget. with rave reviews and the academy nomination, the investment seems secure
following his success with ``babette's feast,'' axel hopes to film a project he has nurtured for 20 years: a version of ``hamlet'' based on the earliest histories of the saga from which shakespeare borrowed his plot
the histories tell of the prince returning to denmark to kill the uncle who murdered the king,'' axel said. ``but the original has a happy ending. hamlet marries ophelia, and they live happily ever after.''
ziad rahbani has put the chaos and insanity of war-battered beirut to music in an attempt to blend arabic music and jazz into a new form
he calls it ``oriental jazz,'' describing it as ``something like a hamburger that tastes of felafel,'' a popular arab snack made of spicy minced chickpeas and beans
the son of lebanon's most popular singer, fairouz, rahbani has come under fire from arab traditionalists for his pioneering efforts to bridge the gap between arab and western culture with music
just as automobiles replaced donkeys, traditional music must develop to reflect the times,'' rahbani said in an interview. ``everything has to evolve.''
his mother, who since the death of egypt's revered umm kalthoum, is the arab world's leading singer, has performed some of his compositions at her sell-out concerts, blending lebanese folklore with western syncopation and phrasing
rahbani, 32, has been working on his concept since the 1970s and gave his first oriental jazz concert in war-torn beirut in 1985
one of the fundamental similarities between arabic and occidental music, he said, is that both rely on improvisation: ``in jazz, the same basic tune is played in a different interpretation by each of the musicians.''
oriental string and wind instruments, such as the oud, a sort of lute, the zither-like qanoun and the nay, a reed flute, are associated with an improvisation type of music called ``taqssim.''
classical arab singers, such as the legendary kalthoum, are famous for often stretching one song for more than a hour. the style is called ``tafrid,'' repeating one couplet over and over, but each time subtly different
it's this personal element or subjectivity that creates the alteration, although the message is one,'' rahbani said. ``another common factor is the similarity between blues and classical arabic songs. both are melancholic and dragging types of music.''
always unconventional, rahbani plays jazz standards on the oud, known in the arab world as the ``king of instruments,'' giving them unusual harmonies
he has adapted well-known jazz compositions, such as thelonius monk's ``round midnight,'' with an oriental interpretation, often usig arabic harmonies and rhythms to give the songs a unique tonal color
i admire the music of composers like charley parker, stan getz and dizzy gillespie,'' he said. ``but my music is not western, it's lebanese, with a different way of expression. this interaction between oriental and occidental instruments comes out in a natural harmony.''
many arab purists claim oriental jazz is an illigitimate form that has planted alien seeds in classical arabic music
to be sure, rahbani's music reflects the hybrid heritage of lebanon, which until the civil war erupted in 1975, was a cultural melting pot where east met west. but it also is deeply rooted in the traumatic events of the sectarian strife, the bloody street battles between rival militias and three years of violent israeli occupation after the 1982 invasion
a leftist greek orthodox, rahbani also writes plays and satirical radio shows centered on his violent environment that mock the sectarian divisions of his country and the traditional political thinking that has taken lebanon to the very brink of catacylsm
his latest record, ``ana mush kafer,'' or ``i'm not an athiest,'' was hailed by most lebanese _ christians and moslems alike _ as an expression of their miserable political, social and economic situation
one passage says:
we have to sell diamond rings and gold mines
to pay the bill in restaurants
nothing is left, no health and no job,
even my home was lit by a shell''
rahbani comes from a major musical dynasty in the arab world. his father, assi rahbani, who died in beirut in 1986, was one of the founders of modern arab music. together with his lyricist brother, mansour, they wrote most of fairouz's famous songs and musical plays. now her son is writing and arranging for her
in a recent performance in london's festival hall, where the one-night box-office take of $210,000 broke the record held by frank sinatra, she sang rahbani's plaintive ``khalik bil-bait,'' or ``stay at home,'' with an orchestration and phrasing reminiscent of ella fitzgerald. he accompanied his mother on piano
that champion of liberty and law, moses, dominates the drama that the world's jews celebrate, beginning today at sundown, recalling humanity's first recorded triumph over tyranny
let my people go,'' moses challenged the egyptian pharaoh, who finally capitulated after a series of plagues and calamities struck his empire
the ensuing escape of the ragged, oppressed throng of jewish slaves has animated the cause of freedom in history ever since, and is the steady refrain of the week-long passover observance
remember the day in which you went forth ... from the house of bondage, and how the lord freed you with a mighty hand.''
the influence of moses in leading the israelites out of enslavement fired offspring religions in toppling other ancient oppressive regimes. his impact also figured in the early migrations to freedom in america
his were the hands that broke the gods of egypt, mesopotamia, greece,'' writes novelist herman wouk. ``islam and christianity stand on his shoulders; both faiths are unthinkable without him.''
wouk, author of several best-selling novels, says in a volume newly published by little, brown &amp; co., ``this is my god,'' that the faithful believe moses talked directly with god
the record is that he changed history exactly as if he had,'' wouk adds. ``he disappeared into darkness on a mountain and came back with a law (the ten commandments)
first israel, and then half the world, accepted that law as the word of god... there is no god in the west to this hour but the god of moses.''
he was an unlikely choice for his bold undertaking, wouk notes, a desert dweller of 80, with a wife and children when he ``was called by god to do a hard job, and like a man of sense, he tried to beg off
once he put his hand to the task, however, there was no standing before him. they say a man grows to the stature of his office. moses grew to the superhuman size of his job, and grew to last.''
initially, after slaying a brutal egyptian taskmaster for beating jewish workers, moses had fled to midian and married a sheep-owner's daughter
but ``the people of israel groaned under their bondage, and cried out for help,'' the book of exodus recounts. and god heard that cry and knew their suffering
when the divine summons came to moses in a burning bush to go back, confront pharoah and deliver the people from enslavement, moses demurred, saying ``who am i'' for such heroics?
but i will be with you,'' god assured
moses, then tending his father-in-law's flocks, wasn't even clear who this god of israel's forefather's was. ``what is his name?''
god, couching his identity in the enigmatic terms of existence itself, said in that strange passage of response: ``i am who i am. ... say this to the people of israel, `i am has sent me to you.''
moses kept trying to get out of it. ``oh, my lord, i am not eloquent. ... i am slow of speech and tongue,'' and people won't listen. the account says the argument went on and finally god angered
he insisted he would ``be with your mouth,'' telling moses what to say to pharoah and moses' brother, aaron, a great speaker, could do the talking to the people
moses gave in, returned to egypt, repeatedly faced the powerful, hard-boiled pharaoh, ``thus says the lord, the god of israel, `let my people go...''
but pharaoh spurned it, laying heavier work and harsher treatment on the enslaved jews. again and again, the account says moses struck back with divine reprisals, pestilences, flies, frogs, deaths, the nile running blood red
the ``forces of nature seem to work'' for moses, wouk writes. ``other conquerors and master spirits, in the flood tide of their lives, have appeared to have command of favoring events
we call the strange power luck, or destiny, or a star. whatever power moses had, wherever it came from it was enough to wrest the freedom of a slave people from the grand military tyranny of the ancient world.''
it was later that moses ascended that quaking mountain, wreathed in smoke. in a crescendo of trumpet sounds, god spoke in thunder, issuing those lasting commandments honored by jews, christians and moslems
since the time moses ``brought his vision of god to the earth there have been the most violent objections ... to the laws he said were god's laws,'' wouk writes. ``but his laws still live today
challenged more violently than ever, they live ... we call art inspired when passing years cannot dim it. it is no proof of moses' inspiration that his law still lives ... but the rocklike strength of his law at least makes it one of the marvels of history.''
bishops of the evangelical lutheran church in america say ``persons of homosexual orientation'' seeking ordination or who already are ordained ``are expected to refrain from homosexual practice.''
the statement came after three senior seminarians at pacific lutheran theological seminary at berkeley, calif., announced they are homosexual and have been assigned as pastoral candidates in west coast synods
bishop herbert w. chilstrom, head of the denomination, said the church's ministry embraces all people, including homosexuals, but the church must set standards for those called as pastors
he said the church draws a distinction between homosexual orientation and homosexual practice, and many denominations have clergy who may be homosexually oriented, but he added:
the church will not ordain persons who engage in homosexual behavior nor will it permit such persons to be on the clergy roster if such pracrtice is discovered.''
the southern baptist executive committee has declined to make a sweeping investigation of its baptist press news service, but a subcommittee has advised it to exercise ``christian restraint.''
the news service has come under increasing pressures as a fundamentalist wing gained control of denominational operations
but the executive committee said the requested investigation of stories issued over the last 10 years would be a ``prohibitive task of studying more than 9,000 releases
executive bodies of two protestant denominations have agreed that their new ecumenical partnership eventually will involve ``mutual recognition of members and ordained ministers'' and ``full communion.''
the statement was approved in a joint meeting of the executive council of the 1.7 million-member united church of christ and administrative committee of the 1.1 million-member christian church (disciples of christ)
officials of the two denominations, which declared a working ecumenical partnership in 1985, said it is not ``the full unity to which god calls us'' but ``we are working toward a time'' when it will be
the american bible society has distributed more than 5 billion bibles since its founding in 1816
the rev. denton lotz has been named acting general secretary of the baptist world alliance, replacing the rev. gerhard claas, who was killed march 21 in an automobile accident near san francisco
lotz was associate secretary. a memorial service for claas of wetter, west germany, has been set for april 19 at the mclean baptist church, mclean, va
the ``biblical hope'' of passover, marking emancipation of the jews from egyptian slavery to establish an independent country, is seen by a jewish leader as realized anew in modern israel
with the week-long passover observance beginning this evening, theodore ellenoff, president of the american jewish committee, said the rebirth of israel 40 years ago embodies the ancient passover goal of a homeland
american jews should ``maintain solidarity with israel, whatever differences of opinion might arise over specific issues and particular policies,'' he said
he said the ``centrality of freedom'' was the passover theme of deliverance from bondage to a promised land, and that wherever countries ``restrict the freedom of their inhabitants, jews must protest.''
there is nothing very new about recycling one of nature's materials, since nature itself has been doing that with air and water since the very beginning of time
but in the 1960s, when the aluminum can was introduced to the markets and (unfortunately) the highways and recreational areas of america, recycling was a relatively new idea to business, big business especially
in retrospect, you might wonder why. to reuse aluminum was to save money, protect the environment and generate the good will any company needs to succeed in selling its products. it was good business, but business wasn't sure it was
this month the aluminum industry observes the 20th anniversary of the decision to recycle old cans, food trays, gutters, downspouts, window blinds, house siding and beach chairs. in doing so, it looks back on a lesson learned
the lesson is that it is foolish to waste, and the proof of it is in the kind of statistics that industry pays attention to
in that time, according to reynolds aluminum, which claims to have begun the first program in march 1968, the industry has recycled 10.5 billion pounds of the metal, equal to 268 billion cans
in that time it has paid $3.75 billion to collectors, saved 60 billion kilowatt hours of electricity, conserved 18.4 million tons of bauxite (an import that would have added to the trade deficit), and created 30,000 jobs
recycling has financed charities, spurred entrepreneurship, saved highway departments big dollars, provided a third of the industry's raw materials, and undoubtedly protected companies from environmental law suits
what had been viewed as a problem was really an opportunity _ in fact, dozens of opportunities. consider, for example, the enoromous savings on freight costs through use of lighter-weight containers
without recycling, it is unlikely the aluminum can would have gained much acceptance, since its virtues, such as corrosion resistance and durability, make it persist as trash, not only in landfills but wherever discarded
the 1960s was a time for activists. the stirrings of a consumer revolt were being felt, and environmentalists were making the nation pollution conscious. it wasn't a fortuitous time to introduce a can with such qualities
looking back, the environmentalists might have destroyed the industry in its infancy had recycling not been accepted and developed
as it was, the beginnings weren't smooth. in 1968, when reynolds began recycling in los angeles, only eight beverages _ three soft drinks and five beers _ were sold in aluminum cans
few people, even those in the industry, believed recycling could work on a large scale. ``many within our own industry thought large-scale consumer recycling was a pipe dream,'' says william o. bourke, reynolds president
much to their surprise,'' he comments in remarks prepared for the 20th anniversary, ``we recycled one million pounds of aluminum in that first year, and by 1983, just 15 years later, we were exceeding that amount daily.''
today, according to reynolds, more than 95 percent of all canned beer and soft drinks are sold in aluminum
while there are lessons in this tale for industry and government, there is one for individuals, too. if you rip the siding off your house or decide on new lawn furniture or throw a big summer party with lots to drink, save the waste
then find yourself a recycling center _ there are 10,000 of them around the country. you might earn as much as 32 cents a pound for your troubles. but even if you don't, you'll be doing the environment a favor
a new york retiree who depends on her savings and investments for income recently asked a broker for some advice
she was worried about the volatility of both the bond and stock markets, and had been especially upset by a dire forecast for the economy she had heard on television
in her situation, she told the broker, she wanted to take the safest possible approach, even if it meant sacrificing a few percentage points in yield
your money market funds are fine,'' the broker told her. ``and don't sell that bond fund. if you get out of it now, you'll be taking a loss.''
most financial advisers would give the broker good marks for his comment on money market mutual funds. but they would flunk him for his reasoning on the other fund
when people make choices about whether to hold or sell an investment, these advisers say, they should give very little weight to what has happened in the past. the future is what matters
that goes, they add, for any type of investment that fluctuates in value, be it a stock, bond, mutual fund, real estate or a baseball card, for that matter
waiting until the value of your property is back up to your purchase price before you sell is irrational,'' says john reed in his newsletter real estate investor's monthly. ``your purchase price is irrelevant to your decision to hold or sell.''
values go up and values go down, and in their going up and down they may pass the same figure twice. but values do not `come back' like homing pigeons or rubber bands that have been stretched
to think that they do is incorrect analysis and can lead to bad decisions.''
after the wide swings in many investment markets over the past year, including the crash in stock prices last october, there are countless people sitting with paper losses on their investments
even supposedly hard-nosed professionals acknowledge that it is only human nature to resist selling something at a loss
in my work as a money manager, i see two powerful emotions time and time again,'' says paul merriman, who publishes an advisory letter called fund exchange:
_``the desire to break even on an investment _ regardless of how costly a bullheaded pursuit of this goal may prove;
_``the desire to buy the past, which manifests itself in the insistence on purchasing a particular stock, fund or other investment because it has done well in the past, without taking into account the amount of risk that may be involved.''
the choice of selling rather than holding on does have some consequences that must be considered. all other things being equal, it is worthwhile to try to time your sales of losing investments with tax consequences in mind
also, sales of some types of investments involve significant transaction costs that can't be ignored. and the market for an out-of-favor investment may be relatively illiquid, so that you might be faced with accepting a bigger price concession than you feel comfortable with
these and other considerations militate against changing your mind too often, jumping from one investment to another
still, veterans of the investing wars say, no investment that falls in value with changing market conditions ``owes'' you your money back
says reed: ``all decisions, including a decision to own property, are choices between alternatives. when confronted with a choice between alternatives, you should always pick the best one
that sounds obvious. but many investors clearly lose sight of it, especially when they get bad news like a value drop.''
a regulation of the federal trade commission declares that ``no statement or illustration should be used in an advertisement which creates a false impression of the usability of the product offered.''
the law is violated, according to the regulation, ``if the first contact or interview is secured by deception.''
question: is an automobile-company finance subsidiary guilty, therefore, if it advertises a low-low rate on two-year loans, knowing that most customers will need longer-term loans at higher rates?
some other credit lenders think they are, and they have petitioned the ftc to rule in their favor. the practice, they say, ``is a classic case of bait-and-switch, and is unlawful under the ftc act.''
as viewed by the credit union national association and the independent bankers association of america, whose members depend heavily on income from car loans, the interest-rate promotions hurt not just them but customers, too
their claim adds another twist to one of the more puzzling challenges of today's marketplace: what is the price of a car? it isn't the first time the question was posed
in fact, detailed sticker pricing on car windows was among the primary accomplishments of the consumer movement that began in the 1960s. before then, not even a cryptographer could foretell with certainty what you might pay
the stickers helped, but still left many questions, in part because of the number of options available on a particular car. and like it or not, some cars were available only with the options included, and others came without them
the options themselves, so numerous, present customers with decisions many feel unqualified to make. their despair can be compared to a novice traveler trying to develop, without help from an agent, a lowest-cost air itenerary
when car companies decided to compete with rebates and below-market interest rates still greater complexity was added to the challenge. and, say the credit union and banking people, it made buyers easy targets for sellers
in the petition, they state that the cut-rate financing by chrysler financial corp., ford motor credit co. and general motors acceptance corp. often applies only to two-year loans, whereas many customers need much longer terms
such offers, they say in the petition, are bait to lure customers into showrooms where, in spite of the low interest rates, customers first become aware of the unacceptable high monthly payments on the two-year loans
but is it deception? or is it merely an attempt by intensely competitve marketers to sell their products in the most enticing way they know how? the rates are honestly quoted; they're available, if only for two-year periods
and if the automobile financing companies are quilty, what then can be said about many savings and commercial banks that publicize high returns on their certificates of deposit _ and quietly restrict them to larger accounts?
basic to all this is the same question that prevailed in the 1960s, when it was widely asserted that consumers were at a disadvantage in the marketplace because they were amateurs and sellers were professionals
since then, the consumer has become more aware of how the marketplace works, the result of legislation, advocacy groups, education, publicity and honest efforts by sellers to make products and policies understandable
still, many people suspect that perhaps the ingenuity of the marketplace pros may have developed more rapidly in the past two decades than the awareness of customers
the ``biblical hope'' of passover, marking emancipation of the jews from egyptian slavery to establish an independent country, is seen by a jewish leader as realized anew in modern israel
with the week-long passover observance beginning this friday evening, theodore ellenoff, president of the american jewish committee, said the rebirth of israel 40 years ago embodies the ancient passover goal of a homeland
american jews should ``maintain solidarity with israel, whatever differences of opinion might arise over specific issues and particular policies,'' he said
he said the ``centrality of freedom'' was the passover theme of deliverance from bondage to a promised land, and that wherever countries ``restrict the freedom of their inhabitants, jews must protest.''
the rev. denton lotz has been named acting general secretary of the baptist world alliance, replacing the rev. gerhard claas, who was killed march 21 in an automobile accident near san francisco
lotz previously was associate secretary. a memorial service for claas of wetter, west germany, has been set for april 19 at the mcclean baptist church, maclean, va
in 1987 when the world's population hit 5 billion, the number of scriptures which the american bible scoeit has distributed since its founding in 1816 also passed the 5-billion mark
executive bodies of two protestant denominations have agreed that their new ecumenical partnership eventually will involve ``mutual recognition of members and ordained ministers'' and ``full communion.''
the statement was approved in a joint meeting of the executive council of the 1.7-million-member united church of christ and administrative committee of the 1.1-million-member christian church (disciples of christ)
officials of the two denominations, which declared a working ecumenical partnership in 1985, said it is not ``the full unity to which god calls us'' but ``we are working toward a time'' when it will be
the southern baptist executive committee has declined to make a sweeping investigation of its baptist press news service, but a subcommittee has advised it to exercise ``christian restraint.''
the news service has come under increasing pressures as a fundamentalist wing gained control of denominational operations
but the executive committee said the requested investigation of stories issued over the last 10 years would be a ``prohibitive task of studying more than 9,000 releases
the 50-member administrative board of u.s. catholic bishops voted that their june meeting include a discussion of aids, about which policy had become controversial
some bishops objected to a statement issued by the board last december, saying pre-marital celibacy and martical fidelity were the only safeguards against aids, but public schools might provide information about condoms
bishops of the evangelical lutheran church in america say ``persons of homosexual orientation'' seeking ordination or who already are ordained ``are expected to refrain from homosexual pracrtice.''
the statement came after three senior seminarians at pacific lutheran theological seminary at berkeley, calif., announced they are homosexual and have been assigned as pastoral candidates in west coast synods
bishop herbert w. chilstrom, head of the denomination, said the church's ministry embraces all people, including homosexuals, but the church must set standards for those called as pastors
he said the church draws a distinction between homosexual orientation and homosexual practice, and many denominations have clergy who may be homosexually oriented, but he added:
the church will not ordain persons who engage in homosexual behavior nor will it permit such persons to be on the clergy roster if such pracrtice is discovered.''
it's the big switch, the great turn-about, a joke on death. ancient imagery has the resurrected christ confronting the devil and laughing at him about it
that's a little known aspect of easter lore, the zanily uproarious, upside down funniness of a holiday christians celebrate this weekend
blessed are you that weep now, for you shall laugh,'' jesus said, and the fellowship of merry christians seeks to restore that bubbling note of laughter to the occasion
the ``joke that god played on satan by raising jesus from the dead was indisputably the greatest and most imaginative practical joke in the history of the world,'' says carl samra
samra of box 668, kalamazoo, mich., is coordinator of the ecumenical fellowship, grown to about 10,000 members, and editor of its news-and-joke bimonthly, ``the joyful noiseletter.''
the fellowship, which sees humor and delight in faith and circulates comic anecdotes about it, wants to resurrect an old christian custom _ celebrating ``bright monday'' _ a day for merry pranks and frolic
also called ``white monday,'' it comes the day after easter, and according to the fellowship, used to be celebrated as a ``day of joy and laughter'' by roman catholic, protestant and eastern orthodox believers
it's a time for ``the laughing of the redeemed, the dancing of the liberated,'' writes noted german protestant theologian jurgen moltman
as jesus put it, ``your sorrow will turn into joy.'' he reassured his apostles ``that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be full.''
such passages inspired artist r. s. riddick of tucson, ariz., to paint his sketch of jesus smiling, ``the joyful christ.'' another painting, ``jesus laughing,'' is by willis wheatley of praise screen prints, traverse city, mich
 the fellowship of merry christians sponsors its ``holy humor month'' in april, with monday set for a day of happy festivities _ picnics, singing, dancing, telling jokes and fun
mrs. soule papademetriou, librarian at orthodoxy's holy cross school of theology in brookline, mass., says that in early greek tradition, easter monday was a ``day of joy and laughter'' at christ's triumph over death
that zest, games and high spirits continued through ``bright week,'' she says
although origins of the celebration are hazy, she says, it may have been inspired by an easter midnight sermon by fourth-century greek preacher john chrysostom who envisioned the resurrected christ laughing at the devil
hell was angered when it encountered thee (christ) in the lower regions...for it was mocked (ridiculed with laughter),'' chrysostom said
an old adage has it that the devil can't stand the sound of laughter, and slinks away from it
monsignor arthur tonne of marion, kan., a roman catholic priest of 83 and author of five volumes of ``jokes priests can tell,'' says several catholic orders have observed monday as a day of fun
the rev. francis weiser in ``the easter book,'' writes that in early christianty ``all of easter week was one continuous feast'' and easter monday remains a legal holiday in most european countries
he says in medieval times, easter monday was a time of ``special festivities,'' of ``emmaus walks'' into the woods and fields for pinics, folk dancing, singing and games
one sport was was called ``drenching,'' a good-natured game in which boys and girls in outlandish costumes doused each other or their families with buckets or bottles of water, reciting playful ditties
a protestant custom in england was ``heaving.'' groups of men carrying a chair aloft would go from house to house, getting a lady to sit in the chair, then lifting her three times, shouting hurrahs, demanding forfeit of a kiss
during this ``holy humor month,'' the fellowship urges divided christians to be, in the word's of the apostle paul, ``fools for christ,'' to see the follies of their divisions and work for christian unity
that was what jesus prayed for on the night before his crucifixion that led to his resurrection _ that ``all may be one so that the world may believe.''
at the sound of the knock, a young mutt named roody padded over to the door to look, then walked back into the kitchen and pawed at cary voorhees to get her attention
good girl, roody,'' ms. voorhees said, enthusiastically petting the dog as it led her to the door
roody, a 10-month-old stray with the spots of an australian shepherd, was undergoing training at dogs for the deaf, the oldest training center in the country for hearing-ear dogs
dogs for the deaf was founded 10 years ago on a former dairy farm near this rustic southern oregon town. each graduate earns an orange collar and leash and become the ears for a deaf person who has been waiting as long as a year
we have people tell us after they get a dog that they never realized how many people came over and they just didn't hear them at the door,'' said robin dickson, who took over running dogs for the deaf after the death of her father, roy kabat, the founder
a smart dog led kabat to start dogs for the deaf, his daughter explained
there was a deaf lady in minnesota,'' she said. ``she had a dog that had trained itself to let her know when there was a sound
the dog got hit and killed by a car. she went to her audiologist and said, `you've got to get me another dog
he contacted the american humane society in denver, and they called my dad in. he had worked for many years training dogs for movies in southern california and was retired. he became so intrigued by it that he came back here and started dogs for the deaf.''
pins in a map on the office wall show that the 300 dogs placed by dogs for the deaf are spread from coast to coast, with heavy concentrations in the big cities
we very carefully screen the applicants,'' mrs. dickson said. ``if you can hear a smoke alarm go off, you don't need a dog.''
deaf people who have someone at home who can hear are ineligible
they also have to be able to physically and financially care for a dog once they get it,'' mrs. dickson said. ``sometimes we can arrange a sponsor for a dog if a person can't afford it.''
the four trainers go to humane society shelters around oregon and northern california to find small to medium-sized dogs that are playful, alert and comfortable around people. ``if you had a great big great dane jumping up on you to let you know the phone was ringing, that wouldn't be so good,'' mrs. dickson said
the dogs mostly are mutts
so many purebreds are so inbred that their disposition and temperament are destroyed,'' mrs. dickson said
about half of the dogs flunk out before their three to six months of training is done, trainer doreen james said
stubbornness is one of the major reasons,'' she said. ``that doesn't show up for one to three months. it's lots of fun for them until they realize they have to do it all the time.''
in a one-bedroom apartment built in the loft of the old dairy barn, the dogs learn to respond to a telephone, a knock at the door, a smoke alarm, an oven buzzer and a baby's cry
trainers also take the dogs to nearby grants pass and medford to get used to the bustle of stores, being around people and riding in cars
the dogs are rewarded by praise, attention and play
you have to be really up,'' ms. voorhees said. ``some dogs take a week to learn to put their paws on the table.''
once the dog is ready, the trainer takes it to the recipient, spending five days there while they get used to each other
a fully trained dog represents an investment of $3,000, which is covered by contributions from supporters of the program
we get more people who send us donations to help the dogs than to help the deaf people,'' mrs. dickson said. ``we help save the unwanted dogs, so they want to help us.''
dogs are by no means the only aids for the deaf, who nowadays can choose from an array of mechanical devices, including smoke alarms with intense flashing lights, alarm clocks that flash or make the bed shake, and bracelets that vibrate at the sound of a baby crying
demand is also growing for telecommunications devices for the deaf, keyboards known as tdds that plug into the phone to allow people to type messages to each other, and decoders for closed-caption television
it's a very big market, and it's growing rapidly,'' said debbie ander, vice president of marketing for compu-tty, a national distributer for aids for the deaf based in fort worth, texas
anita farb, administrative assistant for the national association of the deaf in silver spring, md., said the 16 million americans with hearing problems are demanding more as they become aware of what is available
the demand for hearing-ear dogs is steadily growing, mrs. dickson said
to meet the demand, dogs for the deaf is moving to bigger quarters in central point, where there will be kennels for 60 dogs instead of 25, and four training apartments instead of one
the dogs give unconditional love,'' mrs. dickson said. ``to a lot of deaf people, this is the most important thing, because they lead such isolated lives.''
a curious new program is going out over poland's state radio every monday morning
it's called ``the west speaks,'' and it is composed entirely of excerpts of polish-language broadcasts by radio free europe, the voice of america, the british broadcasting corp. and other western radio stations
the segments are broadcast without comment or counterpoint, but since the program went on the air the polish media and officials have criticized the western broadcasts with greater frequency
the western stations always have been characterized here as hostile propaganda tools, but communist government says ``the west speaks'' is one way to counter the influence of the broadcasts that deliver a mixture of uncensored news, features and commentary
poland stopped the electronic jamming of western broadcasts jan. 1 and poles now can freely tune in to them
but government authorities have been raising the question of their fairness with western officials, including the director of the u.s. information agency, charles z. wick, who was here on a visit in march
the authorities say that in the struggle for the hearts and minds of the polish people, they cannot afford to overlook the influence of the western stations
it doesn't matter how many people listen to it when it is something very dangerous,'' government spokesman jerzy urban said in an interview. ``even if it's only 100 people, that is enough, because the report will spread.''
at one time, particularly during the cold war years in the 1950s, it was a crime to listen to the western stations
today, however, the strains of ``yankee doodle dandy,'' the sign-on tune of the voice of america, can be heard coming from apartments in housing blocks
urban said polish authorities believed that countering the broadcasts with ``polemics and arguments'' was better than continuing the jamming
a public opinion poll quoted by the official news agency pap said 80 percent of respondents approved the decision to end the jamming, but it said the number of listeners has not risen significantly
how many people actually listen remains a matter of dispute
according to a survey quoted by urban, the percentage of poles who listen to radio free europe either regularly or occasionally is 16 percent, up 2 percentage points since jamming ended. only 3 percent, or 1.2 million out of the population of 37.5 million, listen as often as once a week, he said
but the board for international broadcasting, the body that oversees radio free europe in munich, west germany, says 59 percent of poles listen to its broadcasts occasionally and nearly 14 percent at least once a week
an informal survey of half a dozen warsaw residents indicated that most preferred the voice of america or the bbc to radio free europe, known as rfe, on grounds that their information was more reliable
recent rfe broadcasts were heavy with reports of demonstrations and protests in poland, speeches and statements by leaders of the outlawed solidarity trade union and accounts of opposition activities in other countries of the soviet bloc
the west speaks'' was conceived ``to show what sort of argumentation is used by these stations,'' said witold stankowski, an executive of polish radio one
he said the show, which premiered in october, was given a time slot when ``we have a pretty good audience,'' but said he could not judge its popularity or say how long it would be continued
in recent months a drumbeat of commentaries have shown up on the pap service and in state-run newspapers disputing specific news items on the western stations. urban has made denunciations of the broadcasts almost a fixture at his weekly news conferences
in the interview, urban noted that listenership tends to rise in times of public anxiety, such as during the 1986 chernobyl nuclear accident in the soviet union
he claimed rfe's ``disgraceful methods'' frightened people in its reports on chernobyl and in its coverage of poland's announcement in late january of price increases totaling 42 percent in 1988
radio free europe presents the opinion that prices in fact will go up twice as much,'' he said. ``they want to cause, and really do cause, an increase in wage demands.''
u.s. ambassador john davis defends the broadcasts
the great bulk of what goes out seems to me to be a repetition of what already has been published in the west,'' he said. ``it is broadcast in, sometimes with comment, and comment is fair game.''
wick, the usia director who arrived in poland on march 23 for a series of talks with polish officials, said the polish side raised objections about radio free europe and the voice of america and the complaints were discussed ``very forthrightly.''
wick said the voice of america, which is part of usia, and radio free europe, which is privately operated but largely funded by the u.s. government, have charters that mandate that they be ``objective and accurate.''
i invited the authorities to give me specific instances when they were not,'' he said
he added that editorials on radio free europe and the voice of america are not intended to be objective, but to ``reflect the editorial viewpoint of the united states government.''
as such, he said, they might not be pleasing to poland
if the academy awards were based on box-office popularity, ``fatal attraction'' would eliminate its four opponents and win as best picture with ease
if oscars were based on media acclaim, ``broadcast news'' no doubt would be the winner. the funny, incisive look at how network journalists do their jobs under constant pressure captivated most critics, yet ``broadcast news'' has been a disappointment at the box office
despite mediocre attendance and mixed notices, the home-stretch favorite for best picture of 1987 is the ``the last emperor,'' a mammoth epic centering on the life of pu yi, boy emperor of china and later puppet ruler of manchuria for the japanese. bernardo bertolucci was nominated for director and co-writer, but the actors were overlooked
the thriller ``fatal attraction'' was by far the biggest moneymaker of the year, its combination of adultery and terror selling $150 million worth of tickets in the united states and canada
fatal attraction'' also picked up nominations for michael douglas, glenn close and anne archer, as well as director adrian lyne and writer james dearden
lyne, a graduate of british tv commercials, admits that he was sold on ``fatal attraction'' from the time he read the script
it was a page-turner,'' he said. ``it was sent to me when i was in france. i sat down on some steps, and two hours later i was still on the steps, finishing it off. it was something i couldn't put down. i thought if i could provide the visual equipment and not screw it up, that it had a fighting chance of being as interesting a movie.''
lyne signed on with producers stanley jaffe and sherry lansing and worked with dearden on the script. the director carries a tape recorder while preparing a film, and he made notes of matters he could use, such as his own son's attempt to demonstrate card tricks
the three leading actors of ``broadcast news'' _ william hurt, holly hunter and albert brooks _ also were nominated for awards. james l. brooks was named as writer and producer but, astoundingly, did not receive a nomination as director
i wanted to do a romantic comedy,'' brooks said. ``just through a series of circumstances i wound up being around a number of network news people.''
brooks, who once worked as a news writer for cbs news, spent months hanging around in studios of washington and new york for his research. the result is a verisimilitude that has attracted the praise of many network news people, including the curmudgeonly andy rooney
bertolucci amazed the film world by winning permission to film a movie with political overtones within china. more amazingly, he was able to shoot inside the fabled forbidden city, the shrine of chinese history
the fact that this movie exists is another proof that china is changing,'' the italian director said. ``only eight years ago it was inconceivable for the chinese to let a western filmmaker do a scene about the red guards, as at the end of the movie when you see the cultural revolution.''
nominee ``hope and glory'' is john boorman's valentine to his boyhood during the battle of britain. the writer-director-producer won triple nominations, but his actors received none. the movie's box-office performance has been less than impressive
despite the background of german bombings, the film is primarily comedic
for me as a child, the experience of the war was largely one of exhilaration, joy and fun,'' boorman said. ``this is what the film is; it's great entertainment, it's very funny. there were moments of horror, when people were killed. as a child, you forget this very quickly.''
also up for best film of the year is ``moonstruck,'' a romantic comedy about an excitable italian family in brooklyn. cher, vincent gardenia and olympia dukakis are acting nominees, as well as director norman jewison and writer john patrick shanley
moonstruck'' has been a major success at the box office, doing more than $50 million in business so far
after a pair of heavy dramas, ``a soldier's story'' and ``agnes of god,'' jewison ``was in the mood for a romantic comedy.'' his first choice to play loretta, the widow torn between two lovers, was cher
for me, there has always been something `streety' about cher, a lacking in pretension,'' the canadian director said. ``she's a very honest person _ in-person and on the screen. she looks italian, although she's part armenian and part cherokee.''
yet directors don't always get their first choice for lead performers, as was the case with ``fatal attraction.'' as right as glenn close might seem for the role of the jilted alix, director lyne said isabelle adjani was actually his first choice, since she had played a similar role in a french film
but after a few months of casting _ i like to see everyone i can _ i thought it would be more effective to go with someone who was not obviously sensual from the outset,'' he said
glenn close pursued the movie and was prepared to come in and test, which was unusual for a star. when i saw her testing with michael (douglas), it was already decided on.''
lyne had once worked with douglas as producer on ``starman,'' which he ended up not directing
i had seen michael almost every day for a year, and i saw him as a man who was infinitely charming to both men and women but was also very vulnerable,'' lyne said. ``i had never seen that in movies he had done. i had always seen more of his father _ the heroic, the macho qualities.''
doubts about ritalin, a drug used to help hyperactive children concentrate, have drawn the attention of lawyers and reporters and prompted some parents to halt treatment. but the associated press has found the firestorm is being fanned by a group with ties to the church of scientology and a history of opposition to psychiatry. in the first story of a three-day series, `r' is for ritalin, the ap examines the group's role in the ritalin furor
twelve-page pink pamphlets are being handed out on street corners across the country, sounding frightening alarms in bold-face type about ritalin, a prescription drug used for three decades to calm hyperactive children
warning: ritalin can lead to suicide
warning: ritalin can be addictive
warning: ritalin overdose can cause death
in newspaper stories, on talk shows, at medical conventions, news conferences and neighborhood meetings, the group behind the pamphlets makes other claims _ that ritalin is as dangerous as cocaine, causes delinquency and crime, is given to 80 percent of children in some maryland schools, even that psychiatrists advocate putting it in school drinking water supplies
researchers and government regulators looking into the legitimate worries about misuse or over-prescription of ritalin ridicule these ``facts'' as distortions and exaggerations of their work. because the claims are constantly recycled without qualification or context, they say, parents are panicking unnecessarily
ritalin is a safe, effective drug. i don't know of any major problems with it,'' said dr. paul leber, director of neuropharmacological products at the u.s. food and drug administration
the anti-ritalin campaign is run from a sparsely furnished second-story office here decorated with pictures of l. ron hubbard, founder of the church of scientology, and staffed by people wearing ``psychiatry kills'' sweatshirts
it is the headquarters of the citizens commission on human rights, a 19-year-old organization sponsored by the scientologists, the contentious religious group based just down the street
the campaign, complete with toll-free hotline, has made cchr's president, dennis clarke, a 41-year-old member of the scientology church, perhaps the most quoted ritalin expert in the country
it has taken the group coast to coast whenever a ritalin case catches public attention, be it a trial in massachusetts, conferences in minnesota and texas, or the filing of at least 13 lawsuits
ritalin acts as a chemical straitjacket,'' clarke said in an interview with the associated press, repeating an oft-quoted claim. ``we are not dealing with a lightweight drug, but parents are told it's like vitamins.''
what is not always clear in cchr-supplied information is the group's ties to the scientologists and that church's predisposition against the mental health profession. since its inception in 1969, cchr has attacked psychiatry, centering on treatments such as electric shock and drugs
its latest goal, clarke said, is to use lawsuits to bring about a ban on ritalin, which he calls ``one of the most dangerous and addictive substances known to man.''
this fervor, medical experts say, is slanting the debate on ritalin use
it's been wild, absolutely wild, really bizarre,'' said dr. jerry wiener, president of the american academy of child and adolescent psychiatry. ``something calls itself the citizens commission on human rights and all of a sudden it gets a lot of credibility, and they're being quoted without any kind of substantiation.''
ritalin has enjoyed success in treating children with a condition now widely known as attention deficit disorder. it reacts chemically to help calm their fidgeting, ease their impulsive, sometimes destructive behavior, and focus their attention so they do better in school
yet no one denies that ritalin, a drug classified with amphetamines, must be used carefully. although its acknowledged side effects are mostly mild and passing, doctors say children taking the drug must be closely monitored and counseled. and some share worries with cchr that ritalin is being improperly urged on parents by teachers and schools
its sharply increased use is indicated by the number of prescriptions filled, which rose 14 percent from 1983 to 1986; prescriptions for most drugs increase about 1 percent a year, according to federal statistics
i have a concern about overuse and abuse where the drug is used alone,'' wiener said. ``when any drug begins to be known as effective, you have to be careful about overuse _ like valium and librium.''
in the rush to reexamine ritalin's role, much press attention has focused on the lawsuits filed on behalf of distressed parents
but most stories fail to note that of the 13 suits in california, minnesota, massachusetts, georgia and the district of columbia, one is being handled by cchr's counsel and the others were filed by two lawyers who get ritalin data _ and sometimes clients _ through cchr
they are very efficient and a wealth of information,'' said one of those lawyers, john coale, who has represented victims of the bhopal, india, cyanide gas disaster and the dupont plaza hotel fire in puerto rico
some of the suits accuse not only pediatricians or psychiatrists of wrongdoing, but also teachers and school districts involved in children's treatment
the only thing that will turn this around is the same thing that turned around exploding pintos and thalidomide _ and that's major, major multi-million-dollar lawsuits,'' clarke said. ``unfortunately, that means suing schools as well as psychiatrists.''
at the heart of the ritalin dispute are the claims and data used by cchr. among its questioned statements:
_ clarke often says 4 million american children are taking ritalin, four times as many as estimated by the most liberal researchers. when asked for his source, clarke cited a specific newspaper story. when it was pointed out that the article makes no mention of 4 million children, clarke replied, ``i don't know how many. i just know it's too many.''
_ clarke frequently asserts that 80 percent of the students in a maryland school system are taking ritalin. asked to identify the system, he amended his assertion to just one school and said the information came from an attorney who handles ritalin suits. asked about the attorney's sources, clarke cited an unidentified parent told by an unidentified neurologist
clarke said he repeats the 80 percent figure because he believes it's true. ``there's enough of it there (in maryland) to have them all on it,'' he said
_ clarke says ritalin may have caused a 600-percent increase in child suicide over five years. he cites medical manual warnings that suicide is a complication of withdrawal from drugs such as ritalin. but doctors say the danger is minimal when the drug is used properly
i have children who go off of it every weekend,'' said dr. ralph s. smith jr., a charleston, w.va., child psychiatrist. ``i have children who go off every summer because they only need it during school.'' nevertheless, smith said, three of his add patients stopped taking ritalin after their parents read an article highlighting cchr claims
_ cchr refers to a california study which, clarke asserts, shows children treated with ritalin commit more felonies later in life. the study's author, dr. james satterfield, says that is a complete misreading
satterfield, a psychiatrist and director of the national center for hyperactive children in encino, calif., and his wife, psychologist breena satterfield, studied 130 hyperactive boys, all of whom received ritalin and 50 of whom also received therapy and behavioral advice
in general, hyperactive children exhibit higher than normal rates of misbehavior and delinquency, but the boys who received therapy as well as ritalin had lower levels of delinquency
while it is true that ritalin by itself has not been found to prevent delinquency,'' satterfield said, ``it most certainly has never been found to cause delinquency.''
eds: this sty may be considered complete in one take. for those desiring more detail, a second take follows
in a report to congress last year, agencies including the national institutes of health, the food and drug administration, the national institute of mental health and the centers for disease control said ``the side effects are minimal'' for children treated with ritalin
ritalin's manufacturer, ciba-geigy corp., is straightforward about the side effects, which include nervousness, insomnia, rashes, anorexia, nausea, headaches and weight loss. some evidence suggests it can temporarily retard growth
ciba-geigy also cautions about its use by emotionally unstable patients and the possibility of severe depression in unsupervised withdrawal from the drug
clarke complains these warnings don't reach parents and further asserts that psychiatrists have used drugs to create a self-perpetuating industry. those who dispute him, he adds, are trying to protect their business
these are the baby-druggers,'' clarke said. ``i believe i'm pretty conservative with my information. ... the whole thing does not exist because of scientology. the problem exists because children are being harmed.''
clarke defends his allegations, saying they are based on medical literature, and contends doctors who prescribe ritalin aren't acknowledging its dangers
psychiatrists, however, say cchr attacks them because of their basic philosophical difference with the church of scientology, which does not recognize mental illness as a physiological problem
scientology, founded by science fiction writer hubbard in 1954, is based on a theory called ``dianetics'' which says physical and mental problems can be solved by using an ``e-meter,'' an electric device set up much like a lie detector. members are assigned exercises and counseling to eliminate negative mental images and achieve a ``clear state.''
the church supports cchr, clarke said, because the group is ``part of the basic philosophy _ things having to do with the spiritual nature of man. you don't deal with the spirit by lobotomizing someone or using electric shock. it's not only bad science, it's harmful for the being.''
clarke is a convincing speaker with a seemingly endless catalog of ritalin horror stories. he left a successful solar heating business in hawaii in 1985 to run cchr, and travels constantly, using local issues as a platform for his crusade
just before 15-year-old rod matthews, an emotionally troubled youth who used ritalin, was tried for the murder of classmate shaun ouillette, 14, in canton, mass., clarke appeared on local talk shows. after the trial, he held a news conference to announce more lawsuits
last year, the local cchr chapter staged a demonstration in canton. the victim's mother, jeanne quinn, said a couple holding a sign reading ``ritalin killed shaun, not rod'' came to her door, asked for her and offered pamphlets on the dangers of ritalin
matthews' defense included claims that ritalin worsened his severe mental problems. the jury found him sane and convicted him of second-degree murder. he was sentenced to life in prison, eligible for parole after 15 years
ironically, the victim had taken ritalin for four years, successfully conquering his hyperactivity
they look for cases like this and grab onto it for their own purposes,'' mrs. quinn said of cchr. ``i have little respect for any of their opinions. they take small quotations and excerpts from medical books and give you their opinion. everything is out of context.''
when the university of minnesota held a conference on add last summer, cchr members staged rallies, hung signs on expressway overpasses, announced a ritalin lawsuit and staged a rock concert for a ``drug free america.''
the following week my practice received roughly 40 phone calls from parents concerned about the medication,'' said dr. jeffrey alexander, a pediatrician at minneapolis' park nicollet medical center who has about 200 patients on ritalin. three or four actually discontinued treatment, he said
experts like the satterfields say that while they are concerned that ritalin needs to be used properly, they worry that because cchr is trading on parents' fears, children not getting treatment they need
it's unfortunate that these children become the victims of special interest groups instead of being looked at for their individual requirements,'' said mrs. satterfield. ``fear doesn't contribute to good treatment of children and good medical practices.''
to calm hyperactive children, doctors give them a stimulant
the seemingly contradictory effects of stimulants on hyperactive youngsters have been known since the 1930s. when used carefully, most experts agree, they are safe and effective
the most commonly prescribed of these medicines is a mild central nervous system stimulant called ritalin. the drug, known generically as methylphenidate, was first sold in 1955 to improve mental performance in the elderly and reduce fatigue
now it is the mainstay of treatment for attention deficit disorder in children, which parents usually recognize by its most common and distressing symptom, hyperactivity
experts say as many as 80 percent of add youngsters may be helped by drug treatment, but the extent of their improvement varies
thirty percent of the kids who have attention deficit disorder do so well on the drug that the parents want to kiss you on both cheeks,'' said dr. jonathan cole of mclean hospital, a harvard-affiliated mental hospital in belmont, mass. ``other kids are sort of better or not really better at all.'' the underlying cause of the disorder and the reason stimulants calm children and help them concentrate are still mysteries
genes play some role. studies show one-third of all youngsters with add have parents with the ailment. about half the youngsters with add outgrow the problem by adolescence; the rest carry it into adulthood
this drug has been around for 50 years and marketed for 30,'' said dr. ron kartzinel of ciba-geigy, the company that makes ritalin. ``we really cannot fully explain, biochemically or physiologically, how the drug works in attention deficit disorder. there are many theories, but they are just that _ theories.''
other drugs used to treat the disorder are cylert, or pemoline, and dexedrine, or dextroamphetamine. all of them stimulate the brain to produce chemical messengers that brain cells use to alert and stimulate their neighbors. experts believe this increase in brain chemicals has something to do with the drugs' beneficial effects
the drugs do carry side effects, but most are mild and passing. some youngsters lose their appetites and have trouble falling asleep for the first week or two they take ritalin
ritalin can also slow youngsters' growth. dr. david zametkin of the national institute of mental health said doctors should monitor patients' height and weight. if growth slows, they should take them off the drug temporarily, during summer vacation, for example. the youngsters then have a growth spurt and catch up
another, but extremely rare, side effect is tics and twitches. zametkin said that when the drugs are stopped, these problems almost always go away
at ciba-geigy, kartzinel said that over the last 16 years, the company has received 17 reports of slowed growth and 10 reports of tics associated with ritalin
a few years ago, doctors feared that ritalin caused tourette's syndrome, a disorder in which people make involuntary movements and noises. however, zametkin said it now appears tourette's syndrome itself is often preceded by symptoms that resemble those for add
some youngsters who are treated with ritalin for add subsequently develop tourette's syndrome, he said, but this would have happened anyway, regardless of whether they got the drug
zametkin said the stimulants do not, as some parents fear, make children high or euphoric. instead, if they take too much, they tend to become moody and irritable
if you know anybody who ever took dexedrine to stay up and study, they got some of the same effects as these kids _ improved concentration, decreased distractability and less fatigue,'' said cole. ``it's sort of like super-coffee, although it makes you feel less jittery.''
pat robertson's presidential candidacy may have ground to a halt but his famed ``invisible army'' is still on the march, threatening in some places to take over the republican party, planting the seeds for a robertson resurgence in 1992
battles already fought or being waged this spring could leave the party machinery in part or entirely under the command of forces loyal to the former television evangelist in such states as georgia, oklahoma, south carolina, north carolina, virginia, louisiana, michigan, minnesota, iowa, nevada, hawaii and alaska
that will make things easier for robertson if he chooses, as he has hinted he will, to run again for the republican presidential nomination in four years _ even if it means challenging an incumbent republican
the robertson campaign hit the wall in the south on super tuesday, and the candidate has conceded that george bush will win the gop nomination, but his people are not giving up. they are still winning skirmishes across the map, in places where a precinct's party machinery can be seized merely by turning out a handful of loyalists to the cause
we in the evangelical right are here to stay,'' said robertson activist tom vestal, pastor of the mount olivet baptist church in raleigh, n.c., where supporters of robertson and george bush may wind up in court in a fight over the composition of the state's delegation to this summer's republican national convention
we're not trying to take over the party but we want to be an influence, to ensure that the party is an instrument of godliness, righteousness and morality,'' vestal said
robertson talks of his people running for congress and state legislatures in 1990, and of using his troops ``to maybe lay the foundations for something in 1992.''
we have hundreds of thousands of people who are right now in the republican party who have never been there before and they all, almost to a man, are saying, `we're in it for the long haul,''' robertson said in an interview
in many places in the south, a minority republican party, eager for new blood, hungrily accommodated the influx of robertson people. ideologically, the newcomers and the old timers think alike; differences are more likely to be over style and personality
but that doesn't rule out frictions
they don't want participation, they want domination,'' grumbled state legislator harry r. ``bob'' purkey, who was ousted in 1986 as district republican chairman by a religious school principal in robertson's back yard, virginia beach, va
this year, at a district convention in newport news, va., long-time party stalwarts also were thrown out by robertson supporters
said anne kincaid, head of the virginia chapter of americans for robertson: ``we will do whatever it takes, ethically and within the rules, to get pat nominated.''
terry wade, chief of staff at the republican national committee in washington, said the new blood energizes the party
he called the robertson challenges a weak echo of the party takeover by barry goldwater's people in 1964. nor does it have anything like the magnitude of ronald reagan's putsch in many places in 1976 which led to his winning the nomination four years later
if our party were to become perceived as a single issue party or one having a very narrow viewpoint of america, that would be a problem, but i don't see that happening,'' wade said
there's always going to be some dissatisfaction and disruption when new people move in, but, hey, if we're going to become the majority party, we have to grow.''
checks by associated press reporters around the country found instances in which robertson forces fit right in _ and instances in which they didn't
there were old guard complaints that the robertson people are not interested in day-to-day party work and complaints from robertson people that the regulars preferred the comforts of clubbiness to winning elections
in michigan, a year and a half of chaotic battle, in and out of court, battered the republican party and put robertson forces in the majority in the state central committee. the likely result: competing bush and robertson delegations demanding to be seated at the national convention in new orleans in august, touching off a nasty credentials fight pitting bush forces against robertson
in hawaii, where robertson swept party caucuses feb. 4, gop chairman howard chong was ousted by a robertson supporter, losing his chance to attend the party's state convention as a delegate
chong first pledged to unite the warring factions, but later called a news conference to denounce the ``lies and innuendoes'' of robertson people and announced: ``frankly speaking, i have had enough.''
under the rules, bush won all 48 delegates in georgia, but when the state's delegates are selected as many as half are expected to go robertson people. they will be bound to bush for two ballots at the national convention, but free to vote with robertson on platform issues, credentials challenges and party rules
it is our aim to see that the party is broadened,'' said attorney don johnson of marietta, ga., a robertson supporter. ``...we're either going to broaden it with them or broaden it over them.''
bob bell, former state gop chairman, said, however: ``nothing in their numbers would lead me to believe this group can take over the party.''
robertson supporters dominated many precinct meetings and county conventions in oklahoma. one likely result, says matt seward, bush's state director: the oklahomans will support a plank denouncing the arms control treaty coming before the senate for ratification even though bush vigorously supports it
bush swept the 111 national delegates available from his adopted state of texas, but robertson forces, based on their showings in county conventions in march, think they have a chance to elect their own candidate as state gop chairman in houston in june. some texas counties will send delegations that are 100 percent robertson people
if the new robertson-type people will filter out some of the biblical language and keep their principles, they can realize more of their goals,'' commented retiring texas chairman george strake, a former democrat who converted to republicanism in 1961 ``because i thought republicans were firmer against communism.''
nevada, reflecting the outcome of february's caucuses, will send a pro-robertson delegation to the national convention. robertson's state director, steve wark, said the nevadans will be in no mood to jump aboard a bush bandwagon. such a conciliatory move, he said, would be ``poisonous.''
in washington state, the only super tuesday state that went for robertson, gop executive director john meyers was asked if he saw the robertson crowd as heirs to the reagan revolution. he replied: ``i see it as an extension of the goldwater revolution.'' anti-gay, anti-united nations, pro-school prayer conservatives have run the state party for decades, even though sen. dan evans, r-wash., is characterized as moderate-to-liberal
in maine, when robertson people threatened to take over in february, forces supporting bush and bob dole buried their differences to vote them down and prevent the selection of a pro-robertson delegation to new orleans
robertson coordinator john solberg cried foul. ``the bush and dole campaigns are attempting to keep the majority silent in the democratic process,'' he complained. gov. john r. mckernan jr., a bush man, brushed off the charge. ``this is not fun and games,'' he said. ``we're talking about the next president of the united states.''
kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., a leveraged buyout specialist, is seeking federal permission to buy up to 15 percent of texaco inc.'s stock
in announcing the move, the investment firm also said tuesday it had already acquired 11.95 million texaco shares, or about 4.9 percent of texaco's roughly 242 million outstanding shares
the move added fuel to growing market anticipation that a takeover attempt of the nation's third largest oil company is only a matter of time
federated department stores inc., seeking to end a 2-month-old takeover war, plans to weigh final offers by the two companies that want to buy the retailer
one of its suitors, campeau corp., immediately objected tuesday to the guidelines for choosing a winner, but a federal judge rebuffed its attempt to block federated's plan. the deadline for bids is wednesday
in a letter to campeau and r.h. macy &amp; co. inc., federated said its board would choose the ``best proposal'' from the final purchase offers. campeau and macy have each offered to buy federated for more than $6 billion
odyssey partners has sweetened its tender offer for j.p. stevens &amp; co. to $1.14 billion, but analysts predicted further bidding in the battle for the textile giant
west point-pepperell inc., which has made a $1.1 billion bid for stevens, is expected to compete fiercely for the crown jewels _ three state-of-the-art factories and licenses for hot designer labels that lure consumers around the world to stevens' quality sheets and towels
odyssey, a new york investment firm, said tuesday it would pay $64 for each of stevens' 17.8 million outstanding shares, up from the $61.50-a-share tender offer stevens' management accepted earlier this month
roper corp.'s board of directors have changed sides in the takeover fight for the appliance manufacturer, and are backing a bid from general electric co. instead of whirlpool corp
roper's board determined that ge's $508 million tender offer was clearly superior to whirlpool's $470 million one, the company said tuesday in withdrawing a recommendation of whirlpool made march 18
the government's chief economic forecasting gauge posted a 0.9 percent increase in february in a performance which analysts said should lay to rest fears of a 1988 recession
the 0.9 percent rise reported tuesday in the commerce department's index of leading indicators was the biggest advance since a 1 percent rise last june
the index had fallen in three of the past four months, including declines of 0.1 percent in october, 1.2 percent in november and 1.1 percent in january
new home sales broke a three-month slide by jumping 20.3 percent in february, the government says
the commerce department said tuesday that new single-family homes were sold at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 628,000 units. it was the first monthly increase since a 1.4 percent rise in october, but it still left sales 14.9 percent below where they were a year ago
congress unconstitutionally singled out publisher rupert murdoch by prohibiting his continued ownership of newspapers and television stations in the same city, an appeals court says
a recently enacted provision barring the federal communications commission from extending temporary waivers from its cross-ownership rule is unconstitutional because it ``strikes at murdoch with the precision of a laser beam'' without a legitimate purpose, the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington ruled tuesday in a 2-1 opinion
murdoch recently sold the new york post so he could keep a new york television station in compliance with the law, and faces a similar choice in boston
cbs inc. has offered significantly increased pension benefits to about 11 percent of its employees if they elect to retire within the next four months
the option was offered tuesday to about 800 of the company's 7,000 workers and was described as part of the company's continuing effort to streamline operations to be competitive
american builders will be allowed to bid on japanese construction projects under a new agreement aimed at ending a trade dispute that has soured relations between the two countries
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter told a joint news conference tuesday he was pleased that the prolonged, on-and-ff talks had reached ``a fruitful conclusion,'' proving that the two countries through negotiations are able ``to manage difficult bilateral trade disputes.''
house and senate trade bill writers have defied president reagan's veto threat by approving a plan to require companies to give employees advance notice of plant closings and large-scale layoffs
the action tuesday came amid new administration warnings that putting the provision in the final package could doom the 1,000-page trade bill designed to sharpen the u.s. edge in global markets
labor secretary ann mclaughlin said she hoped ``congressional leaders will find a way to drop this provision in these last days of the conference. if not, i have no recourse but to recommend a veto.''
eastern airlines has been ordered to stop the training of non-union pilots aboard its aircraft by a cargo carrier that was hired to help the company prepare for a possible strike this spring
u.s. district judge barrington d. parker granted a preliminary injunction tuesday sought by the air line pilots association to prevent eastern from leasing as many as five of its aircraft to orion lift services inc. to train 350 to 400 non-union pilots in case of a strike
the stock market shook off its recent slump and moved broadly higher tuesday as the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks climbed 18.57 to 1,998.34
the dollar moved higher in foreign exchange trading and gold prices rose
bond prices rebounded, and interest rates backed off two-month highs
platinum prices surged, but energy prices, grain and soybeans finished mixed
profit-taking by futures investors has snapped a four-day rally in oil prices
on the new york mercantile exchange tuesday, contracts for may delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, settled at $16.98 per 42-gallon barrel, down 12 cents from monday's close. all other contract months also lost 12 cents a barrel
among refined oil products, the april contract for wholesale heating oil edged down 0.02 cent a gallon to 48.15 cents. unleaded gasoline for april rose, on the other hand, by 0.24 cent a gallon to 48.26 cents
analysts noted that the decline was moderate and prices moved within narrow trading ranges. the selling was led by oil companies, they said
prices are ``still showing a fair amount of resiliency,'' said john azarow, an oil futures trader for shearson lehman hutton inc
the recent strength stems from hopes that the pricing committee of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries will achieve an agreement to prop up prices, analysts say. prices have risen in eight of the last 11 trading sessions on the mercantile exchange
the opec pricing panel has announced it will hold a meeting in vienna, austria, starting april 9. the five pricing committee members are saudi arabia, nigeria, indonesia, algeria and venezuela
on the negative side, middle east economic survey, an oil industry newsletter, said some observers believe opec production has risen to about 18 million barrels a day
the newsletter said demand for opec crude, even taking into account some stockpiling, is unlikely to top 17 million barrels a day
as texaco inc. prepares to emerge from bankruptcy court protection next month, a welcoming party of takeover specialists continues to grow outside the oil giant's door
kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., which has carried out some of the largest leveraged buyouts in u.s. history, said tuesday it is seeking federal permission to buy up to 15 percent of texaco inc.'s stock
the investment banking firm, often a management ally in its deals, said it had already acquired 11.95 million texaco shares, or about 4.9 percent of texaco's roughly 242 million outstanding shares
in filing to enlarge that stake, kohlberg kravis would join financiers carl c. icahn and t. boone pickens in announcing interest or taking substantial stakes in the nation's third-largest oil company
getty petroleum co., a product of texaco's ill-fated 1984 acquisition of getty oil co., has also filed for the same federal permission to up its stake in texaco
industry analysts viewed the latest development as another indication of the stiff challenge that texaco's management will face as it attempts to hang on to control over the company while conducting an orderly reorganization beginning next month
big shark, little shark, they all bite,'' observed frank p. knuettel, who tracks oil companies at prudential bache securities
for its part, texaco took the high road in its response
kohlberg kravis roberts has in past situations demonstrated an ability to be a constructive shareholder, which recognizes the importance of building value for the long term. we have no indication that their intentions with texaco are any different,'' the company said in a statement from its white plains, n.y., headquarters
we are hopeful that (it) will play a constructive role as texaco pursues prompt and aggressives steps to restructure the company and maximize total value and return for all our shareholders.''
investors responded enthusiastically to kohlberg kravis's announcement. in nationwide trading of new york stock exchange-listed issues, texaco jumped $3.25 a share to $48
kohlberg kravis said it had purchased its shares ``some months ago in the open market.'' ruth pachman, of the public relations firm kekst and co., which was representing the firm, said there would be no further comment
but a source close to the investment company said the filing would permit it to ``initiate discussions'' with texaco's management. the source would not elaborate
kohlberg kravis is a leader in leveraged buyouts, in which investors pay off the debt from a corporate takeover with the cash flow of the target company or by selling some or all of its assets
its $6.1 billion buyout of beatrice cos., completed in april 1986, was the largest leveraged buyout ever carried out in this country. seven months later, the firm bought safeway stores for about $4.2 billion
texaco last week received u.s. bankruptcy court permission to emerge from chapter 11 protection from its creditors with a financial reorganization plan that will become official on april 7
as part of that plan it has said it will sell at least $3 billion in assets
but analysts, who estimate the company to be worth between $50 and $60 per share, if it were broken up and sold off in pieces, have been expecting some outside move to accelerate those sales to raise the shares' value
icahn _ texaco's largest shareholder with 14.8 percent of its shares _ has been aggressively critical of texaco's management and has been widely expected to lead the charge on the company
on tuesday, he said he was ``surprised but also pleased'' to learn of the kohlberg kravis move
icahn has promised to field a slate of five candidates _ including himself _ for five board seats up for election at the company's annual meeting this spring, if texaco does not put itself up for sale. texaco officials have vowed repeatedly not to do that
pickens has received federal regulatory permission to buy up to 15 percent of texaco's shares. he has said he would support the icahn slate. on tuesday, however, david bachelder, president of pickens' mesa limited partnership would not say how many texaco shares pickens has actually accumulated
getty petroleum co., an independent marketer of petroleum products, has made a similar filing, claiming, however, that it is ``for investment only.''
philip l. dodge, an analyst at nomura securities international inc., said that ``the remaining question is whether the texaco management remains in charge of the company.''
alluding to the growing pressure on texaco, he suggested that ``provisions could be made'' for its management to participate in a leveraged buyout
i don't think they'd do it with much appetite, but (they would) if they saw it as the lesser of two evils,'' he added
cbs inc. says its special offer of increased pension benefits to about 11 percent of its employees who agree to retire within four months would help it slim down and compete in the tough broadcasting business
but one securities analyst said such offers have typically cost companies some of their better workers and could hurt cbs in the long run
these things have tended to give the best people a reason to leave and the worst people a reason not to,'' said alan gottesman, who follows media companies for the investment firm l.f. rothschild &amp; co
on wall street, cbs rose 62{ cents a share to $158.75 in trading on the new york stock exchange
cbs disclosed tuesday that it was offering the option to about 800 of the company's 7,000 workers and was described as part of the company's continuing effort to streamline operations to be competitive
a company spokeswoman, alice henderson, said the company had set no goal for how many people it hoped would take advantage of the program
the program is completely voluntary and eligible employees have until july 1 to make their decision on this offer,'' cbs said in a memo to the workers who are involved. retirement must occur no later than july 29
since laurence a. tisch took over as chief executive in the fall of 1986, cbs has sold its records, magazines and book publishing units, leaving it with a core business of broadcasting and about $3 billion in cash
but analysts say the cbs television network has been unprofitable and is likely to end the current season in last place in prime-time audience ratings, a development that could depress its advertising revenue
the special retirement program is available to cbs employees 55 years of age and older who have at least 10 years of pension vesting credit
those who accept the offer would get pension benefits calculated as if the employee were five years older and had completed an additional five years of service
as we all understand, cbs is still in the process of examining ways in which we can further streamline our operations to ensure our ability to be competitive in an increasingly competitive market,'' the memo said
we hope that the availability of this very attractive voluntary retirement option will assist us in reaching this objective,'' it said
the company offered a similar early retirement incentive plan in 1985, and a cbs source who asked not to be identified said about 500 people took advantage of it
the source said the latest plan is viewed by cbs management as a less painful way to make staff reductions than by firings
j. kendrick noble, the media analyst for the investment firm painewebber, said the offer was a cost-cutting move that reflected the corporate restructuring and the television network's dismal ratings performance
it's not that this company is fat or anything, but it is under more pressure than others to reduce costs,'' he said
rumors have circulated _ and have been denied repeatedly by cbs _ that tisch may be planning to sell the television network while holding on to its radio and television stations. rothschild's gottesman said the retirement incentive is ``consistent with the liquidation theory.''
but john reidy, a media analyst for the investment firm drexel burnham lambert inc., said he found nothing unusual about the early retirement offer
tisch felt he could do things with less people ... he wants to get an improved return on his investment. i don't see anything cosmic in any of this,'' he said
older white-collar workers face employer attitudes ranging from accommodating to hostile, and a company's financial health plays a part, a university of michigan study shows
corporations with money problems are most likely to be antagonistic toward older workers, according to the study of 25 fortune 500 companies by barbara hirshorn
she said her interviews at the 25 companies indicated factors such as the state of the economy and the industry, corporate personality, corporate leadership and organizational structure shaped company attitudes
the study also indicated corporate attitudes can change, said hirshorn, a research fellow at the university's population studies center
companies participating in the study were guaranteed confidentiality
hirshorn said attitudes toward older workers could be categorized as:
_pro-active. these companies dealt most effectively with older workers, offering more than one possible career ladder, maintaining options for the company and for workers of all ages, encouraging lateral career changes and reassigning workers to relieve stress and boredom
_performance-focused. such companies tried to ignore age and apply a reliable evaluation system to all employees. hirshorn said this tended to benefit older employees over younger ones who had to be considered more in terms of their potential
_at cross-purposes. at these companies, managers might express high regard and design some effective policies for older workers, but retain other policies that work against them. limited opportunities for promotion or lateral moves and huge, sweetened early retirement programs were examples
hirshorn said some retailers have policies at cross-purposes, voicing pride in being non-discriminatory but at the same time assuming older employees will burn out because the business is stressful and failing to offer them new opportunities
_positive means-negative ends. these were companies where coordinated planning efforts were subverted to get rid of older workers. hirshorn said such actions were often the result of new stresses from inside or outside the organization
_actively antagonistic. in a few companies, hostility showed up in a variety of policies. ``i came across one insurance company where age bias ran deeply throughout the ranks,'' hirshorn said. ``those who refused to relocate were fired, and since so few employees over 55 were promoted, many older workers left.''
some companies refused to retrain older workers, citing poor return on investment, though they did not raise the issue when retraining workers in their 30s who are more likely to leave for new jobs, she said
hirshorn said she will study 10 of the 25 companies to determine how they change or maintain their policies in reaction to external and internal stresses over time
the dollar rose against most major currencies in sluggish european trading this morning as volume tapered off before the easter break. gold prices eased
dealers predicted volume would remain thin through good friday and the dollar would likely trade around its present levels until after the easter weekend
the bank of japan intervened for the second straight day to support the dollar, but traders in frankfurt said the market reacted mildly because the amount of dollars purchased by japan's central bank was apparently small
traders said, however, the intervention served its purpose by reviving market fears of concerted central bank intervention
there are a lot of traders around who want to sell dollars but are afraid to do so,'' said a dealer at a major west german bank in frankfurt
traders said the dollar gained some support from recent statistics that indicate the u.s. economy is robust
the underlying sentiment is still certainly bearish on the dollar, but not aggressively so,'' said one trader with a major european commercial bank in milan
in tokyo, where trading ends before europe's business day begins, the dollar rose 1.06 yen to a closing 125.43 japanese yen. later, in london, it fell back to 125.28 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late tuesday's rates, included: 1.6705 west german marks, up from 1.6610; 1.3790 swiss francs, up from 1.3735; 5.6587 french francs, up from 5.6280; 1.8764 dutch guilders, up from 1.8690; 1,236.50 italian lire, up from 1,232.50; 1.2362 canadian dollars, down from 1.2363
in london, the dollar rose against the british pound. it cost $1.8615 to buy one pound, cheaper than $1.8705 late tuesday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $454.50 a troy ounce and at midmorning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $454.00. both were down from tuesday's late bid of $454.75
in zurich, the bid price was $454.00, down from $455.00 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.09 to close at a bid of $455.79
silver bullion eased in london to a bid price of $6.675 a troy ounce, down from $6.69 late tuesday
gains on overseas markets helped boost the dollar in tokyo today, while the stock market's key index closed at a post-crash high
trading on the foreign exchange market was quiet, with many corporate customers staying on the sidelines until the end of japan's fiscal year on thursday, dealers said
the dollar opened at 125.75 yen, up 1.38 yen from tuesday's close of 124.37 yen. it began edging down in the afternoon and ended trading at 125.43 yen, up 1.06 yen. the u.s. currency ranged between 125.40 and 125.78 yen, with spot volume totaling $5.3 billion
the gain came after the dollar had lost a total of 2.78 yen over four trading days
the tokyo stock exchange enjoyed its third consecutive day of healthy gains in heavy trading. the 225-stock nikkei average rose 366.89 points, or 1.41 percent, ending the day at 26,319.98
it was the first time the key index had closed above the 26,000-level since the october market crash. the closing was less than 327 points from the index's all-time closing high of 26,646.43
traders said stock prices were boosted by the stronger dollar, gains on the new york and london markets on tuesday, and typical enthusiasm marking the start of the new japanese fiscal year
sentiment is very positive. we might see a new historical high this week, as long as new york (wall street) and the yen behave,'' a trader said
on the foreign exchange market, traders said many participants continued to cover dollar-short positions as they had on tuesday, when the dollar temporarily touched 123.87 yen, its lowest level since the first week of january
they attributed the u.s. currency's higher opening today to overnight gains on overseas markets and unconfirmed reports of greater intervention in support of the dollar by the u.s. federal reserve
also adding to the u.s. currency's strength was a denial today by japanese insurance companies that they were planning to begin dumping dollars after the start of the new fiscal year
rumors had been circulating that the companies, a major influence in currency markets, would discontinue their recent support for the dollar, said to have been aimed at defending the value of their holdings for accounting purposes
but many analysts said bullish sentiments toward the yen remain in the market because of healthly japanese economic fundamentals
prices on the london stock exchange were up slightly wednesday amid little buying interest
the financial times-stock exchange 100-stock index was up 1.7 points, or 0.1 percent, at 1,766.8 at midday. the index was up more than 10 points in earlier trading
solid gains in tokyo and new york overnight gave london a modestly bullish start. but the london market failed to sustain a recovery begun tuesday
traders reiterated that little would happen regardless of enthusiasm elsewhere ahead of the easter holiday and thursday's end to the british fiscal year
consumer prices in the 12-nation european economic community rose 0.3 percent in february from january and 3 percent from the year-earlier month, the eec reported
the common market's 3 percent year-on-year inflation rate in february remained unchanged from january, eurostat, the eec statistical office, said wednesday. that compares with inflation rates of 0.9 percent in japan and 3.9 percent in the united states
the 0.3 percent february rate continues the trend of moderate price increases established at the beginning of 1987, eurostat said
it said inflation was modest in all eec countries except portugal and denmark, which recorded monthly increases of 1.4 percent and 0.8 percent, respectively
a group of japanese life insurance companies have denied rumors that they plan to sell off u.s. dollars after april 1, a move that would send the currency into a tailspin
a new accounting law requiring life insurance companies to report currency losses of 15 percent or more when the current fiscal year ends march 31 has sparked speculation that the companies would try to support the dollar at an artificially high level and then retreat from u.s. financial markets soon after the close of the fiscal year
large-scale dollar selling here would push the u.s. currency lower. fears that the japanese might dump dollars has caused jitters in currency markets worldwide, with some traders selling the u.s. currency as a hedge against more widespread dollar sales
but a statement issued tuesday by yasuyuki wakahara, chairman of the japan life insurers association, called such speculation ``absolutely groundless.'' he noted that stable exchange rates are vital to japanese life insurance companies, which often invest in currencies other than the yen
this association hopes more than anyone else for a stable yen-dollar exchange rate,'' the statement said
tatsuo nakata, an association executive, told reporters at a news conference that dollar selling by the insurance companies would be like ``strangling yourselves.''
i think it's prudent to take the statement at face value,'' said david gerstenhaber, senior economist with morgan stanley &amp; co. in tokyo, who said he would be surprised if the life insurance companies pulled out of dollar-denominated investments in april
they have so much paper, that the value of what's left would be lowered by the impact of small sales,'' gerstenhaber said
life insurance companies were given some leeway on the 15 percent rule when the japanese government decided to allow the closing dollar rate for fiscal 1987 to be the average closing in tokyo for all of march, not the daily closing on march 31, as some analysts believed
the ministry of finance has allowed companies to use the month's average in order to alleviate strain from the crash in october, so people now are back above water,'' said bruce babcock of prudential-bache securities inc
in its statement, the life insurers association also criticized what it called growing instability caused by speculation in the market, an indirect reference to the weakness earlier this week of the dollar, which traded briefly tuesday below the 124-yen level, a three-month low. it rebounded wednesday to close in tokyo at 125.43 yen. trading</head>
the philadelphia stock exchange is expanding its night session trading list with the addition of futures and options on the british pound and the swiss franc
the exchange announced tuesday it will open trading in the new currencies, april 14
night trading at the stock exchange began sept. 16 with transactions in american and european-style options on australian dollars, deutsche marks and japanese yen. it averages about 5,000 contracts a night
futures in all five currencies also will be offered by the philadelphia board of trade, a subsidiary of the exchange
the night trading session, which runs from 7 p.m. to 11 p.m. est sunday through thursday. the daytime session runs monday through friday from 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m
options are traded on the night currencies plus canadian dollars, french francs and european currency units
publisher rupert murdoch could still have trouble obtaining a government extension allowing him to keep both his newspaper and television station in boston, because both properties are making money
the possibility of an extension was opened tuesday by a federal appeals court. the panel ruled that congress unconstitutionally singled out murdoch when it barred the federal communications commission from extending temporary waivers of a rule forbidding common ownership of newspapers and tv stations in the same city
under existing fcc cross-owership rules, murdoch would have to show that either the boston herald or wfxt-tv is financially distressed. however, both properties are making money
unless the commission were to make some tremendous change in the criteria for granting a waiver, he doesn't qualify and we will oppose it,'' said andrew schwartzman, executive director of media access project, a washington, d.c.-based public interest law firm
diane killory, fcc general counsel, said temporary waivers are granted to give the owner of a newspaper-tv combination time to sell one of the properties for a fair price and avoid forcing a distress sale
if someone were willing to pay fair market value, it would be tough to argue it would be a distress sale, and that's the criteria we use when a temporary waiver is justified,'' she said
for a permanent waiver, an owner must show that common ownership was necessary to keep both the newspaper and tv station afloat financially, she said
lawrence kessler, general counsel for murdoch's news america publishing inc., acknowledged that the herald could survive without the tv station's revenues, but he said the company will argue that the issue is fairness
the hardship would be if we were forced to dispose of another asset and then the fcc modified the rule (to allow common ownership), that would be a hardship in and of itself,'' he said
kessler noted fcc precedents for granting further time for murdoch. the commission last year granted capital cities-abc inc. and general electric co. waivers of orders to sell radio stations while it decides whether to eliminate the cross-ownership rule barring common ownership of radio and tv stations in the same city
murdoch received temporary waivers from the fcc's cross-ownership rule after he bought the boston tv station and new york station wnyw-tv in 1986. he was given until march 6 to sell either wnyw or the new york post, and june 30 to sell wfxt or the boston herald
murdoch had been widely expected to request extensions of his waivers, but sens. ernest hollings, d-s.c., and edward kennedy, d-mass., cut short that option. late last year, they slipped through congress a measure prohibiting the fcc from extending any outstanding waivers. the measure also forbids the agency from considering any changes in the rule
in a 2-1 decision tuesday, the u.s. circuit court of appeals in washington ruled that the law is unconstitutional because it targeted a specific individual for no legitimate purpose
though the ruling opens the possibility that murdoch could keep both boston properties at least temporarily, it won't affect the new york post, since he sold the newspaper earlier this month for $37 million to real estate developer peter kalikow
murdoch and others had said the ban by congress was an attempt to silence his newspapers' criticism of kennedy. kennedy and hollings, however, said they were merely trying to preserve the cross-ownership rules and force murdoch to comply with them
the court did not address the section of the provision that prevents the fcc from considering whether the cross-ownership rule should be abolished. therefore, that prohibition remains in effect until oct. 1, when the authority under the spending bill to which the measure was attached expires
kessler said murdoch will ask the fcc to extend its waiver for six months after the fcc makes a final decision on its cross-ownership rule
congress could forestall such a decision by continuing to prohibit the fcc from considering the issue
whether congress would do that would depend on ``many factors, including whether the commission grants murdoch a waiver,'' said tom cohen, a staff attorney for the senate commerce subcommittee on communications
the chairman of american stores co. warned lucky stores inc. against making a ``defensive acqusition'' that would thwart american's $1.74 billion tender offer for the grocery store company
in a letter to lucky's board of directors tuesday, american stores chairman l.s. skaggs said there have been ``various reports'' that lucky may be considering an acquisition that could interfere with his company's bid
american launched a $45-a-share tender offer for the dublin, calif.-based company on monday and said it was prepared to increase the offer to $50 a share, or about $1.93 billion, if a friendly deal can be worked out
in a brief statement issued tuesday, lucky acknowledged that it is reviewing both proposals. the company has urged shareholders not to tender until its directors make a recommendation
skaggs warned in his letter that any attempt by lucky to ``frustrate the choice given to your shareholders through a defensive acquisition'' would affect american's willingness to increase its tender offer to $50 a share
he also reiterated that american would consider divesting stores in order to mitigate any antitrust concerns that may exist
the combination of american, the nation's third-largest grocery retailer with 1,700 stores and annual sales of $15 billion, and lucky, the sixth-largest with 480 stores and sales of $7 billion, could produce the biggest grocery retailer in the nation, analysts say
documents filed monday at the security and exchange commission hinted that american may be positioning itself for a hostile takeover of lucky, which resisted such an effort from takeover specialist asher edelman 16 months ago. in return for edelman dropping the effort, lucky agreed to pay his $2.8 million in legal bills
american's sec documents include a copy of the lawsuit the company filed friday in delaware, which alleges lucky and its executive officers have breached their fiduciary duties by ``following a course of conduct directed towards entrenching themselves in control of lucky stores.''
as part of the defensive measures dating back to the edelman bid, lucky voted senior management lucrative ``golden parachute'' contracts and announced a restructuring plan that included changing the company's state of incorporation from california to delaware and a buy-back of 27 percent of its outstanding shares, the suit contends
the company has noted that its bylaws also contain a ``poison pill'' anti-takeover provision limiting the voting power of any shareholder who acquires more than 10 percent of lucky's stock
the stock market headed higher today, following through on tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 7.79 to 2,006.13 in the first half hour of trading
gainers outnumbered losers by about 2 to 1 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 632 up, 313 down and 474 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 23.01 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said the market's drop last week apparently attracted some buyers who had been waiting for a chance to get in on the rally in stock prices that began late last year
they also noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying again in foreign exchange. that sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
texaco rose ] to 48] on top of a 3\-point jump tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the company's stock
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .49 to 147.71. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.00 at 295.33
on tuesday the dow jones industrial average rose 18.57 to 1,998.34
advancing issues outpaced declines by more than 2 to 1 on the nyse, with 1,015 up, 467 down and 482 unchanged. big board volume totaled 152.69 million shares, against 142.82 million in the previous session
an offer by the long island power authority to purchase long island lighting co. for $971 million was termed ``ridiculous'' by some industry analysts
the state agency's decision to attempt a takeover was made after a study showed electric rates on long island would be 12 percent lower under a publicly-operated utility
lilco had not yet received the offer, made tuesday in a letter to lilco chairman william catacosinos and the utility's board of directors, said james lois, a lilco spokesman
should an offer come in we would seriously evaluate it, and inform our shareholders of the offer,'' lois said
the proposal contemplates that lipa would acquire through a friendly merger transaction all 111 million outstanding shares of lilco common stock at $8.75 per share
lilco stock was trading at $9 a share, down 12{ cents, in early new york stock exchange trading today
the proposal also contemplates that lipa would acquire all outstanding shares of lilco preferred stock
financing is expected to be provided through the sale of approximately $7.45 billion of long-term, tax-exempt bonds, officials said
it was not known if lipa's offer, which is open until april 15, would be considered at a previously scheduled lilco board meeting today
gary f. hovis, a utility analyst at argus research corp., called the offer ``somewhat funny or ridiculous.''
obviously, the board of directors of lilco won't even think about accepting this offer,'' he said
he said it was so far below the true value of the company that even the less sophisticated investors would quickly reject it if it were ever approved by the lilco board and sent to the 118,000 shareholders for a vote
that is a number that is well below what was generally expected,'' said analyst paul parshley at donaldson, lufkin &amp; jenrette securities inc. ``i would certainly expect the company would reject the bid and that would begin a bargaining process.''
he and other analysts said an offer was not likely to be seriously considered until it reaches at least $12 per share
lipa's nine-member board of trustees met for several hours in closed session tuesday before voting to attempt the takeover at what mack called the average trading price of lilco stock over the past 30 days
lipa is an independent state agency formed in january 1987 by gov. mario cuomo and the legislature to decide if a takeover of lilco would lower rates. lipa also is trying to prevent lilco's shoreham nuclear plant from operating
the $5.2 billion plant, one of the most expensive ever built, is currently licensed by the nuclear regulatory commission to operate at up to 5 percent of full power
lilco officials have continued to press for a full operating license for the plant, contending it is needed to meet the growing electric demands on long island
cuomo and local officials have argued against granting a full operating license to shoreham, saying long island could not be safely evacuated in the event of an accident at the plant, located on the island's north shore about 50 miles from manhattan
federal law requires that an approved evacuation plan be in place before a nuclear power plant can be granted a license
eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc., wasting no time after a favorable court decision, announced today they had merged their photofinishing operations
the new company, qualex inc., was formed on tuesday immediately after the u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans reversed a federal court injunction that had blocked the merger since feb. 22
qualex combines fuqua's photofinishing subsidiary, colorcraft corp., with kodak-owned laboratories, forming the country's largest wholesale photofinishing operation. it has 94 processing labs around the country
we've been delayed in doing this by the lawsuit so we wanted to get it done as soon as we could. our target date for having this merger completed had been feb. 1,'' said paul allen, a kodak spokesman
the company will be based in durham, n.c., the home of colorcraft. colorcraft's former chairman, d. carl hamill, will serve as chief executive officer
allen said the court of appeals granted permission for the merger to go ahead immediately, even though a lawsuit trying to prevent it is still being argued
the court noted that a merger can always be undone at a later date,'' allen said
a small wholesale photofinisher, phototron corp. of san bernardino, calif., filed the lawsuit to block the merger because phototron officials claimed it would create unfair competition in the market
a federal judge in fort worth, texas, where the lawsuit was filed, issued an injunction feb. 22 preventing the merger, but that decision was reversed tuesday in new orleans
that lawsuit is expected to continue, allen said
batus financial services inc. has extended the expiration date of its tender offer to purchase all outstanding common shares of farmers group inc. for $63 per share in cash to april 27, company officials said today
batus financial services is a wholly owned subsidiary of batus inc
the offer was initially scheduled to expire at midnight wednesday, said wilson w. wyatt jr., vice president of corporate affairs for batus
when the offer was commenced on march 3, batus said it expected the offer to be extended from time to time until the approvals from state insurance regulatory authorities are obtained. the approval process, which is expected to take a substantial period of time, is underway
as of march 29, approximately 3,570,000 shares had been tendered pursuant to the offer, wyatt said
the stock market gained ground today, following through on tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 18.57 on tuesday, rose 11.28 to 2,009.62 by 11 a.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 9 to 5 in the early tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 751 up, 408 down and 522 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 52.02 million shares at midmorning
analysts said the market's drop last week apparently attracted some buyers who had been waiting for a chance to get in on the rally in stock prices that began late last year
they also noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying again in foreign exchange. that sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
texaco rose } to 48} on top of a 3\-point jump tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the company's stock
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .71 to 147.93. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.27 at 295.60
wheat futures opened slightly higher but other grain and soybean futures opened a little lower today on the chicago board of trade
wheat got a boost from news this morning that the soviet union will bid thursday for 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, analysts said
acceptance of the bid by the agriculture department would complete a soviet purchase of 1 million metric tons of wheat recently offered under the usda's export enhancement program
but the u.s. is likely to offer the soviets another million metic tons of subsidized wheat in the near future, said richard loewy, senior grain and oilseed analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
corn and soybean prices retreated on profit-taking ahead of thursday's eagerly awaited government reports on spring planting intentions and grain stocks, loewy said
soybeans also drifted lower on ideas that arid conditions in an important brazilian soybean-growing region probably had not caused as much crop damage as some had feared, he said
in early trading, wheat was { cent to 1} cents higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.02{ a bushel; corn was { cent to 1 cent lower with may at $2.11 a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 1} cents lower with may at $1.62 a bushel; soybeans were 1{ cents to 1} cents lower with may at $6.48} a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .25 cent lower to .20 cent higher with april at 75.30 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .05 cent to .35 cent lower with march at 82.75 cents a pound; hogs were .25 cent lower to .20 cent higher with april at 45.75 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .30 cent lower to .15 cent higher with may at 55.90 cents a pound
most livestock and meat futures settled lower on tuesday
the government announced that the nation's economy grew a tiny 1.4 percent last year, recovering from a steep recession that had hobbled the economy in 1986
the office of president miguel de la madrid delivered late tuesday to the federal legislature its report on the state of the economy in 1987
the advances reached with the (government's economic) plan and its programs were substantial,'' it said
the report said non-oil exports soared 24 percent, giving the nation a surplus of $4.2 billion in the 1987 current account, which is the broadest measure of a country's trading position. mexico recorded a deficit of $1.3 billion in its current account in 1986
it said unemployment declined by 3.2 percent last year, according to its surveys of the nation's 16 major cities
private analysts estimate about 18 percent of the labor force of 25 million is out of work
the economy contracted at an inflation-adjusted 4.0 percent in 1986
the government previously had reported that inflation soared a record 159.2 percent last year. since '81</head>
maytag corp. said today it will suspend all production and some support operations for one week at its newton plant, the first such shutdown since november 1981
about 2,000 workers will be affected next week at the plant that manufactures washers, dryers, dishwashers and in-sink food waste disposers
very strong first-quarter merchandising programming resulted in dealers buying ahead and the short-term correction is needed to bring factory and dealer inventories back into line,'' the company said in its announcement
spokesman ron krajnovich said the merchandising program involved discounted sales to dealers as an incentive to buy maytag appliances
the company said the vast majority of the production employees affected will receive unemployment compensation and supplemental unemployment benefit payments during the period
it said production would resume april 11
maytag is coming off its best year ever, with a profit of $152.7 million on sales of $1.92 billion in 1987
but when the company released its annual report earlier this month, maytag chairman daniel j. krumm noted 1987 was the fourth consecutive record year for the appliance industry
the industry's growth cycle is mature, and i believe demand will relax slightly in 1988,'' krumm said at the time. but he also said he expected maytag to outperform the industry as a whole
stock prices showed some modest gains today, following through on tuesday's rally
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up 18.57 on tuesday, rose 3.15 to 2,001.49 by noontime today on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 766 up, 530 down and 476 unchanged
analysts said the market's drop last week apparently attracted some buyers who had been waiting for a chance to get in on the rally in stock prices that began late last year
they also noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying again in foreign exchange. that sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
the market's advance tailed off as the session passed, however. brokers said traders seemed reluctant to expand their holdings with a long holiday weekend approaching
the market will be closed in observance of good friday
texaco rose ] to 48] on top of a 3\-point jump tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the company's stock
j.c. penney added 1[ to 48]. the company raised its quarterly dividend from 37 cents a share to 50 cents a share
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .28 to 147.50. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up 1.19 at 295.52
volume on the big board came to 74.81 million shares at noontime, against 72.98 million at the same point tuesday
the reagan administration's top trade official says that the u.s. tariffs on canadian plywood won't be lowered until the two countries have developed ``common standards'' that would allow american-manufactured plywood to be used north of the border
in a letter to oregon republican sen. bob packwood, u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said the administration will propose that u.s. and canadian experts from two forest research laboratories develop and draft construction standards for the use of plywood in both countries
under this scheme, reductions in the u.s. tariff on plywood and other panel products would not be phased in until we get a satisfactory solution to the technical trade problems,'' said yeutter
packwood told reporters he was optimistic that a joint-standard could be negotiated
this ought to solve our plywood problems with canada,'' packwood said
the proposed u.s.-canada free trade agreement calls for elimination of the 20 percent u.s. tariff on canadian plywood and the 15 percent tariff on american plywood over a 10-year period
but the treaty linked elimination of the tariffs to changes in the canadian construction codes
canadians have insisted that american plywood was not sturdy enough to withstand the harsher climate of canada, a claim the american plywood industry has said is unfounded
earlier this month, the canadian mortgage and housing commission (cmhc) refused to revise its building code that has essentially blocked imports of u.s. plywood
the government-controlled mortgage authority rejected the changes without even making a technical review of u.s.-manufactured plywood
northwest lawmakers, including packwood, were outraged
oregon is the leading plywood producing state and washington ranks no. 4. together, the two states produce about 40 percent of the plywood manufactured domestically
yeutter said that he was ``disappointed'' with the cmhc rejection
i believe that cmhc's action does not conform with provisions of the free trade agreement,'' yeutter wrote. ``my expectations of cmhc have not been met.''
yeutter said that after common standards were developed and implemented, ``then tariff reductions envisioned in the free trade agreement could take effect.''
packwood said that adoption of joint construction standards should ensure that u.s.-manufactured plywood will have access to canadian markets
plywood made in eugene, salem or vancouver, british columbia, will all be made to the same standard,'' said packwood
cash-rich companies have replaced corporate raiders of the bust-'em-up style on the merger trail, lassoing businesses that will increase their market share and make long-term economic sense
takeover activity, often of the hostile variety, has resumed with a new frenzy as initial jitters about the economy have subsided in the wake of october's stock market calamity
despite nagging fears that the new wave will further restrict competition in some industries and leave many businesses awash in debt, the urge to merge seems ever stronger among companies bent on raising their standing in the global marketplace
lured by battered stock prices, corporations are shedding their inhibitions about making overtures that are ``unsolicited,'' a euphemism for hostile bids
fears that taking the role of aggressor could tarnish the old corporate image are subsiding along with concerns about the disruptive effect an unwanted takeover might have on the target firm's work force _ from top management defections to a sense of alienation among the rank-and-file
lately, ``it's become respectable for quality corporate buyers to make unsolicited offers,'' said michael b. hoffman, co-director of mergers and acquisitions at smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
that general respectability is allowing people to come in and do something they haven't done in the past,'' he said
among the unsolicited offers is american store co.'s nearly $2 billion bid for lucky stores inc., a combination that would create the nation's biggest supermarket chain. elsewhere in the retail arena, campeau corp. and r.h. macy &amp; co. have both bid more than $6 billion for federated department stores inc
some companies are so intent to jump on the acquisition bandwagon, they're launching tender offers after a target company has signed an agreement with another suitor
general electric corp., which analysts are quick to note has never pursued an unfriendly deal, launched a $507 million tender offer for roper corp. after the appliance and lawn equipment maker agreed to be acquired by whirlpool corp
smithkline beckman corp. went after international clinical laboratories inc. to beef up its lab network even though the company already had agreed to be acquired by corning glass works
acquiring another company is a quicker and often cheaper way of broadening product lines and gaining market share. instead of building a factory from the foundation up over the course of several years, corporations can expand their distribution channels instantly by snapping up a competitor
even eastman kodak co.'s megapurchase of sterling drug inc. for $5.1 billion _ the largest completed deal so far this year _ is not a wild diversification move for the camera maker, some argue
large companies also are aiming to outgun their foreign counterparts
market share is being divided up _ and u.s. companies are consolidating to meet foreign competition coming in,'' said robert willard, managing director and head of mergers and acqusitions at prudential-bache securities inc
to the extent that companies are leading the effort as opposed to raiders, the latest wave ``is clearly healthier,'' said willard, who noted that the recent combinations not only ``make economic sense ... but probably at the end of the day there is less dislocation in terms of employees forming stronger economic units to be competitive on worldwide basis.''
but hoffman said it is ``definitely not clear that these are somehow better than the mergers of the past.'' it's difficult to argue whether campeau or macy would be an inherently better partner for federated, he said
still, an increasing percentage of transactions ``are not bust-up or junk-bond driven; they appear to be driven by synergistic ideals,'' said stephen fraidin, a partner of fried, frank, harris, shriver &amp; jacobson, a leading mergers-and-acquisition law firm
changes in tax laws have made the breaking up of companies not as attractive for raiders who must sell off parts of targets just to finance the actual acquisition
corporations have an opportunity to display their natural advantage in winning deals _ namely, they have deep pockets and can borrow cheaper than raiders relegated to the high-yield but risky junk-bond markets
and there's no question that corporations are in a strong cash position right now. buoyed by a weaker dollar that has made american exports more attractive, corporations' after-tax profits shot up 8.4 percent in last year to $137.4 billion for the first increase since 1984, according to commerce department figures
while the number of takeover deals announced seems to have slowed, the dollar value has increased steadily. in december, 484 deals were announced for a total dollar value of $16.1 billion. but the 364 deals announced in february carried a combined price tag of $32.7 billion
experts say the pace will wear on. ``all the forces in place that have contributed to the first three months (of 1988 activity) we see as continuing into the forseeable future,'' said j. tomilson hill, co-head of mergers and acquisitons at shearson lehman hutton inc
banks are fully prepared to provide a substantial amount of credit, there's bridge financing from the investment banks,'' and while there are fewer bargains in terms of stock prices now than a few months ago, ``prices nevertheless are still on average below their highs'' he said
ironically, mergers are now providing some support for stocks as takeover issues dominate the play on an otherwise dull wall street
on the downside looms the specter of an economy constrained by too much debt and too little competition
in the concrete and construction materials business alone, three major takeover attempts are under way, two of which are being spearheaded by foreign firms. beazer plc of britain has made a bid for koppers co.; brierly investments ltd. of new zealand is seeking to acquire calmat co.; while moore mccormack resources inc. has rebuffed an offer from southdown inc
ultimately, the bill for such combinations will have to be paid
there's the danger of getting into a situation where companies are so highly leveraged that it becomes a question whether they can survive an economic downturn,'' said jay lorsch, a professor at harvard business school
some experts criticize restructuring in the face of a takeover as too short sighted. to fend off a hostile bidder, companies often take on debt to make themselves less attractive. or as an alternative defensive move, companies sell off assets that may be weak at the moment without considering their long-term potential
it's like the hong kong race track _ everybody's betting on the short term and not that the earnings of a company will rise'' over the long haul, lorsch said
in an office park in this seattle suburb, a staff of 92 people is kept busy answering questions like, ``when i'm in the legend of zelda, how do i find the tri-force in level seven underworld labyrinth?''
in most customer service departments, that would stop 'em cold
but for executives at the home office of nintendo of america inc., the 40,000 to 50,000 children who call each week with such arcane inquiries about nintendo's home video games are a reassuring sign their toy is still tops
a little over 18 months ago, nintendo, a 99-year-old japanese playing card manufacturer and maker of the popular arcade game ``donkey kong,'' jumped headlong into home video games, an american market most thought was stone dead
today, the wholly owned subsidiary of nintendo co. ltd. of japan claims to have captured 70 percent of a u.s. market that should hit $1.9 billion in 1988
for 1987, nintendo of america had sales of $750 million out of a $1.1 billion market. that helped push profits for nintendo ltd. to $172.8 million on sales of $987 million for fiscal year 1987, ending aug. 31, compared with profits of $113.1 million on sales of $829.5 million in fiscal 1986
without question they're the preeminent force in the video game industry,'' said rick anguilla, editor of toy &amp; hobby world, a trade publication that has ranked the nintendo entertainment system as the top-selling toy for the past six months
they learned from the mistakes that were made the first time around and they had the foresight to see that the american consumers were not the ones who stopped playing video games,'' anguilla said. ``it was more a case of american and japanese manufacturers putting so much bad product in the marketplace that it sort of ruined it for everybody.''
at the height of the video craze, $3 billion in games were sold in 1982, nintendo says. but by 1985 the fad appeared over, with sales just $100 million and manufacturers unloading $35 game cartridges for $5 or less
about that time, nintendo began test-marketing its entertainment system _ a small computer that played game cartridges, and two sets of control panels. add in a light gun and foot-high robot that would act out some games and the list price was $199.95
you really have to admire the nerve to walk into a lot of retailers in 1985 and ask if they wanted to buy a video game,'' anguilla said
but bill white, nintendo advertising and public relations director, said the product had been wildly successful in japan, selling more than 10 million units since 1983, with games in 30 percent of all japanese homes
we liked it right from the start,'' said michael goldstein, chief financial officer for the retailing giant toys r us. the more detailed and higher-quality games made consumers feel they were getting their money's worth, he said
if there's been a problem, goldstein said, it's been supply. ``when you have something that's hot, it sells out,'' he said
for last christmas, the game packages were reconfigured, eliminating the robot, and sold for around $100
white said that nearly four months later, nintendo still has trouble keeping up with demand. it shipped 3 million entertainment systems last year, and recently upped its 1988 forecast from 5 million to 7 million
steven eisenberg, leisure industry analyst for bear, stearns &amp; co. in new york, said he doubts such growth can be sustained. but he said the video game industry has re-established its stability and should see long-term gowth of 12 percent to 15 percent a year
competitors atari corp., with about 16 percent of the market, and tonka co.'s sega, with about 10 percent, may make some inroads, but are far from challenging nintendo's dominance, eisenberg said
what brought video games back from the dead, eisenberg said, were nintendo's elaborate graphics, sharp resolution and high-quality sound. also, notes anguilla, there's a factor toymakers call ``play value'' _ what laymen call ``fun.''
the old-style games often had plots as simple as eradicating space bugs flitting around the screen. but nintendo games are intricate. the top seller, a sword-and-sorcery yarn called ``the legend of zelda,'' leads players through 700 scenes in which they defeat wizards, solve mazes and eventually rescue the princess zelda _ a process that can take up to 90 hours, and then be played all over again
nintendo maintains strict control, awarding licenses to game makers to produce five new titles a year each. nintendo gets final say on content
among the 55 existing or planned titles are a souped-up version of ``donkey kong'' called ``super mario bros.;'' ``rad racer,'' a car-race game, ``ice hockey,'' and ``mike tyson's punch-out,'' a boxing game promoted by the heavyweight champ
howard phillips is nintendo's product analysis manager, in charge of approving the games. he's more widely known, however, as president of the fun club, a fan organization with more than 1 million on its magazine's mailing list
phillips says nintendo is looking at expanding beyond its initial target market of boys 8-15, with more adventure games and versions of the tv shows ``jeopardy'' and ``wheel of fortune'' that should appeal to adults
in japan, the nintendo box has been used to provide stock market quotes, home shopping and even to power a knitting machine, he said
phillips also oversees the phone bank of game counselors, who, he says, get asked the zelda and the tri-force question about 5,000 times a week
the answer? ``go to the tip of the nose and defeat all the wall masters and push all the blocks, and a secret passage will appear,'' he said
the kids will know all about that.''
while legions of wall streeters have headed for the unemployment lines since october's market crash, some high-rolling investment bankers, takeover lawyers and acquisition hand-holders have shifted into fifth gear
we've been intensely busy for a long time; now we are, perhaps, intensely busier,'' said stephen fraidin, a partner of fried, frank, harris, shriver &amp; jacobson, a new york law firm that handles takeovers
some of the more entrepreneurial members of this inner sanctum have shifted out of old-line establishments altogether to set up their own shops, otherwise known as ``boutiques.''
indeed, some of the hottest talk on wall street of late surrounded the string of defections from first boston corp.'s mergers and acquisitions department. superstars bruce wasserstein and joseph r. perella, who ran the highly successful operation, announced in february they were leaving to form their own firm, taking a score of staffers with them
first boston was wiped out in that department,'' one wall street insider said. wasserstein and perella took the 20 best people, ``and they are the business,'' he added
these boutiques are not merely high-class consulting firms. with huge pools of international money available from pension funds, insurance companies and the like, they have access to enough capital to spin their own deals
and boutiques are counting big players as clients. the blackstone group advised japan's bridgestone corp. on its proposed venture with firestone tire &amp; rubber co., while wasserstein, perella &amp; co. is counseling campeau corp. in its battle against r.h. macy &amp; co. for federated department stores inc
one senior mergers and acquisitions banker said boutiques have created ``a second force'' in an industry that has evolved into a veritable ``oligopoly.''
there are three firms among us that are capturing probably 80 percent of the takeover market,'' he said in reference to shearson lehman hutton inc., goldman, sachs &amp; co. and morgan stanley &amp; co
boutiques are vying hard for that remaining 20 percent
this banker predicted that the recent wave of takeover activity could push first-quarter profits to record heights at the three major houses
merger activity is carrying over to the results of the overall firm,'' he said
but that may be the very reason boutiques are popping up
since the m and a people are on top at the moment, they want it all for themselves and do not want to carry everybody else. so they start their own boutiques,'' said robert pirie, president of rothschild inc., which has advised sir james goldsmith, the anglo-french financier. worldwide; inserts 5 grafs after 11th graf, moreover there...' to explain layoffs and unbundling; subs 3rd graf from end to correct comtex sted contex; adds 1 graf to identify fnn ownership; also moving on general news wires</note>
united press international will continue as a 24-hour-a-day worldwide wire service and will reduce its staff and seek joint ventures with other companies, the firm's new owners said today
upi chairman earl w. brian and president paul steinle said they were committed to seeing the 81-year-old wire service, which is losing $2 million a month, survive into the 21st century
the upi officials, in a statement released at a news conference, said their new business plan calls for ``continuation of the company as a full-service, 24-hour-a-day, worldwide supplier of news and information.''
to accomplish these goals, upi will lay off as many as 150 staffers worldwide, but fewer than 100 of those will be from the editorial side, steinle said. ``at this time we do not anticipate further cutbacks,'' he said. to assist the departing staffers, upi will provide a benefits package and help them find new jobs
steinle said the wire service's operators, who took control of the company in february, had conducted a market survey based on interviews with 500 senior executives in the news industry
as a result we are making major changes in the way we design and deliver our products and are instituting procedures to ensure that we are constantly sensitive to what our customers want,'' he said
steinle said upi's development will start at the ``grass roots'' and will focus on strengthening state and regional reporting. he said the wire service also will stress technical reporting
this includes an increased emphasis on business and financial news and analysis and its effect on the consumer, plus more and better reporting in areas such as health, science, law and medicine,'' he said
many of the changes will be phased in over the next several months, but upi clients should see immediate improvements as a result of staff training programs to develop greater writing clarity and succinctness, the announcement said
the statement said the wire service expects to save $10 million in the first year through administrative cost controls. additional savings will come from pooling resources with other companies that offer joint venture potential for upi in the information industry
moreover, there will be ``a gradual unbundling of upi products'' over the next year, which will give the company an opportunity to reprice products and expand those sought by customers
brian said the people targeted for layoffs were notified personally today, and about 35 were offered early retirement. the staff reductions amount to 14 percent of upi's employees, he said
asked how upi hoped to improve coverage with fewer people, steinle said the staff will be ``not as large but more focused.''
for instance, he said, efforts are being made to improve productivity by reprogramming computers to perform routine functions, such as automatic pronouncers for broadcast copy
additionally, the spanish-language translation desk will be moved from washington to central or latin america, upi announced
brian said the unbundling of upi's products will allow customers to buy the services they want without having to purchase unwanted services. this type of unbundling, he said, should help upi sales with non-media clients, who are expected to make up more of the wire service's client base in the future
brian, the new chairman, said, ``i estimate approximately $15 million in permanent equity financing will be required by the time we have completed the second phase of the business plan.''
the first phase of the business plan, expected to take three to six months, is designed to stabilize the company. the second phase will redirect the company into new and expanded lines of business
all told, the two-year business plan should bring upi to profitability in two years, brian said
until equity financing is in place, bridge financing will be made available by wnw group inc. and infotechnology inc
brian is chairman of wnw, a media investment group formed to take control of upi, and infotechnology, a new york-based information technology and venture capital firm
we know how to operate companies within their means and we have links to other companies with significant future joint venture potential for upi in the information industry,'' brian said
as an example of joint-venture possibilities, brian cited a new electronic news and information product called dbc supernews, created by financial news network, data broadcasting corp. _ an fnn subsidiary _ and comtex scientific corp. dbc supernews allows anyone with a personal computer at over 28 million cable tv sites to receive real-time news on any subject gathered from upi and other major news sources by comtex
supernews will be available at very low cost because fnn can deliver it by satellite as part of its regular television signal
brian and infotechnology own about 20 percent of fnn
president reagan today urged congressional approval of his request for $365 million to begin construction of the superconducting super collider, saying the technology it represents is ``changing the way we live.''
i know that some people may question the practical applications of the superconducting super collider,'' the president said. ``the strange world of subatomic particles, they may think, will never be more than an arcane interest to a few highly specialized scientists.''
but the truth is the practical applications of this new technology are already changing the way we live,'' the president told a gathering of science students and others in the rose garden
every time someone turns on his desk computer, makes a phone call or plays a video game, he is plugging into that mysterious world of quantum physics,'' reagan said. ``the superconducting super collider is the doorway to that new world of quantum change.''
the superconducting super collider will investigate the origin and nature of matter by whirling beams of protons into each other at an energy 20 times greater than is now possible in a 53-mile-around underground tunnel
the students in the audience were part of a program established in 1985 that gives top students from each state an opportunituy to work for two weeks in the summer at national laboratories in the washington area
reagan approved construction of the collider, the world's largest energy particle accelerator, in january 1987. the department of energy asked for site proposals in april 1987, and 36 of the 43 proposals received were judged qualified
the national academy of sciences and the national academy of engineering selected eight as the best qualified. the sites were in arizona, colorado, illinois, michigan, new york, north carolina, tennessee and texas
secretary of energy john s. herrington is sheduled to recommend a preferred site in july and the final site is to be chosen in january after an environmental imnpact study
some scientists oppose the project, saying it would be too expensive and drain money from more desirable scientific projects
however, six nobel laureates, four of whom were present for the ceremony, wrote reagan that the project ``represents america's commitment to the pursuit of excellence in basic scientific research.''
although reagan spoke seriously of his dedication to the project, he opened his remarks with a joke about it
when i first heard about this place where things go round and round at great speeds and then crash into each other, i thought tney were talking about a presidential campaign,'' the president said
thursday is the last day to qualify for the big airlines' triple-mileage programs and travelers have been flocking to the skies to beat the deadline
this is their time to strike,'' said suzanne jensen, a spokeswoman for uniglobe travel (international) inc., a large travel agency franchiser based in richmond, british columbia
to drum up business in the slow winter months, the major airlines offered to triple all mileage credits accumulated by participants in frequent-flier programs this year _ if the member took at least one round-trip or two one-way flights on that carrier between by the end of the day thursday
the deadline, coupled with the approach of easter and school vacations, seems to have touched off a flying spree _ with many travelers taking short, relatively cheap flights in order to qualify for the bonus mileage
the rush has mainly caught up ordinary consumers rather than frequent business travelers, who qualified earlier in the year for triple credits
there may be some short hops out there being taken for qualifying trips,'' said alan loflin, a spokesman for pan am corp. ``we were extremely heavy this weekend all over the (pan am) system.''
he said traffic was especially thick on pan am's northeast corridor shuttle service and on pan am express _ both short-haul operations for the international carrier. pan am express serves about a dozen cities in the northeast and feeds into the airline's main hub in new york, while the shuttle links new york, washington and boston
uniglobe's jensen reported an especially big flurry of business in the west and midwest _ with a lot of western customers booking short trips from los angeles, for example, to las vegas, san francisco or san diego
launched at the start of the year by delta air lines, the triple-mileage marketing weapon was quickly embraced by other major carriers hoping to bolster business during the first quarter, which is traditionally the slowest for leisure travel
triple mileage is an extension of the popular frequent-flier programs, which reward passengers with free tickets or upgrades to first class after they have flown a set number of miles
we've had some very heavy passenger loads the past few days,'' said dan sheehy, a spokesman for united airlines. ``it looks like people are rushing to qualify for triple mileage.''
united, the nation's largest airline, saw passengers board its planes in record numbers last weekend on its 400 or so daily flights out of its hub at chicago's o'hare international airport, sheehy reported. boardings on friday, saturday and sunday ranged from around 45,000 to more than 49,000 a day _ compared with united's average rate of 30,000 to 35,000
second-ranked american airlines had a similar increase in passenger traffic last weekend, spokeswoman mary o'neill said
eastern airlines also has experienced a ``travel frenzy'' recently, spokeswoman paula musto said, citing the twin factors of easter and the triple-mileage deadline
observers said most major airlines are reaping the same last-minute windfall _ with one notable exception. delta, which started the triple-mileage competition, did not impose a deadline for eligibility, spokesman neil monroe said
delta's frequent-flier program, including the triple mileage feature, is also unique in that all tickets must be charged on an american express card
the japanese government hailed the u.s.-japan accord on access to japan's construction market, but japanese construction executives expressed wariness about the agreement wednesday
since this agreement came about when japanese firms are still barred from the u.s. public works market, i am dissatisfied,'' hajime sako, president of the japan federation of construction contractors, said in a statement
washington banned japanese companies from u.s. public works projects last year because of japan's restrictive policies
it is good that the two countries were able to reach an agreement,'' prime minister noboru takeshita told reporters
construction minister ihei ochi said he was satisfied that japan had done enough to help american companies take part in japanese construction projects, long seen as representing continued closure of japan's markets
japan will honor the agreement and with the cooperation of japan's construction industry, ``i hope things will go smoothly in the future,'' ochi said
japanese and u.s. negotiators agreed japan will encourage foreign participation in major public works projects financed by the japanese government and other projects carried out by japanese companies with funding from both the central and local governments
the united states had threatened to invoke a law calling for retaliation unless negotiations this week produced an accord allowing u.s. companies to bid on an equal footing with japanese firms for hundreds of millions of dollars of work in large public works projects in japan
such projects include airports and airport terminals _ particularly the planned kansai international airport in western japan _ plus conference halls, expressways and bridges
keizo obuchi, chief cabinet secretary and takeshita's top aide, told a press conference the successful conclusion of the washington talks was a victory over protectionism, and said he hoped the agreement will have a ``favorable influence'' over deliberations in the u.s. congress on various trade bills
on the tokyo stock exchange, construction company stocks were boosted by the progress of the talks and announcement of the accord, possibly because investors believed it would lead the united states to drop restrictions on them
since monday, shimizu construction surged 33 yen to 934 yen $7.42) per share, while taisei corp. rose 22 yen to 969 yen ($7.75) and kajima corp. jumped 40 yen to 1,550 yen ($12.40)
japanese construction executives, however, expressed caution
sako said he was happy japan has been able to prevent u.s. retaliation, but said it was unavoidable that japan had to compromise to bring about a resolution to the deadlock
teruzo yoshino, president of shimizu construction, thanked the government wednesday for reaching a conclusion without u.s. retaliation, but stopped short of endorsing the accord
from now, i hope the japanese industry discusses the issue fully ... to develop a policy,'' yoshino said in a statement
the european economic community charged the japan-u.s. agreement ignores other countries
the ec has repeatedly warned against bilateral deals on trade and public procurement and particularly against this tendency between japan and the u.s.,'' said michael lake, a counsellor at the ec delegation in tokyo
european firms have shown more practical interest than american firms in the kansai airport,'' he said. ``we do not regard any u.s.-japan deal as infringing on our rights to pursue our own interests in this market.''
a french firm's design was chosen for the kansai airport's terminal, and european firms are hoping to follow with actual construction contracts
contracting for future construction projects jumped 10 percent in february, recouping january's 8 percent decline, according to a report published thursday
the survey, by the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co., estimated the annualized value of all newly started construction projects in february at $249.7 billion, the highest level since last october
while the february increase was paced by a 14 percent surge in nonresidential building, the construction information service said housing and public works also contributed to the advance
the gain in nonresidential construction was concentrated in commercial and industrial buildings, up 32 percent, while institutional construction projects declined 11 percent
f.w. dodge said its seasonally adjusted index of construction contracting rose to 159 in february from 145 in january, which was its lowest level in two years. the index is based on a level of 100 for 1982
because construction activity can be notoriously erratic during the winter months, february's welcome gain in contracting needs to be paired with january's sharp decline,'' said george a. christie, vice president and chief economist for f.w. dodge
taken together, he said, january and february showed the rate of new construction contracting to be 5 percent below the fourth quarter of last year, extending a gentle decline from the peak rate reached in the third quarter of 1987
contracting for residential buildings rose 9 percent in february to an annualized value of $120.2 billion, according to the report. it noted, however, that the improvement was limited to multi-family housing and hotels and motels, while the single-family sector showed little change
public works and utility construction in february was valued at $43.4 billion, up 3 percent from january but 5 percent below the average level in 1987
maxwell communication corp. plc, a group controlled by british publisher robert maxwell, said wednesday that its pre-tax profit more than doubled in 1987, boosted by strong gains in publishing, printing and from property sales
the company said its pre-tax profit for the year came to 166 million pounds, or $309 million, compared with 80.3 million pounds, or $149 million, in 1986
at the same time, maxwell said the company was close to acquiring an australian newspaper, the melbourne age, from australian media group john fairfax ltd
maxwell added that he expected to reach and agreement with fairfax on the acquisition in two weeks. the age is part of a package of properties, which include the british weekly the spectator, which fairfax is offering for sale
maxwell communication said its profit after taxes also more than doubled to 134.3 million pounds, or $250 million, from 64.4 million pounds, or $120 million
sales spurted 91 percent to 884.1 million pounds, or $1.64 billion, from 461.7 million pounds, or $859 million
the company didn't break out quarterly or half-year results. it isn't required to under british law
a new agriculture department analysis of last year's trade situation helps point the direction for u.s. farm exports in 1988 and beyond, if a year or two can be called the beginning of a trend
basically, the report showed that the value of agricltural exports in the 1988 calendar year rose, while imports of agricultural commodities declined. that resulted in a larger trade balance in favor of american farmers
the periodic report is called fatus, which stands for foreign agricultural trade of the united states. it was issued last week by the department's economic research service
a bit of background may be useful
one of the quirks of usda agencies that sometimes confuses as well as informs is the practice of compiling statistics for different time periods. there is the fiscal year, which begins each oct. 1, and the calender year, which commences on jan. 1
then there are crop years, which vary according to the commodity, and the marketing year, which is just as confusing and can include livestock as well as crops. international trade figures often are reported for years beginning on july 1
under most circumstances, the most popular usda farm trade figures are those for the fiscal year running fr     4.5  0   iowa         15    0       3    0      26    0    kans.        18    0      16    0       6    0    mich.        52    0      72    0      24    0    minn.         1    0       1    0       4
0    mo.           1    0      34    0      48    0    neb.          0    0       0    0       3
0    n.d.          5    0       3    0      12    0    ohio          2    0       2    0       7
0    s.d.          9    0       0    0       8
0    wis.          2    0       0    0       3
0    total       105    0     170    0     153.5  0  
           dukakis +-   jackson +-   uncommi +-   alaska        3    0       5    0       9
0    ariz.         0    0       0    0       4
0    calif.        3.55 0       0.55 0      13.85 0    colo.         2    0       0    0       4
0    hawaii       13    0       8    0       3    0    idaho         9    0       4    0      10    0    mont.         0    0       0    0       5
0    nev.          5    0       3    0       4
0    n.m.          0    0       0    0       4
0    ore.          0    0       0    0       6
0    utah          0    0       0    0       4
0    wash.        35    0      19    0      18    0    wyo.          4    0       0    0       5
0    total        74.55 0      39.55 0      89.85 0  
           dukakis +-   jackson +-   uncommi +-   am.sma.       2    0       0    0       2
0    demsabd       0.5  0       0    0       6.5  0    guam          0    0       0    0       0
0    prtorco       0.5  0       0    0      51.5  0    virgisl       0    0       0    0       0.25 0    total         3    0       0    0      60.25 0    totals      647.55 0     634.55 0     500.6  0  
stock prices turned downward today after an early advance faded
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in early trading, was down 9.12 at 1,989.22 by 2 p.m. today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 610 up, 766 down and 508 unchanged
analysts noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying in foreign exchange. that sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
the market's advance tailed off as the session passed, however. brokers said traders seemed reluctant to expand their holdings with a long holiday weekend approaching
the market will be closed in observance of good friday, when the government is scheduled to report on the employment situation for march
technology stocks were notably weak. digital equipment fell 3\ to 102[; international business machines 1 to 104~, and apple computer 2 to 39 in the over-the-countyer market
texaco rose ] to 48] on top of a 3\-point jump tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the company's stock
j.c. penney added 1 to 48\. the company raised its quarterly dividend from 37 cents a share to 50 cents a share
fur vault, traded on the american stock exchange, fell ] to 2\. the company reported sharply lower quarterly earnings and suspended its dividend
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .48 to 146.74. at the amex, the market value index was off .16 at 294.17
volume on the big board came to 111.28 million shares with two hours to go
hugh a. barker has announced plans to retire as chairman and chief executive officer of public service indiana early next year
barker, who made his announcement to psi officers and management staff wednesday morning, had informed the utility's board of directors of his intentions on march 16, said psi spokesman michael goss
barker, 62, has served as chief executive of psi, the state's largest utility, since 1977
goss said vice president darrell v. menscer would assume on an interim basis the utility's operating responsibilities, other than the implementation of a new holding company structure
psi currently is working under a four-year agreement that alllows the utility to increase rates and write off part of its loss on the marble hill nuclear power plant, which was canceled in 1984 after $2.7 billion was spent on its construction
the utility had been near default before the rate agreement was approved in march 1986 by state regulators, but creditors granted psi a reprieve after the agreement was negotiated
psi serves about 542,000 customers in 69 indiana counties
the british pound has jumped to its highest level in two years, boosted by a strong economy, britain's relatively high interest rates and prime minister margaret thatcher's unrelenting grip on inflation
sterling held relatively steady for 12 months and was uncapped when the conservative government decided earlier this month to ease central bank intervention and allow the pound to rise above a previous target against the west german mark
it is a currency renaissance,'' said keith skeoch, chief economist at the london investment firm james capel and co. ``what we're beginning to see is the transition of sterling from being one of the weaker brethren among the international currencies to one of the stronger.''
jonathan lopatin, vice president for foreign exchange dealing at goldman sachs &amp; co. in london, said, ``the authorities decided to allow sterling exchange rates to rise.''
the bank of england's index measuring the pound's trade-weighted value against 17 currencies finished at 77.7 on wednesday, unchanged from tuesday, when it rose 0.6 point to reach its highest level since closing at 78 on jan. 16, 1986
on wednesday, the pound rose to $1.8790 from $1.8705, and to 3.1225 west german marks from 3.1069 marks
in the past seven years, the pound has hit a low of $1.0470, in february 1985, and a high of $2.4525 in november 1980
until taking the rein off the pound this month, the government, through the bank of england's sale of pounds and purchase of west german marks, had closely guarded a rate of 3 marks. it also has controlled sterling by signaling changes in interest rates
but that ceiling was lifted because there was a great deal of market pressure pushing sterling up. at that rate, more people wanted to buy it than sell it,'' lopatin said
it certainly has been made clear in the eye of the foreign exchange market and investors that the government is more concerned about the threat of inflation than they are at holding the exchange rate at any particular level.''
mrs. thatcher's priority has been to control inflation, now running at an annual rate of 3.3 percent compared with a 18 percent in 1980
that means the government is less likely to cut interest rates further for fear of reigniting inflation
britain's high interest rates, compared with the rates of other major industrialized nations, make pound-denominated investments more attractive and create demand for sterling
the british commercial banks' base lending rate _ a benchmark interest rate _ stands at 8.5 percent
the strong economy, however, is the underlying factor pushing up the pound
britain's gross domestic product _ its total output of goods and services _ is expected to grow 3 percent in 1988, faster than any of its major trading partners except japan. that will be the economy's seventh consecutive year of expansion
other pro-pound factors are a fiscal budget surplus, the first in nearly 20 years, announced march 15, political stability and a conservative government
they all are the hallmarks of a basically hard currency,'' skeoch said
the trade deficit is forecast to widen sharply with the strong currency, which can hurt exports and encourage imports
on tuesday, the pound also was boosted by rumors that chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson had resigned, even though the treasury issued a denial, and by a later statement from mrs. thatcher that she and her finance minister weren't split on policy
the pound would be allowed to find its own level under a new chancellor, dealers first speculated. then they decided the authorities won't step in to restrain the pound, even if he stayed
both mr. lawson and i put downward pressure on inflation as top-most priority. both of us think interest rate stability can be very useful to industry,'' mrs. thatcher said in response to a question in the house of commons
mrs. thatcher and lawson have expressed differing views in recent weeks _ he for restraining the pound and she being more concerned about inflation
meanwhile, the analysts expect the pound to continue to move upward. skeoch said he expected the pound to reach 3.20 marks within a few months and $2.04 later in the year
political opponents attacked prime minister margaret thatcher's plan to inject 800 million pounds into automaker rover group plc when the government sells it off, calling it an amazing giveaway
the rover plan, criticized tuesday in parliament, would come to the aid of the automaker with the equivalent of $1.49 billion in government funds
the plan, part of mrs. thatcher's huge and ongoing privatization program, also is likely to create controversy in the european economic community's executive commission, without whose approval the plan cannot proceed
british aerospace plc announced tuesday that it had reached an agreement to acquire rover from the government for 150 million pounds, or about $279 million, a cheaper price than had been expected. the government would make the cash injection to reduce rover's debt, british aerospace said
labor party legislator bryan gould, who serves as a spokesman on industrial issues for the opposition party, said the british aerospace announcement was astonishing and attacked the plan as an ``easter giveaway.''
lord williams, also a member of the opposition, said british aerospace shareholders ``will no doubt think christmas has come rather early this year.''
gould claimed that the government was paying british aerospace 650 million pounds, enough to raise the government's child benefit by 1 pound a week, ``to persuade them to walk away with net assets worth 770 million'' pounds
gould demanded a full house of commons debate on the issue after the easter recess
trade secretary lord young countered: ``this is not a knock-down price,'' and described the package as ``the deal of the decade.''
rover chairman graham day said the sale was good for the company and its employees
british aerospace chairman roland smith promised to develop the combined company and ``not to destroy it.''
one condition the government has attached to the rover sale is that british aerospace must not dispose of any of the business within five years
the conservative party's large majority in the house of commons guarantees passage of mrs. thatcher's policies
rover group, which is made up of automaker austin rover and land rover, which produces utility vehicles, recently announced a 1987 profit before taxes of 27.9 million pounds, or about $52 million. that compared with a loss of 355.6 million pounds, or around $661 million, in 1986
mrs. thatcher has sold 16.5 billion pounds worth of state-owned companies since she came to power in 1979 as part of her ``capitalist revolution.'' her goals have been to make those companies more competitive as well as to get more shares into the hands of the british public
companies are increasingly demanding concessionary contracts as a tactic for provoking strikes in an effort to drive unions out of their plants, a house subcommittee was told wednesday
labor leaders for now are combatting the effort by instructing their members to keep working after a contract expires and wages and benefits are unilaterally cut by an employer
but through an orchestrated series of congressional hearings, they also are trying to build a case for lauching another attempt to change the nation's labor laws if a democrat is elected president next fall so that it would be more difficult from companies to hire strikebreakers
local union officials at paper, chemical and meatpacking plants complained wednesday to a sympathetic subcommittee of the house education and labor committee that the national labor relations act has been turned againt them
rep. william clay, d-mo., chairman of the committee's labor-management relations subcommittee, said the growing anti-union tactics adopted by employers and approved by the national labor relations board threatens the future of collective bargaining
what was once the workers' weapon of last resort _ the strike _ is now being used as a tool by employers to terminate bargaining relationships,'' clay said. ``employers are purposely adopting bargaining positions intended to drive their workers out on the picket line.''
ken tritz, president of a paperworkers union local in missoula, mont., said its members have been working at a stone container corp. paper mill the past seven months without a contract after the company tried to provoke a strike
as a result, he said, his members have been losing premium, vacation and holiday pay incentives as well as some of the fringe benefits they formerly had. he estimated the lost wages and benefits for each worker at about $7,000 a year
the company was so convinced that it would succeed in provoking a strike and breaking a strike ... that it prepared a manual for strikebreakers,'' tritz said. ``we chose to work without a contract at this time because the alternatives were even more obnoxious. would you rather be shot or hung? some choice.''
no stone container officials testified at tuesday's hearing. but a vice president of another paper company locked in a lengthy strike at three plants with the paperworkers union testifed that union officials and their members were repeatedly warned that replacements for them would be hired
competition _ both domestic and foreign _ is real, serious and does not allow a labor strike `time out,''' said john nevin, a vice president of international paper co. ``if we are not producing, one of our competitors will gladly take our place.''
reynolds metals co., celebrating the 20th anniversary of the first aluminum can recycling, said wednesday it is expanding its network of company-operated recylcing installations
more than 650 units will be operating by the middle of the year, compared with about 500 last year and about 600 now, company officials said at a news conference
since reynolds began buying used cans in los angeles in 1968, the first in the industry to do so, it has bought 88 billion cans to melt into aluminum ingots in its furnaces
the industry has bought 270 billion cans, the company estimates, and is recycling about half of current production. reynolds itself is recycling more than 100 percent of can production _ it buys more cans than it sells
scrap aluminum is the cheapest source of raw material, in part because aluminum manufacture is energy-intensive. it takes 6.5 kilowatt-hours of electricity to make a can from ore and only about 5 percent of that energy to make a can from scrap
reynolds started out paying 8 cents per pound. the price fluctuates according to the world market, and currently reynolds pays 42 cents to 46 cents for a pound of cans, about 26 cans, or 1.6 cents to 1.8 cents per can
a brewer or other bottler pays about 7.5 cents for a can with a label printed on it
reynolds estimates the handling costs double that before the metal is in a form equivalent to what would result from smelting the ore. at that price, scrap-derived aluminum is still cheaper than ore-derived, but the company declines to release exact figures
prices have been rising recently, and aluminum trades on the london metal exchange at about $1.31 a pound in the form of 19\-ton ingots
can production is rising at better than a 6 percent annual rate, by about 5 billion cans a year. william o. bourke, reynolds' president and chief executive officer, said the company believes 80 percent can be recycled by the year 2000 as more and more cities turn to recycling programs to ease thir waste-handling problems and the shortage of landfill space
but he opposed as ``not cost-effective'' the so-called ``bottle bills'' that some states have enacted to require refundable deposits on beverage containers
manufacturers of competing containers ``should make it possible for people to return the bottles for cash,'' he said. but he conceded that those companies would find it difficult since their materials are not as valuable as scrap aluminum
reynolds spokesman bob shaffer said later the company opposed bottle bills also to retain the good will of its bottler customers
wheat futures closed slightly higher wednesday on the chicago board of trade while corn and soybean prices retreated in light trading
wheat was supported by expectations that the soviet union would bid thursday for 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, analysts said. acceptance of the bid by the agriculture department would complete a soviet purchase of 1 million metric tons of wheat recently offered under the usda's export enhancement program
the slight downward movement of soybeans and the other grains reflected position-evening by traders ahead of the usda's thursday afternoon reports on spring planting intentions and u.s. grain stocks, said joel karlin, research analyst for research department inc. in chicago
there wasn't a whole lot of activity,'' he said. ``everybody's sitting on their hands before the reports.''
at the close, wheat was { cent to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in may at $3.02 a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2\ cents lower with may at $2.09\ a bushel; oats were 3 cents to 4 cents lower with may at $1.59} a bushel; soybeans were 3} cents lower to } cent higher with may at $6.50 a bushel
stock prices lost ground today after an early advance faded
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in early trading, was down 5.30 at 1,993.04 by 3 p.m. today on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 633 up, 790 down and 499 unchanged
analysts noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying in foreign exchange, which sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
the market's advance tailed off as the session passed, however. brokers said traders seemed reluctant to expand their holdings with a long holiday weekend approaching
the market will be closed in observance of good friday, when the government is scheduled to report on the employment situation for march
technology stocks were notably weak. digital equipment fell 2{ to 102~; international business machines ] to 105{, and apple computer 1\ to 39} in the over-the-counter market
texaco rose ] to 48] on top of a 3\-point jump tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the company's stock
j.c. penney added 1 to 48\. the company raised its quarterly dividend from 37 cents a share to 50 cents a share
fur vault, traded on the american stock exchange, fell ] to 2\. the company reported sharply lower quarterly earnings and suspended its dividend
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .27 to 146.95. at the amex, the market value index was off .44 at 293.89
volume on the big board came to 126.34 million shares with an hour to go. causing injury</head> 16 pvs: the mvma</note>
five japanese automakers have been dumping small trucks on the u.s. market, costing u.s. workers jobs and the u.s. auto industry $500 million in lost wages, sales and profits, a study released wednesday claimed
the 42-page study was commissioned by the u.s. motor vehicle manufacturers association on behalf of general motors corp., ford motor co. and chrysler corp
the study analysts concluded that the effect of this dumping margin was something on the order of 140,000 lost units of production to u.s. manufacturers,'' said mvma president thomas hanna
the investigation, by the washington, d.c. law firm wilmer, cutler &amp; pickering, found that the five japanese companies are selling compact pickup trucks for 10 percent to 48 percent less in the united states than they charge in their japanese home market
dumping is illegal under trade agreements between the united states and its foreign partners. the companies charged with dumping by the mvma are toyota motor corp., nissan motor co., mazda motor corp., isuzu motor co. and mitsubishi motors corp
toyota immediately denied the charges in statement by robert mccurry, senior vice president of toyota motor sales u.s.a
any assertions that japanese compact trucks are injuring or threatening to injure the u.s. industry ring hollow,'' mccurry said. ``first, u.s. producers are enjoying their greatest success in history, collectively continuing to set records for sales and profits
second, japanese truck sales continue to decline and presently represent the smallest share of the u.s. market since compact trucks were introduced by the japanese,'' he said
mccurry has been the most outspoken japanese auto company executive in denying charges leveled this year, particularly by chrysler corp. executives
in previous defenses, mccurry and executives for other japanese auto companies have said that the strength of the japanese yen against other currencies has made it cheaper for them to buy raw materials
in addition, japanese automakers have worked aggressively to cut production costs, they said
in a letter accompanying the study, which was hand-delivered to commerce secretary william verity's office tuesday afternoon, the mvma asked that the u.s. government begin negotiating with the japanese government to end the dumping
however, claire buchan, a commerce department spokeswoman, said the u.s. government has only initiated a dumping investigation once, in a semi-conductor case
in the vast majority of dumping cases, she said, it is up to the u.s. industry involved to file petitions with the commerce department and the international trade commission
if the two agencies find dumping has occurred and has injured a u.s. industry, then the government assesses a duty on the imported product that is equal to the difference between the prices charged here and in the product's home market
john greenwald, an attorney with the firm that conducted the study, said negotiations between the two countries would eliminate the need for lengthy and costly litigation involved in filing the petitions
the white paper was prepared ... in hopes they would go to japanese government and say dumping is causing us problems, not only in compact pickups but in other products, and preventing the exchange-rate realignment from curing the trade deficit,'' greenwald said
automotive products account for about half of the nearly $60 billion u.s. trade deficit with japan. greenwald said continued dumping and denials of dumping would push the value of the dollar down further against the yen
the mvma study found the truck dumping prevented u.s. makers from fully using factory space, from moving car workers to truck production jobs instead of laying them off or from earning healthy returns on production and sales of small pickups
it estimated the cost to the u.s. auto industry and its workers at $500 million in lost wages, profits and sales
for example, according to the study, toyota charges $3,988 at the factory for a small pickup destined for the u.s. market and $5,313 for the same truck destined for sale in its home market
the study's authors wrote that when the japanese yen began to appreciate against the dollar two years ago, the japanese producers lost the price advantage that had enabled them to undersell american makers
faced with the choice between surrendering the gains in import levels or dumping, they decided to dump,'' the study said
the authors also called japanese makers' response that the dumping has caused no harm ``absurd.''
ab volvo of sweden announced that it has bought the bus division of british leyland, making the major scandinavian automaker a leading bus manufacturer in western europe
the purchase was announced wednesday in london and goteborg, sweden. volvo acquired the bus division from leyland's management, which took over the company from state-owned rover group plc in january 1987
under the deal, volvo acquires leyland's two plants in farington and workington in northwestern england with a total of 1,850 employees. the plants make the well-known red double-decker buses
volvo, sweden's largest and most profitable industrial company which has diversified into food and trading, has already taken over general motors corp.'s truck division. volvo's latest purchase makes it the world's second- largest bus maker after daimler-benz ag of west germany
volvo did not disclose the price it paid for leyland's bus division, which will boost volvo's bus production by 40 percent, to about 5,500 units a year. volvo's bus output rose by 16 percent to a record 3,920 units last year, hitting maximum capacity at its main swedish plant and a smaller facility in sao paulo, brazil
the british bus subsidiary will continue to operate as an independent entity although volvo plans to build about 1,000 of its own buses at the leyland plants by 1990, a volvo spokesman said
volvo's main markets are scandinavia, central europe and south america, while leyland buses are mostly marketed in britain and in british commonwealth countries
volvo's bus division last year accounted for 2 billion swedish kronor, around $340 million, or only 2.2 percent of the company's total sales of 92.5 billion kronor, or $15.7 billion. leyland is expected to show a small profit for 1987 on sales of roughly 1 billion kronor, or about $170 million
the stock market retreated today, yielding to afternoon selling after an early advance faltered
analysts noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying in foreign exchange, which sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february
that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither weak nor dangerously strong
the market weakened as the session passed, however. brokers said traders seemed reluctant to hold onto big positions with a long holiday weekend approaching
the market will be closed in observance of good friday. the government is scheduled to report on the employment situation for march that day, but stock and bond traders will have to wait until monday to respond to it if it contains any surprises
eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc. said wednesday they had combined their photofinishing operations, although a lawsuit challenging the merger is still being argued
kodak and the atlanta-based fuqua wasted no time in completing the deal tuesday after the u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans reversed a lower court's injunction that had blocked the merger since feb. 22
qualex inc. combines fuqua's photofinishing subsidiary, colorcraft corp., with kodak-owned laboratories, to form the country's largest wholesale photofinishing operation. it has 94 processing labs around the country
paul allen, a kodak spokesman, said the target date for the merger had been feb. 1
the court of appeals decided that phototron corp., a small san bernardino, calif.-based photofinisher, had no right to try to block the merger, although it may continue pursuing its lawsuit, allen said
phototron sued kodak over the photo giant's colorwatch photofinishing system, claiming it violates antitrust laws because it is forcing non-colorwatch processing labs out of business, said joseph alioto, a photron lawyer
alioto said phototron is seeking between $100 million and $150 million in damages because of colorwatch. the merger, he said, will just increase that range
nonetheless, alioto said wednesday that he plans to ask the supreme court to issue a temporary injunction preventing the merger until he can file a request for the court to consider the matter
as far as we're concerned, the supreme court should get a look at this thing prior to the scrambling of the eggs,'' alioto said
as far as kodak and fuqua are concerned, the eggs have already been scrambled
the company will be based in durham, n.c., the home of colorcraft, and colorcraft's former chairman, d. carl hamill, will serve as chief executive officer
the lawsuit filed by phototron is being heard in u.s. district court in fort worth, texas, and is expected to continue regardless of the status of the injunction blocking the merger
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in the early going, closed with a 20.22-point loss at 1,978.12
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 on the new york stock exchange, with 568 up, 918 down and 468 unchanged
big board volume totaled 151.81 million shares, against 152.69 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index fell 1.00 to 146.22
an afternoon round of selling sent stock prices lower wednesday after an early advance faltered
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 10 points in the early going, finished with a 20.22-point loss at 1,978.12. that marked its lowest close since it stood at 1,962.04 on feb. 11
declining issues outnumbered advances by about 5 to 3 in the daily tally on the new york stock exchange, with 571 up, 917 down and 477 unchanged
big board volume came to 151.81 million shares, against 152.69 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index fell 1.00 to 146.22
analysts noted that the dollar had shown signs of steadying in foreign exchange, which sparked a rebound in bond prices in tuesday's activity
wall streeters were generally pleased with the government's report tuesday that the index of leading economic indicators rose 0.9 percent in february. that was taken as a signal that the economy was neither slumping nor dangerously strong
the market weakened as the session passed, however. brokers said traders seemed reluctant to hold onto big positions with a long holiday weekend approaching
the market will be closed in observance of good friday. the labor department is scheduled to report on the employment situation for march that day, but stock and bond traders will have to wait until monday to respond to it should it contain any surprises
technology stocks were notably weak. digital equipment fell 2| to 102}; international business machines } to 105[, and apple computer 1{ to 39{ in the over-the-counter market
losers elsewhere among the blue chip and glamor stocks included merck, down 2{ at 157{; general electric, down ~ at 40\; american telephone &amp; telegraph, down ] at 26{, and dupont, down 1] at 79~
texaco led the active list, off \ at 47} on turnover of nearly 3 million shares. the stock jumped 3\ points tuesday, when kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. said it would seek regulatory clearance to buy as much as 15 percent of the the shares
j.c. penney added 1 to 48\. the company raised its quarterly dividend from 37 cents a share to 50 cents a share
fur vault, traded on the american stock exchange, fell ] to 2\. the company reported sharply lower quarterly earnings and suspended its dividend
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $16.34 billion, or 0.63 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 181.72 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 2.33 to 299.37, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 2.00 at 258.07
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped 1.18 to 371.38. at the amex, the market value index closed at 293.67, off .66
the federal trade commission has decided not to intervene in general electric co.'s bid to acquire roper corp., ge said in a brief statement wednesday
ge is battling with whirlpool corp. for control of roper, an augusta, ga.-based appliance maker
ge's sweetened $54-a-share tender offer is valued at $507 million; whirlpool is offering $470 million, or $50 a share
roper's directors initially supported the whirlpool offer, but tuesday urged stockholders to accept the ge offer
ge said in its statement that the ftc had decided not to block a ge-roper combination because of antitrust concerns
roper employs about 4,750 people, 3,000 of them in four georgia plants. in addition to electric and gas appliances, the company manufactures tillers, lawn mowers and lawn and garden tractors. its customers include sears roebuck &amp; co., the nation's largest retailer
it also manufactures some gas ranges for ge, and the fairfield-based company has said its interest in roper stems from that association
the rising british pound continued to take center stage in foreign exchange wednesday at the expense of the dollar, which lost ground against most key currencies despite reports of central bank intervention
gold prices edged higher after falling overseas. republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $456.25 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up $1 from late tuesday
currency traders said the dollar was hurt by sterling's strength, although it managed to gain some ground in europe. trading was said to be generally quiet everywhere in anticipation of the upcoming easter and passover holidays
british chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, speaking to a committee in parliament, said wednesday that the pound has moved higher recently only as a result of tight monetary policy, not due to an adjustment in any specific targeting by the government
one trader at a major british bank said such comments represented ``nothing new, but it is taken as a confirmation'' the government was unlikely to tamper with the pound in its current, higher range and could allow it to appreciate further
nigel lawson implied ... that the rise in sterling was something that was still in the spirit of the louvre accord of currency stabilization,'' said james t. mcgroarty, a trader and vice president at discount corp
the traders took that to mean that the (central) bank had decided to let it go. i don't buy that. i think there may be some action to slow the sterling's rise.''
still, many traders said that with prime minister margaret thatcher, bank of england governor robin leigh-pemberton and lawson backing a low-inflation stragtegy and paying less attention to the pound, that currency could advance until the middle of next month
in london, the british pound jumped to $1.8790 from $1.8705 tuesday. sterling fetched $1.8780 in new york, up from 1.86425
earlier, in tokyo, the dollar closed at 125.43 japanese yen, up from 124.37, but it fell in london to 124.75 yen
traders said the federal reserve bought a small amount of dollars and sold yen late wednesday in new york. the dollar closed at 125.025 yen, down from 125.255 yen
other dollar rates late wednesday in new york, compared with late tuesday, included: 1.66285 west german marks, down from 1.66925; 1.37215 swiss francs, down from 1.37675; 1.23575 canadian dollars, down from 1.2360; 5.6330 french francs, down from 5.6505; and 1,232.175 italian lire, down from 1,236
late rates in europe compared with tuesday's late rates: 1.6625 west german marks, up from 1.6610; 1.3732 swiss francs, down from 1.3735; 5.6505 french francs, up from 5.6280; 1.2370 canadian dollars, up from 1.2363; and 1,235.50 italian lire, up from 1,232.50
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery was bid at $457.80 a troy ounce, up $2.40 from late tuesday
gold closed in london at $453.60 an ounce, down from $454.75 late tuesday. the late bid price in zurich was $454.50 an ounce, down from $455.00. earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at $455.79 an ounce, down from $456.88
on the new york comex, silver bullion for current delivery was bid at $6.757 a troy ounce, up from $6.705 late tuesday. silver traded late in london at $6.65 an ounce, down from $6.69
platinum futures prices soared wednesday for the second consecutive session on the new york mercantile exchange on rumors of increased japanese buying and an improving economic outlook
on other markets, copper and precious metals futures advanced; energy futures were higher; livestock and meat prices retreated; grains and soybeans were mixed; and stock-index futures fell back
platinum settled $12.10 a troy ounce to $13.80 an ounce higher on the nymex with the contract for delivery in april at $532.50 an ounce
platinum prices have gained about $75 a troy ounce in the past two months as economic data have increasingly dispelled fears of a recession and pointed toward higher inflation
gold prices have also advanced on inflation concerns but platinum has an edge because of its strong industrial-use component, analysts said
although there was no fresh positive economic news on wednesday, rumors that japanese firms planned to increase their purchases of platinum gave the market a boost, said stephen w. platt, an analyst in chicago with dean witter reynolds inc
heightened racial tensions in south africa, the source of most of the refined platinum on the market, also underpinned the rise in prices, platt said
copper futures also posted strong gains wednesday on new york's commodity exchange, with the april contract settling 3.95 cents higher at $1.0795 a pound
a sustained rally in industrial-metals prices likely would be perceived as inflationary, which could push gold and silver prices higher as well, said analyst craig sloane of smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
on the comex, gold settled $1.50 to $2.20 higher with april at $457.80 a troy ounce; silver was 4.7 cents to 5.5 cents higher with april at $6.757 a troy ounce
unleaded gasoline led energy futures prices higher on the new york mercantile exchange
the buying stemmed from a strong increase in demand reflected by tuesday's weekly american petroleum institute report showing a 4.22-million-barrel drawdown in gasoline stocks to 230 million barrels
that's 15.6 million barrels behind last year,'' said andrew lebow, an analyst in new york with e.d.&amp; f. man international futures inc. ``we're seeing very strong demand for gasoline and that seems to be dragging the other markets up.''
lebow said higher speed limits have resulted in greater consumption of gasoline. a sharp increase in wholesale demand in the past two weeks may have reflected dealer stockpiling ahead of the easter-passover weekend, he said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 1 cent to 11 cents higher with may at $17.08 a barrel; heating oil was .32 cent to .45 cent higher with april at 48.60 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .11 cent to .53 cent higher with april at 48.65 cents a gallon
cattle futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange on fears that consumer demand for beef will drop when recent price increases in the cash cattle market reach grocery stores in the form of higher beef prices, said chuck levitt, an analyst in chicago with shearson lehman hutton inc
pork futures prices fell as traders squared their positions ahead of thursday afternoon's 10-state hogs and pigs report from the agriculture department, he said
live cattle were .05 cent to .62 cent lower with april at 75 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .07 cent to .78 cent lower with march at 82.75 cents a pound; hogs were .58 cent lower to .07 cent higher with april at 45.35 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .28 cent lower with may at 55.90 cents a pound
wheat settled slightly higher on the chicago board of trade while corn and soybean prices retreated in light trading
wheat was supported by expectations that the soviet union would bid thursday for 500,000 metric tons of u.s. wheat, analysts said. acceptance of the bid by the usda would complete a soviet purchase of 1 million metric tons of wheat it was recently offered under the usda's export enhancement program
the slight downward movement of soybeans and the other grains reflected position-evening ahead of the usda's thursday afternoon reports on spring planting intentions and u.s. grain stocks, said joel karlin, research analyst for research department inc. in chicago
wheat settled { cent to 1\ cents higher with may at $3.02\ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2 cents lower with may at $2.09{ a bushel; oats were 3 cents to 3} cents lower with may at $1.60 a bushel; soybeans were 3 cents lower to { cent higher with may at $6.49 a bushel
stock-index futures retreated on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for june delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 1.7 points lower at 258.25. the underlying spot index closed at 258.07, off 2 points
texaco inc. said it filed an appeal of a multibillion-dollar damage judgment to the u.s. supreme court on wednesday, but stressed the move was only a formality in the event its settlement with pennzoil co. fell through
texaco agreed in december to pay pennzoil $3 billion in return for pennzoil dropping the $10.3 billion judgment. the settlement was the keystone of a bankruptcy reorganization plan that was approved by a u.s. bankruptcy court judge in white plains, n.y., last week
the plan is scheduled to take effect april 7, at which time texaco is to transfer $3 billion to pennzoil and begin payment of $2.6 billion to its other creditors. texaco said it would withdraw its request for a supreme court hearing at that time
pennzoil won the judgment when a houston jury ruled texaco had improperly interfered with a pennzoil acquisition of part of getty oil co. and bought all of getty itself
texaco filed for bankruptcy court protection last april to avoid having to pay a $11 billion security bond while appealing that judgment
turner broadcasting system inc. said wednesday its fourth-quarter loss narrowed to $27.2 million in 1987 from $65.9 million a year earlier as its revenue rose 23.9 percent
the broadcasting and sports company said revenue for the quarter ended dec. 31 rose to $193.1 million from $155.9 million a year earlier
operating income for the quarter more than doubled to $64.9 million from $27.4 million for the same quarter the previous year
the company said fourth quarter earnings included a charge of $13.1 million to reduce the value of certain internally produced programming to its estimated net realizable value. the earnings also included a $10 million credit resulting from recognition of copyright fee income which had been the subject of litigation
for the year ended dec. 31, the company lost $131.2 million on revenue of $652.4 million, compared to a net loss of $187.3 million on revenue of $556.9 million for 1986
operating income for the year climbed 69 percent to $217.4 million from $128.4 million a year earlier
tbs owns cable news network and cnn headline news, superstation tbs, the atlanta braves professional baseball team and a majority ownership in the atlanta hawks professional basketball team
spurred by greatly reduced minimum prices, 84 oil companies bid almost $593 million dollars wednesday for leases of federal waters in the gulf of mexico
successful high bids totalled $404.6 million, according to eileen angelico, spokeswoman for the minerals management service of the interior department
atlantic richfield co. submitted the highest bid of any of the companies _ $18.2 million for a single 5,000-acre block, identified as west cameron block 248
shell offshore submitted the largest number of bids, 250, said angelico
angelico said 931 bids on 684 different tracts had been submitted for wednesday's bid opening. a breakdown of how many tracts were leased to each successful bidder was unavailable wednesday afternoon, she said
at a similar lease sale a year ago, about 300 bids were received. angelico the increase in bids was probably due in large part to the interior department's drastic drop in the minimum price per acre _ from $150 to $25
we think that helped the number of bids,'' said angelico. ``one thing it did was provide an opportunity for more small companies to compete in the sale.''
interior secretary donald hodel said last month that the minimum bid was dropped to stimulate interest in the lease sale during a period of low oil prices
the lease sale was announced in february, when 6,265 unleased blocks _ each about 5,000 acres _ went up for sale. the blocks are anywhere from three miles to 220 miles offshore, angelico said
southland corp., the parent company of 7-eleven convenience stores, on wednesday reported a net loss of around $59 million for 1987 because of interest expenses and other costs related to its leveraged buyout
however, the company said that in the seven months prior to going private it earned $90.1 million on revenues of $4.9 billion. southland said it lost $149.7 million in the first five months of its new operating structure
in 1986, southland earned $200.4 million on revenues of $7.8 billion
southland's operating performance for the year was quite strong, especially considering that the company undertook the most extensive reorganization and cost-reduction program in its history during the fourth quarter,'' said jere w. thompson, southland president and chief executive officer
in december, southland completed its $4.9 billion leveraged buyout by merging with jt acquisition corp., an affiliate of the thompson co., the investment firm of the founding family
in a leveraged buyout, a company is bought primarily with borrowed funds that are repaid with funds generated by the acquired company's operations or through asset sales
southland owns about 7,000 7-eleven stores and is the nation's largest independent gasoline retailer with 50 percent interest in citgo petroleum corp
in reporting 1987 earnings, southland divided the seven months preceding the company's buyout and merger activities from the five months at the end of the year
the company warned a clear comparison between the two earnings periods is impossible because of the changed structure and different accounting bases
southland said it does not expect to report a net profit ``for some time'' because of interest costs to service the lbo-related debt and other factors
a new york man is suing first republicbank corp., accusing the financially troubled bank holding company of financial misrepresentation, an attorney said wednesday
attorneys for martin theodores, a new york investor, filed the suit in federal district court in dallas on tuesday
in the class action suit, theodores seeks compensatory and punitive damages, said james malone, attorney in the haverford, pa. firm of greenfield and chimicles, which is representing theodores
malone said the suit claims first republicbank inflated and misstated the collectability and security of its assets
that has an overall effect of making the bank's balance sheets and statements look better than they are,'' malone said
theodores' investment in first republicbank, which involved about $5,000 to $10,000 in bonds, shrank as the company posted a $656.8 million loss last year. but malone says it is too early to tell how much in damages will be sought
first republicbank had no comment on the suit and would not discuss pending litigation, said spokesman joe bowles
first republicbank received a $1 billion loan from the federal deposit insurance corp. earlier this month after asking the federal insuror for advice on restructuring. business</head>
allied signal aerospace company announced wednesday it has completed the consolidation of its bendix and garrett units and will sell three of its divisions to focus on commercial and military aircraft contracts
the company, a unit of allied-signal inc., also announced that its streamlining efforts in the past year have cut about 2,000 jobs, including 200 administrative posts
the company, based in morris township, n.j., is going to sell its environmental systems division of towson, md; fluid power division of utica, n.y.; and oceanics division of sylmar, calif
the combined annual sales of the businesses are about $200 million, about four percent of the company's total sales
allied-signal inc. runs businesses in aerospace, automotive products and engineered materials
these actions will consolidate the company's efforts in those markets where we are established leaders,'' said robert l. kirk, chairman and chief executive officer of allied aerospace
one half of our sales will continue to come from the military market, with the other 50 percent from commercial customers,'' kirk said
the board of directors of harcourt brace jovanovich inc. on wednesday elected ralph d. caulo as president and chief operating officer and retained longtime hbj boss william jovanovich as chairman and chief executive
caulo, 53, had been one of several executive vice presidents who constituted the office of president of the company, which has major interests in publishing, theme parks and insurance
caulo's new post indicates he will take over more of the day-to-day operations, but officials of the orlando-based company either were unavailable or would not comment on a brief statement issued after the directors' meeting. caulo will continue to oversee hbj's textbook publishing and related operations, according to the statement
jovanovich, 68, has run the company since 1955 and there were no indications that he was relinquishing any of his control
calmat co., a major cement supplier in western markets, said wednesday its board has rejected as inadequate an offer from investor ronald brierley to take the company private for $40 a share
new zealand-born brierley already owns 19 percent of calmat's 30.6 million shares, which values his bid at about $990 million for the remainder. he controls two of the 15 seats on the company's board
calmat said its directors voted unanimously against the offer, which brierley made last week
calmat rose 25 cents to $44 a share on the new york stock exchange wednesday, indicating investors expect the bidding to go higher. the stock was trading at $31.875 a share before brierley made his offer a week ago
calmat's chief executive, a.f. gerstell, said the board decided ``a sale is not in the best interest at this time given efforts to maximize shareholder values.''
two years ago calmat embarked on a strategy to boost shareholder value by selling unprofitable or marginally profitable assets and concentrating instead on its high-margin operations
gerstell said the plan has ``show substantial results, and we expect continuing increases in value.''
previously, gerstell has said that management is working with its investment banker on ``additional, more aggressive steps the company can take to continue this ongoing process.''
calmat's core businesses are in making cement, ready-mixed concrete, aggregate and hot-mixed asphalt. it also has valuable real estate holdings in california and arizona
in 1986, the company netted $44.1 million on revenues of $619 million. in the first nine months of last year, it earned $78.1 million on sales of $658.9 million
calmat was formed four years ago the merger of california portland cement co. and conrock co
as penn square bank moved toward its 1982 collapse, top officials seemed bent on expanding its energy-loan portfolio in a bid for growth that had ``no rhyme or reason,'' a former vice president testified wednesday
it appeared to be unrestrained growth for growth's sake,'' john baldwin of oklahoma city told a u.s. district court jury
baldwin's testimony focused on william patterson, 37, who was in charge of penn square energy loans when the oklahoma city bank went under
patterson is one of three men being tried on charges of improper loan activity that may have played a part in the near-collapse of chicago-based continental illinois national bank &amp; trust co. in 1984
all have pleaded innocent
federal officials have said continental participated with penn square in more than $1 billion in uncollectible loans _ most of them energy loans. the chicago bank was saved from collapse in 1984 by a $4.5 billion federal bailout
baldwin testified wednesday at patterson should have been aware of the bank's agreement not to sell off parts of loans that had been questioned by federal bank examiners
patterson violated the pact in 1982 by taking part in the sale of at least $5 million in problem loans to continental, he said
baldwin also said patterson didn't seem to care about continental's buying loans that carried inordinate risk, and was concerned only with dumping the penn square energy loans on the chicago bank
the sales shifted virtually the entire burden of risk for those loans to continental
defendant john r. lytle, 52, of suburban northfield, who once headed continental's oklahoma oil and gas lending operation, is accused of buying millions of dollars in poor-quality loans from penn square in exchange for nearly $600,000 in personal, unsecured loans
patterson is accused of arranging the personal loans, which prosecutors characterize as kickbacks
the third defendant, tulsa drilling contractor jere sturgis, is accused of making payments to lytle in an attempt to obtain loans from continental
prosecutors hope to show that lytle knew or should have known he was buying up problem loans for his bank, and that patterson knew he was dumping off a bad product on lytle
baldwin told the court that while he was at penn square, from july 1981 through its closing, top bank officials seemed intent on expanding their loans to independent oil and gas concerns
in my opinion, the bank's ... growth had no rhyme or reason to it,'' he said, calling penn square ``severely understaffed.''
lawyers said they expected the trial, which began march 9 before u.s. district judge milton shadur, will last about three more weeks
hilton hotels corp. chairman and chief executive barron hilton won a major court ruling wednesday in a nine-year legal battle over his father's estate
the court fight has, in effect, pitted hilton against several orders of catholic nuns devoted to helping the poor who were singled out as beneficiaries of the estate of the late conrad hilton
the california court of appeal reversed los angeles county probate judge's decision and concluded that a stock-purchase option granted by the father to the son covers all 6.78 million of the estate's shares. that is 27 percent of hilton hotel's shares
the stock was given to the conrad n. hilton foundation after the hotel magnate died in 1979 at age 91. the foundation's directors were instructed by the elder hilton's will to promote world peace and ``shelter little children with the umbrella of your charity.''
nuns as far away as italy were beneficiaries of the estate's largesse
the father's will also gave barron hilton an option to buy stock that couldn't be properly held by the foundation
the dispute centered on a 1969 internal revenue service rule prohibiting private foundations from owning more than 20 percent of any public company
barron hilton claimed that since the rule was violated, he could exercise his option to buy all the stock at $24 per share, or $163 million, its value at the time of his father's death
the stock today is worth about $598 million
to avoid the stock-ownership rule, the charitable foundation reclassified itself as a public-support organization. last april, a probate judge ruled that action was proper and that the foundation didn't need to divest itself of the stock
barron hilton appealed, resulting in wednesday's ruling that remanded the case to probate court to determine terms of selling the stock to barron hilton, who now owns only about 4 percent of the company
he said he was ``very pleased'' with the action, adding, ``it validates the positon i have taken since my father's death, and i regard this as a significant victory.''
the head of hte foundation, donald hubbs, said he would meet soon with the organization's directors ``to determine what action to take, but i presume we will appeal to the california supreme court.''
batus inc.'s challenge of a 19-year-old nevada law in its hostile $4.5 billion bid for farmers insurance group was upheld wednesday by a judge who labeled the law unconstitutional
batus has offered $63 for each of farmers' outstanding shares. in over-the-counter trading wednesday, farmers closed at $58.12{, down $1.37{
u.s. district court judge howard mckibben said that the law, which allows stockholders only 60 days to decide whether to sell their shares in a tender offer, violates the constitution
batus argued the nevada law conflicts with the federal williams act, which gives shareholders the right to participate in tender offers at will. ``the investors ultimately suffer because they they are required to deposit shares within the 60-day period without complete information on regulatory approvals,'' mckibben wrote in his ruling
los angeles-based farmers has been resisting takeover overtures by batus since january. batus is the american subsidiary of london-based bat industries inc. plc
bat is a tobacco, retailing and paper-goods conglomerate that for some time has been seeking a foothold in the u.s. financial services market
farmers, with about $11 billion in assets, is the nation's third largest home and auto insurer, and the seventh largest property and casualty insurer
