___</first>
bid for american standard inc. a second time, raising its offer to $68 from $65 per share and promising court action to block the target's recapitalization plan
the latest offer from black &amp; decker on tuesday _ worth about $2.11 billion _ surprised some analysts who said the bidding was becoming inflated
texaco inc. has agreed to pay $1.25 billion to the government to settle claims it overcharged customers for oil during the 1973-81 period of price controls
the nation's third largest oil company said tuesday it would make a first installment of $400 million when the agreement was closed and pay the rest over the following 5{ years
the white plains, n.y.-based oil giant is the latest in a series of companies forced to pay billions to resolve charges they violated pricing restrictions on crude oil and refined products during the period of federal controls
a federal judge has ruled occidental chemical corp. is liable for the estimated $250 million cost of cleaning up the love canal landfill that became synonymous with environmental disaster
after nine years of deliberations, u.s. district judge john curtin said tuesday that occidental produced the wastes that created the disaster and stored them in a way that would eventually result in toxic leakage
occidental spokesman james green said the company was disappointed by the ruling but would not comment until its attorneys had studied the decision
a former police sergeant and a suspended officer were convicted wednesday of torturing a drug suspect with an electric stun gun three years ago
in addition, a former officer was convicted of beating of the man at his home, and a suspended lieutenant was found guilty of abetting the beating
the defendants were among several police officers from the same queens precinct implicated in 1985 in the alleged torture of drug suspects with the stun gun, which delivers a powerful, temporarily disabling jolt of up to 40,000 volts
everton evelyn had testified that four officers beat him in his home in 1985, and that two of them had later used a stun gun on him at the station, holding him down and giving him shocks from the hand-held device
the 34-year-old taxi driver testified that the stun gun was used on his abdomen seven to 10 times for five seconds at a time. he has also filed a $50 million lawsuit against the city and the police department
former sgt. richard pike and suspended officer loren maccary were convicted of assault, official misconduct and coercion and could receive up to seven years in prison
jeffrey gilbert, a former officer, was convicted of the same charges in the beating. suspended lt. steven cheswick, who supervised the other three, was convicted of official misconduct and faces up to a year in jail
the jury had begun deliberating monday afternoon
pike was found guilty in both the beating and the stun gun attack; maccary was convicted in the stun gun attack; and gilbert was found guilty in the beating
cheswick, prosecutors said, had blocked evelyn's wife from aiding her husband during the beating and had not tried to stop the beating
the four defendants will be sentenced march 29
the trial was the second of four scheduled for officers of the 106th precinct who allegedly tortured suspects with stun guns in 1985. pike and gilbert already are serving two to six years for their convictions in the first trial, in 1986
a suitcase reportedly containing $30,000 has been recovered from a plane that crashed in the woods here, killing three people, authorities said
the suitcase of simon siegel, 66, of brookline, mass., was found saturday, said police lt. frank lentz
he would not discuss the contents, saying only that it contained personal belongings. the press of atlantic city on tuesday quoted sources as saying it contained $30,000
siegel, owner of siegel's egg company in roxbury, mass., was flying to an atlantic city casino friday when the plane crashed, killing him, the pilot and co-pilot
the siegel family attorney is expected to arrive later this week to reclaim the bag, lentz said
a 2-foot-long slab of ice fell from a 2,000-foot-high plane and crushed a car, authorities said. no injuries were reported
no other details were available about the plane involved in monday's incident, said federal aviation administration spokesman peter nelson, who noted that about 600 planes fly daily over the area to newark airport
workers at the penske gm power co. plant said they heard a thump and when they looked outside, saw the chunk of blue ice on the roof of employee charles reid's car
reid said he recently spent $1,400 on a new engine for his 1979 ford and joked that his insurance company would never believe what had happened. to update with motion to arrest absent senators.</note>
the senate launched a ``full-fledged filibuster'' tuesday as majority leader robert byrd ordered 24-hour sessions to subdue republican opposition to a democratic campaign financing bill
the talking, broken by occasional roll calls, began about 2 p.m. and continued into the night. appointments were canceled, schedules revised, senators began catching up on paperwork and cots were set up in rooms near the chamber
shortly after 11 p.m., the democrats used their numbers to approve a rarely-used motion ordering the sergeant-at-arms to take to the streets to arrest senators who had been absent from a series of quorum calls
democrats said the move was made because republicans were taking turns holding the floor, forcing democrats to stay close by the chamber to prevent the loss of a quorum, which would immediately end the session
byrd, lacking the votes to prevent republicans from stalling action on the legislation, threatened to keep the senate in session indefinitely
we've decided we'll just go around-the-clock,'' the west virginia democrat said at midafternoon after republican and democratic negotiators reported making no progress on the central question of spending limits
we're going to talk or we're going to vote,'' said byrd, warning that foes of the campaign finance legislation would have to keep control of the floor to prevent a vote
democrats and republicans have been at loggerheads for nearly a year over a democratic bill with 52 co-sponsors that would set up a system of voluntary spending limits for senate general election campaigns
the limit would be from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population. the bill's supporters say limits are needed to put a brake on the increasing cost of getting elected, up from an average of $600,000 in 1976 to $3 million in 1986
in larger states, growing numbers of candidates are spending more than $10 million to win a senate seat, with increasing amounts of campaign funds being supplied by special-interest political action committees
a candidate observing the voluntary limit would get campaign funds from the treasury if the opponent exceeded the limit or an independent group spent large amounts of money against the candidate
republicans, who have made opposition to limits a party issue, succeeded last year in preventing the senate from voting on the legislation, winning a record seven cloture votes during 22 days of floor time
byrd, even with the support of three of the senate's 46 republicans, is believed to be five votes short of the 60 needed to cut off debate and force a vote on the bill
the senate is in a full-fledged filibuster,'' said byrd, adding that he would no longer confine debate to daylight hours
there's no point in continuing the casual, gentlemanly, good-guy filibuster because it will just turn out like it did last year,'' he said. ... let's have it on the floor where the american people can see it.''
four democrats and four republicans have been negotiating since last week. they reported progress on some facets of the bill but not on spending limits, which republicans say will discriminate against them in states with a heavy democratic edge in registered votes
the chief negotiators said their positions on the key issue were solid
a limit on spending ``is something this side is not going to agree to,'' said mitch mcconnell, r-ky. ``that is not one of the negotiable items.''
his counterpart, david boren, d-okla., was just as adamant: ``any bill that does not limit campaign spending would not be real reform.''
boren said, however, that democrats are willing to discuss higher spending limits in states where their party enjoys a big advantage in registration or historically has dominated congressional elections
there was no public response from mcconnell, who said republicans were willing to discuss compromise on another democratic demand: putting a ceiling on how much money a candidate can get from political action committees
boren and mcconnell said negotiators had neared informal agreement on other issues, including controling how much personal money a millionare can put into his or her campaign; requiring broadcasters to charge rock-bottom rates for political ads; better disclosure of money going to political parties; and getting controls on so-called ``soft money,'' which includes groups like labor unions supplying people to help candidates with canvassing and phone banks
this is one of a series of periodic reports by associated press correspondents on the way of life in other countries
india is taking the bullock-cart into the 21st century
at least 500 researchers in about a dozen government-aided institutes are at work modernizing the ancient, creaking, plodding carts, and even the world bank has donated funds. carts of various shapes and designs, made of plastic and aluminum, are being tested or have been developed
there is nothing funny about our project,'' said mittar pal dhir, director of the road research institute in new delhi. ``for us, animal-drawn carts are of great importance.''
india has an estimated 13 million bullock carts drawn by about 26 million of the neutered bulls, along with 2 million carts pulled by water buffaloes, camels, horses, mules and donkeys
the carts are seen most often in villages, where about 640 million of the india's 800 million people live
but they also are seen on major highways and an estimated 3 million plod along city streets, often slowing engine-powered traffic and infuriating motorists
bullock carts have even been used to pull mig fighter jets to parades and earth satellites to launching pads
dhir said it would be 50 years before india could eliminate animal-drawn carts, given their crucial role in indian life
capital investment in animal-drawn carts is put at $7.6 billion
more than 20 million indians earn their living by driving, renting, and repairing the carts
the figure is striking given the fact that indian railways, the fourth largest in the world, employ only 16.3 million people,'' said rupinder gupta, a mechanical engineer for the road research institute. gupta has designed six types of bullock cart for field trials
each year, animal-drawn carts move 14.4 million ton-miles of freight
dhir estimates that india's animal-drawn carts provide about 40 million horse-power, equal to about 320,000 medium-duty trucks used in the united states as city delivery vehicles
without bullock carts, india also would have had to import an additional 6 million tons of fuel each year. it now imports 17 million tons of crude oil annually
one of the innovations is the replacement of the carts' wooden-spoke wheels with pneumatic tires
engineer gupta said carts with pneumatic tires can pull 2.5 tons of weight against the maximum capacity of 1.5 tons for conventional carts
researchers in the southern state of karnataka also have come up with plastic bullock carts, and in neighboring andhra pradesh state a tire company has produced carts of lightweight aluminum
another idea behind non-wooden carts is to reduce demand for lumber. an estimated 165,000 medium-sized trees are felled each year to make conventional carts
so you see, there is a solid logic behind metal carts,'' said gupta
he listed other reasons for updating the carts
we want to increase tillage and output, reduce damage to roads and injury to animals so that the poor animals can have a longer lifespan,'' he said
to protect the animals, curved and padded yokes are being introduced. studies have shown that some draft animals' lives are cut short by cancerous infections on the neck from unpadded and uncurved yokes
reflectors are being added as another safety feature
other new fittings are bush bearings, cast-iron springs, shock absorbers, draw bars that adjust for animals of different height, and mud scrappers
a fodder box can be put on carts that go long distances
as for road damage, director dhir said the biggest culprit is wooden wheels
in monetary terms the annual damage is to the tune of 7,000 million rupees ($538 million) to the roads,'' he said
farmers seem to like the idea of improving bullock carts
it is an excellent idea,'' said jhandu singh, 64, of jharsa, a village 30 miles south of new delhi
but this should have had been done 25 years ago. we have suffered for long, and so did the animals.''
officials, too, say the new carts are catching on, but this itself is creating problems
we do not have enough new types of carts for all,'' said kalle khan, project economist of the district rural development agency in jharsa, whose office received only 16 new carts
there are more than 200 claimants. even some gypsies saw the carts and were attracted. they wanted at least one. i told them no. these are for farmers.''
another reason for high demand is that the government is subsidizing the price by about 35 percent
it is estimated that the largest of the old wooden carts costs the equivalent of about $300. newer wooden carts, without the government subsidy, cost $270 to $460. the plastic and aluminum carts are 25 percent more expensive
the town that was mao tse-tung's civil war haven in remote northwest china is struggling to catch up with a revolution that left it behind when the communist party leadership marched out 40 years ago to triumph
the caves mao called home in yenan's arid mountains are preserved much as he left them, the spartan desks and bedstands still in place
since then, yenan's population has grown from 10,000 to 80,000, and a smattering of eight- and 10-story concrete apartment blocks give the town an urban air. but the lives of most of its residents have changed little compared with the rest of china
two-thirds of yenan's people still live in caves in the steep brown cliffs overlooking two narrow rivers that meet at yenan
the cave-dwellers fetch water from nearby wells and grind their grain using old-style millstones turned by donkey or by hand. they cook on coal stoves that also heat the family sleeping platform, the kang
the caves have electricity, but few people have major electrical appliances
the average annual per capita income of yenan's peasants is $59 _ less than half the national average and barely above the official poverty level of $54. non-peasants average $108 a year, compared with a national figure of $248
the communist revolution was intended to free the peasants from the whims of nature and those in power. but in yenan, nature has been stingy and those in power are far away
we rely on heaven for food,'' said lei zhifu, a former guerrilla leader and retired communist party official, quoting an ancient saying about china's dependence on nature
mao, who arrived here in 1937 at the end of the long march, a 6,000-mile retreat from chiang kai-shek's nationalist troops, left yenan in 1947 as the country's civil war raged. he never returned
premier chou en-lai returned briefly in 1973, to attend the opening of a revolutionary museum. he ordered that small factories be set up with central government help to supplement the perennially drought-stricken area's meager agricultural income
the factories were built: fertilizer, steel, cement and textiles among others. but nothing was done to ensure that their products reached markets
only one narrow, twisting road and three weekly flights link yenan to the outside world. the nearest big city, xian, is more than 185 miles to the south, an eight-hour trip by car
since 1985, beijing has moved to end yenan's isolation by providing more than $54 million toward construction of a railroad. tracks have been laid nearly halfway from xian to yenan, and plans are to finish by 1990
there's a snag _ $43 million more is needed to build the final stretch. li guanhua, deputy director of yenan's planning commission, said he expected beijing to provide at least part
even with a railroad, li's plans for yenan's future are modest. he envisioned gradual growth fueled by wider sales for the town's factories, especially its leading industry, cigarettes
lu derong, the cigarette factory's deputy director, said they'll double production to 64 million packs a year once the railroad is finished
the workers earn an average of $405 a year, making them the best paid in town
but the railroad is unlikely to help the 200-employee match factory next door, already hard hit by competition from larger, mechanized factories elsewhere
it shut down for 10 months last year because it had no money to buy wood for matches. yenan officials finally loaned it $27,000 _ enough to reopen but not to buy modern machinery that would make it competitive
elsewhere in china, state-owned factories that lose money are being closed or leased to entrepreneurs under top leader deng xiaoping's decade-old program to stimulate the economy and reduce central controls
but li said ``no one in yenan has enough money'' to lease the match factory. and it can't be shut, officials said, because the workers need the jobs
yenan's agriculture also needs massive investment, in the form of irrigation canals, to significantly raise production. with less than 16 inches of rain annually, yields are less than half those in china's lush southeast
no efforts are made to encourage the one industry for which yenan is historically equipped: tourism. more than 50 hotels are under construction in xian alone as part of a nationwide tourism boom, but yenan offers only five small guest houses
xian, site of the ancient city of chang-an, is known for its temples and tombs. its biggest attraction is the thousands of life-size terra cotta warriors built more than 2,000 years ago to guard the tomb of emperor qin shi huangdi, who united china
of the 80,000 visitors to mao's old headquarters every year, only about 500 are foreigners, who bring far more money than chinese
yenan's dust-covered streets are uninviting and things are sleepy
even a confirmed marxist like lei zhifu said he attends ceremonies at the local buddhist temple ``for excitement.''
actor-comedian steve martin had a question as soon as he received the hasty pudding club man of the year award at harvard university: ``there is a cash prize for this, right?''
appearing tuesday in a rumpled, oversize tuxedo and rubber-soled suede shoes without laces, martin delighted the audience of nearly 200 when he leaped like a game-show contestant, shouting, ``i won, i won.''
he received a brass pudding pot, but no cash
the nation's oldest undergraduate theatrical organization gave its annual award to martin for ``his lasting and impressive contribution to the world of entertainment,'' said program co-producer andrea campbell
martin said receiving the award made up for his movie ``roxanne'' not being nominated for an oscar this year
yes it does, because it's such a prestigious award, and so few people have gotten one,'' he said
martin's first two comedy albums won grammy awards and he has written and co-starred in such box-office hits as ``the jerk'' and ``pennies from heaven.''
the hasty pudding club awarded lucille ball its woman of the year award last week
a judge in oregon makes some convicts buy newspaper ads to apologize. slumlords in california and new york are sentenced to live in their own buildings. in new jersey, executives convicted of securities violations are ordered to read up on ethics, and write reports
such innovations are sometimes motivated by overflowing jails, but in other cases are intended to tailor the punishment to the crime
on tuesday, for instance, circuit judge stuart nudelman in chicago sentenced a white man convicted of threatening blacks to do 200 hours of community service with the national assocaition for the advancement of colored people
he's going to learn how to be a responsible human being,'' nudelman said in sentencing james kalafut, 22, who was part of a group of whites and hispanics who menaced two blacks with baseball bats and bottles last year
last month, anne arundel county in maryland joined a growing number of jurisdictions that are using electronic gadgets to enforce non-jail sentences. the county's program for repeat drunken driving offenders calls for them to continue working, but turn over one-fourth of their pay to the county and spend their free time exclusively at home
to make sure they do, television cameras are installed in the homes, and a jailer calls at random times to make sure the subject is at home
there simply isn't enough room in the detention center to lock everyone up,'' explains district judge thomas j. curley, who envisions expanding the program to include those convicted of drug abuse, petty thievery or battery
the obvious selling point is the cost,'' said richard grinter, president of program monitor inc. the dallas-based firm contracts with government agencies to operate monitoring systems, and charges $7 per case per day
program monitor has only 45 cases in texas now and isn't making money, grinter said tuesday, but he said a state commission estimated in 1986 that as many as 6,000 prisoners might be suitable for electronic monitoring
program monitor provided the hardware to monitor a new york landlord, morris gross, who was convicted of multiple building violations and sentenced to live in one of his buildings in brooklyn. he was released last week after spending eight days in his newly plastered and painted apartment in the rundown building
a similar sentence was imposed last year on dr. milton avol, a beverly hills neurosurgeon convicted of numerous violations in buildings he owned
in other recent cases:
_ multimillionaire industrialist victor posner, who pleaded no contest to evading more than $1.2 million in federal taxes, was sentenced on feb. 12 to work 5,000 hours of community service over the next five years
u.s. district judge eugene spellman also ordered the 69-year-old financier to pay $4 million in back taxes and penalties, and contribute $3 million to programs for the homeless. the maximum sentence for the conviction was in excess of 40 years in prison
at your age, i doubt you'd be in jail more than six to nine months regardless of the sentence,'' spellman said
_ a city judge in charleston, w.va., ordered a man convicted of destroying a newspaper vending box to spend the next month guarding its replacement. christopher a. jones, 25, was sentenced to stand watch from 7 p.m. to 3 a.m. for 30 days
_ last september, u.s. district judge dickinson r. debevoise in newark, n.j., sentenced four former executives of a collapsed securities brokerage to read six books about suffering and afflicted people and submit reports after serving prison terms of up to 2{ years
the executives had pleaded guilty to charges in connection with the collapse of bevill, bresler &amp; schulman inc. they testified against a fifth executive, who was convicted and sentenced to eight years in prison
among the assigned books were john steinbeck's ``the grapes of wrath,'' biographies of george washington and martin luther king, and ``working your way to the botton _ the feminization of poverty.''
_ in lincoln county, ore., district attorney ulys stapleton began a program two years ago requiring convicts to apologize for their crimes in community newspapers. one of the first ads was placed by a former sheriff's detective convicted of possessing a controlled substance
sometimes the experiments don't pan out
district judge dorothy baker in portland, ore., gained national attention when she sentenced child molester richard j. bateman to post signs on his house and car warning, ``dangerous sex offender. no children allowed.''
bateman, 47, later dropped out of sight for three weeks, was rearrested and sentenced to 10 years in prison
georgia won an ``innovation in government'' award from the ford foundation last year in recognition of its comprehensive program to provide alternatives to jail time
the state has about 18,500 prison inmates, but 109,000 other convicts have been placed in programs ranging from basic probation to boot camp-style life in a diversion center, to 90-day ``shock incarceration'' for offenders aged 17 to 25
shock incarceration is intended convince violators who haven't been in prison before that they don't want to come back. a study in 1986 found that 23 percent of those who went through shock incarceration committed further crimes, compared to 22 percent for the general prison population, said larry anderson, coordinator of the state's diversion programs
at first blush you are prone to say there is no appreciable difference,'' anderson said tuesday, ``but the other way of looking at it is that we can give someone a 90-day prison experience, as opposed to an experience that may last for years, and do no worse.''
in other words, the state gets the same results for less money
in the diversion centers, where the state can accommodate up to 750 people, prisoners work during the day, and pay $6.50 a day for board and room. thus, the state's cost is $27.50 a day, compared to $37 day for each prison inamte, anderson said
the state also has an intenive probation program, in which probationers have to meet four times a week with an officer. that program is self-supporting, because judges may impose fees up to $50 a month as part of the sentence, anderson said
in 1982, anderson said, 63 percent of criminal convicts in georgia received a probated sentence. in 1985, that had increased to 73 percent
if you look at 1981, the state of georgia had the highest per-capita incarceration rate in the united states. it exceeded the incarceration rate of the soviet union and the union of south africa,'' he said
we began putting our emphasis on alternative programs in 1982, and by 1985 we had dropped down to no. 11 in per-capita incarceration rates.''
the real issue now,'' he emphasized, ``is that we cannot afford to build any more prisons.''
nbc, cbs, abc and cnn all plan to televise president reagan's news conference tonight
abc said it will interrupt its coverage of the winter olympics in calgary to televise the news conference live at 8 p.m. est
sen. bob dole defeated former television evangelist pat robertson to win minnesota's republican presidential caucuses tuesday night, with vice president george bush a distant fourth behind rep. jack kemp
two men were dead; valuable manuscripts had changed hands; false names were involved
the mystery was solved tuesday as columbia university announced that it had been given the papers of ellery queen, the dashing, upper-crust detective whose adventures helped elevate american detective fiction to an art form
ellery queen was created by brooklyn-born cousins frederic dannay and manfred b. lee, who entered a 1928 mystery contest that required a pseudonym
they invented queen and made him both author and protagonist, thinking an author would be better remembered if his name appeared throughout the book
more than 40 ellery queen novels were written before lee died in 1971. his partner, dannay, died in 1982, and dannay's sons richard and douglas gave the ellery queen papers to columbia
the manuscripts show that lee and dannay often were at odds over their work, with intense disagreements and personality clashes. there are extensive revisions; in one case, 50 pages were deleted from a novel
we're not so much collaborators as competitors. it has produced a sharper edge,'' dannay once said
the 25,000-item collection includes the only surviving manuscript of the first ellery queen novel, ``the roman hat mystery,'' and the notes, outlines and corrected manuscripts of the last, ``a fine and private place.''
also included are letters and manuscripts of dashiell hammett, cornell woolrich, john dickson carr, agatha christie and others whose work already can be found in columbia's archive of mystery and detective writing
the ellery queen novels led to a series of movies, radio and television shows, and to ellery queen's mystery magazine, which first appeared in 1941 and is still published monthly
the ellery queen archives include the first issue of the magazine, along with manuscripts from such contributors as william faulkner
selections from the archives will be on exhibit at columbia's butler library from march 3 to july 6
repeat drunken drivers convicted in a new program are being allowed to keep their jobs, but as soon as the whistle blows they must go home, stay home and stay sober. big brother will be watching, and calling
anne arundel county has invested $15,000 in 30 video monitoring systems, which are installed in offenders' homes and linked by telephone lines to a master control in the county jail
under the program launched jan. 26, offenders are not watched all the time, but they never know when a jail officer will call and ask them to step before the camera
a lot of people say i got off easy, but you're stopped in your tracks at the front door,'' said one of the first four men sentenced under the program, a three-time offender who agreed to be interviewed on condition his name not be used. ``it's not exactly a slap on the wrist, but it's better than sitting in jail.''
for this offender, the hardest part of the program is turning over $336 a month _ one-fourth of his salary _ to the county during his 90-day sentence. ``it's a big dent in our pocket,'' said his wife
an operator at the the jail dials each offender once, and often twice, a night and instructs him to turn on the video equipment and stand in front of the camera
the county also has purchased hand-held breath analyzers to make sure the offender is complying with a judge's no-drinking stipulation. the equipment displays alcohol levels in bright red numerals that can be read over the tv monitor
house detainees also are required to turn over one-quarter of their take-home pay to the county. if an offender's home doesn't have an adequate telephone jack, he has to pay for one
violation of any condition brings a jail sentence
john sellers, government marketing coordinator for mitsubishi electric, said the visitel system has been used in several states to monitor probationers, but he said anne arundel county is apparently the first to use the system as an alternative to prison sentences
at least 11 manufacturers are marketing systems, according to the national institute of justice
the program has been endorsed by the local chapter of mothers against drunk driving. jean heald, president of the group, said that when the program is combined with an alcohol counseling program it may help make highways safer
we're hopeful. sending them to jail we know doesn't work,'' said ms. heald, who said the program is in keeping with a philosophy of ``punishment for the crime, treatment for the disease and monitoring for the citizen.''
county officials plan to review the program in the next few weeks and decide whether to buy 90 additional monitors this smmer
district judge thomas j. curley drug users, petty thieves and those convicted of minor battery charges are also likely candidates for house detention
asked if he expects public opposition, curley was frank: ``are you kidding? nothing is ever tough enough for them. but i have to live in the real world.''
house detention is an alternative to paying up to $40 a day to keep a prisoner in the county jail, as well as putting off the cost of constructing new prisons
there simply isn't enough room in the detention center to lock everyone up,'' said curley
electronically enforced home-detention programs have expanded rapidly since the first reported test in albuquerque, n.m., in 1983
as of last february, according to the national institute of justice, an arm of the u.s. justice department, 53 house-detention programs in 21 states electronically monitored more than 800 offenders. most programs rely on electronic bracelets that signal when an offender has strayed from home
the institute reported that offenders in such programs tended to be males under the age of 30. about one-third were convicted of serious traffic violations, particularly drunken driving. another large category included parolees and probationers. israeli was offered discount on oil from proposed pipeline. pickup 6th graf ``the memo...'' ^with am-israel, bjt</note>
foreign minister shimon peres on tuesday denounced as ``complete nonsense'' a memo that described plans to funnel millions of dollars to his labor party for assurances that israel would not bomb a proposed iraqi pipeline
the 1985 memo, made public monday, was addressed to u.s. attorney general edwin meese iii and written by e. robert wallach, a longtime meese friend and lawyer for swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the pipeline project
the $1 billion pipeline was to have carried oil from iraq through jordan to the gulf of aqaba, but was never built
israeli officials ``all agreed that we favored the laying of the pipeline. so why would anyone need to use bribes?'' peres told reporters during a tour of the occupied west bank's largest city. ``i don't understand this.''
however, peres through a spokesman in jerusalem acknowledged tuesday that the israeli government had been offered a discount on oil purchases amounting to $65 million to $70 million a year in return for approving the pipeline, the washington post reported in wednesday's editions
but the aide said that peres did not take the offer seriously and failed to pass it on to colleagues, the newspaper said. he said the offer was made by rappaport but there was no proposal for paying part of the discount to peres' party, the post reported
an israeli military analyst on tuesday told the associated press it would not have been in israel's interest to destroy the pipeline because israel has sought a dialogue with iraq to counter growing hostility from iran
the memo said rappaport ``confirmed the arrangement with peres to the effect that israel will receive somewhere between $65 million and $70 million a year for 10 years out of the conclusion of the project.''
what also was indicated to me,'' wallach wrote to meese, ``and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor.''
the memo is central to a criminal investigation of meese. at issue is whether meese knew of a possibly improper payment plan involving the labor party and, if so, why he did nothing about it
in a handwritten note from peres to meese, also made public monday, the israeli leader said of the pipeline project: ``i would go a long way to help it out. but then discretion is demanded on our part.''
asked about the wallach-meese memo, peres said: ``no one said he gave the labor party anything or proposed anything to the labor party. as far as i'm concerned, it's complete nonsense.''
earlier, a foreign ministry aide close to peres told the associated press: ``mr. peres did not see a penny out of this, and neither did the labor party.''
we repeatedly have denied the whole story,'' he said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``no money was offered to mr. peres and if it had been, he would have thrown the man out the window.''
another ministry official told the ap that several cabinet ministers privately discussed the pipeline project, but no decision about israel's position was ever made
dore gold, a researcher at tel aviv university's jaffee center for strategic studies, said bombing the project would not have been in israel's interest, but iraq probably ``sought as many assurances as possible regarding a pipeline that would come so close to israeli borders.''
gold said israel has sought to open a dialogue with iraq to counter growing hostility from iran following that country's 1979 islamic fundamentalist revolution
for example, israel several years ago made an offer to iraq to reactivate a pipeline built in the 1930s from the iraqi city kirkuk to the israeli port city of haifa. gold said iraq never responded to the offer
but zeev eytan, another jaffee center researcher, said israel had good reason to oppose the iraqi pipeline because it would have turned the jordanian city of aqaba into an oil port and destroyed the economic base of the neighboring israeli resort elat
said eytan: ``we need this like we need stones in the (occupied) territories.'' elections</head>
people who observe the sabbath on saturdays have the right to cast absentee ballots in elections held on saturdays, a federal judge ruled
in a case arising from west virginia's march 5 constitutional amendment election, u.s. district judge william m. kidd issued a preliminary injunction tuesday in favor of two seventh-day adventists who had been told they could not submit absentee ballots for the saturday voting
the ruling also affects jews, seventh-day baptists, and members of other religious groups who believe that they should not participate in any civic, business, governmental or non-essential work on saturdays
karen and howard conner, school bus drivers in barbour county, contended that because of their religious beliefs, they were being deprived of their right to vote on a proposed amendment that would establish a statewide property tax for education
west virginia usually holds elections on tuesdays, but moved this one to saturday in hopes of boosting turnout. the election was set after a state court ruled that the state must equalize spending among school systems
the conners were told by the secretary of state's office that they did not qualify for absentee voting under state law. they then filed suit in state court against secretary of state ken hechler and barbour county circuit clerk jean green
the state supreme court earlier this month refused to hear the case, so the conners took it to the federal court
kidd ordered hechler to submit by friday a plan ``outlining measures to be taken to ensure that plaintiffs and members of this class are permitted to vote in the forthcoming election.''
radio personality wolfman jack has been named host of a new ``rock 'n' roll palace'' cable television show on the nashville network
the weekly 30-minute program beginning april 2 will feature music stars from the 1950s and 1960s, including the coasters, the shirelles, del shannon, the diamonds, paul revere, bobby vee, the comets, and joey dee and the starliters, tnn announced tuesday
wolfman jack was host of the ``midnight special'' show on nbc-tv for nine years and now has various radio programs. he played himself in the movie ``american graffiti.''
his new show will be taped at little darlin's rock 'n' roll palace in kissimmee, fla
basketball star earvin ``magic'' johnson told 1,200 teen-agers that he never should have dropped out of college and still intends to get his degree
johnson, who led the los angeles lakers to four national basketball association championships in his eight years with the club, spoke to a cheering throng monday at westchester high school, which has a 30 percent dropout rate
i am 40 hours short of my degree in telecommunications, but i intend to get it,'' he said
my first year of high school, i was hoopin' good,'' recalled johnson of his childhood in lansing, mich. ``but my grades were real low. my counselor pulled on my coattails and told me, `you are getting ds and cs and es. you won't go to college and play ball if you don't pull 'em up.''
there were a few gasps from the audience
if she didn't get to me i might not be standing here rapping to you. i might be somewhere else. it's never too late to get yourself together.''
asked about his future, johnson said he hoped to play five or six more years with the lakers, ``then i'd like to get into my businesses. hopefully, i will own a building 18-20 stories high and maybe hire a few of you.''
jazz pianist-composer billy taylor says money spent sending american artists to festivals abroad is money well spent
in traveling to places like a jazz festival in india, i've seen russia, japan, france, australia, sent their best,'' taylor said tuesday. other nations know about american music through records, but ``that knowledge is flawed if they don't get some of our very best. we have to find measures to at least be competitive in this way.''
taylor was attending an announcement by the rockefeller foundation, u.s. information agency and national endowment for the arts of a fund to support the sending of u.s. artists to international festivals and exhibitions
one of the things i find, traveling around the world, is that i become intensely patriotic,'' said taylor
aston martin, the u.s.-owned purveyor of expensive sports cars, kept up its ties with the british royal family by giving scaled-down cars to the young sons of prince charles and princess diana
company chairman and chief executive victor gauntlett made the presentation tuesday. but 5-year-old prince william and 3-year-old prince harry may have to wait a while before getting behind the wheels. asked if his children are ready to drive, the prince of wales said, ``gracious, no.''
the 8.5-foot-long, 4@7-scale aston martins each cost about $17,500. they are equipped with stereo radios and cassette players, electrically powered aerials, five-speed gearboxes, leather upholstery, headlights and turn signals
aston martin, which is controlled by the american manufacturer ford, said the junior cars are like the aston martin v-8 volante that charles drives in virtually every detail. instead of a v-8 british-built engine capable of a maximum speed of 153 mph, however, they are powered by a honda engine made in japan and tuned to reach 25 mph
norman loyd, who plays the grandfatherly dr. auschlander in television's ``st. elsewhere,'' has joined a hospital's drive to recruit nurses
i must say this is a little nicer than st. elsewhere,'' the fictional inner-city boston hospital featured in the nbc-tv series, loyd observed tuesday as he walked down the corridor at heartland hospital east. ``i think i'll ask them to change the set.''
loyd will star in a 10-minute video to be distributed nationwide in heartland's search for nursing personnel. he took time between takes to shake hands with heartland employees
having him in it will be an attention getter _ something we hope will catch the eye of nurses who might be looking for a position,'' said debi yancer, associate director of patient care services
the video will be shown at career days, placement fairs and at recruitment dinners that have been spurred by the nationwide shortage of nurses
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won the minnesota democratic presidential caucuses tuesday night in a demonstration of voter appeal outside his native new england. jesse jackson and paul simon were locked in a tight race for second-place
abc has swept to victory and ratings gold with its coverage of the winter olympics
its olympic telecasts for the week that ended sunday captured four of the top 10 place in the a.c. nielsen co. ratings and won the week for abc
abc also moved ahead of nbc and into first place for the february sweeps and into second place ahead of cbs for the season-to-date. it kept its first-place position among the evening news shows. the ``cbs evening news,'' which had dominated that category for the entire season until last week, finished second
nbc, whose eight-hour miniseries ``noble house'' managed to win only 16th place, was second for the week. its highly rated comedy shows did well, but were pushed down a few notches by the olympics
abc, which usually takes third place, won the a.c. nielsen co. ratings for the week with an average of 19.4. nbc was second with 15.0 and cbs was third with 12.8. for the season-to-date, nbc now has a 16.3 rating, abc 13.8, cbs 13.6
the rating is the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions
it was only abc's third weekly victory of the season, which began in september. it won on super bowl and world series weeks
last week's top 10 shows were: abc's tuesday olympics; nbc's ``the cosby show''; abc's saturday olympics; nbc's ``a different world''; cbs' ``60 minutes''; nbc's ``cheers''; abc's wednesday olympics; cbs' ``murder, she wrote''; abc's thursday olympics; and nbc's ``family ties'' and ``alf,'' which tied
abc was ahead in this month's nielsen and arbitron sweeps ratings. the sweeps are periods during which the ratings of the nation's television stations are measured
the fox broadcasting co., which has fewer stations than the three other commercial networks, also got good news. its ``21 jump street'' had its highest rating to date with 6.6, placing it ahead of the three lowest-rated network shows. ``married with children'' got a 5.7 rating, its highest ever, coming in higher than the two bottom network shows. ``werewolf'' got its highest rating ever in its 8 p.m. time period, 5.1, which would give it a tie with the networks' lowest-rated show
here are the prime-time television ratings as compiled by the a.c. nielsen co. for the week of feb. 15-21. top 20 listings include the week's ranking, with full season-to-date ranking in parentheses, rating for the week, and total homes
an ``x'' in parentheses denotes one-time-only presentation. a rating measures the percentage of the nation's 88.6 million tv homes
1. (x) ``winter olympics-tuesday,'' abc, 25.5 rating, 22.6 million homes
2. (1) ``the cosby show,'' nbc, 23.6, 20.9 million homes
3. (x) ``winter olympics-saturday,'' abc, 21.3, 18.9 million homes
4. (2) ``a different world,'' nbc, 20.3, 18.0 million homes
5. (8) ``60 minutes,'' cbs, 20.2, 17.9 million homes
6. (3) ``cheers,'' nbc, 19.4, 17.2 million homes
7. (x) ``winter olympics-wednesday,'' abc, 19.3, 17.1 million homes
8. (9) ``murder, she wrote,'' cbs, 19.1, 16.9 million homes
9. (x) ``winter olympics-thursday,'' abc, 18.9, 16.7 million homes
10. (12) ``alf,'' nbc, 18.6, 16.5 million homes
10. (13) ``family ties,'' nbc, 18.6, 16.5 million homes
12. (15) ``matlock,'' nbc, 18.3, 16.2 million homes
12. (4) ``night court,'' nbc, 18.3, 16.2 million homes
14. (x) ``winter olympics-monday,'' abc, 18.1, 16.0 million homes
15. (6) ``golden girls,'' nbc, 18.0, 15.9 million homes
16. (x) ``noble house,'' part 1, nbc, 17.9, 15.8 million homes
17. (11) ``l.a. law,'' nbc, 17.2, 15.2 million homes
18. (18) ``dallas,'' cbs, 17.1, 15.2 million homes
18. (x) ``winter olympics-sunday,'' abc, 17.1, 15.2 million homes
20. (21) ``my two dads,'' nbc, 17.0, 15.1 million homes
21. (36) ``highway to heaven,'' nbc, 16.8
21. (25) ``newhart,'' cbs, 16.8
23. (18) ``the return of desperado'' _ ``nbc monday night movies,'' 16.0
24. (18) ``valerie's family,'' nbc, 15.6
25. (31) ``knots landing,'' cbs, 15.5
26. (29) ``designing women,'' cbs, 15.3
27. (x) ``winter olympics-friday,'' abc, 15.1
28. (43) ``beauty and the beast,'' cbs, 15.0
28. (15) ``bring the head of dobie gillis'' _ ``cbs sunday movie,'' 15.0
30. (37) ``falcon crest,'' cbs, 14.5
30. (34) ``kate &amp; allie,'' cbs, 14.5
32. (23) ``227,'' nbc, 14.2
33. (14) ``amen,'' nbc, 14.0
34. (40) ``miami vice,'' nbc, 13.6
35. (27) ``hunter,'' nbc, 13.5
36. (52) ``frank's place,'' cbs, 13.2
37. (35) ``facts of life,'' nbc, 13.0
37. (46) ``st. elsewhere,'' nbc, 13.0
39. (44) ``j.j. starbuck,'' nbc, 12.8
40. (48) ``simon &amp; simon,'' cbs, 12.6
41. (39) ``magnum, p.i.,'' cbs, 12.4
42. (57) ``our house,'' nbc, 12.0
42. (53) ``a year in the life,'' nbc, 12.0
44. (44) ``cagney &amp; lacey,'' cbs, 11.9
44. (50) ``the equalizer,'' cbs, 11.9
44. (x) ``disney's dtv doggone hits,'' nbc, 11.9
44. (62) ``tour of duty,' cbs, 11.9
48. (59) ``wiseguy,'' cbs, 11.4
49. (57) ``sonny spoon,'' nbc, 11.3
50. (53) ``high mountain rangers,'' cbs, 10.2
51. (55) ``jake and the fatman,'' cbs, 9.6
52. (70) ``houston knights,'' cbs, 9.3
53. (x) ``20th anniversary of clown college,'' cbs, 8.8
54. (na) ``21 jump street,'' fox, 6.6
55. (80) ``west 57th,'' cbs, 6.2
56. (na) ``married...with children,'' fox, 5.7
57. (x) ``decision `88: new hampshire,'' nbc, 5.4
58. (76) ``48 hours,'' cbs, 5.1
58. (na) ``werewolf,'' fox, 5.1
60. (na) ``tracey ullman show,'' fox, 3.2
61. (na) ``duet,'' fox, 3.1
62. (na) ``boys will be boys,'' fox, 2.8
63. (na) ``women in prison,'' fox, 2.6
64. (na) ``the new adventures of beans baxter,'' fox, 2.0
65. (na) ``mr. president,'' fox, 1.9
fbi agents illegally interrogated a suspected lebanese terrorist about a 1985 airplane hijacking when they kept him aboard a navy ship four days after his arrest in the mediterranean, a federal judge says
sharply critical of the fbi's arrest and interrogation of fawaz younis, u.s. district judge barrington d. parker on tuesday ruled that oral and written confessions were obtained illegally from the defendant
the judge suppressed the statements as evidence against younis, who is charged with leading five armed men who hijacked a royal jordanian airliner on june 11, 1985, at beirut international airport. the trial is scheduled to begin march 22 before parker
the operation occurred after former fbi director william h. webster had moved on to head the cia and before william sessions, the bureau's current head, took office last fall
defense lawyer francis d. carter said he was pleased with the decision but conceded it won't necessarily help younis' case. prosecutors have a variety of other evidence, including a videotape of younis delivering a statement to reporters before the plane was blown up in the background
oliver revell, the bureau's executive assistant director, participated in the arrest of younis last sept. 13 in waters off cyprus
parker concluded that fractures younis suffered on both wrists were sustained when he was grabbed by two agents and slammed onto the deck of an fbi-chartered yacht, to which he had been lured by the prospect of a drug deal
throbbing pain from the fractured wrists, sea sickness and the lack of proper medical treatment ``placed him at a distinct disadvantage where he could scarcely understand intelligently his rights as explained and translated to him, much less be able to voluntarily waive them.''
the fbi agents gave younis the only warning of his constitutional right to remain silent shortly after he arrived seasick on the uss butte, a munitions boat that steamed four days before meeting with the aircraft carrier uss saratoga, parker noted
they saw and knew that he was in a weakened state and susceptible to persuasion,'' parker said
younis was kept in a windowless overheated room during the voyage, which parker called ``a clear abuse of the obligation to bring the defendant before a judicial officer immediately following his arrest.''
the ship's ``slow voyage across the mediterranean appeared to serve only the government's purposes _ ample time to educe a confession,'' parker said in his 47-page opinion
only after his arrival in washington were younis' fractured wrists ``correctly diagnosed and appropriately treated,'' the judge said
we are reviewing the decision carefully,'' timothy j. reardon iii, principal assistant u.s. attorney, said in a statement. fbi officials declined to comment on the decision, said spokeswoman susan schnitzer
the judge said he was also ``extremely troubled'' by the fbi's failure to provide younis with a lawyer during the interrogation, particularly since the operation to arrest him had been carefully planned
the government was not just bringing another defendant into the station house for questioning,'' he said, also criticizing the fbi for not using a video camera to record the interrogations
in addition to the videotape of younis at the scene, the government also plans to present testimony from two americans who were among the passengers and crew taken off the plane before its destruction
the fbi also can rely on the testimony of jamal hamdan, a one-time friend of younis who lured him onto the yacht. hamdan, who lived in cyprus, secretly taped conversations he had with younis about the hijacking
now that a sculpture of three battle-weary infantrymen stands near the vietnam veterans memorial, some senators want to place a bronze statue of an army nurse nearby to honor the 10,000 women who served in the southeast asia conflict
several leading veterans' organizations applaud the proposal by sens. david durenberger, r-minn., and alan cranston, d-calif. but maya lin, the young woman architect who designed the memorial, isn't happy
i cannot see where it will all end,'' she said at a senate hearing tuesday. ``what is to stop someone from trying to add a female statue to the iwo jima memorial?''
ms. lin was supported by others who warned that unless officials stop caving in to pressure for more additions, the vietnam memorial will turn into a ``sculpture garden'' of special interests ranging from native americans to scout dogs
j. carter brown, chairman of the commission of fine arts which rejected the women's statue proposal last october, said the original memorial _ now bearing the names of 58,156 war dead including eight nurses on its black granite walls _ symbolically includes all vietnam veterans
he said the addition of the sculpture of three infantrymen triggered envy among other groups who felt left out. his commission believed that ``including a white, army nurse would only continue and exacerbate that process of exclusion,'' he said
at a crowded hearing by a senate energy and natural resources subcommittee, robert w. doubek, former executive director of the vietnam veterans memorial fund, said a woman's sculpture would ``destroy the symbolism and aesthetics of the memorial.''
but john p. wheeler iii, chairman of the private fund which raised $11 million to build the memorial, supported the nurse's statue and discounted ``the threat of a sculpture garden'' cited by critics
donna-marie boulay, a minneapolis lawyer who served in vietnam as an army nurse, testified that the statue should be erected because nurses shared ``the intensity, the trauma, the carnage of war'' with infantrymen
she is chairman and co-founder of the vietnam women's memorial project, a non-profit organization founded in 1984
durenberger's bill, which has 56 senate co-sponsors, specifies that after a woman's statue is placed at the 2.2-acre site near the lincoln memorial, ``the vietnam veterans memorial will be complete and no further additions to the site should be authorized or undertaken.''
the bill, if enacted, would require the three agencies whose approval is required _ the interior department, the fine arts commission and the national capital planning commission _ to reconsider the proposal within 90 days. the statue has been approved by the interior department but rejected by the other two agencies
the memorial, which is administered by the national park service, has become the most popular tourist attraction among all the federal monuments in the capital. an estimated 20 million people have visited the memorial since it was dedicated in 1982
america's commitment to necessities such as transportation, water supply and waste disposal is barely adequate and will fall far short of future needs without sharply increased spending on public works, a federal council warned today
the report to the president and congress calls for twice as much annual capital spending for public works projects over the next dozen years and suggests a broad range of possible money sources from higher federal fuel taxes to local ``impact fees'' on developers
in most cases we cannot rely simply on wiser spending. we also must generate additional sources of funding,'' declared the report by the national council on public works improvement
the council was established by congress four years ago to take a close look at the nation's problems with its ``infrastructure,'' a bureaucratic term covering a variety of public projects from highway and airport construction to water management and disposal of toxic wastes
the quality of america's infrastructure today is barely adequate to meet current requirements and insufficient to meet the demands of future economic growth,'' the report concludes
the group acknowledged that major increases in spending for public works may be difficult amid growing federal budget pressures, and perhaps even impossible until the federal budget deficit is reduced. but it said such spending ``must rank high among our priorities.''
in a report card on each major type of public works, the council gave no failing grades but suggested that a far better job needs to be done in all areas. the country's battle to deal with toxic wastes was given a d, and a c or c-minus was awarded for coping with mass transit, solid waste disposal and waste water treatment needs
managing water resources was given a b, the best grade, followed by b-minuses for aviation and water supply management
in general the aviation system has handled rapid increases in demand safely and effectively. ... congestion is the system's primary problem,'' said the council
discussing hazardous wastes, the council said that while spending to clean up contaminated sites has increased fivefold in the last two years, ``only a small fraction of the 2 tons of waste per capita produced in america each year is being treated safely.''
on water quality, the council suggested that governments at all levels have been fighting a losing battle
despite (a) $44 billion federal investment in sewage treatment since 1972, water quality has not improved significantly. ... due in part to uncontrolled sources of pollution such as run-off from farmland and roadways,'' said the report
overall capital spending for public works projects totaled $45 billion in 1985, the latest year for which figures were available. the council said the amount of spending by all levels of government and the private sector will have to double by the end of this century if future needs are to be met
the report said overall spending on public works has declined from 3.6 percent of gross national product in 1960 to 2.6 percent in 1985. while spending on operations and maintenance has kept pace with economic growth, capital spending has fallen from 2.3 percent of gnp to 1.1 percent
government spending for public works at all levels has declined from 20 percent of total government spending in 1950 to 7 percent in 1984, the report continued
in effect we're drawing down past investments without making commensurate investments of our own,'' said the report. ``failure to reverse this decline will exact a high price for the nation in the future both in the cost of deferred investment and in reduced economic competitiveness.''
the council endorsed the ``general principle'' that users and beneficiaries of public works projects, including developers, be required to pay a greater share of the cost of such projects
it also criticized the hoarding of money in various federal public works trust funds so that the federal budget deficit will appear smaller. in 1987 the unspent balances in the federal highway, transit, aviation and waterway trust funds totaled nearly $24 billion, the council said
federal user fees paid in good faith by beneficiaries to preserve and protect public works systems (should) be spent for that purpose,'' the report said
u.s. officials say they are receiving signs that panamanian president eric arturo delvalle may be ready to disassociate himself from military strongman manuel antonio noriega
any such move would further weaken noriega and possibly hasten his demise as the dominant force in panamanian politics, the officials said
the reagan administration looks upon noriega as the principal obstacle blocking its goal of an eventual transition to elected, civilian-led rule in panama
the officials, who asked not to be identified, said delvalle has privately expressed his intention for many weeks to distance himself from noriega but they recognize that such a step would require considerable courage
we get information from all sorts of sources, including friends and relatives, that he is about to do something along these lines,'' one official said. congressional sources, also insisting on anonymity, said they have heard the same reports
since last summer, the administration has been publicly encouraging panama's military officers to withdraw from politics as a means of promoting a return to rule by civilians. in the meantime, much of the u.s. aid program to panama has been suspended and panama has expelled all u.s. aid personnel
two federal indictments against noriega on drug trafficking charges added a new dimension to the already strained relationship. the indictments, handed down in florida earlier this month, portrayed noriega as a key member of an international drug smuggling conspiracy. in the congress, opposition to noriega spans the political spectrum
delvalle assumed the presidency in 1985 under circumstances which strongly suggested that noriega had forced his predecessor, nicolas ardito barletta, from office
it was a constitutional succession but delvalle has been widely perceived as no more than panama's titular head
noriega has maintained that executive authority rests with delvalle and that panama has achieved a full transition to democracy. noriega says his u.s. critics are campaigning against him for the purpose of annulling the panama canal treaties, under which the waterway reverts to panamanian control at the end of 1999
attempts to obtain comment from the panamanian embassy on delvalle's purported intentions were not successful
for the united states, the stakes in panama are extraordinarily high. the administration believes that a democratic, politically stable panama offers the best assurance for the continued efficient operation of the canal
the u.s. officials noted that challenging noriega would not be an easy step for delvalle. they said delvalle's extensive business interests and his family could be threatened if he breaks with noriega. in addition, delvalle's health is said to be tenuous because of a heart operation
however, the officials said delvalle has become increasingly disturbed by his ties to noriega and that some of his friends have rebuffed him because of that association
delvalle also may be tempted to act because of panama's growing financial crisis. ``the country is falling apart all around him,'' said one source
lawrence chewning fabrega, a panamanian diplomat who resigned recently in protest over noriega's rule, said in an interview this week that the country's financial problems are so severe the government may not be able to meet its payroll next month
stung by complaints that it revived vietnam-era spying on political protesters, the fbi has initiated top-level reviews of terrorism investigations that could interfere with legitimate activity
fbi officials said tuesday that the policy results from problems with an increasingly controversial investigation of a group opposing president reagan's central america policies
in that probe, some fbi field offices came ``very close'' to conducting an improper political investigation of the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador, despite warnings from headquarters, said fbi executive assistant director oliver b. revell
while vigorously defending the legitimacy of the march 1983-june 1985 investigation, revell told the senate intelligence committee that neither he nor former fbi director william webster _ now head of the cia _ closely supervised the probe
the investigation ended without filing of any charges, but before it was completed fbi agents had collected information not only on cispes members but also more than a hundred other groups and individuals opposed to reagan policies. targets of the surveillance included roman catholic nuns, college professors and labor union officials
fbi spokeswoman sue schnitzer acknowledged to a reporter that the new reviews were ``related to'' the first amendment concerns arising from the cispes investigation
in addition, fbi director william sessions has ordered an internal investigation of the bureau's conduct specifically in the cispes case
cispes has accused the fbi of investigating its members solely because of its political stance, recalling fbi surveillance of opponents of the vietnam war
the vietnam-era surveillance came under intense congressional criticism in the 1970s and led to attorney general's guidelines intended to govern the bureau's investigative conduct
tuesday, several members of the senate intelligence committee told revell they believe the bureau acted on flimsy evidence to keep the cispes investigation alive
sen. william cohen, r-maine, complained that cispes was targeted for ``a nationwide dragnet-type operation'' while investigations of reagan's central america supporters were ``much more limited, more surgical.''
revell said ``we have taken interim steps to increase the level of review'' of sensitive investigations conducted under the largely classified guidelines for international terrorism probes
under the new policy, ms. schnitzer said, the conduct of international terrorism investigations will be reviewed by a deputy assistant director who reports to revell _ who has responsibility for all criminal investigations
revell told the senators that webster was ``aware of several cables sent to him for informational purposes'' in the cispes probe, but ``he did not authorize, nor did i authorize any supervisory activity. that occurred at the sectional level'' three steps below revell
ms. schnitzer said webster and revell ``had a limited amount of knowledge'' of the cispes investigation
international terrorism investigations _ such as the cispes probe _ are conducted under guidelines which do not require the fbi to have evidence of a specific crime
in the cispes investigation, the fbi said it had information that some cispes members were planning violent activities in the united states, possibly in conjunction with the fmln _ the coalition fighting the u.s.-backed government of el salvador. the bureau characterizes the fmln as a ``terrorist'' organization
the bureau also said cispes members were investigated after bombings at the u.s. capitol and the army national war college at fort mcnair in washington in 1983, although no evidence against them was found
revell said much of the information that started and fueled the investigation came from frank varelli, a former informant in dallas whose information proved to be a ``mixed bag ... some blatantly false, some concocted in his own mind.''
that did result in the investigation being misled in certain material facts,'' said revell, adding the bureau only discovered the problem ``after the fact.''
varelli is now suing the fbi, saying it still owes him money for his informant work
revell also said the fbi made a mistake when it disseminated _ under a ``secret'' classification _ derogatory information received about cispes from a conservative group. the information from the young america's foundation was sent to 33 field offices
i did not approve it or sign it,'' revell said. ``i would not have. ... it was inappropriate to indicate that the views of another organization should be considered by our investigators.''
this west african nation votes for president and national assembly on sunday in a multiparty election, a rarity on a continent dominated by one-party and military governments
with only five days left until national elections, the war of words escalated tuesday as four presidential candidates and six political parties wound up campaigning
opposition politicians accused the socialist party, which has ruled since independence from france in 1960, of rigging sunday's elections in advance and sending armed militias to break up opposition party gatherings
the president and socialist leader, abdou diouf, 52, a tall, angular technocrat, is widely expected to retain his seat and legislative majority
but young voters in some urban areas may back abdoulaye wade, a 61-year-old lawyer who leads the senegalese democratic party, the country's largest opposition group. wade has called for change in the government's generally conservative, pro-western policies
tensions were high in the cities, where there have been sporadic student strikes and stone-throwing incidents between young supporters of the different parties
wade's party has formed its own ``people's resistance committees'' to safeguard its meetings
we will mobilize our supporters to go to the polling stations,'' said ousmane ngom, a party spokesman. ``if we see fraud, we will occupy the interior and communications ministries to prevent them from announcing their fraudulent results. if we think we have the majority, we will declare victory and declare a new government.''
diouf said monday the government was ``prepared to deal with all excesses,'' and there will be ``no liberty for the enemies of liberty.'' he has insisted the elections will be free, fair and democratic
diouf has governed the country since 1981, when he took over from retiring leader leopold sedar senghor
other candidates in the presidential race are babacar niang, 59, of the people's liberation party, and landing savane, 43, of the revolutionary movement for a new democracy
niang and savane, a maoist, have both said they have little chance of winning and are participating to show there is an alternative to the socialists
serigne diop, former wade supporter and leader of the senegalese democratic party for renovation, backed diouf's candidacy but hoped to win legislative seats for his own party
the marxist-oriented democratic league-labor movement, led by abdoulaye bathily, 43, also offered only legislative candidates
in 1983, diouf retained the presidency and his party took 111 of the 120 seats in the national assembly in the country's first multiparty elections. wade and other opposition politicians claimed that election was marred by fraud
wade has again accused the government of distributing voter registration cards through diouf's party rather than through independent registration committees. he also said the government radio, television and semi-official le soleil newspaper have given preferential coverage to socialist candidates
opposition politicians have criticized the country's austerity program, which is backed by the international monetary fund and world bank, but which has brought a reduction on civil service openings for university graduates and other belt-tightening measures
earlier this month, four senegalese gendarmes, two non-commissioned officers and three police sergeants were arrested on charges of plotting the secession of the casamance, senegal's southernmost province
violent separatist demonstrations led by ethnic diola agitators in the casamance capital, ziguinchor, in december 1983, caused more than 100 deaths. scores of ringleaders were later sentenced to long prison terms and the main secessionist association was outlawed
senegal has a population of 7 million. the largely agricultural nation has suffered from recurring droughts and the southern advance of the sahara desert. its chief export is groundnuts
the nikkei stock average closed at 24,968.65 points, up 19.20 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on wednesday
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days dukakis         44.50        0          0           22 gephardt        39           0          0           26 gore            10.55        0          0            0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson          9.80        0          0            0 simon           33           0          0           20 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    278.40        0          4            2
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 415.25
yet to be chosen: 3,746.75
              total                 changes
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           61           0          0           61 dole           60          18          0           42 kemp           35           0          0           35 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted    10           0          0           10
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 174
yet to be chosen: 2,103
an admitted prostitute led a protest at the capitol against a bill that would require aids tests for convicted prostitutes and their customers
prostitutes are not spreading aids,'' carol leigh said tuesday at a rally outside the capitol. she and about a dozen demonstrators accused lawmakers of making prostitutes the scapegoats in political battles over aids
prostitutes use safe sex,'' said leigh. ``do ordinary people use safe sex? no.''
we want (aids) education. we want to be able to do a good job,'' said leigh, a member of the prostitutes' rights group, cast off your old tired ethics (coyote)
the bill would require prostitutes and their customers to complete an education course and undergo screening for acquired immune deficiency syndrome after their first conviction
a vote on the bill is scheduled for next week. comments from both unions. picks up 10th graf pvs `before a ...'</note>
the oil, chemical and atomic workers on tuesday rejected a proposed merger with the united mine workers, just hours before the two unions were poised to announce the deal, officials said
there's a decision from ocaw not to go forward,'' that union's spokesman, rod rogers, said late tuesday. ``i don't know that that sets everything in concrete. but that's where it stands for now.''
a news conference had been tentatively set for wednesday to announce the merger, but the ocaw backed out after meeting with umw leaders most of tuesday afternoon
the merger was intended to bolster the strength of the two energy workers' unions, whose memberships have been shrinking throughout the last decade
the ocaw's rejection sent umw president richard trumka and his executive board members into a late-night meeting at a denver hotel
umw spokesman joe corcoran said only that ``a snag'' had come ``from the ocaw side, not the umw.''
the umw board had voted sunday in denver to approve the merger, a union source said. it was not clear tuesday night whether umw officials would make any further offers to the ocaw
rogers said earlier tuesday that a merger between the unions, which each claim about 100,000 active members, would be logical for several reasons, including ``consolidation of resources.''
nowadays we (the two unions) are kind of in the posture of negotiating with the same companies, and that's because the major oil companies own the lion's share of the energy and coal reserves in the united states,'' he said
a cooperative negotiating effort between the two unions was announced in 1986 at a special umw constitutional convention attended by ocaw president joseph misbrener
at that convention, the miners' union also gave trumka and the union's 24-member governing board the power to approve affiliations or mergers with other unions
before a merger could take effect, however, it would have to be approved by ocaw's rank-and-file at a constitutional convention. the union's next regularly scheduled convention is in august
at the umw's 1986 convention, trumka told delegates that the two unions would work to compile information on their common employers leading to their coincidental contract expiration date, jan. 31, 1988
the two titans of the energy union movement, the mine workers and the ocaw, have agreed to link themselves with computer and to share information about the multinationals where we both represent our members,'' trumka said
the umw and the bituminous coal operators association have ratified a new national wage agreement, but the umw is continuing negotiations with the pittston coal group inc., a major producer that dropped out of the association
ocaw has reached contract agreements with all the major oil companies. however, strikes are in progress at four refineries owned by mobil oil or british petroleum, which also owns standard oil of ohio
about one-third of the ocaw membership is covered by new contracts, with negotations for the rest continuing at the district level, rogers said. changed</head>
an appeals court has struck down a $1 million judgment won by a man who claimed that his sexual identity changed when his bicycle was struck by a soft-drink delivery truck
in a decision released tuesday, the three-judge panel of the michigan court of appeals agreed unanimously that errors made in jury instructions by wayne county circuit judge louis simmons required reversal of the award
the appeals court ruling came in a case involving joseph pickens, who was injured sept. 18, 1978, in inkster when his bike collided with a pepsi-cola truck
pickens, 16 at the time of the accident, charged negligence and said that after the accident ``he was a transsexual _ inclined to identify with the opposite sex,'' the court said
his theory ... was that prior to the accident he was predisposed to transsexualism and that the accident `triggered' the condition,''' the appeals court said
the jury found pepsi-cola negligent and awarded pickens $1.07 million in damages
but pepsi contested some jury instructions, including one saying pickens had a right to cross the street at the intersection. the company said he had that right only if the light was in his favor and he could do so safely
the appeals court agreed, saying that there was a dispute over who had the green light and that simmons' instruction implied that pickens had the green light
terrence haggerty, attorney for pepsi-cola, said the company ``feels the court decided the matter correctly.''
sanford roth, attorney for pickens, said he was ``quite disappointed'' but added he had not seen a copy of the ruling. he said he did not know if he would appeal to the state supreme court
leftist rebels fired machine guns at a bus traveling in defiance of their first transportation ban of 1988, killing three textile workers and wounding six, authorities reported
the insurgents, who have fought the u.s.-backed government for eight years, ordered the ban to protest legislative and municipal elections scheduled march 20. they say free and fair elections are impossible because of the civil war
rebel broadcasts said the traffic ban began on monday and would continue indefinitely
police officials said the guerrillas attacked a bus belonging to the united textile industries corp. as it traveled monday night on the pan-american highway east of san salvador
the victims were identified as workers for the company, which is partly owned by the government
the guerrillas, grouped as the farabundo marti national liberation front, warned people to stay off the nation's roads and highways. they said in a broadcast on their clandestine radio venceremos that their troops had orders to attack vehicles violating the ban
bus dispatchers contacted by telephone said the threat halted an estimated 90 percent of traffic between cities and reduced public transport by 80 percent within cities
the rebels called seven transport bans in 1987. in those, three people were killed, about 30 wounded and about 160 vehicles destroyed or damaged
in another development, four american religious workers were detained by the military for 21 hours in the war-crippled northern part of the country before being released tuesday to the u.s. embassy, according to sources with the mennonite central committee
it was the second time in less than a week that u.s. lay workers had been picked up by the armed forces. last thursday, two episcopalian women from california were detained briefly before being turned over to u.s. embassy officials
in early january, the armed forces' joint chiefs of staff issued a statement to some church officials asking that the number of foreign religious workers be restricted in war areas
according to mennonite sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the volunteers were detained monday in san jose guayaba, 15 miles north of the capital of san salvador. they were released into the custody of u.s. vice consul mark schall
the volunteers were identified as larry leaman-miller, 26, of nevada, and his wife, korla, 28, of iowa, no hometowns available; and gary and nancy guthrie of landisville, pa
a strong earthquake shook manila and wide areas of the philippine main island of luzon on wednesday but there were no immediate reports of damage or casualties
the philippine institute of volcanology and seismology said the tremor, which occurred at 11:52 a.m. local time and lasted for nearly a minute, measured 5.3 on the richter scale, but the u.s. geological survey in golden, colo. said the quake registered 6.9 on its seismographs
the richter scale measures ground movement as recorded on a seismograph. an earthquake with a magnitude of 6 can cause severe damage
bob nofable, a spokesman for the philippine institute said seismologists calculated the epicenter of the earthquake to be off the coast of the island of cantanduanes, 245 miles southeast of manila. he said it was followed by several aftershocks
the earthquake shook tall buildings in manila, but officials said they were not aware of any damage
the government-run philippine news agency said the tremor was felt strongest in the cities of legazpi and naga, both in the bicol region on southeastern luzon, where people rushed out of homes and offices and into the streets
the news agency quoted officials in legazpi as saying the earthquake was strong enough to cause cracks on concrete buildings but did not say if any buildings there were actually damaged
the earthquake also was recorded by the pacific tsunami center in honolulu, hawaii, but center officials said it was not strong enough to generate pacific-wide tsunamis or tidal waves
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential caucuses in minnesota
3,274 of 4,076 precincts reporting - 80 percent
bush, 5,979 - 11 percent
dole, 23,923 - 43 percent
du pont, 143 - 0 percent
haig, 49 - 0 percent
kemp, 8,535 - 15 percent
robertson, 15,969 - 28 percent
uncommitted, 1,613 - 3 percent
here are the latest, unofficial results in the democratic presidential caucuses in minnesota
3,004 of 4,076 precincts reporting - 74 percent
babbitt, 59 - 0 percent
dukakis, 8,990 - 34 percent
gephardt, 1,970 - 7 percent
gore, 274 - 1 percent
hart, 184 - 1 percent
jackson, 5,270 - 20 percent
simon, 4,766 - 18 percent
uncommitted, 5,038 - 19 percent
up to 20 million americans are in line for some temporary tax relief when they file their returns this year _ and many apparently are totally unaware
president reagan considers the relief so important that he has asked congress to make it permanent, at a cost to the treasury of $400 million a year
the benefits are limited to owners of shares in publicly offered mutual funds that have at least 500 shareholders. the provision is one of those special-interest amendments that seem to find their way into every tax bill, especially when those bills are written behind closed doors
this one has its roots in the 1986 tax overhaul. as part of that big change, the itemized deduction for miscellaneous expenses was limited to those that exceed 2 percent of adjusted gross income
thus, a taxpayer's deduction of union dues, subscriptions to job-related publications, work uniforms and the like would be restricted to the portion exceeding that income threshold. for example, if adjusted gross income was $30,000 and miscellaneous deductions totaled $2,000, only $1,400 could be deducted
in writing the 1986 tax law, the senate at the last minute included a section, aimed at preventing tax evasion, that prohibits a ``pass-through entity'' _ such as a mutual fund _ from deducting an expense that an individual could not deduct
as a result, managers of mutual funds are dividing up their operating costs among shareholders, who are treated as if they had received those costs as income. they must list this income on their tax return
this ``phantom income,'' argued the investment company institute, which represents managers and underwriters of mutual funds, ``cannot be banked, cannot be invested and cannot be used to buy groceries. the only thing it is good for is to pay taxes on.''
but could not the recipient simply write off the ``phantom income'' as an investment expense? sure _ if the recipient itemized deductions. maybe
unless a shareholder's total miscellaneous expenses exceeded 2 percent of his or her adjusted gross income, the mutual-fund writeoff would be lost. but the shareholder would still have to list the money as taxable income
in the closing days of the 1987 congressional session, tax-writers meeting behind closed doors agreed there was some inequity and gave shareholders relief for another year
that means mutual-fund expenses that are reported to a shareholder as income for 1987 may be deducted as a miscellaneous expense without regard to the 2-percent threshold. other miscellaneous expenses will, of course, still be subject to the threshold
this relief became law in late december, but word is slow getting out. money magazine, in asking 50 professional tax preparers to calculate the liability of a hypothetical family, found that 20 of the 50 were not aware of the change
internal revenue service offices in several cities say they have never heard of the change. the only mention of the provision in irs publications is a caution to taxpayers that congress was considering some relief when the literature went to press
but the last chapter has yet to be written. in the 1989 budget that he sent to congress last week, reagan asked to make permanent the relief for mutual-fund holders _ an idea that already has wide support among congressional tax-writers
civil defense workers found two more bodies when they blew up what remained of a building that collapsed during flooding and mudslides that killed at least 80 people in rio de janeiro
president jose sarney toured some of the worst-hit areas on tuesday as residents of the city of 5.6 million cleared away dirt and debris left by three days of torrential rains that began friday
civil defense workers on tuesday combed through the wreckage of the three-story building in the santa teresa district overlooking downtown rio after using dynamite to explode what was left of the structure
most of the building, which housed a medical clinic, collapsed under a mudslide, killing at least 11 elderly patients. a civil defense spokesman, bruno avila, said workers expected to find 10 to 15 more bodies in the rubble
he said rescue workers found two other bodies in rio on tuesday
sarney, flanked by cabinet ministers and rio state officials, flew aboard an air force helicopter to view the hillside shantytowns where cascading mud and rocks buried dozens of shacks. the president also visited the mountain resort city of petropolis, 40 miles north of rio, where floods and landslides earlier this month killed at least 167 people
according to civil defense figures, a total of 276 people have died in the rio de janeiro area because of unusually heavy rains since feb. 2
in the working-class neighborhood of abolicao, on rio's north side, firefighters and volunteers dug through the rubble of a three-story apartment building on tuesday. since it collapsed sunday, 12 bodies and 14 survivors have been pulled from the debris. residents said a teen-age girl remained missing
government and private engineers said there was still a risk of new landslides in 27 mountain shantytowns
donations and pledges of food, clothing, medicine, tents, beds and money poured in from other states and foreign countries, including the united states
state health officials vaccinated rio residents against tetanus and leptospirosis, a potentially deadly disease carried by rat droppings
rio state hospitals reported 162 cases of leptospirosis and at least six deaths from the disease
after four months without a news conference, president reagan faces questions tonight on hostage-taking in lebanon, israel's crackdown in the occupied territories, and the bitter fight by republicans wanting to succeed him
reagan also may be asked about his embattled attorney general, edwin meese iii, the target of an investigation by an independent counsel, and the separate felony convictions of former white house aides and presidential confidants lyn nofziger and michael k. deaver
also still awaited is reagan's reaction to a plan by house democrats for $25 million in ``humanitarian'' aid for nicaragua's contras, a package that was put together after rejection of the president's proposal to give the rebels new weapons
on the political front, reagan has doggedly steered clear of involvement in the gop presidential race. however, he may be tempted to comment on the increasingly sharp words between republicans, given that he is the author of the so-called 11th commandment forbidding republicans to speak ill of each other
the 8 p.m. est session in the east room will be reagan's first news conference since last oct. 22, which was dominated by questions about the 508-point collapse of the stock market
a lot has happened since then, and reagan has had little to say except in prepared speeches. he has been largely isolated from the press, commenting only occasionally in response to a shouted question as he boards a helicopter or to a query during a picture-taking ceremony in the oval office
tonight's session comes amid intense diplomatic activity by secretary of state george shultz in moscow and the middle east
shultz, who arrived back in washington on tuesday evening, was reporting to reagan today on his talks in moscow about arms control, the timing of a superpower summit and the likelihood of a red army pullout from afghanistan
all of those issues pose possible questions for reagan
with barely a day back in the capital, shultz leaves again tonight, this time to the middle east where he will meet with arab and israeli leaders about efforts to revive peace negotiations
white house officials say there is an urgency to shultz' efforts in the middle east because of the violence in the occupied west bank and gaza. the united nations says 63 palestinians have been killed by israeli gunfire since violence began dec. 8
shultz said tuesday he has encountered ``intense skepticism'' about the chances of a breakthrough on middle east negotiations, but the united states has ``a few ideas'' that could help end the deadlock
reagan likely will be asked about the kidnapping in lebanon of marine lt. col. william r. higgins and the eight other americans seized there
higgins, onetime aide to former defense secretary caspar weinberger, was serving with u.n. forces when he was taken in southern lebanon last wednesday. reagan raised some questions by saying he wanted ``to rescue'' higgins, but aides later clarified that he was referring to diplomatic efforts, not a military maneuver
a group calling itself the organization of the oppressed on earth claims to have abducted higgins. the group is demanding israeli withdrawal from the ``security zone'' it maintains in south lebanon, release of palestinian and lebanese prisoners held by israel and suspension of u.s. diplomatic activity in the middle east. surgery</head>
sen. joseph r. biden jr. wore a blue baseball cap to hide his scar as he left walter reed army medical center 12 days after undergoing brain surgery that will have to be repeated in a few months
doctors said they were ``delighted'' with biden's recovery from surgery feb. 12 to repair an aneurysm in an artery supplying blood to the senator's brain
but a hospital statement said that a second aneurysm has been found and will have to be corrected later
biden, 45, left the hospital tuesday by car with his wife, jill, and his brother, jim biden of washington
a family spokesman, larry rasky, said the democrat from delaware was under orders to rest at home and was to have no visitors nor be given office work
biden, said rasky, is ``in great shape and great spirits. he's full of vigor. i think if the doctors hadn't told him to rest, he could have gone to the office.''
rasky said the family purposely avoided announcing the senator's plan to leave the hospital in order to avoid the stress of any media interest
but biden and his wife paused briefly beside their car to pose for a photographer. biden's blue cap covered the scar on his left temple where the surgical incision was made. he smiled broadly as the camera shutter clicked
the hospital statement said neurosurgeons earlier had found the additional aneurysm on the opposite side of the brain from the aneurysm that was repaired
the second aneurysm is smaller and could not be approached during the earlier surgery,'' the statement said. ``there were no signs of leakage, but the second aneurysm will require surgical repair.''
no date has been set for the new operation, the statement said. it added: ``procedures of this type are usually done after the patient has fully recovered from any earlier surgery, usually within two to three months.''
rasky said doctors told biden the second surgery could come in less than three months, if his recovery went well, and that recovery from the new operation would take less time. but the spokesman said the senator will not return to his washington office until he has recovered from the second surgery
a doctor associated with the case, who asked not to be identified, said that about 15 percent of all patients with one cerebral aneurysm will develop another. if the aneurysm is small, stable and not bleeding, he said, it can be left and repaired later
biden's release just 12 days after surgery, said the doctor, shows ``he is doing very well.''
an aneurysm is a weakened area in an artery. the pressure of blood flow causes the area to balloon, forming a blister-like flaw on the artery side
aneurysms are dangerous because they can rupture suddenly and hemorrhage, or they can leak. such bleeding from a cerebral aneurysm can quickly cause brain damage or death
biden was admitted to walter reed on feb. 12 after a middle-of-the-night, emergency transfer from a delaware hospital. he had been taken to the delaware hospital the day before after experiencing severe neck pain and nausea
an x-ray test located the aneursym within his skull and he underwent surgery within hours
the doctor associated with the case said then that about one-third of all patients with cerebral aneurysms die
typically, the doctor said, surgery for a brain aneurysm requires an incision in the temple area. surgeons then cut a small window in the skull to enable them to lift the brain slightly and locate the flawed artery
the aneurysm is corrected by permanently attaching a clip, a small metal device with locking jaws, at the base of the blister-like flaw and parallel to the blood flow. eventually, the artery will heal itself
biden had been treated for a neck pain that started two weeks before his surgery. a doctor diagnosed the ailment as a pinched nerve and possibly a viral infection of neck muscles. the senator wore a neck brace as treatment
when the pain left after several days, biden abandoned the brace and went on a speaking tour. but the pain, along with nausea, recurred. the senator was admitted to a hospital near his wilmington, del., home and then transferred by ambulance to walter reed
a doctor said an aneurysm leaking into the brain cavity can cause neck pain
the ``quid pro quo'' in a memo to attorney general edwin meese iii may be a planned payoff to the israeli labor party, say government sources familiar with a criminal investigation of meese
the sept. 25, 1985, memo from longtime meese friend e. robert wallach discusses an israeli commitment not to bomb a proposed $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline
we all recognize that there would be no progress to this point'' had israeli-born swiss oilman bruce rappaport ``not been able to obtain the security package which involves the never-to-be-stated but fully understood quid pro quo which helped to produce that commitment,'' said wallach's memo. the memo doesn't elaborate
meese's attorneys say the ``quid pro quo'' is a reference to an agreement that rappaport, a partner in the proposed pipeline, would make available to israel substantial amounts of oil generated from the project. wallach was rappaport's lawyer
however, investigators for independent counsel james mckay question the explanation of meese's lawyers and are seeking to determine whether the language may be a reference to planned payments to the labor party, said the government sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity
wallach gave meese the ``quid pro quo'' memo, along with a handwritten letter from then-israeli prime minister shimon peres in which peres said he ``would go a long way to help'' the pipeline
one of meese's lawyers, james rocap, said the attorney general doesn't recall any discussion of the memo with wallach, who hand-delivered the documents to the attorney general. rocap said meese did not read the memo closely
wallach's memo urged meese to enlist support for the pipeline project from top u.s. officials, hinting that he might talk to secretary of state george shultz about it and then proposing a discussion with president reagan
meese's lawyers say he took none of the initiatives suggested by wallach, but only referred peres to the office of then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane
a separate wallach-to-meese memo also dated sept. 25, 1985, spells out rappaport's close ties to peres, saying the businessman described an arrangement in which israel will receive up to $700 million over 10 years from the pipeline
what was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor,'' says the second memo, the focal point of mckay's criminal investigation. meese says he doesn't recall reading the portion of the document relating to labor party payments
the independent counsel is investigating whether meese knew of a possibly improper payment plan involving the israeli political party and, if so, why he did not do something about it
the foreign corrupt practices act makes it illegal for u.s. citizens, companies or their agents to offer foreign officials anything of value to influence them to provide help in business matters
the law states that the attorney general may file a civil suit if it appears the person or company is about to engage in an act that would violate the law
both memos were publicly released monday, along with an exchange of notes between peres and meese
peres, now israel's foreign minister, on tuesday defended his communications with meese, saying: ``we all agree that we favor the laying of the pipeline. so why would anyone need to use bribes? nobody said he (meese) gave the labor party anything or proposed anything to the labor party.''
however, peres acknowledged tuesday through a spokesman in jerusalem that the israeli government had been offered a discount on oil purchases amounting to $65 million to $70 million a year in return for approving the pipeline, the washington post reported in today's editions
but the aide said that peres did not take the offer seriously and failed to pass it on to colleagues, the newspaper said
in another development, arthur l. liman, the chief counsel for the senate committee that investigated the iran-contra affair, says the justice department should have turned over wallach's memos when the committee subpoenaed material
one of the memos refers to israeli help in efforts to free american hostages held in lebanon, and quotes rappaport as saying, ``there is a feeling the united states `owes' and that the accomplishment of this (pipeline) project ... is appropriate.''
i would like to have questioned meese about this,'' liman was quoted as saying in today's editions of the new york times. source; will be topped.</note>
senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., said today it would be unwise to threaten to pull u.s. troops out of europe to counter pressures inside west germany for the removal of all nuclear weapons from german soil
the appearance of the use of threats by the united states does the germans a disservice,'' byrd said in testimony prepared for delivery before the senate foreign relations committee
threatening europe with a diminished american commitment if europe does not undertake certain specific actions would be counterproductive,'' the senate leader said
byrd said that the senate delegation he led to europe earlier this month concluded that ``no responsible german official contemplates denuclearizing germany.''
some west germans do advocate eliminating all u.s. nuclear systems in the aftermath of the successful negotiation of the u.s.-soviet treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear weapons from the continent
but byrd said most west german leaders reject that as a step leading to domination by moscow's superior weight in non-nuclear arms such as tanks, artillery and aircraft
byrd said the top priority for nato now must be the forging of a detailed and comprehensive proposal on conventional arms reduction to present to the soviet union this year
on tuesday, former secretary of state henry a. kissinger said president reagan's vision of a world free of nuclear weapons is neither obtainable nor desirable
i do not believe this is possible and i do not believe our leaders should create the impression that it is possible, let alone desirable,'' he said
kissinger said he was concerned about the west being exposed to soviet superiority in conventional weapons should nuclear weapons be abolished
kissinger told the committee he believes the senate should ratify the new treaty eliminating medium-range nuclear weapons in europe, if only to avoid a bruising and divisive political upheaval inside the nato alliance
but kissinger said he believes the treaty is ``flawed and leaves us in a weaker position, both politically and militarily.''
he said he was especially troubled by the treaty's reduction of u.s. and soviet missiles to zero on each side because of the expectations that may create in the negotiation of a treaty reducing long-range strategic nuclear arms
it implies that zero in all categories is obtainable, and it is not obtainable,'' kissinger said
he said the treaty should be ratified, if for no other reason, because keeping a force of u.s. pershing and ground-launched cruise missiles in western europe is now politically impossible
the treaty is the result of nato's 1979 ``dual-track'' decision to deploy u.s. weapons to counter soviet ss-20 medium-range missiles while at the same time negotiating their removal
it calls for the destruction of all missiles with a range from 300 miles to 3,400 miles
kissinger said he believes the treaty is flawed because it will not reduce in any significant way the ability of the soviet union to devastate europe with other nuclear weapons and because it substantially reduces the ability of the united states to retaliate with nuclear weapons based in europe
nuclear deterrence in europe will now rely primarily on weapons based in the united states and kissinger said that creates ``a psychological and political imbalance,'' especially when weighed against soviet superiority in conventional forces
the dollar closed slightly higher against the japanese yen in tokyo today after a sharp decline the previous day, while share prices gained for the 10th consecutive day
the dollar closed at 128.75, up 0.25 yen from its closing figure of 128.50 yen tuesday, when it lost 1.45 yen. it had opened at 128.90 yen today but never went higher, changing hands between 128.57 and 128.90 yen
the dollar came under selling pressure after a statement by satoshi sumita, head of the japan's central bank, who told reporters today that the u.s. currency's sharp decline has hit bottom, but that unstable factors remained, such as large external imbalances among major economic countries
the dollar rebounded somewhat as life insurance and securities firms went on buying the currency just before the end of trading, abe said
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei average of 225 selected shares, a 102.74-point winner tuesday, took on an additional 19.20 points, or 0.07 percent, to close today's session at 24,968.65 points
the small gain shows investors are becoming careful,'' said an analyst with sanyo securities, who spoke on condition of anonymity
but he noted that the volume of trading was a hefty 1.1 billion shares, the heaviest this year, and said: ``if the volume stays at the current level, the stock average will easily top the 27,000-point level.''
large-size issues, such as shipbuildings and steels, were bought, and chemicals, papers, brokerages and real estate issues were firm. innovations</head>
president reagan wants congress to bar federal agencies from releasing information that he says could harm the economic competitiveness of the united states in the new field of superconductivity
the proposed change in the freedom of information act was one of three proposals reagan submitted to congress on tuesday in a message in which he said the united states sometimes falls short in making commercial use of laboratory breakthroughs
the other proposals would broaden the present protection for patents on manufacturing processes and require courts to consider the effects of joint commercial ventures on international competitiveness before deciding they violate antitrust laws
reagan said he was proposing the information law change because ``commercially valuable scientific and technological information generated in federal facilities loses potential commercial value when it is released wholesale'' under the act
mandatory disclosure of such information under foia could encourage u.s. competitors to exploit the u.s. science and technology base rather than making investments in their own research and development infrastucture,'' the president said
under his proposal, reagan said, ``federal agencies will be required to withhold information of this nature requested under the freedom of information act where disclosure could reasonably be expected to harm the economic competitiveness of the united states.''
reagan said his proposal would apply to ``federal government-generated, government-owned scientific and technical information.'' in addition, he said, the administration is developing ``a uniform policy to permit federal contractors to own the rights to technical information that they develop for the government.''
although the three legislative proposals were lumped together under the title ``superconductivity competitiveness act of 1988,'' the president's message did not indicate that their application would be limited to the field of superconductivity
the federal government spent about $55 million on superconductivity research in fiscal year 1987 and will spend more than $100 million in the current fiscal year, reagan said
there is no time to waste in this effort,'' he said. ``there is a growing realization that, although the united states has long been a leader in breakthroughs in the laboratory, it has occasionally failed to convert these breakthroughs into commercial applications.''
reagan proposed amending patent laws to give u.s. companies the right to sue and collect monetary damages in u.s. courts when someone else uses their processes abroad to manufacture products that are then shipped to, and sold in, the united states
they can already file such suits to prevent the use of their processes by domestic manufacturers, but must sue foreign manufacturers in foreign courts in order to collect damages. the white house said the proposed change ``is consistent with the treatment of process patents in many foreign countries.''
the 1988 presidential campaign is making a quick side trip to the nation's northeast corner this week for lobster, maple syrup and votes, with michael dukakis and george bush nervously hoping for neighborly victories in maine and vermont
with their strong regional ties, dukakis and bush need to win their parties' caucuses in maine this weekend and the vermont primaries tuesday to build momentum for super tuesday
but former television evangelist pat robertson and senate gop leader bob dole would like to embarrass bush in his home territory _ especially in the wake of bush's weak showings in tuesday's south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses
in both maine and vermont, strong bush and dukakis organizations will carry the burden, for all the candidates will be spending most of the next seven days campaigning in the south, focus of the super tuesday's primaries on march 8
the republican vice president will touch down for airport news conferences today in portland, me., and burlington, vt. _ his last scheduled visits for the week. dukakis may be back in maine by the weekend
bush has a home in maine and is widely expected to be the winner in the town caucuses in the state scattered over the weekend
but his campaign is worried about robertson in maine
with a usual turnout of only about 5,000 republicans, the caucuses are a good opportunity for success using robertson's tactics from other states _ flooding caucuses with new participants and winning surprising victories
the dukakis campaign, which has a strong organization on the ground as it did in new hampshire, faces less opposition among democrats, who have mostly left the states to the governor from neighboring massachusetts
it doesn't appear that the other campaigns are taking these states seriously,'' said dukakis spokesman leslie dach
the one possible exception to the rest of the democratic field's bypassing of the states is jesse jackson in vermont. the rainbow coalition _ formed during jackson's 1984 presidential bid _ actually has remained active in the state and burlington's socialist mayor, bernie sanders, has endorsed him
the rainbow coalition has been working hard,'' said vermont democratic chief violet coffin
but dukakis, in contrast has had 12-15 paid staffers working the state, she said
neither of the states' events has drawn a great deal of candidate's attention for several reason
first, maine and vermont together will send 41 delegates to the democratic national convention and 39 delegates to the republican meeting this summer. the super tuesday events decide which candidates have the allegiance of 1,307 democratic delegates and 712 gop delegates
only the maine caucuses actually begin the delegate selection processes; the vermont primary on tuesday is simply a beauty contest expression of preference. vermont's delegates will be picked in the late spring in a separate caucus process
but the close ties that bush has with maine make it an excellent chance for robertson to stun the front-runner in his home turf
it will be a battle,'' said ron kaufman, bush's northeastern coordinator. ``dole has had a lot of people on the ground in maine. ... but my concern is the rev. robertson.''
it is the potential of robertson's ``invisible army'' of supporters to take over the gop caucuses that worries the bush staff
maine gop state chairwoman karen stram of dresden sees the caucuses this way:
the bush campaign has the broadest organization. robertson has organized a lot of new voters. ... the dole people have an organization that has been working here.''
on the democratic side in maine, state party chief rick barton acknowledges that dukakis has a home-field advantage, but he says another candidate could have an impact. ``the question is whether anybody is making an effort here'' besides dukakis, barton said
and he pointed out that there is a seventh candidate contending in the maine caucuses _ uncommitted. led by maine house leader john diamond, party activists have been pushing for uncommitted delegates to be elected at the city and town meetings
in vermont, dole has the potential for a good showing, although the vice president is credited with a broader organization. dole has the backing of several gop leaders, including former gov. richard snelling
vermont republican party chief ralph howe said dole _ from the farm state of kansas _ has also won points with the state's dairy farmers by supporting changes in the milk price support program that bush has not endorsed
in dukakis' home state of massachusetts, which votes on super tuesday, the governor enjoys a prohibitive lead among democratic presidential candidates, while bush leads the gop field, a new poll indicates
the survey, commissioned by wcvb-tv in boston, weei radio and the boston globe, was conducted by the gallup organization among massachusetts voters last weekend. it said dukakis led with 61 percent support, with gephardt trailing with 13 percent. the other democrats finished in single digits
in the republican race, bush _ a massachusetts native _ led with 49 percent, compared to 29 percent saying they support dole. those others were in single digits, with 8 percent undecided
the telephone survey of presidential preference involved 639 registered democrats with a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percent. the poll also reached 331 republicans, with a margin of error of plus or minus 6 percent
a dinosaur egg discovered in a central utah quarry may contain the oldest embryo ever found and change perceptions about how some of the creatures became extinct, a scientist says
a scan of a partially collapsed egg the size of a human fist has revealed a 2-centimeter-long gray area that appears to be the crude outline of an embryo, said wade miller, a brigham young university paleontologist
in the scan, the egg shell appears white. most of the egg's interior is dark gray except for a tiny area that has the shape of a head and other features, miller said
the egg was discovered last september in the cleveland lloyd quarry where scientists have uncovered thousands of allosaurus bones, a meat-eater that stood up to 20 feet high
miller said skeletal remains of the dinosaurs that lived during the jurassic period, which began around 210 million b.c. and ended 145 million b.c., have ranged from 100-pound juveniles to 3-ton adults
william lloyd stokes, professor emeritus at the university of utah and one of the scientists who excavated most of the bones, said dinosaur eggs usually cannot be associated with a particular species, but because this egg was found among a great deposit of allosaurus bones, it likely was from an allosaurus
it is among the oldest eggs or egg fragments ever discovered, and if it in fact contains an embryo, would be the oldest dinosaur embryo found, stokes said
miller said the egg could lead to a new theory of how dinosaurs in the area became extinct
miller said geologists previously believed the dinosaurs in the quarry were trapped in a bog
a dinosaur is not going to lay an egg in a bog while it's sinking,'' he said
but stokes disputed that
the egg has to be formed within a body, and while it is in a body that body may sink,'' he said tuesday night
stokes said the fact that other eggs and egg fragments were not found in the quarry indicates this egg was not in a nest
miller said the egg will be taken to maryland where columbia scientific inc. will take three-dimensional x-rays of it
some elections are more equal than others, fortunately for george bush. he was trounced twice in republican presidential contests, but he'd left the scene of the landslides
sen. bob dole, who won a runaway in south dakota and a comfortable victory in minnesota, said he had gained major headway as the gop race moved toward the south
it pays to come to south dakota,'' he said tuesday night in sioux falls
but the pay wasn't very high
dole apparently swept the delegates at stake in south dakota _ all 18 of them. pat robertson was second, just below the 20 percent it took to share in the delegation. bush lagged narrowly behind him
but compare that delegate payoff to texas. republicans there will choose 111 nominating delegates on march 8, and bush ranks as the favorite. his role and dole's are reversed in texas _ the vice president leads and the senator from kansas has virtually written off the state
in democratic competition tuesday, rep. richard gephardt captured south dakota, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis won in minnesota, and nobody got any nominating delegates. the results were purely advisory; the real prizes come later
those results, especially the defeats bush absorbed by running third in south dakota and fourth in minnesota, were muted for lack of the attention concentrated on the leadoff presidential contests in iowa and new hampshire
dole and gephardt won in iowa, bush and dukakis in new hampshire, in contests played to national television audiences, with anchormen on location. the states were comparable, the stakes were comparable, but tuesday's contests were not magnified by being first
so bush, campaigning in london, ky., absorbed the twin defeats without a word of comment. it's time for targeting, and the next one on his list comes this weekend in maine, where he maintains a home and where he expects to win in gop caucuses
that's also a robertson target, and the bush camp says the former television evangelist could pose a significant challenge in caucuses, the kind of competition that best fits his organization
robertson said bush should pay in the national public opinion polls for the defeats on tuesday. ``i don't see how he's going to continue to ride so high,'' robertson said. ``the vice president is definitely wounded.''
but it is nothing maine, and the just-for-show vermont primary on march 1, can't heal
those contests, and the south carolina primary on march 5, with robertson formidable and claiming he can win, all preface super tuesday, march 8. that's a 20-state primary and caucus day, with 1,307 democratic delegates and 712 republicans at stake
that competition is concentrated in the south, but it includes a half-dozen contests in other regions, massachusetts to washington
with candidates picking their spots and with delegates to be won through proportional representation among the democrats, super tuesday isn't likely to be any more conclusive than what has gone before
republican rules make it more likely that one candidate can pile up a significant delegate lead on march 8
ironically, for all the efforts at calendar rigging and early-season decisions, the pivotal primaries may still be weeks away, in populous industrial states like pennsylvania, new york, ohio, and, finally, california
house lawmakers are hoping to melt some of the ice around their sweeping trade bill with proposals to drop senate-sponsored curbs on lamb imports and $400 million in payments to sugar refiners
i think there is a need for trade legislation,'' house ways and means committee chairman dan rostenkowski, d-ill., said tuesday after the plan was sent to senators on a conference committee drafting the trade bill. ``if we don't get it this year it could very well mean that we won't get it for some time in the future.''
senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, promised early consideration of the offer proposed by ways and means committee members who are also part of the conference committee
bentsen said there could be a reply as early as the weekend from finance committee members on the conference committee. the so-called ``subconference'' of ways and means and finance members is one of 17 such bodies that have been formed to draw up portions of the 1,000-page bill
the lamb provision would limit imports of fresh chilled or frozen lamb meat. it was attached to the senate version of the trade bill at the urging of sen. max baucus, d-mont
the sugar provision would let some refining companies that claim tney are being hurt by high tariffs recover some $400 million in duties they paid a number of years ago on imported sugar that was refined and re-exported
the reagan administration was fiercely opposed to it, saying insufficient documents existed to administer the plan properly
at a news conference, rostenkowski again expressed hope the house would pass an overall compromise ``before the easter recess'' but said that might not be possible
one issue remaining is democratic presidential aspirant richard gephardt's amendment to require 10 percent annual rollbacks in japanese trade surpluses with the united states
the measure, approved by the house, does not appear in the senate version and it seems likely to be changed in the final product
gephardt, a member of the ways and means committee, has been basing part of his campaign on his trade proposal and other democrats on the panel have been reluctant to do anything that might be interpreted as undercutting him
rostenkowski indicated that no reshaping of provisions dealing with unfair foreign trade barriers is likely before the ``super tuesday'' primaries in the south on march 8. the chairman was an opponent of gephardt's plan when it was debated in the house last year
he indicated, however, that he would present the case for gephardt's plan
i've been commissioned by the house of representatives to do as much as i can to keep as much of it in as i can, and i'm going to do that,'' he said
after a report on monday that lawmakers would ``dump'' the gephardt provision following the super tuesday voting, rostenkowski issued a statement saying that ``mr. gephardt's amendment has not been scuttled or jettisoned.''
country music's reigning top entertainer hank williams jr. says his academy of country music awards nominations would have made his legendary father, and his mama, proud
i keep thinking in ernest tubbs' last song `leave them boys alone,' it says, `his daddy would be proud if he could see bocephus now,''' williams, whose nickname is bocephus, said after receiving six nominations tuesday
i think of mama, too, she would have said, `i told you honey, he was going to do it all the time,''' the 38-year-old son of hank williams said from his home in paris, tenn
gentleman ex-frycook randy travis also got nominations in the same categories: entertainer of the year, vocalist, single, song, album and video categories
williams, current country music association and academy entertainer of the year, and travis, who dominated the awards last year with four trophies, are also up for grammy awards next month
we're very happy to be nominated and to be in such good company,'' said travis, 28, who fried catfish and burgers at the nashville palace before getting his break
it's a great feeling to know that the industry enjoys our music.''
george strait got four nominations _ top vocalist, single, song and album. nominees with three each were perennial favorite alabama, shut out on last year's show, and newcomers k.t. oslin and ricky van shelton
the bellamy brothers, crystal gayle, the judds, reba mcentire and restless heart got two apiece
nominees for the 23rd annual acm awards were announced by country entertainers dwight yoakam, the group restless heart, charlie pride and lacy j. dalton
ballots go in the mail this week to the 2,500 academy members. the winners will be announced march 21 during a two-hour nbc-tv special with williams and miss mcentire hosts
in addition to williams and travis in the entertainer of the year category are alabama, miss mcentire and willie nelson
the only major surprise was the poor showing of the multiple grammy nominee ``trio'' album, which got the academy's best album nomination but no other mention for singers dolly parton, linda ronstadt and emmylou harris
here is a list of the nominees for academy of country music awards, to be presented march 21
entertainer of the year: alabama, reba mcentire, willie nelson, randy travis and hank williams jr
album: ``always and forever,'' randy travis; ``born to boogie,'' hank williams jr.; ``heart land,'' the judds; ``ocean front property,'' geroge strait; and ``trio,'' dolly parton, linda ronstadt and emmylou harris
single record: ``all my ex's live in texas,'' george strait; ``born to boogie,'' hank williams jr.; ``forever and ever, amen,'' randy travis; ``i'll still be loving you,'' restless heart; and ``somebody lied,'' ricky van shelton
song: ``80's ladies,'' k.t. oslin; ``born to boogie,'' hank williams jr.; ``forever and ever, amen,'' randy travis; ``ocean front property,'' george strait; and ``somebody lied,'' ricky van shelton
male vocalist: ronnie milsap, george strait, randy travis, steve wariner and hank williams jr
female vocalist: rosanne cash, crystal gayle, kathy mattea, reba mcentire and tanya tucker
new male vocalist: larry boone, marty haggard, lyle lovett, jo-el sonnier and ricky van shelton
new female vocalist: nanci griffith, libby hurley, k.d. lang, dana mcvicker and k.t. oslin
vocal group: alabama, exile, highway 101, restless heart and the oak ridge boys
vocal duet: foster &amp; lloyd, crystal gayle &amp; gary morris, sweethearts of the rodeo, the bellamy brothers and the judds
video: ``80's ladies,'' k.t. oslin; ``forever and ever, amen,'' randy travis; ``little sister,'' dwight yoakam; ``my name is bocephus,'' hank williams jr.; ``santa fe,'' the bellamy brothers; and ``tar top,'' alabama
president reagan's nominee to be secretary of the navy, william l. ball iii, is just one more reason to see triple when looking at the administration
a look through the directory of top government officials shows that this administration doesn't take a back seat to anybody in the roman numeral department
at the pentagon: frank c. carlucci iii, secretary of defense; h. lawrence garrett iii, undersecretary of the navy
at the treasury department, james a. baker iii, secretary
at the office of management and budget: james c. miller iii, director; l. wayne arny iii, assistant director for national security
at the commerce department: orson g. swindle iii, assistant secretary for economic development
at the justice department: edwin meese iii, attorney general
at the interstate commerce commission: j.j. simmons iii, commissioner
in addition, the list shows charles tyroler ii of the intelligence oversight board; j. curtis mack ii, assistant secretary of commerce for the national oceanic and atmospheric administration; lt. col, claudius watts ii, comptroller of the department of the air force; and wendell l. willkie ii, general counsel of the department of education
they are all pikers, however, compared with carlucci's deputy, william h. taft iv, and transportation secretary james h. burnley iv. conservatives</head>
republicans across the ideological spectrum helped bob dole win the south dakota primary, with the exception of strong conservatives, whose support could prove important in later contests, exit polls said
those republicans, one fifth of the total, favored pat robertson, helping the former television minister challenge vice president george bush for second place in the state primary tuesday, an nbc news exit poll found
among democrats, many voters chose a candidate in the final days of the south dakota campaign, and they went strongly for rep. richard gephardt, who employed aggressive television advertising in his winning effort, polls said
a third of the democratic voters told cbs news they made up their minds in the last three days of the race, and 45 percent of them backed gephardt, to 23 percent for massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who finished second
the television networks based their analyses of the voting on random surveys of south dakotans as they left polling places. the networks did not conduct surveys in minnesota, which held party caucuses tuesday
dole, the senate minority leader from kansas, campaigned determinedly in south dakota. bush, sensing his disadvantage, steered clear of the state. the polls said dole prevailed in nearly all categories; abc news, for example, said he won more than seven in 10 liberals and moderates and four in 10 conservatives
nbc separated out another category, ``very conservative'' voters, and said 42 percent went for robertson to 32 percent for dole and 17 percent for bush. dole did poorly among very conservative voters in new hampshire, where bush won last week's primary, and nbc noted that more such voters may turn out in the super tuesday southern state primaries march 8
when considering dole's overall strong showing, ``the caveat is that bush didn't contest it,'' and that republican turnout was light, said doug muzzio, an abc poll analyst. still, he said, ``bush lost almost every group he won in new hampshire,'' including republicans who support president reagan and those who are concerned about foreign policy
one important outcome was ``a narrowing of the margins,'' muzzio said: sen. paul simon, a liberal democrat, fared poorly, as did rep. jack kemp of new york, a conservative republican
abc said kemp got just 8 percent of the conservative republican vote, to robertson's 27 percent. robertson also won more than half the evangelical or fundamentalist christians, about a fifth of all gop voters, abc and cbs said
among the democrats, gephardt and dukakis split the liberal vote, but gephardt won moderate and conservative democrats, won the male vote while splitting the female vote with dukakis, and won among the less wealthy and the less educated, again splitting the others with dukakis
gephardt ``went upscale'' by doing better among the better-educated and wealthier democrats than he had in the past, muzzio said. ``the good news for dukakis is that he did well in a downscale state,'' he added
surprisingly, the nbc news poll found that a plurality of south dakota democrats, 46 percent, said they believed dukakis eventually will win the presidential nomination, though not all voted for him
even 28 percent of those who voted for gephardt said they expected dukakis to be the nominee
cbs reported that 40 percent of the democrats chose farm policy as a key issue, more than the number that selected any other subject
gephardt was definitely strong among people who cared about farm policy,'' with 55 percent support to 18 percent for dukakis, said cbs surveys manager pam mitchell
among the losing democrats, nbc found that former sen. gary hart of colorado was viewed unfavorably by twice as many south dakotans as viewed him favorably, and 55 percent were not pleased that hart re-entered the race after withdrawing last summer amid questions about his marital fidelity
nbc's poll had a margin of sampling error of 3 percent. the cbs poll's margin of error was 4 percent, and abc's was 5 percent
the 4,000 nuclear weapons that would remain in western europe after elimination of intermediate-range nuclear weapons should stay there until its conventional forces are better balanced with the warsaw pact, president reagan told a european television audience
ensuring the peace requires that these nuclear weapons stay where they are until we can achieve a better balance of conventional forces on the continent,'' reagan said tuesday. ``because of them and the soviet knowledge that we have them, we can maintain the balance that maintains the peace.''
reagan spoke in a televised address broadcast by satellite to europe by the ``worldnet'' facilities of the u.s. information agency. the address came a week before leaders of the 16 nato countries gather at the alliance's headquarters in brussels for their first full-scale summit in six years
reagan said the recently signed u.s.-soviet treaty to abolish intermediate-range nuclear forces _ missiles with a range of about 300 miles to 3,000 miles _ was ``a victory for nato.''
nevertheless, he said, nato must continue to have battlefield nuclear weapons, those with a range of under 300 miles
the alliance's adversaries must not believe that our only possible response to a limited attack is to begin an intercontinental nuclear exchange,'' reagan said. ``if they do, they may doubt that we would risk such a response and be tempted to test us.''
west germany has expressed opposition to upgrading short-range missiles until nato develops an overall arms control strategy and the soviet union reduces it conventional force strength
reagan said nato must insure that it maintains ``all the modern forces, both conventional and nuclear,'' to uphold a strategy of flexible response to soviet aggression
after all, our goal is not a nuclear-free or a tank-free or an army-free europe but a war-free europe,'' reagan said
kansas sen. bob dole scored a solid victory in south dakota's republican presidential primary tuesday, far outpacing vice president george bush, who had written off the state. and rep. richard gephardt came out on top on the democratic side after a campaign blitz
i took south dakota very seriously,'' dole said. ``let the message go out, that it pays to come to south dakota.''
bush had sidestepped the midwest contests and headed directly south after his new hampshire primary victory
gephardt's win over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis delivered no nominating delegates, but gave gephardt a victory to point to as the candidates campaign in the super tuesday states. dukakis, however, scored a win of his own tuesday night, in minnesota's caucuses
dukakis was the resounding victor in the new hampshire primary a week ago; gephardt won the iowa caucuses eight days before that
the south dakota primary was moved from its traditional june date to the front of the nominating calendar this year
gephardt, dukakis and illinois sen. paul simon campaigned heavily here. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, gary hart and jesse jackson also vied for support
republican voters were choosing all 18 delegates the state will send to their national convention next summer, while 15 of the 19 democratic delegates were to be allocated on the basis of the primary
the democratic primary is legally non-binding because it falls prior to the date allowed by democratic national party rules. but state party officials have said they expect the march 12 statewide caucus to apportion those 15 delegates according to the results of tuesday's primary
the south dakota legislature moved the presidential primary from june to february in an attempt to draw candidates to a state that was largely ignored by presidential contenders in past elections. backers of the move said it would force the candidates to pay attention to south dakota and the problems of rural america
with 99 percent of the precincts reporting, gephardt had 44 percent; dukakis, 31 percent; gore, 8 percent; simon, 6 percent; hart and jackson, 5 percent
for the republicans, with 99 percent of precincts reporting, dole had 55 percent; robertson 20 percent; bush 19 percent and kemp 5 percent. former delaware gov. pete du pont, who dropped out last week, drew 1 percent
an eagle scout's project that began in 1979 has been realized as a national park service trail illustrating the rich history of blacks in the nation's capital
the scout, willard andre hutt, now 27, was present tuesday at the dedication of the black history national recreation trail. the trail winds from a 179-year-old cemetery in the exclusive georgetown neighborhood to the home of 19th century black leader frederick douglass in the city's poor anacostia section
other landmarks on the 7.5-mile trail include the downtown home of educator and presidential advisor mary mcleod bethune; the metropolitan african methodist episcopal church, created in 1822; and howard university, founded after the civil war to provide higher education to blacks
federal oversignt of state-run family assistance programs should pay closer attention to the social purposes of programs instead of just looking at financial accountability, a new study says
the report by the national research council, an arm of the national academy of sciences, also said federal monitors should penalize only those states with excessive rates of overpayments
the recommendations were based on an 18-month study ordered by congress and released tuesday. it said federal officials should measure the states against each other and penalize only those with ``excessively large'' error rates. becoming law</head>
a $375 million child care improvement bill introduced by republicans to counter the multibillion-dollar democratic version would rely on state grants, liability pools and capital improvements, the two sponsors say
it would also give tax credits to employers with on-site child care and offer a double tax exemption to families in which a parent stayed home for six months to care for a newborn. the break would be worth about $500 to $600 to the average family
it's closer to what the president is going to sign than anything else on the table or under discussion,'' rep. nancy johnson, r-conn., house sponsor of the gop bill. said tuesday, the day the bill was introduced. the cosponsor is sen. orrin hatch, r-utah
the army, navy, marine corps and air force had 2.17 million men and women on active duty as of jan. 31, the pentagon says
the active-duty strength of the nation's military services in january was more than 12,000 below the same period last year, the pentagon said tuesday
according to the latest ``military strength'' assessment, two of the four armed services reported declines in personnel in january from december
the marine corps reported 198,243 men and women on active duty, down 194 from december. the air force reported 604,574, down 755
the army had an active-duty strength of 778,835 as of jan. 31, up 1,155 from december. and the navy reported 585,726 on active duty last month, up 561 from december
some teachers are blasting a decision by richland high school students to retain a nuclear mushroom cloud as their symbol, but supporters said the emblem did not signify atomic destruction
students in this ``atomic city'' voted overwhelmingly tuesday to formally adopt the mushroom cloud as the symbol of the bombers
it stands for nuclear holocaust and the end of the world,'' said jim deatherage, a teacher who has long opposed the symbol. ``it's an inappropriate symbol for high school kids to be glorifying.''
deatherage said students should not have made the decision since they were easily swayed by emotions and did not understand the objections of outsiders
they were tied to the symbol because of school pride,'' he said. ``the whole process was a farce.''
deatherage and teacher rick wigre said opponents had only a few chances to communicate with students or other teachers
it never came up at a faculty meeting,'' wigre said, because the administration did not want to divide the staff
but most students and administrators expressed satisfaction with the process
clearly that's what the kids wanted,'' said lisa koch, 18. ``i'm very pleased.''
students have a very simple view of it,'' said activities director steve potter, who helped organize the election
to them it was a symbol of richland high school,'' he said. ``no more and no less.''
the issue is an emotional one in this city of 30,000 adjacent to the hanford nuclear reservation, where for more than 40 years the federal government has made plutonium for nuclear weapons
richland was a sleepy village of a few hundred residents when hanford was carved out of the central washington desert as part of the manhattan project to produce atomic bombs in world war ii
many of parents of the school's 1,300 students are employed at the site _ where the government announced last week that plutonium production is being phased out at the cost of 2,600 jobs during the next two years
the symbol, which is the letter ``r'' with a mushroom cloud rising above it, has been used for some 17 years, but was never formally adopted by the student body
over the years there have been attempts to eliminate it, and some student leaders decided it was time to formally adopt a symbol
during a morning class tuesday, students were given white ballots with four symbols portrayed in black
there was no place to write in new ideas and no opportunity to reject all four options, a factor criticized by some teachers and students
the mushroom cloud received 1,084 votes, said principal gus nash. a caricature of an atomic bomb got 45, a b-17 bomber plane 40 and the symbol of three atomic rings 36 votes
i don't think the student body sees it as a symbol of destruction or weaponry,'' said marcia cillan, vice president of the associated student body. ``i don't think it signifies anything other than richland high school.''
we're not going to change it just because a bunch of people are making fun of it,'' said student glenn goldberg. robertson, bush</head>
democrat michael dukakis racked up a win outside his home turf of new england in the minnesota democratic presidential caucuses, while republican bob dole beat out george bush _ as did former television evangelist pat robertson and rep. jack kemp
with 80 percent of the republican precincts reporting _ the last official tally provided early today _ dole had 43 percent; robertson, 28 percent; kemp, 15 percent; and bush, 11 percent. the uncommitteds were 3 percent
and with 74 percent of the democratic precincts reporting, dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, scored 34 percent; jesse jackson had 20 percent, sen. paul simon, 18 percent and rep. richard gephardt, 8 percent. gore and hart each had 1 percent, and 19 percent were uncommitted
gephardt won the south dakota primary tuesday night, setting the scene for more battles for the front-running spot as he and dukakis head into a new round of contests
dukakis won last week's new hampshire primary, while gephardt was the victor in the iowa caucuses on feb. 8
both gore and jackson have been campaigning heavily in the south, and gore, who bypassed iowa and new hampshire, is vowing to come on strong in his native region
gore, along with hart, virtually ignored minnesota
bush, the republican front-runner nationwide, made no effort in minnesota. in kentucky, where he was campaigning, he went to bed tuesday night without commenting to reporters on the returns
for the first time in minnesota, an attempt was being made to report results of the caucuses on the night they occurred _ meaning the preferences of all those who attended republican caucuses based on a straw poll and the preferences of delegates elected at the democratic caucuses
the caucuses began the process of selecting 78 of the state's 87-member delegation to the democratic national convention and the 31 delegates to the republican national convention
moving the caucus date from march to february resulted in a lengthy dispute between the state and national democratic parties because the new date is earlier than national party rules allow
the state party agreed that a presidential preference poll taken at the democratic caucuses would be kept secret until 5 p.m. march 8 and that the state party would not cooperate in reporting of caucus-night results
share prices opened fractionally higher on the london stock exchange today but then fell slightly in early trading
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was down 1.6 points at 1,756.3 at 9:45 a.m. when the market officially opened at 9 a.m., the index was up 0.9 points at 1,758.8
dealers said share prices had moved ahead strongly on bullish sentiment about the british economy, but the market didn't find a direction and major shares were narrowly mixed
the largest fall among the index of 100 shares was consolidated goldfields, which dropped 12 pence to 818 pence because of weakness in the gold price
banks showed some of the largest gains, with barclays up 6 at 480 and national westminster up 8 at 558. barclays increase was due to release its 1987 earnings later today following national westminster which released its results on tuesday
the early trend followed a small drop tuesday in new york, where the dow jones industrial average fell 1.17 to 2,039.12, and a small gain in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 19.20 to 24,968.65
the attorney for a chain-smoking woman under court order not to smoke in her family's presence says he will appeal the decision as ``outrageously unconstitutional.''
the order barring elizabeth roofeh, 41, from smoking in front of her husband and their three children was issued tuesday by justice ralph diamond of the trial-level state supreme court
mrs. roofeh also was directed to confine her cigarette puffing to a small television room in the couple's kings point mansion
this is clearly a violation of her first amendment rights,'' said her attorney, joel brandes
who is going to enforce this? ... are the children going to become policemen and turn their mother in for smoking?''
the ruling is ``outrageously unconstitutional,'' he added
mrs. roofeh's husband, jahanshah, 42, a non-smoking surgeon, went to court in an attempt to get his wife to stop lighting up in front of him and their children, ages 6, 7 and 9
he claimed he tried unsuccessfully for 12 years to get his wife to curtail her two-pack-a-day habit. he described her smoking as ``offensive and detrimental to the health of the children.''
the roofehs, who were married in 1976, have been feuding since may when mrs. roofeh filed for divorce, which is pending before diamond
the roofehs are still living together
mrs. roofeh, who called her iranian-born husband ``an ayatollah,'' said she smokes ``just to annoy'' him. ``i'll quit when i get him out of the house,'' she said
neal shayne, the dean of the academy of law for the nassau county bar association, said he believes the order was legal because it's not mrs. roofeh's rights but the rights of her family that were violated by her smoking
i think it's been established that smoking is certainly hazardous to a person's health, especially to a young child,'' said shayne
mrs. roofeh said she has been limiting her smoking to the one small room in the couple's six-bedroom home in recent months
it's nothing new,'' said mrs. roofeh in referring to the constraints the judge has placed on her. ``i've always tried not to smoke in front of the children.''
roofeh said when they were married his wife promised him she would not smoke in front of him
she admits that she broke her promise in 1984 but it was because of stress from a stroke she suffered. she also has admitted that she used to sneak outside when she got an uncontrollable nicotine craving before 1984
in issuing his ruling, the judge denied a request by roofeh for an order of protection against his wife
roofeh had argued that smoking cigarettes may be as ``detrimental and reprehensible'' as would be ``hitting, slapping, punching, or spitting.''
the court found, however, that an order of protection is a tool designed to protect family members from domestic violence and not to protect against a spouse that smokes
stephen schlissel, attorney for roofeh, commended the judge on the decision
it is a natural extension of the law that if a child is being harmed by a parent's conduct it should step in and safeguard the child,'' said schlissel
this is one of a series of periodic reports compiled by associated press bureaus on how the u.s. presidential election process is viewed in other countries
as the u.s. presidential election campaign picks up pace, it is coming more and more under scrutiny in other nations. here is what some newspapers and commentators said recently about the election process in general and about super tuesday in particular
_ sueddeutsche zeitung of munich (liberal): ``in a nation like the federal republic (of germany), where the parties have extended their power into every corner of society, the drama par excellence now occurring on the american stage would be unimaginable
not the party, but the primary determines who will enter the `final match' on nov. 8. and the primary is close to the ideal democracy imagined by jean-jacques rousseau
the contenders must meet the voters face to face _ from alabama to wyoming, in living rooms, schools and shopping centers. and a candidate can climb into the ring with or without the blessing of his party
surprises are guaranteed.''
_the japan times of tokyo (english-language, independent): ``the strong belief remains that none of the democratic candidates will emerge as an unbeatable front-runner after super tuesday or later. in this case, brokering will choose the candidate at the convention, and waiting on the sidelines for just such a development is new york gov. mario cuomo
what may be understandable but nevertheless regrettable is that campaigning so far resembles a `political olympics' with a concentration on percentage points in pre-ballotting polls and in the results. this tends to obscure the issues, particularly in the reporting by the media.''
_ neil lurrssen, washington correspondent, the sunday star of johannesburg (english-language, independent: ``the united states is in for a roughhouse 1988 election season
it is going to be quite a spectacle. ... and the campaigning shows every indication of deteriorating into a bare-knuckle brawl, especially among the republicans where the two leading candidates . .. have already started slugging away at each other.''
none of the other candidates is likely to shake the bush-dole lead, though there could be a rude surprise for both of the leaders in some parts of the south where former television evangelist pat robertson has enthusiastic supporters. ... this could make mr. robertson _ who has sympathy for the south african government _ a significant factor at the party convention if there has to be horsetrading of delegates to find a presidential nominee.''
_ the independent of london (independent): ``it looked on occasion last year as if america's ... method of selecting presidential candidates was finally coming to pieces. there was speculation that nobody of any ability or self-respect would subject himself and his family to the intense strain and scrutinizing involved in the race for nomination
such questions no longer dominate the political agenda; suggestions that the system is unable to throw up a credible slate are rarely heard. the political silly season is, mercifully, past. ..
the main problem for the united states has turned out not to be the caliber of the leading candidates. it is, increasingly, the quality of government in the final months of a lame-duck administration
_ the times of london (independent): ``questioned on his defeat by vice president george bush (in new hampshire), sen. robert dole's first response was to rebut the `lies' put about by mr. bush that he wanted to raise taxes. evidently the last thing mr. dole wanted to be associated with was a responsible fiscal policy which he believed had cost him a significant number of votes at a crucial stage in the presidential race
for the rest of the world this is a disappointing comment on the nature of u.s. politics. but it hardly comes as a surprise. the shadow of the presidential election has for months hung over the struggle to rein back america's budget deficit. its influence can only increase as president reagan's term draws to a close.''
susan crosland, wife of the former labor party cabinet minister tony crosland, the sunday times of london (independent). writing in her weekly column on what she perceived as a backlash against dole because he accused bush of lying, she said raised the question with a washingtonian living in london:
q. ``why is bush's insincerity preferred to dole's frankness?''
a. ``if you speak from the heart and say that someone should have lost, you're seen as a dirty player. it's a matter of manners. as an example of american mores, when i say `how are you?' i don't really care how you are.''
as thousands roared approval, michael jackson moonwalked across the stage and declared, ``i'm bad,'' to open his first solo u.s. tour
jackson kicked off the 13-city tour tuesday at 16,900-seat kemper arena, where smoke machines, lasers, and 72 speakers highlighted the performance
ku klux klan leaflets were placed on numerous car in the parking lot, but the only arrest was of a person suspected of being under the influence of alcohol, police said
after another show here tonight, the pop singer moves to new york city's madison square garden in march
jackson sang 17 songs tuesday in a two-hour concert that opened with smoke machines churning and the audience bathed in brilliant white lights. an overhead video screen showed the image of jackson's legs moonwalking across it
flanked by four dancers, and backed by four singers and a seven-member band, jackson appeared and slid into non-stop gyrations to the throbbing beat of ``wanna be startin' somethin','' one of the hits from ``thriller,'' the 1983 blockbuster album that sold 40 million copies
many traveled for hours to get to the concert, but perhaps none farther than ivan herman, 32, and carla vanparys, 27, who came from their home in brussels, belgium. herman said he also attended the opening of the 1984 victory tour by jackson and members of his musical family
i've seen him six times,'' herman said. ``he's gotten more mature. he's more of a real person.''
some said they liked the idea of a solo tour
this time we get to focus on michael, just his talents,'' said alonzo washington, 20, of kansas city, kan. ``he's trying to prove he's a talent, and not just hype.''
during his rendition of ``bad,'' jackson was lifted on a platform over the heads of the audience. while suspended there, his coat and hair flapped in an artificial breeze as he sang, ``i'm bad, i'm bad.''
during ``thriller'' he was enveloped in smoke and threw a white hat to the crowd
tickets were $30 when the victory tour opened with a concert at arrowhead stadium, home of the kansas city chiefs football team. this tour, tickets at the much-smaller kemper arena were priced at $23, but scalpers reportedly were getting up to $200
a fan from tulsa, okla., who won a free ticket to tonight's show but can't ride a bus with other winners because of a disability was given an airline flight, limousine service and hotel accomodations by the tour's sponsor, pepsi-cola co
alan stephens, 18, won promotional tickets from tulsa radio station kmod, but cannot travel by bus because he suffers from lesch-nyhan sydrome, which causes him to strike himself and limits the use of his limbs
other stops on the tour are st. louis; pittsburgh; minneapolis; cleveland; denver; chapel hill, n.c.; indianapolis; cincinnati; houston; louisville, ky.; and birmingham, ala. other dates may be added, tour officials have said
rep. jack kemp, r-n.y., has joined the field for indiana's may 3 republican presidential primary
kemp campaign officials tuesday filed the required ballot petitions in the office of the secretary of state. bob poor of greencastle, kemp's indiana campaign chairman, said the petitions contained 6,300 signatures
indiana law requires a candidate to have 500 petitioners from each of the state's 10 congressional districts
kemp and sen. bob dole of kansas are the only gop candidates to file so far. the filing period ends march 4
state and democratic party officials say at least three democratic presidential contenders will not be running statewide on ohio's may 3 primary ballot because they failed to file slates of delegates in one or two of the state's 21 congressional districts
the secretary of state's office said tuesday that while official lists will be compiled by march 1, it appears former sen. gary hart of colorado, rep. richard gephardt of missouri and jesse jackson will not run statewide
all of the other major presidential candidates in both parties apparently fielded slates in all districts, although democrat bruce babbitt and republican pete dupont have abandoned their campaigns and their names apparently will be withdrawn
democrats whose statewide candidacies appeared assured include gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts, illinois sen. paul simon and sen. albert gore, tennessee. the republicans are sen. robert dole of kansas, vice president george bush, congressman jack kemp of new york and pat robertson
supporters of jesse jackson have become the first of the six announced democratic presidential candidates to file petitions for a spot on the crucial april 19 new york primary ballot
while the jackson camp showed up tuesday at the state board of election with more than six times the required number of signatures, state board spokesman steven lafever said they had been beaten to the ballot by ``uncommitted.''
lafever said supporters of uncommitted slates of delegates, put together by a group of elected democratic county clerks from across upstate new york, had filed petitions containing 18,816 signatures on monday
democratic candidates have until midnight tomorrow to file petitions containing at least 10,000 signatures with at least 100 coming from each of 17 of the state's 34 congressional districts. voters</head>
gov. michael s. dukakis enjoys a prohibitive lead among democratic presidential candidates in his home state and vice president george bush leads the republican field in the massachusetts primary on march 8, according to a new poll
the survey, commissioned by wcvb-tv in boston, weei radio and the boston globe, was conducted by the gallup organization among massachusetts voters last weekend
the survey said dukakis led the democratic field with 61 percent support, followed distantly by missouri rep. richard gephardt with 13 percent
in the republican race, bush _ a massachusetts native _ led with 49 percent, compared to 29 percent saying they support kansas sen. bob dole
the telephone survey of presidential preference involved 639 registered democrats with a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percent. the poll also reached 331 republicans, with a margin of error of plus or minus 6 percent
disabled americans express greater interest in politics than other citizens, but they register and vote at a rate considerably lower than the general public, according to a recently released survey
our findings suggest that barriers, either external or internal or both, prevent many disabled americans from converting their exceptionally high political interest into actual electoral activity,'' said humphrey taylor, president of louis harris and associates, which conducted the poll
the most common barrier cited for disabled people was lack of transportation and difficulty in getting to the polls, problems noted by 29 percent of the respondents. twenty-one percent said it was difficult to stand or walk
the telephone poll of 536 disabled people nationwide, conducted in june and july 1987, found that 53 percent said they follow government and public affairs most of the time
in comparison, only 26 percent of all u.s. adults pay attention to politics much of the time, according to a 1984 national election study by the university of michigan
the survey had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percent
a white man who admitted chasing two blacks with a baseball bat was ordered to perform 200 hours of community service for the naacp by a judge trying to help him overcome racial hatred
he has been taught to hate black people for some reason,'' said cook county circuit judge stuart nudelman. ``i'm trying to put him in an environment where he can perhaps do some good and learn something about the people he thinks he hates and perhaps learn that his feelings are misguided.''
james kalafut, a 21-year-old plumbing company laborer, pleaded guilty to aggravated assault and ethnic intimidation and could have been sentenced to a year in prison, the judge said after sentencing him tuesday
kalafut was charged in august after he and a group of other whites _ brandishing baseball bats, throwing bottles and shouting racial slurs _ chased two blacks from a transit stop in gage park, a predominantly white neighborhood on the southwest side
nudelman placed kalafut under his supervision for one year and ordered him to perform 200 hours of community service work for the national association for the advancement of colored people
details of when kalafut will serve the sentence are to be worked out in the next few days by his attorney, barry silver, the naacp and the judge
silver said before the sentencing that kalafut would accept the agreement to perform community service and no appeal would be attempted
i think it's a good sentence given the fact that he's basically pleaded guilty to hating a minority group,'' silver said
by being with black people, he will have a chance to learn they are no different than he is except that the color of their skin is different
i think that is an important lesson for anyone to learn, especially someone who has been involved in this kind of activity,'' silver said
the attorney said kalafut, who declined to be interviewed, was ``concerned about his own personal safety when he is in the neighborhood of the naacp,'' located on the south side
silver said kalafut also was concerned about being rejected by naacp officials and being ``made the scapegoat in a sort of reverse discrimination.''
but the civil rights organization plans to make sure that doesn't happen, said edward mcclellan, president of the south side branch
certainly we don't presume there are only white racists or what have you,'' said mcclellan, who wasn't sure what type of work kalafut would perform. ``racism can be engendered by anyone inclined to that sort of prejudice.''
nudelman said that trying to help kalafut overcome his prejudice against blacks made more sense than sentencing him to jail, ``where he won't learn anything except more hatred.''
but the judge warned, ``if he ... doesn't do what he's supposed to, he'll come back before me and i'll sentence him to jail.''
it's a lot more fun winning.'' _ sen. bob dole of kansas, after winning south dakota's republican primary and minnesota's gop caucuses
this is a war of citizens, women and children, to achieve a political aim. that's what's serious about it and against it we have to use force so that the violence would not prevail.'' _ israeli defense minister yitzhak rabin, on the riots by palestinians in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
as of this moment, all of the checks are stopped.'' _ west virginia treasurer a. james manchin, after the state supreme court ruled that the legislature unconstitutionally enacted a deficit budget
it's been a quarter century since betty friedan helped launch the women's movement with her book ``the feminine mystique,'' but a recent survey indicates women still do most of the cooking and grocery shopping
when most couldn't persuade the men they live with to help out, women of all income levels devised their own methods of easing the burden, mainly by cutting the time they spend in the kitchen, the new york times reported today
the times conducted telephone interviews with 1,870 people nationwide between oct. 29 and nov. 5 and found that while more women are in the work force and have less time at home, they remain the primary care-givers and the ones who pay attention to ``how, when, what and where their families eat.''
among married couples surveyed, only 18 percent of men said they do the family's main food shopping; 6 percent more said they share the responsibility with someone else at home
meanwhile, 91 percent of married women said they do the shopping, with 3 percent saying the chore is shared
working full time outside the home didn't seem to make much difference. the study found that 90 percent of married women who work full time said they do the principal family shopping
as for preparing meals, 90 percent of married women surveyed said they do most or all the cooking in their homes, compared with just 15 percent of married men
last month, a magazine survey reported that 77 percent of working mothers queried said they prepare dinner by themselves _ and 64 percent said they do the after-dinner cleanup alone, too
in its february issue, working mother magazine also reported that its survey found 92 percent of working-mother respondents do the laundry regularly in their households
according to that study, whereas husbands and children do the laundry regularly about 25 percent of the time, 27 percent of husbands never so much as throw a dirty sock into the washing machine
the magazine found that men in higher-income families were much more likely to pitch in than men in lower-income families
working mother published its questions in april and drew responses from 2,811 working mothers around the country
the outlook for u.s. wheat farmers has improved significantly, aided in part by huge subsidized sales to the soviet union
an additional sale of 700,000 metric tons to the soviets was announced tuesday by the agriculture department. overall, exports are expected to rise more than 50 percent from last year, reducing the u.s. wheat stockpile to the lowest level in six years
in a related analysis, the department's economic research service said the rising demand and shrinking inventories have boosted wheat prices well above last year's harvest lows of about $2.28 per bushel
over the entire wheat marketing year, which began last june 1, the national average farm price is expected to be in the range of $2.55 to $2.65 per bushel, up from $2.42 in 1986-87, the report said. that will be the first year-to-year increase since 1983-84
looking briefly at 1988 harvest prospects, the report noted that plantings of winter wheat last fall for this summer's harvest were the smallest in 10 years. spring wheat plantings may be up slightly if strong prices entice farmers away from the usda's 1988 acreage program
however, weather remains the leading determinate of 1988's wheat crop,'' the report said
the latest sale, equal to about 25.7 million bushels, was handled by continental grain co., 150,000 tons; tradigrain inc., 50,000; louis dreyfus corp., 250,000; cargill inc., 100,000; and peavey co., 150,000
at recent prices averaging $2.76 per bushel, the wheat would have a farm value of about $71 million. that is a five-day average price through feb. 19, adjusted to reflect prices received by farmers
more than 6.3 million tons of subsidized wheat have been sold to the soviet union under the department's export enhancement program, or eep, for delivery in the year that began last oct. 1
william l. davis, acting general sales manager for the department's foreign agricultural service, said an additional 500,200 tons of wheat are still available to the soviet union under current eep authorization
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
the sales also are part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of a long-term agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans, or 39.4 bushels of corn
in addition, 1.67 million tons of u.s. corn, 800,000 tons of soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal have been bought by the soviets for delivery this year
agriculture department economists say consumers soon will see lower prices for lettuce
lettuce shipments and prices should return to normal this spring as harvesting moves north from california's imperial valley and spring brings improved weather,'' according to a report by the department's economic research service. ``both grower and retail lettuce prices likely will decline to more typical levels.''
last fall prices soared because ``unusual heat and pest problems reduced yields,'' the report said. in november and december, lettuce sold for $20 to $25 per carton at california shipping points, compared with $4 to $7 a year earlier. as of early february, prices were ranging between $3 and $12
prices remained higher than usual during the winter because cold weather and plant disease transmitted by the whitefly reduced midwinter shipments from the imperial valley,'' the report said. ``the valley usually supplies most of the domestic lettuce supply during midwinter.''
the recent death of donald l. houston, one of the agriculture department's senior career officials, was a tragic loss to the department and to the nation, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng said
houston, 53, died feb. 19 of cancer. he was named head of the department's animal and plant health inspection service last fall and previously was administrator of the food safety and inspection service for seven years
lyng said tuesday in a statement that he had known houston, a veterinarian, for more than 15 years. ``he truly epitomized what the american people want and expect in a public servant,'' lyng said
houston was born in east st. louis, ill., where he joined usda as a veterinary meat inspector in 1961. he moved to washington in 1965
the state department's second-ranking official caused a diplomatic and political dustup last week with his explanation, later partially disavowed, of why the administration wants to shut down its aid program for ireland
the remarks by deputy secretary john whitehead generated a stir in dublin, sent irish diplomats scurrying to find explanations, and produced expressions of dismay from the ``shamrock caucus'' in congress
in the end, the state department took the unusual step of issuing a clarification that effectively repudiated part of what whitehead said
at issue is u.s. participation in the international fund for ireland. american contributions have totaled $85 million over the past two years, and $35 million is slated for the current year. most of the money is aimed at promoting economic and social progress in northern ireland, now approaching two decades of sectarian strife
last thursday, whitehead went before reporters to explain the administration's foreign aid proposals for 1989, and he was asked why no money was programmed for ireland
he said ireland ``ranks down the list'' of foreign aid priorities, adding that the united states does not get a ``real return'' on its investment despite the emotional and ``maybe political appeal'' of aid to ireland
other needs appear to us to be more urgent,'' whitehead said
both the cutoff decision and the tone of whitehead's remarks were the talk of dublin late last week. and there were expressions of concern from two of the best known irish-americans in congress _ sen. edward m. kennedy and his nephew, rep. joseph p. kennedy ii, both massachusetts democrats
the chairman of the congressional friends of ireland, rep. brian donnelly, d-mass., said he was outraged
the state department came under pressure to clarify whitehead's remarks, and did so over the weekend. privately, one official said that whitehead misspoke but the problem was ``how to set the record straight'' without upsetting him
after a day's contemplation, the state department issued a statement expressing strong support for the international fund even though whitehead had said u.s. contributions to it had yielded few benefits
distancing itself still further from whitehead, the statement said, ``we have been very happy with the progress which the fund and its governing board have made.''
beyond that, it even implied that the administration would not be displeased if congress overrode the aid cutoff and earmarked more money for the program
of course, we will be ultimately guided by what congress authorizes and appropriates and what is signed into law by the president,'' the statement said
there is some dispute as to whether u.s. participation in the program was to be phased out. whitehead made no reference to any such limit, but the state department clarification does allude to a three-year time frame. irish diplomatic sources, meanwhile, said funding for additional years had never been ruled out
in any case, the statement appears to have calmed dublin, where there is a feeling that the congress won't cut the aid program adrift
contributing to the more relaxed mood was the statement by rep. kennedy: ``the fund has done good work and continues to do so,'' he said. ``i for one will be encouraging my colleagues to consider the economic and symbolic importance of continued american support for the international fund.''
kansas sen. bob dole, proclaiming ``we're winning again,'' was heading south hopeful his victories in minnesota and south dakota would help his republican presidential campaign in a region where vice president george bush is the front-runner
i've got a big hill to climb in the south,'' dole said tuesday night while celebrating his latest victories
dole scheduled four stops in south carolina, one in north carolina and then planned to head for florida
the kansas senator got some help in south carolina on monday when he was endorsed by sen. strom thurmond, the state's senior officeholder. but bush has the backing of gov. carroll campbell
with a republican primary on march 5, south carolina opens the southern phase of the 1988 campaign. three days later is super tuesday, when 20 states, the majority of them in the south, will hold primaries or caucuses
for the second time this busy campaign month, dole was heading out of the midwest with a decisive show of support
two weeks ago, he won the iowa caucuses and flew to new hampshire hoping to deliver a killing blow to bush. but new england proved to be bush territory and the vice president won the new hampshire primary and revived his status as gop front-runner
dole was in a black mood after his new hampshire defeat, but upon getting strong backing from voters in south dakota and minnesota, the senator said, ``it's a lot more fun winning.''
as for bush's showing _ second in south dakota and fourth in minnesota _ dole said, ``i really believe when the vice president of the united states gets 10 percent, or around that area _ the sitting vice president _ and only about 15 percent in south dakota, it's going to send a strong signal to small towns, to farmers, to businessmen and businesswomen.''
we're winning again,'' he said. ``we probably had our expectations too high in new hampshire and it probably hurt us some around the country. but now we're winning again.''
dole said he hoped the results ``send a message that bob dole has a message. that's what the election is all about. i haven't changed my message. i've talked about the future, i've talked about leadership, i've talked about party responsibilities, i've talked about the left out and the down-and-out in america, i've talked about the future of our young people.''
the returns from south dakota's presidential primary election were complete _ except for lincoln no. 51, a rural precinct near lemmon in extreme northwestern south dakota
fern brockel, perkins county auditor, said election workers in the precinct were supposed to fill in the vote totals for each candidate on the unofficial return sheet. but she said it was given to her with all the lines blank
the returns are in the official poll book, but under the rules, it cannot be opened until the official canvass this afternoon
without the missing precinct, perkins county residents cast 1,345 votes out of the nearly 165,000 votes cast in the election. and violent protest between other students and police. adds byline. no pickup. ^by barry renfrew</note>
five radical students armed with bombs and knives seized a u.s. information service office today and detonated two bombs and started a fire before police overpowered them
two of the students brandishing explosive devices and draped in south korean flags stood at shattered windows on the second floor yelling ``yankee go home'' as riot police ringed the building
u.s. embassy officials said they had no reports of injuries, but the attackers smashed windows and set a fire in a periodical storage room. thick smoke filled part of the building located in the heart of seoul
people inside the building at the time of the attack, including at least one american, were not detained by the radicals
the students, who said they were members of the ``young student suicide group'' claimed they had 18 bombs and screamed at surrounding police to stay away. they tossed down a statement charging the united states was attempting to make south korea a colony
yankees stay out of korea,'' the students yelled
a police officer said it was unclear how many of the explosive devices the attackers had. the bombs were crude chemical devices, possibly some kind of plastic explosive, he said
about 200 radical students hurling firebombs and rocks clashed with riot police about an hour later outside myungdong cathedral. police fired volleys of tear gas at the students who yelled slogans denouncing president-elect roh tae-woo, who is to be sworn in thursday
hundreds of protesters had gathered at the cathedral less than a mile from the u.s. information service office earlier in the afternoon for an anti-government protest. ``down with roh tae-woo,'' the students yelled
some of the attackers were reading in the office's library when there was a large explosion in a nearby roon and they suddenly pulled out bombs and started screaming slogans, eyewitnesses said. at least one of the attackers pulled out a knife and brandished it, they said
he was kind of crazy-eyed,'' said paul wadden, a visiting american teacher who was reading in the library at the time
the attackers smashed three windows overlooking the main street outside and two of them stood shouting slogans out into the street and brandishing bombs and cigaretee lighters. riot police stood on the sidewalk below with shields covering their heads and shattered glass covered the street
the students tossed at least one bomb into the street where it exploded harmlessly, eyewitnesses said. a second bomb was tossed out, but did not explode, they said
people caught in the library said the students did not attempt to detain them and they were able to leave after recovering from their initial shock. wadden said he and other people were prevented from leaving downstairs for up to 10 minutes by building guards
there were about 40 people in the library at the time, most of them koreans, eyewitnesses said
police who entered the building by the rear entrance overpowered the protesters about 30 minutes after the attack began. the students were taken out of the building in a bus with covered windows
u.s. embassy officials said south korean riot police entered the building at their request
japanese prime minister noboru takeshita arrived at the lotte hotel across the street from the u.s. information service office just as the incident ended, officials said. takeshita is in seoul for roh's inauguration
american diplomats, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they did not know why the students attacked the u.s. facility. ``we have no idea what the motivation was,'' an embassy official said
the united states is south korea's chief ally. washington has 40,000 troops in south korea under a mutual defense pact against communist north korea
the u.s. information service provides reading material and other materials on the united states and operates libraries and information centers around the world in conjunction with american embassies. the service office in seoul is located about half a mile from the american embassy
the same office was seized by 73 radical students for four days in may, 1985 as an anti-american protest. they ended the occupation peacefully and some later received prison sentences
u.s. embassy officials were unable to explain today how the attackers were able to bring weapons into the well-guarded building. visitors must pass a metal detector, present identification and have their bags searched and there are police guards inside and outside
the statement by the students denounced roh as a puppet who had been installed by the united states
south korean radicals have repeatedly charged the united states has kept a series of authoritarian governments in power in south korea. roh, a former general, won the first democratic elections in 16 years last december
snow squalls howled over western new york today as snow fell in six other states
a snow squall warning was in effect for the lake ontario shoreline, where as much as 6 inches of snow was expected to accumulate
snow also fell in north central new york, northwestern minnesota, michigan and central pennsylvania, and scattered snow fell in west virginia, indiana and central illinois
rain extended from southern new england across the central atlantic coast into eastern north carolina. patches of dense fog deveoped over the tennessee valley and across the florida keys
today's forecast called for scattered snow showers along the great lakes and over western new york state and northwest pennsylvania, and for scattered rain showers over florida
high temperatures were expected to be in the 40s and 50s across much of the nation; the teens across the upper mississippi valley and upper great lakes, with single digits over northeast minnesota; the 20s and 30s over the northern plains, the middle mississippi valley and lower great lakes to northern new england; the 60s from the central and southern pacific coast across the southern rockies, central and southern texas, the gulf coast and northern florida; the 70s across the desert southwest and central florida and the lower 80s across southern florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 3 degrees below zero at international falls, minn., to 73 degrees at homestead, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 40 fair; boston 38 snow; buffalo 19 fair; charleston, s.c. 56 cloudy; cincinnati 22 fair; cleveland 20 fair; detroit 23 snow; miami 71 fair; new york 39 cloudy; philadelphia 36 fair; pittsburgh 24 cloudy; portland, maine 34 cloudy; washington 41 cloudy
_central: bismarck 9 fair; chicago 20 fair; dallas-fort worth 35 fair; denver 24 fair; des moines 20 fair; indianapolis 24 fair; kansas city 29 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 15 fair; nashville 29 fair; new orleans 53 cloudy; st. louis 29 partly cloudy
_west: albuquerque 43 cloudy; anchorage 32 snow; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 54 cloudy; phoenix 57 partly cloudy; salt lake city 29 fair; san diego 54 partly cloudy; san francisco 50 cloudy; seattle 50 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 19 fair; toronto 16 fair
a retired lawyer who reads dictionaries for fun says too many people are put off by big words
because so many people suffer from sesquipedalophobia, a fear or hatred of big words, 80-year-old norman schur has written eight books on the subject
this has gone from a hobby with me to a vocation and finally to a matter of sociological and political concern,'' schur said tuesday
schur has just published his latest book, ``1000 most challenging words.'' in the next one, ``1000 most obscure words,'' he plans brief essays on each word's origins and meaning. he believes if a person becomes familiar with a word, he or she will use it
schur, who received his high school diploma at age 11 and graduated from harvard university at age 17, does not blame weak vocabularies on the educational system
there are some well-educated people who do not like you to use big words,'' he said. ``if you use a word that's unfamiliar to them they resent it and this intimidates a lot of people.''
for people who want to improve their vocabulary, schur suggests they jot down every new word in a notebook, master it and then use it
i find reading dictionaries fascinating, but that's not the menu for most people,'' he said
grammy goose met granny goose in court, but the legal fight is not a family feud
granny goose foods inc., the nation's third largest potato chip manufacturer, has accused grammy goose baby boutique in nearby petaluma of creating confusion over the food firm's name and logo by using a similar name
granny has asked for a preliminary injunction against grammy
the name and logo ``represent the most valuable asset my client owns,'' granny attorney kate spellman told sonoma county superior court judge lloyd von der mehden on tuesday. ``where there is confusion, dilution has occurred.''
sandy gotelli, the petaluma grandmother who owns the baby shop, said she'll be forced out of business if the injunction is granted. she said she picked the name by combining her liking for geese with her granddaughter's nickname for her
ms. spellman said the company offered to help grammy goose design a new sign, phase out printed paper goods and find a new name that retains part of the current name
we understand she is a small business and we would like to mitigate the harm to her,'' ms. spellman said. ``we mean her no harm; she is so inflexible.''
mrs. gotelli's attorney said the shop owner had made a counter offer to the chip maker: to promise the grammy goose name would never be sold to anyone else and would never be used outside of sonoma county
the judge gave mrs. gotelli one week to respond in writing to the granny goose offer. granny goose's attorneys then will have five days to respond
the judge said he would then issue a ruling.  jeopardy to three.</head>
three presidential candidates faced the prospect of losing future federal matching funds after failing to win at least 10 percent of the vote in the south dakota primary
democrats jesse jackson, albert gore jr. and gary hart were in jeopardy of losing their eligibility under an election-law stipulation that starts the clock on dropping a candidate from the matching-funds category if he receives less than 10 percent in two successive primaries
in south dakota, gore had 8 percent and hart and jackson each had 5 percent. all three also finished in the single digits in new hampshire last week, in the first primary of the campaign season
failing to get 10 percent in south dakota does not mean an immediate cutoff because the law stays such action for 30 days after the primary. and candidates can qualify anew by getting 20 percent of the vote in a future primary
that means jackson and gore, who are expected to do well in the super tuesday primaries on march 8, are likely to score the strong finishes they need before the 30-day stay expires
in 1984, jackson lost his eligiblity because he fell below the 10 percent threshhold in nebraska and oregon. but before the money was actually stopped, he had regained certification by winning 23.6 percent in new jersey
regardless of whether candidates have been disqualified from receiving matching funds to continue their campaigns, they can continue to receive matching payments to retire campaign debts that were incurred before the date of ineligibility, said spokesman fred eiland of the federal election commission
matching funds from the federal treasury have become the manna of presidential campaigns, with the amount distributed to each candidate dependent on how much he raises privately
the federal election commission so far this year has handed out close to $40 million to 14 candidates. three of those candidates have already dropped out of the race _ democrat bruce babbitt and republicans alexander haig and pete du pont
the fund matches each contribution of $250 or less that a candidate raises privately. the fund is supported by the $1 checkoff on individual income tax forms under the public financing system set up in the mid-1970s by congress
the six-member federal election commission votes on candidate certification following a review of the campaign's finances by the fec audit and legal staff
to be certified, a candidate must raise $100,000 across 20 states in contributions of $250 or less
vice president george bush and robertson have received the most matching funds for this year's election, each with more than $6.5 million
jackson has received $621,828, gore nearly $2 million, and hart $1.1 million
at a recent fec meeting, commissioner joan aikens attacked what she described as an inequity in the law that allows an unopposed third-party candidate, or a candidate who chooses not to compete in every state, to continue receiving federal matching funds while others who place their names on every primary ballot face the risk of cutoff
a candidate whose name is not on the ballot is not covered by the 10 percent rule
china's latest activist in the campaign against high-living officials is a cook who overturned a banquet table in disgust over their feasting
the official china daily said today the unidentified woman cook was applauded by residents in linshu county, one of the poorest in the coastal province of shandong
it said she was angry at the county communist party secretary, who together with other officials last december gathered for a meeting which in actuality was a 14-dish banquet
the party said county officials were already under fire for investing $378,000 to build a guest house for vips and budgeting $59,000 for banquets last year at the county government guesthouse
china's state council, or cabinet, last year ordered all party and government officials to cut back on banqueting and gift-giving
a judge committed suicide today by jumping from the 16th floor of a high-rise building housing court offices in tokyo, police said
an official of the tokyo metropolitan police department identified the man as akira takayama, 55, a judge at the tokyo high court
the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said police were investigating the reason for the suicide
according to an official of the tokyo high court's public relations division, takayama had been suffering from depression since last year
takayama, a native of tokyo, was appointed to the tokyo high court in april 1986 following service with several local courts, the court official said
the death toll in a monthlong outbreak of whooping cough reached 12 with the death of an infant girl, health authorities said
the 2-year-old girl died friday in the maria ludovica children's hospital in buenos aires despite a campaign by public health authorities to innoculate children in the buenos aires-la plata area
whooping cough normally is not a common health risk in argentina
officials have noted each of 12 fatalities were malnourished, came from low-income families and had not been innoculated against whooping cough
a tiny porcelain tea bowl painted by a french artist in 1749 was bought for $34,850 at sotheby's, the auction house said
the artist, louis denis armand the elder, who worked at the vincennes factory near paris, painted 46 patches of enamel colors on the bowl to guide him in selecting colors, which often changed drastically in the firing process
some colors were also very expensive. one pound of one color cost nine times armand's annual salary
the bowl, 1} inches high, was bought and sold anonymously on tuesday. only one similar tea bowl from vincennes is known to exist, and it is in a museum at sevres, the other famous french porcelain center
here are excerpts of the government's new regulations banning political activity by major opposition groups. the rules were imposed today in the form of an order
if the minister (of law and order) is of the opinion that it is necessary for the safety of the public, the maintenance of public order or the termination of the state of emergency, he may, without prior notice to any person or without hearing any person, issue an order ... prohibiting an organization ... from carrying on:
_any activities or acts whatsoever
_activities or acts of a nature, class or kind specified in the order
(the order says an affected organization will not be barred from:)
_preserving its assets
_keeping up to date its books and records and performing administrative functions in connection therewith
_complying with an obligation imposed on it by or under any law or court
_taking legal advice or judicial steps
_carrying on such activities or performing such acts as the minister may have consented to
no consent ... shall be granted by the minister unless he is convinced that the granting of such consent will not result in the safety of the public or the maintenance of public order being threatened
(the organizations affected by the new restrictions are:)
azanian people's organization, azanian youth organization, cradock residents association, detainees parents support committee, detainees support committee, national education crisis committee, national education union of south africa, port elizabeth black civic organization, release mandela committee, soweto civic association, soweto youth congress, south african national student congress, south african youth congress, united democratic front, vaal civil association, western cape civic association
taiwan residents made nearly 90,000 trips to china in 1987, an official report said. it was a huge increase from the previous year and was brought about by taiwan's lifting of a ban on such travel
china's domestic china news service, in a report appearing in hong kong today, said ``taiwan compatriots'' traveled to the chinese mainland more than 89,000 times last year, a 180 percent increase from 1986. the statistics were provided by a public security bureau spokesman, the report said
the nationalist chinese government on taiwan in october lifted a 38-year old ban on travel to mainland china to allow family reunions. thousands of taiwan residents secretly traveled to china before the ban was lifted
a couple who claimed they were waging a holy war have been sentenced in the latest of three slayings in which they regarded the victims as witches or vampires
michael carson was sentenced to prison for 27 years to life in the 1982 slaying of clark stephens near garberville. his wife, suzan, was sentenced to 25 years to life
the sentences will follow earlier terms, deputy district attorney max cardoza said tuesday. the carsons were convicted in may of shooting stephens, 26, and burning his body before burying it
carson, 36, was given an additional two years for using a firearm. the two were sentenced monday by humboldt county superior court judge william ferroggiaro
the carsons previously were given consecutive sentences of 25 years to life for two other slayings
they were convicted in the 1981 murder in san francisco of a woman mrs. carson told investigators was a ``psychic vampire'' who was draining her of her beauty
they also were convicted of the 1983 killing of a man in sonoma county who picked up the hitchhiking couple, only to be declared a witch by the wife
in a lengthy statement taped by police, the two said they were on a holy war ordered by allah
defense attorneys contended carson shot stephens to death because he had sexually attacked mrs. carson, an action that amounted to self-defense in keeping with the couple's beliefs as fundamentalist moslems
eric sevareid says news on television ``has become part of the daily entertainment of a rather bored society.''
the former chief washington correspondent of cbs news, at a seminar tuesday at the museum of broadcasting, expressed misgivings about the rise of features-oriented tv magazine shows
underlying this whole development in the way news is presented now is ... the nature and psychology of american society at this moment in history (after) years of essential peace and essential prosperity for most people
we have news about entertainment now; you're going to have a news magazine on the business side of sports; you have a game called `trivial pursuit.'''
audiences don't get very excited about policy issues and don't want to follow what appears to be 30 years of the same pictures coming from the middle east, he said
if you had another great war or great depression, that would change matters, but that would be too high a price,'' sevareid said
sevareid also said he watched ``with some astonishment'' the on-air battle between cbs anchorman dan rather and vice president george bush
i'd never seen brother dan lose his cool before,'' sevareid said. ``i'm sorry it happened. i don't think a cbs hard news show should become controverted. ... neutrality should be preserved
i don't think mr. bush answered much,'' he added. cq</note>
former miss america bess myerson, who was indicted last year for conspiring to influence the judge in the divorce settlement of her boyfriend, has been called to testify in a hearing today over a property dispute between the estranged couple
nancy capasso sought the hearing after her ex-husband, carl ``andy'' capasso, allegedly removed property from the house she had won as part of the divorce settlement, said raoul felder, mrs. capasso's attorney
felder said that he had subpoenaed the 63-year-old miss myerson, a former city cultural affairs commissioner, and characterized her as ``a key witness'' in the proceeding in state supreme court in manhattan
miss myerson stayed in the long island house last summer after capasso went to jail in june after being convicted of tax evasion in an unrelated case
mrs. capasso, who won the house as part of her $6.4 million divorce settlement, seeks to have capasso held in contempt, felder said
felder said he could not elaborate on details because a gag order was in effect
mrs. capasso has said all the living room furniture was taken, some artwork, a collection of antique quilts, some decoy ducks and sets of china and flatware
miss myerson was indicted last october for allegedly attempting to influence the rulings of former state supreme court justice hortense gabel in the capassos' divorce by giving the judge's daughter, sukreet gabel, a city job
miss myerson, capasso and mrs. gabel have pleaded innocent to five counts each of federal conspiracy, mail fraud and bribe-related charges. they each face up to five years in prison, if convicted. miss myerson faces an additional five years if convicted of obstruction of justice. germany</head>
the soviet union will start removing its shorter-range nuclear missiles from czechoslovakia in the next few days, the communist party daily newspaper rude pravo said today
also today, east germany said the soviets will begin the early withdrawal of its shorter-range missiles from the communist german nation this week
the missiles in both countries are included in an arms control agreement signed by the united states and the soviet union last december in washington under which all intermediate-range nuclear weapons in europe will be scrapped
the rude pravo newspaper stressed that the missiles are being taken out of czechoslovakia before the treaty is ratified by the u.s. congress
word that soviet missiles will be removed from czechoslovakia coincided with national celebrations of the 40th anniversary of the communist takeover in prague. the planned removal of the missiles was described by rude pravo as a significant gesture by the kremlin
a further expression of good will, similar to (others) made by the soviet union ... is that according to an agreement with czechoslovakia and east germany, it will begin in the next few days to pull out from the territory of both states the missile units equipped with otr-22 missiles,'' rude pravo said. otr-22 is the warsaw pact name for the shorter-range missiles nato calls ss-12. czechoslovakia has never said how many soviet missiles were installed on its territory. the only location ever given for the weapons was a military base near hranice, 180 miles southeast of prague
in 1983, nato began installing u.s. cruise and pershing 2 missiles in western europe to counteract soviet missiles pointed at the west. the kremlin responded by moving some ss-12 missiles from their bases in the soviet union to east germany and czechoslovakia, to put them within striking range of the west
meanwhile, the east german mission in bonn said today in a brief statement: ``withdrawal of the soviet shorter-range missiles from the german democratic republic will begin'' thursday. the statement said missiles would be removed that day from two east german sites _ bischofswerda and waren
east germany announced last week that ss-12s had been dismantled, put into crates and were ready for transport back to the soviet union. but it did not announced until today when the missiles would be taken out of the country
east german leader erich honecker in january indicated that soviet nuclear missiles in europe could be removed ahead of schedule
according to figures released after the superpower arms treaty was signed, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany
the dollar was mixed in dull european trading today as dealers waited for new factors to get the market out of the doldrums
gold prices fell in london following a large sell order from the middle east, which had a big impact because the market was so thin, dealers said
traders said last friday's remark by swiss national bank president pierre languetin that the dollar was poised to move lower again had put a very tight lid on any upward movement of the u.s. currency
dealers said tuesday's congressional testimony in washington by u.s. federal reserve chairman alan greenspan failed to give the market new directions and they didn't expect his repeat performance for the senate banking committee today to have much more impact
the release later today of fourth-quarter u.s. trade figures isn't likely to have a major impact on the market either because the figures are already known, dealers said
i honestly don't know what could help the dollar move,'' said one senior trader in milan. but another dealer said thursday's report of the first revision of u.s. fourth-quarter gross domestic product growth could possibly have an effect on the dollar
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar rose 0.25 yen to a closing 128.75. later, in london, it was quoted slightly higher at 128.85 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late tuesday's rates:
_1.69225 west german marks, down from 1.6945
_1.3905 swiss francs, up from 1.3895
_5.72675 french francs, up from 5.7240
_1.89775 dutch guilders, down from 1.9000
_1,247.00 italian lire, up from 1.246.60
_1.2673 canadian dollars, down from 1.2712
in london, the dollar fell against the british pound. it cost $1.7665 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.7655 late tuesday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $441.70 a troy ounce and at midmorning, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a lower recommended price of $438. both were down from late tuesday's bid of $442.50
in zurich, the bid price was $438.50, down from $442 late tuesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $2.60 to close at a bid $444.20
silver also fell in london where the bid price was $6.28 a troy ounce at midmorning today compared with late tuesday's $6.33
a bus driver was arrested after allegedly beating a passenger who boarded his bus without exact change, police said
the name of the driver, a 43-year-old detroit man, was withheld pending issuance of a warrant on a charge of felonious assault, city police lt. philip foster said tuesday
jonathan perkins, 30, of detroit boarded the detroit department of transportation bus about 9:15 a.m. monday without the proper change, police said
the driver was absolutely belligerent,'' an unidentified bus rider told the detroit free press
perkins placed some coins in the fare box, then asked other passengers for change for a $20 bill to pay the balance of the $1 fare, the rider said
the driver yelled at perkins for about a mile, then shoved him off the bus, the passenger said
he literally threw him on the ground, pulled a knife on him and the next thing i know, he's on the guy's face,'' the passenger said. ``he started kicking him in the head and then shoved him into the intersection and left the scene.''
perkins was treated at detroit receiving hospital for minor bruises and cuts, police said
a woman who answered the phone at the department of transportation office said robert polk, director of the agency, was not available for comment tuesday. speeding</head>
panamanian police detained more than two dozen u.s. servicemen without charges after the son-in-law of panama's military strongman was held for speeding at a u.s. military installation
two u.s. military personnel were stopped and briefly held tuesday, a pentagon official said in washington. on monday, panamanian police detained 25 u.s. servicemen for two hours before releasing them without filing charges, said a u.s. embassy spokesman in panama city
the servicemen were picked up while driving to u.s. military installations inside the former panama canal zone
the state department planned to protest the detentions, said the pentagon official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the official said the detentions came a day after gen. manuel antonio noriega's son-in-law was stopped in the canal zone. he declined to give the son-in-law's name, but said noriega's daughter and two other passengers were in the car when it was stopped sunday night for speeding and passing in a no-passing zone at the albrook air force station, outside of panama city
the son-in-law allegedly became abusive with the air force security policeman who stopped him. he could not produce identification, the source said. at that point, the policeman ``restrained'' him, put him in handcuffs and took him to the air force police station for processing, the source said. the son-in-law was released about an hour after being stopped, he said
on monday, the u.s. embassy spokesman told the associated press police stopped 25 servicemen. the spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said most were driving motorcycles to installations inside the former canal zone, but two were driving cars and one was walking
col. leonidas macias, chief of police for the panamanian defense forces, denied police detained the servicemen. he said officers merely stopped them to check for drivers' licenses and remind them that u.s. personnel are forbidden to wear uniforms outside of the former canal zone
the detentions marked the latest sign of deteriorating relations between the united states and panama since last june, when demonstrations broke out in panama demanding the resignation of noriega, the armed forces chief
the reagan administration has publicly called for noriega to step down following his indictment on drug trafficking charges this month by a federal grand jury in miami. county</head>
the california coastal commission has approved a $2.5 billion plan for three offshore oil platforms in the santa barbara channel, a plan first proposed by exxon in 1981
on an 8-2 vote, with one commissioner abstaining, the commission approved exxon's plans for the platforms, a marine terminal and onshore facility in las flores canyon
but the plan, which would more than double the state's oil production, requires major changes in exxon's production methods. the company must dismantle an offshore treatment and storage ship now in use, commission spokesman jack liebster said tuesday
we're talking about state-of-the-art air pollution control to reduce the current levels,'' he said. ``even with the expansion, this will result in a reduction of emissions.''
a 1987 agreement on air pollution controls was instrumental in breaking a political deadlock over exxon's plan, commission chairman michael wornum said
the company is producing up to 40,000 barrels a day on platform hondo, located between coastal santa barbara county and the channel islands. it processes the oil on an offshore vessel, a converted oil tanker moored in federal waters 3.1 miles offshore
in 1984 the oil company sued the commission, and later sued santa barbara county, over its demands that exxon stop using the converted tanker. in 1986 it renewed its lawsuit and issued an appeal to the interior department
commission approval was the result of compromises reached on all sides, including environmentalists, who agreed with tuesday's decision, said ralph faust, another commission spokesman
following the vote, terry c. leftgoff, spokesman for the environmental group get oil out, said the exxon project is ``the best that we could hope for in a regulatory environment.''
honduran death squads linked to the military have stepped up their campaign of terror, targeting opposition leaders, human rights activists, students and peasants, amnesty international said today
serious human rights violations, including arbitrary arrests, torture and ill-treatment are widespread in honduras and show no signs of diminishing,'' the london-based human rights organization said in a report
the group said many of the abuses arose during strikes, disputes over farm land or army operations against leftist guerrillas. the group also said it remains concerned about the government's failure to investigate reports of more than 100 people who disappeared between 1980 and 1984
in the report, titled ``honduras: civilian authority, military power,'' amnesty based its findings on interviews with senior government and military officials and non-government sources during two visits to honduras last year
the group said recent abuses include bombings, arbitrary detentions, death threats and harassment of critics of the government of president jose azcona hoyo. despite a civilian government, the 17,500-man army wields great power
victims include human rights figures, opposition leaders, members of labor organizations, students and peasants, amnesty said. the victims described severe beatings, electric shocks and sexual abuse
the group said patterns of abuse changed since the early 1980s, when it said abductions and executions were carried out systematically by order of the armed forces
the alleged abuses fell off after 1984, but the death squads have apparently begun a new campaign of intimidation in the last two years, the report said. death squads were believed to have been involved in three killings last month, it said
two people shot to death in january were to have testified against the government in a human rights case before the inter-american court of human rights in costa rica
amnesty blamed most of the recent alleged human rights abuses on the national investigations division, which amnesty said is part of the police but actually is controlled by the military
the report quoted a former member of battalion 3-16, which it said was a secret military intelligence unit, as saying he and other members of the group were secretly trained by the u.s. military in 1981
the unidentified man was quoted as saying that the u.s. officials discouraged torture but had trained the unit in methods of physical coercion
since 1981, the reagan administration has made honduras a key ally for policy aimed at containing the leftist sandinista government in neighboring nicaragua
a series of joint military exercises have been held, almost continously, for the past five years. a permanent american military presence is maintained at palmerola air base near tegucigalpa and at other facilities, totaling more than 1,000 u.s. troops
the u.s. military aid program grew from $8.9 million in 1981 to $88.8 million for 1986
a tugboat captain was wounded early today when shots fired from the brooklyn shoreline shattered the cabin's glass windshield, police said
more than a dozen such shootings have occurred since 2,800 union tugboat and barge workers went on strike over wage cuts feb. 16, said an officer from the police department's harbor unit who declined to give his name
early today, the tugboat odin was headed south in the east river, just off newtown creek, when a gunman fired four shots. newton creek divides brooklyn and queens
capt. les wallin suffered cuts on the left side of his face and glass in his eye when the windshield broke, but refused medical aid when the tugboat docked at staten island, the officer said
the captain and non-union crew members declined to discuss the shooting, police said
no other details were immediately available
acting gov. rose mofford may be able to run for governor in a may 17 recall election without giving up her position as secretary of state, the state's attorney general said
attorney general bob corbin, in a non-binding opinion issued tuesday, said that if mrs. mofford is drafted instead of declaring herself a candidate, she would not have to resign as secretary of state
mrs. mofford, who became acting governor following the impeachment of gov. evan mecham on feb. 5, has not said whether she is interested in running, and had no comment tuesday on the possibility of a draft
as governor, mecham would automatically be on the recall ballot, but his status is clouded by his impeachment and impending trial before the senate, and a criminal trial scheduled for march
democrat carolyn warner, who lost to mecham in a three-way race in 1968, and republican john rhodes have indicated they will be candidates in the recall election
mecham, a republican, faces a senate trial monday on charges that he hid a $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership, and tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
a criminal trial is scheduled for march 22 on felony charges of concealing the $350,000 loan
arizona's resign-to-run law requires officeholders who run for another position to resign unless they are in the last year of their current term
rep. cindy resnick, a democrat, had asked corbin whether a draft of an officeholder as a gubernatorial candidate would require that person to resign
ms. resnick said she expects a draft-mofford movement to be started, but said she did not plan to be involved
meanwhile, rhodes announced tuesday that former sen. barry goldwater would be his honorary campaign chairman. goldwater endorsed mecham in the 1986 campaign, but now says that was a mistake
in accepting the position, goldwater said: ``you look back over all the governors that we've had in this state. we've had some darn good ones and we've had some mediocre ones, but it took us a long time to get a really bad one.''
the concert pianist solomon, hailed as one of the century's most distinguished pianists but forced to cut short his career because of a stroke, has died at age 85, his family said
solomon, born solomon cutner but known professionally by his first name only, died feb. 2, his family announced tuesday. no cause of death was given
solomon was born aug. 9, 1902, one of seven children in a family in london's rough east end. at age 7 he began studying music. one of his fellow students became the queen mother, mother of queen elizabeth ii
solomon made his concert hall debut when he was 8 years old, playing playing mozart's b flat concerto and the slow movement of tchaikovsky's first concerto at the queen's hall in london
he later appeared again at the queen's hall, under conductor sir henry wood, playing beethoven's third concerto and liszt's hungarian fantasy, and in 1911 undertook his first british tour. the same year he played to the royal family at buckingham palace, and his career as a child prodigy was established
solomon appeared with many of the world's most famous conductors and orchestras, but by the time he was 16, he had tired of the concert hall circuit and temporarily quit to resume his musical studies
wood wrote in his autobiography that the young solomon told him he had ``no boy's interests, no games,'' because of his career
as he said, it had been piano, piano, and nothing but piano,'' wrote wood
solomon resumed his concert hall career in 1921, made his american debut in 1926, and was one of the world's most sought-after pianists until suffering a debilitating stroke in 1956
the times of london wrote: ``he developed his technical virtuosity to the highest pitch, but his outstanding quality was the intellectual insight and poetry of feeling which he brought to the keyboard repertory, from mozart to debussy.''
another london paper, the daily telegraph, wrote: ``solomon's clarity of articulation, his warm, soft-grained tone, musical accuracy and honesty of purpose shone through all his performances, and his virtuosity was so formidable as to be unnoticeable.''
solomon is survived by his wife, gwendoline byrne, who was one of his former pupils
retired maj. gen. harry m. arthur, who spent two years as the ranking american officer with the chinese army during world war ii, has died. he was 88
arthur, also a prominent upstate banker, died tuesday in wallace thomson hospital
a 1921 graduate of the citadel, arthur was called to active duty during world war ii, where he served in the chinese combat command, rising to the rank of colonel
after his release from active duty, he organized the 218th infantry regiment and was its commander until 1952, when he was promoted to brigadier general and took command of the 51st division artillery
arthur, who retired as a major general in 1959, was president and chairman of arthur state bank, which he and his family founded in 1933. he also was a former president of the american bankers association and south carolina bankers association and state commander of the american legion
he was survived by his wife, daughter and three grandchildren
apple computer inc. is developing a laptop computer which it hopes to introduce next year, according to a computer magazine which printed details of the secret project
the article in this week's edition of macintosh today details the size, appearance and technical specifications of apple's laguna laptop model. the san francisco examiner reported tuesday that the article was based on a confidential document given to a free-lance writer by an apple employee
we don't comment on rumors of products which may or may not come to market,'' said barbara krause, spokeswoman for apple computer inc
the magazine article describes a 12-pound laptop with a flat-panel monitor called an active matrix screen and a central processor that can run macintosh software using only a fraction of the power used by most desktop models
the magazine said the system will come with 1 megabyte of internal memory, the same as the macintosh se. it will be powered by a five-pound lead-acid battery that will last up to 10 hours before recharging
the laguna is not expected to join the $1 billion laptop market until next year. will be 6th president sted 13th.</note>
president-elect roh tae-woo will be sworn in thursday in the first peaceful transfer of power in south korea's turbulent history with a promise to end authoritarian rule and usher in full democracy
roh will take the oath of office as the 6th president at a heavily-guarded ceremony at the national assembly with no general public participation. outgoing president chun doo-hwan and other leaders will attend the ceremony
the inauguration also will mark the start of the sixth republic as the country adopts a new constitution that provides for greater political and individiual freedoms. roh has promised the republic will be ``the great era of the common man.''
the charismatic roh, 55, is committed to ending the nation's long tradition of authoritarian rule that strictly limited political activity and ruthlessly cracked down on opposition. he also has pledged to end the country's confrontational politics and violent regional divisions and to redress social and economic inequality
roh on monday called for a government that ``is loved by the people and run in accordance with democratic principles to suit a new era.''
the new president faces the challenge of ending authoritarian rule in a nation that has never had a peaceful transfer of power. the nation has been dominated by civilian and military strongmen since its creation in 1948 and its politics are turbulent and often violent
police were on alert in seoul and other cities today after reports that radical students and dissidents may attempt to stage anti-roh protests. radical groups have refused to recognize roh's election and contend he is intent on continuing authoritarian rule
radical groups called for anti-government protests in seoul and other cities today and thursday. detachments of riot police were seen guarding key points in some areas of seoul and police officials said reserves were on alert
more than 200 student and dissident leaders were being watched in case they attempted to organize protests, officials said. police also were guarding festive arches erected in seoul for the inauguration in case dissidents attempted to wreck them
chun warned at a farewell dinner in seoul tonight that political stability and continued expansion were vital. he warned against political unrest
i am convinced that there must not, and will not, be any repeat of political chaos that imperils the country or social chaos that threatens national survival,'' he said
chun, who took power with military backing in 1980 when he and roh were senior generals, is to head a presidential advisory board. he was to leave office in a separate ceremony thursday
a low-key inaugural ceremony was planned for thursday with roh scheduled to take the oath of office in the square in front of the national assembly building. but attendance was by invitation only and there were no plans for celebrations or public attendance
factory workers, street cleaners and other ordinary people were invited to attend the ceremony along with officials, academics, and other representatives of korean society, officials said
envoys from 88 nations, including prime minister noboru takeshita of japan and the premiers of sri lanka and fiji, were to attend the inauguration. the united states was to be represented by treasury secretary james baker
roh won the country's first democratic presidential election in 16 years on dec. 16 with 36.6 percent of the vote. he defeated rival opposition candidates kim young-sam and kim dae-jung, who split the opposition vote
roh, a former general, is identified with the military-backed governments that have ruled the country since 1961 and many koreans are doubtful if he can achieve massive democratic change
opposition parties contend roh's inauguration will simply signal a change of figurehead and the government will continue to be run by the armed forces and an entrenched elite of government officials and business leaders
thousands of leftist demonstrators marched on a military camp today and accused the government of betraying the revolution that swept president corazon aquino to power two years ago
about 200 policemen blocked the road leading to camp crame as helicopters patrolled overhead. but the crowd, estimated at 20,000 people by police, was peaceful
the rally was held on a boulevard between camp crame and camp aguinaldo. two years ago, hundreds of thousands of filipinos flocked there and prevented troops loyal to then-president ferdinand marcos from attacking rebellious soldiers holed up in crame. the four-day standoff ended with marcos' depature from the philippines
today's marchers included students, workers, farmers, nuns and priests. they chanted ``dismantle the u.s.-aquino regime'' and carried effigies of mrs. aquino and uncle sam
red banners said, ``advance the people's genuine revolution,'' and one poster read: ``cory _ closet dictator.''
the protesters denounced what they said was mrs. aquino's failure to put in place the sweeping economic and political reforms she had promised during the 1986 presidential election
we had high hopes when cory aquino said she would be the exact opposite of marcos. but after two years, we have no more hope that she will fulfill her promises,'' crispin beltran, head of the militant may 1st movement labor organization, told the rally
some of the protesters distributed leaflets of the outlawed national democratic front, an umbrella organization of 12 marxist groups, including the communist party of the philippines and its armed wing, the new people's army
the aquino government has betrayed the filipino people's hope for fundamental changes in society after ousting marcos...,'' a leaflet said. it accused the government of incompetence and ``subservience to the u.s.''
the crowd dispersed without incident after about three hours
u.s. ambassador nicholas platt, however, congratulated the aquino government today on molding a democratic government
what we have seen happen in this period is impressive,'' platt said in a statement. ``a constitution has been written and ratified by an overwhelming margin... a new congress has been freely elected and is vigorously functioning. local elections have been held in every province, city and town throughout the philippine archipelago
in these and mnay other ways democracy has been restored in the philippines,'' he said
in other developments, mrs. aquino defended her embattled defense secretary, gen. fidel ramos, and credited him with blocking attempts by renegade military officers to topple her government
she said ``as far as i'm concerned, general (fidel) ramos has proven himself not only now but in the past, especially in his abiding by the constitution. he has not been any part of any coup attempt.''
mrs. aquino made the remark to reporters one day after the wife of a navy captain linked to at least two coup attempts and the assassination of a leftist labor leader hinted that ramos was involved in a november 1986 conspiracy
ramos said that he, in fact, exposed the coup attempt
an unusually well-preserved fossil skull stumbled upon by a graduate student belongs to one of the smallest baleen whales ever known, scientists said
the skull and other parts of the 15-foot whale, believed to be 12 million to 14 million years old and possibly related to modern toothless whales, were found embedded in a sandstone bluff on ano nuevo island, about 19 miles northwest of santa cruz
the 35-pound skull is a ``beautiful specimen,'' said kenneth s. norris, a professor of natural history at the university of california-santa cruz
(it's) one of the best i know of,'' norris, a world authority on whales, said at a news conference tuesday
brian fadley, 26, a uc-santa cruz graduate student, said he spotted the skull as an irregularity in a rock formation last may while visiting ano nuevo island with a group studying elephant seals. a closer look revealed that it was a whale skull
since i didn't have the usual tools of a paleontologist, i modified a rusty pipe to excavate the fossil,'' fadley said
norris said it was unusual to find a cetacean skull with the delicate earbones intact. those tiny bones could help researchers learn how whales and other marine mammals developed their exceptionally acute hearing, he said
the animal itself, 15 feet long and weighing 1,500 pounds, apparently was an adult pygmy baleen whale ``with close linkage to the modern california gray whale,'' norris said. california grays can be as long as 40 feet long and weigh 40 tons
baleen whales, which include the 100-foot blue whale, have no teeth but eat by filtering plankton and tiny crustaceans from seawater with bristly baleen plates attached to their upper jaw. convenes</head> anglo-irish meeting under way. picks up 13th graf pvs, `o fiaich ...</note>
an 18-year-old british soldier was charged today with unlawfully killing an unarmed roman catholic civilian in a case that has further strained tense anglo-irish relations
the soldier, david jonathan holden, appeared at cookstown magistrates court, 25 miles west of belfast, as british and irish leaders met across the border in dublin to discuss the deterioration in relations
in addition to the holden case, tensions have increased because of the disclosure tuesday that another british soldier jailed for murdering an unarmed roman catholic civilian was freed on parole after serving three years
magistrate robert porter ordered holden held in police custody until a court appearance in belfast on march 9. the defense said it would appeal to the high court for bail to be set
holden's attorney said the soldier will plead innocent to the charge of unlawfully killing aidan mcanespie, 23, an election worker for sinn fein, the legal political arm of the outlawed irish republican army
the british army said mcanespie was killed sunday by a ricocheting bullet after a machine gun was fired accidentally from an army observation post at a checkpoint near aughnacloy, half a mile from the border in county tyrone
prime minister margaret thatcher on tuesday rebuked irish prime minister charles haughey's government for ordering its own investigation into the shooting. british officials said they already were investigating
northern ireland secretary tom king paid a courtesy call on haughey in dublin before he joined irish foreign minister brian lenihan and justice minister gerry collins today for a meeting of the anglo-irish conference
the main item on the agenda was proposed british legislation aimed at guaranteeing a fair division of employment between roman catholics and protestants in protestant-dominated northern ireland
before entering the meeting, king said: ``we will be talking about all matters of concern to us both and we shall be having very frank and valuable discussions. this is the value of the anglo-irish agreement. it means we can meet to discuss very difficult issues.''
the anglo-irish agreement, signed in november 1985, gives the irish government a consultative role in the running of northern ireland
the conference was set up as a forum for irish and british ministers to discuss problems in the province, where the ira is fighting to end british rule
on tuesday, security forces ringed aughnacloy for mcanespie's funeral
cardinal tomas o fiaich, roman catholic primate of ireland who broke off a trip to san francisco to attend the funeral, told the congregation mcanespie had been murdered. mcanespie was buried across the border in the irish republic
o fiaich said he has never hesitated to condemn ira killings as murder, adding: ``how can i now avoid using this term `murder' to describe the killing in broad daylight of one of the best known and most highly respected men in this parish?''
anglo-irish relations have been severely strained recently by a series of disputes, principally britain's refusal after a long inquiry to prosecute northern ireland policemen who shot and killed six unarmed catholics in 1982
news that a british soldier sentenced to life in prison for murdering an unarmed roman catholic civilian, thomas reilly, 22, in belfast in 1983 was freed on parole after serving only three years has added to that tension
the british army in a statement tuesday confirmed irish news reports that pvt. ian richard thain, who was jailed for murdering reilly during rioting in belfast on aug. 9, 1983, had been freed on parole in february 1987
thain, 21, said at his trial he thought reilly, road manager of the pop group bananarama, was reaching for a gun, but the judge dismissed his claim
upon hearing of thain's release, reilly's father, james reilly, said: ``it is unbelievable. people talk about british justice but where is it today? our son was never involved in anything. he was murdered.''
eleven men were given prison terms ranging from three years to life for killing two giant pandas, the official xinhua news agency said today
the report said a court in northwest sichuan province, one of the last natural habitats of the endangered species, found the men guilty in two separate incidents of killing the pandas and selling their pelts
it did not say how many of the men were given life terms
in december, another court in sichuan sentenced 26 men to prison terms ranging from two years to life for killing six pandas and selling their skins
only about 1,000 giant pandas still survive in the wild, all in sichuan and neighboring southwest china provinces
although the chinese government has banned panda hunting, the pandas' numbers are believed to have decreased as a result of their low fertility rate, a shortage of the wild bamboo on which they feed and human predators
the meter has expired on penny parking in this western massachusetts town, where selectmen voted to eliminate one-cent meters on two downtown streets to raise more money
selectmen voted tuesday to boost the parking rates on main and federal streets, the two busiest streets in the downtown commercial district, to five cents for 15 minutes, 10 cents for 30 minutes and 20 cents for an hour. motorists will still be able to park on side streets for a penny and a nickel
the new meter heads will also have quarter slots, but 25 cents will still get you only an hour's parking, selectman joseph laurie said
an advisory committee urged the town in january to boost the rates, maintaining it was costing the town of 19,100 people more to collect the pennies than it was getting in meter revenue
the new meters, which officials said should be installed in about two months, are expected to generate an additional $36,000 in revenue annually. the town now gets about $70,000 from its parking meters
programs aimed at helping california's preschool children resist sexual abuse are ineffective and should be phased out, a federally funded study said
the programs are beyond the understanding of such young children, may frighten them away from normal affection and unjustly make them responsible for the behavior of others, researchers said tuesday
the central idea of training the children bears rethinking,'' said neil gilbert, professor of social welfare at the university of california at berkeley
we should not make 4-year-olds responsible for defending themselves,'' said gilbert, who conducted the two-year study for uc-berkeley's family welfare research group
programs that try to train preschool children to recognize and resist sexual abuse reach 42,000 younsters throughout the state
the study of 118 preschoolers in seven counties found that attempts to teach very young children the difference between a ``good touch'' and a ``bad touch'' may confuse them
defining a ``bad touch'' as anything that ``feels bad'' results in children resisting any contact they do not like at the moment, such as grandma's ``yucky'' kiss, uncle ed's scratchy cheek and the tight hug from a well-meaning relative, gilbert said
thus, in the most inclusive view of `bad touch,' children are taught that virtually a pat on the head could be cause for reporting to the authorities,'' the report said
the report also said responsibility for protecting children lies with adults and not with the youngsters themselves
teaching 4-year-olds they must ``take charge to control the outside world ... is an abdication of family and social responsibility'' and a ``sorry message of these times,'' researchers said
however, teaching parents alone will not make children safe from sexual abuse, said pnina tobin, executive director of the san francisco-based children's self-help project, one of the programs studied
it does no good just to (educate) the adults around the child,'' she said. ``what if that adult is the offender? the child is not protected. they must know there are others they can talk to.''
a man who stole a courthouse bailiff's gold bracelet left behind a clue to his identity _ his subpoena in a theft case
police say miguel garcia approached a bailiff at an information booth in the dade county courthouse to explain he could not show up at a thursday hearing on a theft case because he had a conflicting court date on another theft charge
as the bailiff, elisa yepe, leaned over to examine the subpoena, her $525 gold bracelet fell to the floor
garcia picked it up and ran, leaving behind his subpoena, police said
one minute he's asking her for a new trial date, the next minute he pulls this,'' metro-dade officer rick conover said monday. ``either this guy has guts or he's not wrapped too tight.''
police hope to arrest garcia when he shows up for one of his thursday court dates
a sorority formed by lesbians has been officially recognized by ucla, reportedly the first such recognition extended by any u.s. university
the decision allows the nine-member lambda delta lambda to meet on campus and apply for student funds, but university rules forbid exclusion of heterosexual members
it was very validating for us,'' sorority president allison adler said of last week's recognition by the office of fraternity and sorority relations at the university of california, los angeles
although other social and political organizations for homosexual students exist at ucla and other campuses, gay activists said they knew of no other gay-oriented sorority or fraternity that has formal approval from an american college or university to be part of a regulated greek letter system
i think it's fantastic,'' said vernon strickland, a leader of the washington, d.c.-based gay fraternity delta lambda phi. ``i think that means the gentlemen will have no problems getting recognition.''
delta lambda phi is trying to organize chapters at ucla and four other universities. its washington chapter isn't affiliated with any school
i never felt any sentimental attachment to ucla before. but i now feel proud to be a student here,'' lambda delta lambda member julie leverence said this week. ``lambda delta lambda gives me a supportive atmosphere and a connection to the school.''
all nine women members said they are lesbians and said they feel excluded at existing sororities
we are not starting this sorority so we can meet new people to sleep with,'' marci kay said. ``we are starting it because we feel excluded from the greek system now, and that is a network system for friendship and professional careers.''
lambda delta lambda is planning ways to raise money and attract new members, and it is also considering applying for membership in the panhellenic council, which coordinates many inter-sorority events
we don't just want to be separate but equal,'' adler said. ``we want to be equal.''
the chief cuban delegate to the u.n. human rights commission today accused the chief u.s. delegate, a former cuban political prisoner, of lying about his 22 years in custody
raul roa kouri, cuba's deputy foreign minister, called a news conference to answer the allegations of armando valladares, who said he was tortured and temporarily crippled while imprisoned in cuba
he was never beaten, he was never tortured,'' roa said. ``this doesn't happen in cuba.'' he said he called the press conference because ``the credibility of the commission is at stake.''
roa distributed copies of documents that included a purported confidential u.s. state department memo on valladares and cuban arguments against points made in the memo
valladares, named late last year to head the u.s. delegation to the 43-nation human rights commission, has been a u.s. citizen since january 1987. in january 1961, valladares was sentenced to 30 years in prison in cuba. he was freed after 22 years following the intervention of president francois mitterrand of france
valladares gained international attention during his incarceration by writing poetry that he managed to smuggle out of prison
in a book he wrote about his prison years, titled ``against all hope,'' valladares says he was arrested and jailed because he voiced his opposition to communism under cuban leader fidel castro
roa said, ``the book is full of lies, and it is boring.''
roa repeated cuban allegations that valladares was jailed because he belonged to a group that was planning terrorist activities to overthrow the government
he read from what he said was the record of valladares' trial, saying valladares was convicted of ``planning to take up arms with the purpose of overthrowing through violent means the powers of the state.''
the state department says valladares was not charged with terrorism at his trial and that such allegations only arose later
roa alleged that valladares had been a police officer under the government of dictator fulgencio batista, who was ousted in 1959 by castro loyalists, but he said valladares was never penalized for this. he denied that the cubans had charged valladares belonged to batista's secret police
however, a reproduction of an article in the french newspaper le monde in 1983, included in the package of documents distributed by the cuban delegation, quotes castro as saying valladares was a member of the ``gestapo of batista.'' a u.s. spokesman, bill lawrence, said roa was ``lying'' when he said valladares had been a policeman
they keep altering their story every year, trying to make it more acceptable,'' he told the associated press. he said cuba had also at one time accused valladares of being a torturer but that the country now denies having said that. ...'; inserts 1 graf after 13th graf, `solyom reported ...' with mother reportedly goading son into suicide attempt; deletes last 2 grafs to conform to editing changes.</note>
with one lucky rifle shot, a young man troubled by a compulsion to take four-hour showers and wash his hands up to 50 times a day cured his affliction
the man, identified as george, failed in a suicide attempt, but the .22-caliber bullet he fired into his mouth lodged in the lower part of his brain's left frontal lobe, a region believed related to so-called obsessive-compulsive disorder
if it had gone to the center, it would have killed him,'' his psychiatrist, leslie solyom, said tuesday. ``if it had gone to the right, it would have had no effect.''
victims of obsessive-compulsive disorder, like george, suffer from extreme hesitation and doubtfulness, solyom said. ``they hesitate so much that after closing the door they are not really certain they closed the door, so they have to go back again and again.''
george was nearly 18 when he fired the bullet into his brain. ``he was found lying on his face, blood oozing from his nostrils,'' said solyom, who practices at shaughnessy hospital in vancouver, british columbia
george recovered from the shooting in three weeks. ``we started on behavior therapy,'' solyom said. ``but he was no longer obsessive.''
it was the only change that solyom could find
his i.q. did not change. there was no change personality-wise. he did not become an automaton. his symptoms are gone,'' solyom said
before the suicide attempt, george washed his hands as often as 50 times a day. he would take four-hour showers, and would check and re-check to see whether doors and windows were locked and whether he had enough money in his wallet
when he pulled the trigger, george may have in effect given himself a lobotomy
or, more precisely, a leukotomy _ a severing of the links between the frontal lobes and other parts of the brain, rather than a removal of brain tissue as in a lobotomy
in the '40s and '50s, psychosurgeons would get these patients and have reasonably good results cutting the pathway between the front part of the brain and a part called the striatum,'' said dr. thomas insel, a psychiatrist at the national institute of mental health in bethesda, md. such surgery has fallen out of favor as effective drugs have been found
insel, who has specialized in this disorder, said sophisticated brain images called pet scans show that the frontal lobes are more active in obsessive-compulsive patients than in normal people. that suggests that the source of the disorder lies at least partly in the frontal lobes, he said
solyom reported george's case in the december issue of the british journal of psychiatry. a short report of that study appears this week in a newsletter for doctors called physician's weekly, which describes the suicide attempt as ``successful radical surgery.''
solyom said george was goaded into the suicide attempt several years ago by his mother. ``she said, `so look george, if your life is so wretched, just go and shoot yourself,''' solyom said
dr. judith rapoport, also of the national institute of mental health, said that george's accident is reminiscent of the incident early in this century that led to the discovery of the frontal lobotomy
a massachusetts railroad worker named phineas gage suffered an accident in which a piece of a crowbar became lodged in his head, she said. the crowbar was removed. ``amazingly he survived,'' she said
in those days, the risk of infection was high. what was remarkable was his personality change. he became a happy-go-lucky bum who sang for his supper and wandered. and somebody studied this.'' gage had had the first lobotomy
some 20,000 customers have asked southwestern bell telephone to block access to 976 phone numbers, including 8,000 who called bell in one day requesting the free service
the 976 system has drawn criticism from parents and citizen groups because some 976 lines offer sexually explicit messages. in some cases, children have made numerous calls to the services, racking up large phone bills for their parents. businesses also face problems with employees making calls and billing the company
eight thousand calls were received tuesday, the first day southwestern bell offered to block access to dial 976 for free, company spokesman dave lopez said. the other calls were made before bell began running notices in local newspapers, he said
the 20,000 requests represent less than 1 percent of the 3.5 million phone lines in four cities where 976 service is availble _ dallas, fort worth, houston and san antonio, lopez said
the public service commission authorized bell to block the calls for free last week following hearings in austin
the chairman of president reagan's aids commission called today for spending an additional $2 billion to fight the disease among drug abusers
retired navy adm. james d. watkins proposed that half of the money should be in federal funds with the rest coming from state and local sources
the additional $1 billion in federal spending called for in the chairman's recommendations to the full 13-member commission would nearly double the total $1.3 billion reagan requested for all aids education and research in the budget he submitted last week
but watkins told reporters only 15 percent of the nation's estimated 1.3 million intravenous drug abusers are in treatment plans, with long waiting lists in many cities for people seeking help in kicking drugs
anyone crying for help should get help on demand,'' watkins said
moreover, he said, the sharply higher spending on drug treatment must be a ``sustained emphasis. you cannot just throw in some money one year and drop it out next year.''
although male homosexuals still make up the largest percentage of people with aids, health officials have determined that the disease is spreading most rapidly now among intravenous drug abusers and their sexual partners
watkins' recommendations go to the full commission for action monday; the panel expects to present an interim report to the president the following week
the former chief of naval operations acknowledged that his recommendation for sharply higher spending on drug treatment programs might spark controversy by opening the way for criticism of the administration for not doing more in that area
but he expessed confidence the full commission would adopt that and most of his other recommendations for an interim report and said, ``it is not in our charter to worry about the political impact.''
asked his reaction to the likelihood that presidential candidates, particularly democrats, would use his recommendations to ``zing the white house,'' watkins replied:
how do you avoid politicizing something in an election year. if they all adopt this and say `let's get on with it,' that's the kind of politization i like.''
watkins' proposal on drug treatment calls specifically for adding 32,000 drug abuse treatment specialists and said 3,300 new treatment facilities may have to be added
in other areas, watkins called for more financial support for the food and drug administration to double the number of scientists reviewing aids-related products and a program of direct grants to community-based drug testing programs
he also made a number of recommendations in the health care area, including more training for doctors
many physicians are severely lacking in knowledge about aids and there are signs that medical schools have not yet built up a curriculum to educate doctors about aids treatment,'' watkins said
the interim report will not include any recommendations on the controversial areas of aids testing, discrimination against people testing positive for the virus and other social and legal aspects
to try to adopt recommendations in those areas would result in the commission's being ``at loggerheads with ourselves'' at this time
but he said hearings on those topics are scheduled next month in nashville and promised the panel would not shy away from addressing them in its final report june 24. abortion sketchy; picks up 8th graf, `rentz, a ...'; insert 2 grafs after 18th graf, ``according to ...'' with suspect having set up family counseling service.</note>
a woman apparently kidnapped a 5-week-old baby because she had an abortion recently, authorities said after they returned the infant to her ecstatic mother
maritza rentz, a 38-year-old psychotherapist arrested tuesday, was being held today on $8,000 bond for investigation of second-degree kidnapping in the abduction of 5-week-old rachael ann white, police said
rachael ann was found at mrs. rentz' home a day after the girl's mother issued a nationwide plea for the baby's safe return
rachael ann had been kidnapped from her home friday by a woman answering a babysitting ad, police said
it appears it was a replacement baby,'' said police lt. joe vernier
mrs. rentz gave a statement to police saying she told her husband when he came home from work friday that she had had a baby that day by caesarian section, said police capt. vic morris
investigators said they did not know how long mrs. rentz was pregnant when the abortion was performed on oct. 27 for medical reasons. details were sketchy, but apparently doctors decided she couldn't bring the baby to term, police said
police also have not determined whether air force capt. paul rentz was aware his wife's pregnancy was terminated
rentz, a 36-year-old clinical psychologist and behavioral science instructor at the air force academy, was being questioned, authorities said
rachael ann's mother, cora abbott, was elated after being reunited with her baby
i thought i loved her all i could until this happened, but now i know i love her even more,'' said abbott, who was at work at a pizza parlor when the abduction occurred
of mrs. rentz, she said: ``i feel very sorry for her, that she'd have to do something like this. but i'm angry. i still don't understand it.''
the woman who kidnapped the baby matched mrs. rentz's description ``like a mirror,'' said deputy police chief pat mcelderry
the woman was applying for a babysitting position at the home of rachael's ann's grandmother, ethel reed. reed gave the child to the woman while she went to answer the telephone; when she returned, the woman had fled with the child, authorities said
a tip led police to the rentzes, morris said. air force maj. bruce yeager, a neighbor in the subdivision where the rentzes moved last summer, said he became suspicous after he and his wife saw the baby and thought it did not look newborn. he said he contacted air force academy police
investigators went to the home tuesday as rentz was leaving for work in a car that matched a description of the car police were seeking in the abduction, authorities said
police found the baby in a crib and were shown a false birth certificate with ``penrose hospital'' handwritten on a gold seal, police said
but after an fbi agent looked at the child's navel and noticed the umbilical cord knot was gone _ an indication the baby was older than four days _ mrs. rentz was arrested, authorities said
mrs. rentz came into her office at about 9 a.m. friday, but stayed only about 30 minutes, said receptionist meda frye
according to police documents, friends were told mrs. rentz had given birth at 9:42 that morning. she said her baby was named aurora helen rentz
on oct. 31, shortly after she lost her own baby, mrs. rentz put an ad in a newspaper offering her services as a counselor. her business cards referred to her as a psychotherapist offering ``parent-child consultations,'' said the colorado springs gazette telegraph
a month later, on dec. 1, she set up a family counseling practice, the newspaper said
dr. john mcdonald, a university of colorado criminal psychiatrist, said women who kidnap babies often have lost a child of their own
the need to have a baby is so great, they don't really face up to what they are doing, or they convince themselves that what they are doing is right,'' he said
a claim that fallout from the chernobyl nuclear accident may have caused deaths in the united states is highly unlikely and based on an erroneous statistical analysis, scientists say
a researcher, jay gould, said he found an unexplained jump in the nation's deaths in the months following the chernobyl accident
however, the amount of radiation that reached the united states is so small that the notion is ``not credible,'' harvard radiation expert edward webster said tuesday
webster, who serves on a united nations committee studying health effects of chernobyl, called the hypothesis ``a mechanism which most knowledgeable radiobiologists would throw out because of the very low doses involved.''
a federal health statistics official says no mysterious increase in deaths occurred
gould said he will present his work thursday at a meeting on radiation and the immune system in west germany
gould, a fellow of the institute for policy studies in washington, says federal statistics show an unexplained jump of maybe 20,000 to 40,000 deaths in the nation for may through august of 1986, following the soviet accident in april
radioactive fallout from chernobyl is ``the only explanation we've been able to develop,'' gould said in a recent interview
the hypothesis, which he stressed was not proven, is that fallout reaching the united states encouraged formation of ``free radicals,'' chemically reactive molecules that can damage cells. these molecules, the hypothesis continues, may have weakened the immune systems of some people enough to make them vulnerable to fatal diseases
gould said slightly more than 33 percent of all 1986 deaths occurred in may through august, up from the average of about 32 percent for the three prior years and the highest percentage since 1900
increases appeared among people older than 65 and those who suffered from infectious diseases, including pneumonia, he said
the study also looked at peak concentrations of iodine-131, a radioactive component of fallout, reported in milk during the summer of 1986. gould said that among the nation's nine census regions, higher concentrations were associated with greater increases in mortality for the summer of 1986 compared to the previous summer
the study's data on deaths came from the national center for health statistics. but harry rosenberg, chief of the center's mortality statistics branch, said tuesday his analysis found no inexplicable jump in deaths
we didn't see anything that departs from the historic pattern,'' he said
his numbers are not consistent with the numbers that are adjusted to represent the united states as a whole.''
rosenberg also said 1986 had the lowest death rate ever recorded for the nation, when the population's changing age composition is taken into account
neal nelson, a radiation biologist for the u.s. environmental protection agency, said he was skeptical of the chernobyl hypothesis after starting to study information gould sent him
the maximum dose of chernobyl radiation in the united states was only about 1 percent of the normal background exposure, he said
people eat radioactive material constantly, from natural and man-made sources, so ``there is nothing unique'' about swallowing the tiny amounts of radioactive iodine from chernobyl fallout, he said
the supreme court today expanded the power of communities to impose rent controls, ruling that hardships to tenants may be considered when landlords seek rent increases
by a 6-2 vote, the justices upheld a san jose, calif., ordinance that has been attacked as a ``robin hood'' law that steals from the rich to pay the poor
while some 200 cities nationwide have rent control laws, the san jose hardship provision appears to be unique. landlord groups have said other communities now may adopt similar laws
chief justice william h. rehnquist, in his opinion for the court, said landlords failed to prove that the ordinance deprived them of the value of their property without just compensation
he rejected the landlords' claim that the city unlawfully is seeking to alleviate hardships for tenants by imposing financial burdens on the property owners
we have long recognized that a legitimate and rational goal of price or rate regulation is the protection of consumer welfare,'' rehnquist said. the ordinance ``represents a rational attempt to accommodate the conflicting interests of protecting tenants from burdensome rent increases while at the same time ensuring that landlords are guaranteed a fair return of their investment.''
today's decision does not rule out all challenges to such oridinances. but rehnquist said to win their case landlords at least must show actual losses suffered because communities lowered rents to lessen tenants' hardships
there was no such evidence in the san jose case, rehnquist said
rehnquist also noted that rent controls are based on the idea that without them housing shortages would permit landlords to gouge renters
the impact of the san jose ordinance has been muted, at least temporarily, because vacancy rates have been around 8 percent with the downturn in the local high-technology economy. that has made it less likely that landlords, concerned about losing tenants, will increase rents sufficiently to prompt challenges based on hardship
justices antonin scalia and sandra day o'connor dissented today
scalia, writing for both, said the tenant hardship provision takes private property without just compensation in violation of the constitution
scalia denounced ``the unfairness of making one citizen pay, in some fashion other than taxes, to remedy a social problem that is none of his creation.''
the san jose law generally permits annual rent increases of 8 percent on residential property. but if the landlord seeks more than that, it opens the way for challenge by ``hardship'' tenants who are defined as earning less than 80 percent of the median income for the area
the landlords said that means individuals making $34,000 a year can qualify as hardship cases
the ordinance, passed in 1979, provides a hearing before a city officer to determine if a challenged rent increase is too great
the increase can be rolled back even below 8 percent for hardship tenants if the hearing officer decides a smaller increase is justified. the landlord still would receive an increase of 5 percent plus enough to cover capital improvements and increased rehabilitation, maintenance and other costs
no landlord in san jose alleged that the law actually has been implemented to deprive owners of their property's full value
landlords challenged the law's constitutionality shortly after it was adopted. they said the ordinance, in effect, is a robin hood statute that requires them to assume the public burden of subsidizing low-income tenants
the california supreme court, reversing rulings by lower courts, upheld the ordinance by a 4-3 vote in 1986
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the u.s. supreme court last thursday, did not take part in today's decision
the case is pennell vs. san jose, 86-753
a civic panel recommending policy guidelines to the president called on the government to apologize for the military's bloody suppression of a civil uprising in the city of kwangju, members said today
the committee for the promotion of democracy and national reconciliation also said the government should compensate victims of the 1980 revolt, said panel members
by official count, at least 191 people were killed and more than 800 were wounded in the nine-day uprising in the southern city of kwangju. dissident sources say the casualty figure was much higher
president-elect roh tae-woo set up the 56-member committee after winning the dec. 16 presidential elections, saying he needed ``policy guidelines'' reflecting the opinions of broad sections of the society
the committee called on the roh government, to be inaugurated thursday, to make an open apology for the kwangju incident and compensate its victims
the committee also urged roh to declare a human rights charter in a bid to show his determination to support civil rights
the committee said a government apology is needed because harsh military suppression was partly blamed for the anti-government uprising, the worst in modern korean history
the kwangju incident is a touchy political issue involving roh and his predecessor, chun doo-hwan, who seized power with military backing in 1980. they are known to have played a key part in the military suppression of the uprising
the united states has also been criticized for its alleged part in the military suppression of the kwangju uprising. government critics have alleged that the top u.s. commander in seoul permitted some south korean army units under his operational control to help crush the kwangju revolt
the united states has denied the allegations
the theft of a transcript of grand jury testimony won't compromise the investigation of the alleged rape and kidnapping of a black teen-ager, state attorney general robert abrams said
manhattan district attorney robert morgenthau said tuesday that a former employee of abrams' office had been arrested and charged with stealing and disclosing a transcript of testimony taken before the dutchess county grand jury investigating the attack on tawana brawley
abrams was appointed by gov. mario cuomo as a special prosecutor to investigate the case
miss brawley, 16, was found on nov. 28 in wappingers falls after having disappeared for four days. she was wrapped in a plastic garbage bag and covered with feces, with ``kkk'' and ``nigger'' scrawled on her body
on the advice of her attorneys, she has not cooperated with investigators since shortly after the attack
the rev. al sharpton, one of miss brawley's representatives, said the alleged theft of the grand jury transcript ``underscores the ineptness and incompetence that we've been talking about.'' sharpton said he spoke for attorneys alton maddox jr. and c. vernon mason, who are advising the brawley family
abrams said the arrest will not affect the investigation, which continues monday when a special state grand jury is to be empaneled in poughkeepsie
samuel evans, 49, was employed as the senior printing machine operator in abrams' office until his resignation on feb. 5. he allegedly stole the brawley transcript before he left the job
evans, of new york city, surrendered to the district attorney's office on tuesday
according to morgenthau, evans gave the transcript to an unidentified person on feb. 18. that person notified the district attorney's office
evans is charged with fourth-degree grand larceny, which carries a maximum penalty of four years in prison upon conviction
the material did not go beyond evans and the informant, and no other document relating to the case was stolen, abrams said
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz will visit damascus for several hours saturday as part of a tour of middle east capitals to promote arab-israeli peace, a syrian source said today
the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said shultz will fly to damascus around noon and depart in the evening. shultz will be accompanied by richard murphy, his assistant on middle eastern affairs, the source said. he gave no other details
u.s. officials said friday in washington that shultz probably would visit syria, the soviet union's main arab ally, during his middle east tour. shultz was scheduled to leave washington late today for visits to israel, jordan and egypt
the u.s. officials said the purpose of the damascus visit would be to discuss the u.s. drive for arab-israeli negotiations with president hafez assad, whose support for any long-term settlement in the middle east is considered essential by specialists at the state department's near east bureau
a visit by shultz would be a major boost to syria and would mark an improvement in its relations with the united states. syria is one of six countries on the state department's list of states supporting terrorism
president reagan imposed sanctions against syria in november 1986, after britain severed diplomatic relations with damascus following syria's implication in an attempt to blow up an israeli airliner in london
u.s.-syrian relations began improving last year, when the united states sent its ambassador back to damascus
last week, one of the u.s. sanctions against syria was lifted. state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley said that security clearance requirements on syrian applicants for u.s. visas have been lifted. under the sanctions, all such applicants were subjected to lengthy checks to qualify for a visa. pvs bgng ``dole was...</note>
a triumphant bob dole headed for southern campaign territory today with two republican midwest victories in hand, proclaiming ``it's a lot more fun winning.'' george bush dismissed his losses, saying ``you can't win them all.''
dole racked up solid victories in minnesota's presidential caucuses and south dakota's primary while bush finished third in south dakota and last in minnesota
in portland, maine, bush said his poor showings were ``somewhat anticipated.''
you can't go everywhere,'' he told reporters. ``... you can't win them all.''
jack kemp, with dismal finishes in both states, took solace in bush's equally poor showings
i think last night proved the race is wide open. that's all i really needed,'' kemp said in beaufort, s.c. ``i needed to break up the idea that this is a bush-dole race.''
dole was campaigning today in south carolina, which holds its primary march 5, three days before the 20-state super tuesday contest
a week ago, dole lost the new hampshire primary to bush. a week before that, bush lost the iowa caucuses to dole, finishing behind former television evangelist pat robertson
robertson, who ran second to dole in minnesota and south dakota, said he was ``simply delighted'' with his showing in south dakota. but he conceded he had hoped for a victory in minnesota, where he built a strong organization
this helps me enormously as i go into the super tuesday states,'' robertson said today in atlanta. ``i am very pleased with what i'm seeing. i believe that coming out of super tuesday i will be the acknowledged front-runner of the republican party with delegates.''
bush, who had bypassed campaigning in the two states, went to bed in kentucky without commenting to reporters on the returns. dole, for his part, was anything but silent
i hope we send a message that bob dole has a message,'' the kansas senator told cheering backers at a victory celebration in minneapolis. ``that's what the election is all about. i haven't changed my message. i'm talking about the future, i've talked about leadership, i've talked about party responsibility, i've talked about the left-outs, the down-and-outs in america.''
returns from all but one precinct in south dakota gave dole 55 percent, robertson 20 percent, bush 19 percent and kemp 5 percent
in minnesota, with returns in from 80 percent of the precincts, dole had 42 percent, robertson 28 percent, kemp 15 and bush 11
kemp was in a do-or-die effort to make a competitive showing in one of the midwest states. on the last weekend of the campaign, kemp inundated south dakota with biographical television commercials that emphasized family values and he spent most of the weekend campaigning in minnesota. but he spent the election night in south carolina, unavailable to reporters
in minnesota, the first order of business in the gop caucuses was a non-binding straw poll of presidential preference
robertson startled party regulars in the iowa caucuses with a strong second-place finish, well ahead of bush. the former evangelist saw minnesota as a similar situation and he hoped to repeat his iowa performance
barb sykora, chairman of the minnesota republican party, had predicted a lot of people would attend caucuses for the first time
i think there are going to be a lot of people coming for pat robertson and for bob dole,'' she said
where is george bush?'' taunted dole during campaign appearances in south dakota and minnesota
why vote for someone who doesn't come to the state?'' the kansas senator asked an audience in minneapolis, on the final full day of campaigning
as usual, party officials were unable to project the turnout for robertson because so many of his supporters were newcomers to republican politics
kemp's best showing so far in the race going into tuesday's contests was third place in the new hampshire primary, well behind bush and dole. the new york congressman hoped a strong showing in minnesota would give his campaign renewed energy
kemp was staging a bus tour in south carolina today. on tuesday, he told students at the university of south carolina in columbia that he expects to do well in the state. comment from son; picks up 9th graf, `kent, who ...</note>
a coroner has reclassified as homicide the death of an elderly woman whose head was surgically removed and frozen in hopes that she could some day be brought back to life with a new body
we're saying this was an 83-year-old lady that was ill and pushed over the edge by the use of a drug,'' supervising deputy coroner dan cupido said tuesday
dora kent's death last december at the alcor life extension foundation laboratory in riverside has been under investigation since january
deputy district attorney curt hinman said he is ``fairly confident charges will be filed,'' but he did not say who would be charged, when, or specify the charges
the woman's original death certificate indicated she died from pneumonia in the absence of a doctor, which prompted the coroner's office to investigate whether she was alive when the procedure to remove her head was started
authorities seeking to force alcor to produce the frozen head have been blocked by an injunction
the coroner's office ruled after an autopsy was performed on the woman's headless body, basing its findings on the opinions of toxicologists and a pathologist contracted by riverside county, cupido said
the woman's son, saul kent, and other advocates of cryonics believe in storing bodies or heads at freezing temperatures in hopes of someday bringing them back to life through advances in science
kent said today that the allegations of homicide were ``smear tactics'' to discredit alcor. he said the foundation has explained thoroughly the use of drugs in its notes regarding his mother's preservation
now suddenly to come up and say that they think it's homicide is kind of absurd,'' he said
kent, who was at the laboratory when his mother's head was removed, said barbiturates were administered after death to slow brain damage from lack of oxygen
tests showed levels of pentobarbital and secobarbital throughout the woman's system, indicating she was alive when she was given the drugs
the amendment to the death certificate filed tuesday says mrs. kent died between dec. 9 and dec. 11, and lists the immediate cause of death as pneumonia and generalized severe arteriosclerosis
the drugs expedited the death, cupido said
a patient with that (the illnesses listed on the death certificate) given barbiturates will go over the edge,'' he said
it's like you have a gunshot victim who develops pneumonia in the hospital and dies,'' he said. ``it doesn't mean he wasn't shot.''
michael federowicz, who was president of alcor at the time and was present during the operation, said finding barbiturates in mrs. kent's system does not prove she was alive when the drugs were administered. wisconsin case</head>
the supreme court today broadened protection for criminal defendants who claim they were enticed by law enforcement officials into committing a crime
by a 6-2 vote, the justices overturned a bribery conviction against frederick mathews of milwaukee, wis., a former small business administraton official
the court said a criminal defendant should be allowed to introduce the defense of entrapment at the trial even if he inconsistently denies committing a criminal act
mathews was sentenced to probation for three years for accepting a $2,100 loan from james deshazer, owner of midwest knitting mills
mathews was in charge of a program that provides help to businesses owned by ``socially and economically disadvantaged'' firms
deshazer, acting as an fbi informant, gave mathews the money at a hotel coffee shop on april 23, 1985, and mathews was arrested as he left the restaurant
mathews said he needed the money because he had just been told he was being fired by the sba and was financially strapped
he said he regarded the money as a personal favor from deshazer and denied the loan was a bribe to get him to help deshazer receive advance payments from the government on a pentagon contract for midwest knitting mills
a federal judge refused to allow mathews to present evidence to the jury to support his claim of entrapment unless he also admitted that he intended to commit a crime
the supreme court today said mathews should be allowed to claim entrapment while denying he took the money with criminal intent
chief justice william h. rehnquist, in his opinion for the court, noted that an entrapment defense is based on a defendant's claim that he was induced into comitting the crime and lacked a predisposition to engage in criminal conduct
the government argued that a jury cannot logically conclude that a defendant both failed to commit the elements of the alleged offense and was entrapped
but rehnquist said defendants are allowed to be inconsistent. he rejected the government's claim that allowing inconsistent defenses will encourage perjury, confuse jurors and subvert the truth-finding purpose of a trial
we are simply not persuaded by the government's arguments that we should make the availability of an instruction on entrapment where the evidence justifies it subject to a requirement of consistency to which no other such defense is subject,'' rehnquist said
justice antonin scalia, in a separate concurring opinion, said he voted with the majority, but only because he believes ``when genuine inconsistency exists its effect in destroying the defendant's credibility will suffice to protect the interests of justice.''
dissenting were justices byron r. white and harry a. blackmun. justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday, did not take part in the decision
the case is mathews vs. u.s., 86-6109. threat to halt state checks, quotes, possible safety valve for governor, transition, delete outdated material; pick up 10th graf `senate president....' ^by a.v. gallagher</note>
treasurer a. james manchin today backed down on his threat to halt all state government checks because of a state supreme court decision invalidating the budget
it's nothing more than hot air and a whimper of the wind,'' manchin said of tuesday's 3-2 ruling by the court, which said the legislature had appropriated $26 million more than gov. arch moore said would be available. the state constitution requires a balanced budget
manchin released a number of checks for hospital workers today, less than 24 hours after threatening to halt the processing of all state bills. he said the decision allows for a 60-day grace period, and for a petition for a rehearing, meaning the case won't be resolved until after the june 30 end of the fiscal year by the time the court issues a final ruling
he called the court decision a ``token action to appease the west virginia education association,'' and labeled it a ``charade.''
legislative leaders say they will ask the court for a rehearing with the 60-day grace period. moore has already scheduled a special session of the legislature for april 12 to look at education matters, and the budget question presumably could be considered at that time
moore, a republican, had called the treasurer's threat to stop payments ridiculous. manchin, a democrat, had countered tuesday by calling the governor's criticism ``rubbish.''
the governor was in welch today and could not be reached immediately for comment on manchin's decision to release paychecks. however, press secretary john price said moore had a possible safety valve: a bill he received tuesday would allow him to borrow up to $50 million from the state consolidated investment fund of pension and workers' compensation money
moore is bickering with the legislature, however, over a provision that requires him to pay the money back by sept. 30, price said
amid the bitter verbal battle, all sides agreed that the state was lurching toward a crisis monday, when a bimonthly payroll of $15 million is due to go out to 40,000 state employees
as of this moment, all of the checks are stopped,'' manchin, one of three state officials who must sign all checks, had said tuesday
the high court's ruling, written by justice darrell mcgraw, did not tell moore and the legislature what to do, saying simply, ``we presume the governor and legislature will do their duties.''
senate president dan tonkovich, a democrat, said the legislature will petition the high court for a rehearing
moore, who was named as a defendant in the court case, never contested that the budget was unconstitutionally out of balance
the state is suffering from slumping tax collections, with revenue $35.7 million behind projections as of the end of january
the new york-based investment firm standard and poor's corp. on dec. 15 issued a national warning covering $900 million of west virginia's bonds, saying that neither the legislature nor the executive branch was addressing the state's ``deteriorating financial picture.''
the financial officer at west virginia university, which employs more than 8,000 state workers, criticized the court's overturning of the state budget
i don't know how you can just shut down the whole world,'' said john signorelli, associate vice president for finances at the morgantown campus
others supported the ruling, including officials of the west virginia education association, which last year filed the lawsuit leading to the decision. the suit challenged $13.5 million in cuts for education funding
i think it's great. the financing of education is, among mandated public services, the first constitutional priority,'' said james caruth, executive secretary of the 18,500-member association
state house parliamentarian gregory gray said it was the first time he knew of that the state's budget was thrown out as unconstitutional by the supreme court
lawyers for the bible speaks church have filed notice they plan to appeal a federal judge's decision upholding the $6.6 million claim of an heiress who charged she had been duped into donating money
the notice, filed tuesday in u.s. district court in springfield, said the fundamentalist church plans to ask a federal appeals court in boston to overturn u.s. district judge frank freedman's decision in the case
in january, freedman upheld a u.s. bankruptcy judge's ruling supporting a $6.6 million claim against the church by heiress elizabeth dovydenas. mrs. dovydenas, of lenox, maintained that she was duped into donating the money by church founder and president carl h. stevens
meanwhile, a trustee appointed by the bankruptcy court said tuesday he hoped to receive additional bids for the church's lenox headquarters before a feb. 28 deadline
trustee david ferrari said the only bid he has gotten for the 65-acre campus with 28 buildings has been a $2.5 million offer from woodland properties, a pittsfield-based real estate company. andrew kelly, an executive with woodland properties, has declined to discuss his plans for the property
the campus closed a few weeks after mrs. dovydenas prevailed in bankruptcy court. she was the high bidder at a november auction of the church headquarters, but the bankruptcy court rejected her $1.8 million bid as too low. the campus has been appraised at $6 million
her claim is the largest of the hundreds of creditors, who claim they are owed a total of $7 million by the church. details of package; further lead anticipated</note>
house democrats scrambled today to assemble majority support for thursday's vote on a $30 million ``humanitarian'' aid package for nicaragua, including roughly equal amounts for the contra rebels and for children who are victims of the country's seven-year civil war
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, called it ``the most workable kind of program'' and one that will provide ``balanced incentives'' for the contras and the leftist sandinista government to pursue peace talks called for in a regional accord
the package was unveiled late tuesday by rep. david bonior, d-mich., after two weeks of intensive negotiations among several factions of the chamber's majority party. it went before the rules committee today, where republicans were expected to demand the right to offer their own alternative
president reagan did not immediately react to the democrats' package. his own $36.2 million aid proposal for the rebels, including weapons, was narrowly rejected by the house three weeks ago
among major elements in the democratic proposal:
_about $3.6 million a month for the contras: half to buy food, clothing, medicine and shelter, and the other half to pay for delivery of the supplies to rebel troops inside nicaragua. the aid would run from march 1, after current aid expires, until june 30. it could continue until the end of the year if a cease-fire is reached by june 30
_about $1.4 million for nicaragua's miskito indians, an opposition group that has been carrying out its own battle against the sandinistas, but has consistently refused invitations to join with the contras. the indians already have worked out their own cease-fire with the managua regime
_a new $14 million ``children's survival fund,'' to provide medical help for children on all sides of the conflict. the aid would be administered by ``non-political'' private aid groups or international relief agencies already working in the region
not included in the package was any long-term economic development aid for the region, but a democratic fact sheet said ``congress will welcome proposals'' from reagan on that subject
current aid to the rebels expires feb. 29, and with it the legal authority for the cia to continue air drops of previously stockpiled weapons and ammunition. the new package contains no such authority
under the new proposal, the contras' ``humanitarian'' supplies would be delivered by private contractors supervised by the defense department until the contras and the sandinistas are able to agree on a cease-fire
the deliveries would be monitored by the congressional intelligence committees and the general accounting office, congress' investigative arm, to ensure that no weapons were included
after fighting stops, responsibility for delivery would shift to a private aid group or an international relief agency such as the red cross
the package also would provide for an expedited procedure for a vote on new military aid for the rebels _ a high priority for the reagan administration _ if a cease-fire should fall apart and the sandinistas should fail to keep their promises to democratize
the determination of whether expedited procedures should be initiated would be made by the house intelligence committees, according to a fact sheet on the package. but republicans were skeptical of the provision, saying it was not a solid guarantee that military aid would come to a quick vote in both the house and senate
wright said he was ``not necessarily'' confident of the votes to pass the package. republicans have remained aloof from the drafting process, holding out for more aid and for continued authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled weapons
the key to this really will be how much support it gets on the republican side,'' said solarz, a longtime contra aid opponent who added that he planned to vote against the package
other democrats said they expected at least 70 in their party to oppose the proposal
the party is seeking a middle ground on an issue that is not compromisable,'' said rep. robert torricelli, d-n.j. ``it appears to me to be an exercise in attempting to cover ourselves'' and avoid political blame if the contras go out of business and the sandinistas renege on promises to increase civil liberties
democrats have argued against new military aid, saying that providing it would endanger peace efforts. talks between the contras and sandinistas broke off over the weekend without progress, and no date has been set for their resumption
reagan and many congressional republicans have countered that it is only consistent military pressure from rebel attacks that has forced the sandinistas into peace talks
a 16-month-old girl bitten by a horde of ants was in critical condition today in the children's intensive care unit of sacred heart hospital, a spokeswoman said
tiffany cheatam of navarre, a small santa rosa county community about 20 miles east of this florida panhandle city, had stopped breathing when rescuers arrived at her home shortly after noon tuesday, said james chalmers, an emergency medical technician for the holley-navarre volunteer fire department
there were ants crawling all over the child,'' chalmers said
ann papadelias, a sacred heart spokeswoman, said she suspected the attack was by fire ants, known for their vicious sting, but she was unable to confirm that with doctors, who were busy treating the child. rescuers also said they were unsure what kind of ants were involved
a witness said a dog knocked the girl into a bed of ants in the child's backyard, said chief don van derry of the holley-navarre fire and rescue association
she was revived through cardiopulminary resuscitation and then a life flight helicopter initially transported her to gulf breeze hospital. the helicopter later transferred her to sacred heart which has a children's unit. update with comment from church headquarters; picks up 6th graf, `hamill described ...'; adds 2 grafs on cbn arrangements for swaggart program</note>
jimmy swaggart was followed to a ``crummy'' motel by men who let air out of his tires and photographed him as he tried to put a spare tire on backwards, visited a reputed prostitute and was confronted by a rival evangelist, a church leader said
james hamill of memphis, tenn., a member of the general council of the assemblies of god, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, described the pictures in an interview with wbrz-tv here tuesday
he also said he expects the council to strengthen the punishment swaggart receives from executives of his 2 million-member denomination after admitting ``moral failures.''
the louisiana district council has recommended a three-month suspension and counseling for the tv evangelist, whose ministry reaches more than 100 countries and reported $142 million in income last year
the constitution and bylaws require at least a year's cessation of active ministry,'' hamill said
the executive presbytery of the assemblies of god will make the final decision in the swaggart case. rev. everett stenhouse, assemblies of god general secretary, said the group was tentatively scheduled to meet thursday
church spokeswoman juleen turnage said an extra telephone operator had to be hired at church headquarters in springfield, mo., to handle some of the hundreds of calls about the case. she said swaggart had as many supporters as detractors among the callers
hamill described the photographs that led swaggart to make a tearful confession of sin sunday, and disclosed that the rev. marvin gorman of new orleans was directly involved in the picture-taking
last year, gorman sued swaggart for $90 million charging him with unjustly accusing gorman of repeatedly committing adultery. gorman admitted a single ``immoral act'' with a woman
the pictures, which abc news reported last week were given to denomination leaders by gorman, ``showed a motel _ a crummy little thing built in an l-shape _ they showed the number of this particular room and a woman accused of being a prostitute admitting several different men into the room, and eventually jimmy swaggart going into the room and later coming out of the room,'' hamill said
and she came out a few moments behind him, and (swaggart) had a flat tire on his car. these men who made the pictures had the let air out of his tires
when he went into the room, they called rev. gorman and he came down and jimmy swaggart was changing his tire, and there's pictures of he and gorman talking to one another, just pictures, no sound,'' hamill said
swaggart struggled with the tire and ``he put the wheel on backwards,'' hamill said
swaggart couldn't be reached for comment; church officials wouldn't say where he was
gorman attorney hunter w. lundy confirmed that he employed a private investigator, reed scott bailey, in connection with the lawsuit against swaggart
bailey and another investigator visited a strip of cheap motels on airline highway between baton rouge and new orleans to ask questions about swaggart, a motel resident said
the woman, who identified herself as peggy carrier, 39, was quoted by the new orleans times-picayune as saying swaggart on several occasions visited two airline highway motels, where he would park his lincoln town car in the rear
syndicated columnist cal thomas, who specializes in fundamentalist religions, said reports that swaggart sought pornographic acts rather than sexual intercourse probably led the louisiana council to conclude that he had not technically committed adultery, which would have resulted in a harsher punishment
one of the state council members involved in recommending rehabilitation for swaggart said the presbyters regard his ministry as a gift from god
we had to look beyond the man to the ministry god has given him,'' said the rev. jonathan ziegler of violet
our objective was not only to rehabilitate a man but to save a unique ministry that feeds thousands of children a day, supports a multitude of missionaries and helps improve countless lives with the gospel of jesus christ,'' ziegler said
meanwhile, the christian broadcasting network announced wednesday that it will not carry any programs from the swaggart ministry in which he personally appears so long as swaggart is suspended by his denomination
we have arrived at an arrangement whereby the swaggart ministries will provide alternative programming,'' said benton miller, spokesman for cbn. peralta</note>
the supreme court today bolstered the right default-judgment losers have to challenge a judgment entered after they fail to respond to a lawsuit
the justices unanimously ruled for houston businessman r. ``roy'' peralta in his challenge of a default judgment awarded against him six years ago for a $5,000 debt owed to a medical center
texas courts had ruled that such challenges are impermissible unless the judgment loser had a ``meritorious defense'' to the lawsuit
but writing for the high court, justice byron r. white said the texas rulings do not sufficiently protect the due-process rights of people who contend they were never notified about the lawsuits that resulted in the default judgments against them
for example, white said, peralta could have worked out a settlement or paid the debt or himself sold the property that was seized to satisfy the debt
peralta owned and operated a commercial diving business in houston when, in 1981, he guaranteed a $5,000 debt incurred by one of his employees to the heights medical center inc
the employee failed to make good on the debt, and the center sought to collect the debt by suing peralta in early 1982. peralta contends he was never notified about the lawsuit
a default judgment against him was issued in july 1982 _ and property his lawyers say was valued at more than $180,000 was auctioned off to satisfy the $5,000 debt
when peralta challenged the default judgment and subsequent sales of his property, his appeal was dismissed because he could not prove a meritorious defense to the underlying debt lawsuit _ a requirement under texas law
in ruling for peralta, white said, ``where a person has been deprived of property in a manner contrary to the most basic tenets of due process, it is no answer to say that in his particular case due process of law would have led to the same result.''
he added: ``only wiping the slate clean would have restored (peralta) to the position he would have occupied had due process of law been accorded to him in the first place.''
the court's vote was 8-0. justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court thursday, did not participate in the decision
the case is peralta vs. heights medical center, 86-1430
a federal judge today refused to permit testimony about nazi memorabilia reportedly seen in the home of carlos lehder rivas, who is on trial for cocaine smuggling
u.s. district judge howell w. melton ruled that it was inadmissable and prejudicial for gorman bannister, a protected federal witness, to mention seeing a gold swastika and statue of adolf hitler in lehder's home in medellin, colombia
lehder, 38, a reputed leader of the violent colombian medellin cartel, is on trial on charges that he conspired to smuggle 3.3 tons of cocaine into the united states from colombia via an island he controlled in the bahamas
bannister told the jury that his father, everette bannister, funneled money to prime minister lynden o. pindling to protect lehder's smuggling operation on the bahamian island of norman's cay
u.s. attorney robert w. merkle and melton got into an exchange after the judge ruled against the jury hearing testimony about swastikas and statues in the home of lehder, a colombian of german descent
i am absolutely befuddled at the court's ruling,'' merkle said
if you continue,'' replied melton, ``you will be in contempt of court.''
bannister said his father, the chairman of bahamas world airlines, had agreed in 1981 to accept $100,000 a month from lehder for the use of norman's cay
his father received only one month's payment
lehder is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack cartlon reed, 57, is charged only with being part of the alleged conspiracy. case</head>
the supreme court today ruled that federal judges lack authority to order the government to pay fees to lawyers who successfully obtain overdue federal welfare for poor people who are aged, blind or disabled
the 8-0 ruling in a case from arkansas held that federal officials are not required by law to withhold a portion of a recipient's benefits to pay the attorney
justice william j. brennan, writing for the court, said congress made it clear that attorney's fees were not to be paid in such cases where past-due benefits under the supplemental security income program (ssi) are awarded to recipients
the decision, a victory for the reagan administration, reversed a ruling by the 8th u.s. circuit court of appeals in a case involving benefits for mary alice galbreath
ms. galbreath applied for benefits on may 26, 1982, but the department of health and human services denied her request
she hired a lawyer, anthony w. bartels of jonesboro, ark., and he won a federal court suit on feb. 15, 1985, awarding her $7,954 in past-due benefits
bartels then asked the federal judge to award him $1,988 _ or 25 percent of the amount paid ms. galbreath _ for representing her
the judge ordered the government to pay the attorney and the 8th circuit court agreed. the appeals court said requiring payment to lawyers in such cases assures recipients will have adequate legal representation
health and human services officials said to comply with the ruling it would be necessary to recover the $1,988 from ms. galbreath. the department also said it would create administrative headaches for the agency since in 1985 alone there were some 8,000 cases involving disputed claims for ssi benefits
justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday, did not take part in the decision
the case is bowen vs. galbreath, 86-1146. comment from state department official and additional robertson remarks; adds 4 grafs with background information on controversy from robertson's comments on missiles in cuba.</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said today that his christian broadcasting network knew the whereabouts of the american hostages held in lebanon and he suggested that they could have been rescued
we identified in our news department at cbn the location of those hostages in lebanon very shortly after they were taken, and they were in a position where they could have been rescued,'' the former television evangelist said during a campaign stop in georgia
they were in beirut, and they could have been freed,'' he said
robertson did not provide any more specifics and did not say which hostages were involved
nine americans remain in captivity in lebanon, including marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was heading the 75-man observer group attached to the united nations interim force when he was captured last week
terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, is the longest-held captive. anderson was kidnapped on march 16, 1985
robertson, asked if he had informed reagan administration officials about the cbn information, said: ``i broadcast it on national television. they monitor our programs virtually every day. their speechwriters used to watch us to get some concepts for speeches.''
in washington, a state department terrorism expert said he was puzzled by robertson's statements
the official, who requested anonymity, said he was unaware that cbn ever broadcast the precise locations of any hostages. he also said it was unclear from robertson's statements which hostages he was referring to, since americans have been taken captive at various times over the past several years
knowledge of the hostages' whereabouts in terms of a particular city or even a section of a city wouldn't be enough to mount a rescue mission, the official said
in his statements, robertson urged the administration to take more effective action against terrorists
the u.s. reaction ``must be more like the israelis at entebbe. it has to be quick, and it has to be a surprise,'' he said
last july, robertson said he ran into lt. col. oliver north, a key figure in the iran-contra affair, on sept. 13, 1985, at washington national airport. the then-white house aide said he was en route to tehran to negotiate the release of the hostages, according to robertson
six days later, robertson said he interviewed president reagan for cbn, saying to the president, ``i understand that a member of your official family has gone to iran to negotiate the release of the hostages.''
during a republican presidential debate on feb. 14, robertson's allegation that the soviets have nuclear missiles in cuba touched off a controversy, bringing administration denials
robertson said during the debate, ``some information came to me that the soviets, in violation of the so-called khrushchev-kennedy accords, have put some ss-4s and ss-5s in cuba. ... it seems like, to me, nukes pointing at the united states are more vital to our security than nukes pointing to europe.''
robertson said he based his claim on testimony by adm. william j. crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, before the senate foreign relations committee
the day after the debate, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said ss-4 and ss-5 missile sites established in cuba in 1962 ``were confirmed as having been destroyed in that year. we also are confident that the missiles were removed from cuba at that time.'' 6th graf pvs: `'tough</note>
defense secretary frank c. carlucci said today james h. webb never came to him to protest cuts in the navy's budget before abruptly resigning as secretary of the navy with a blast at carlucci's leadership
carlucci told the house armed services committee that he had been forced to make ``tough choices'' in cutting the growth of the defense budget. he warned the reductions mean ``increasing risks to our national security.''
carlucci said webb ``never came to me with any protests on budget cuts nor was i aware of his intention to resign until his letter landed on my desk
later, carlucci said webb ``never elected to come and talk to me.''
in resigning, webb accused carlucci of scuttling plans to achieve the administration's long-standing goal of a 600-ship navy. he said that could have been achieved even within the budgetary limits imposed by congress and the white house
republican presidential hopeful jack kemp said today that the administration and carlucci had made a `'terrible mistake accommodating itself to the mindless cuts in defense'' and added: ``i think the wrong man resigned. it shouldn't have been webb. it should have been carlucci.''
carlucci, referring to his decision to retire 16 aging frigates, said the creation of a 600-ship navy was not abandoned, only delayed until the in the 1990s
tough choices had to be made to accommodate this reduction in the short time available,'' said carlucci, referring to an agreement between president eagan and congress to reduce defense spending by $33 billion in two months
on tuesday, reagan named william l. ball iii, a soft-spoken southerner with a reputation as a savvy, behind-the-scenes negotiator to replace the pugnacious, controversial webb
at the same time, the white house said reagan intends to stand by his 600-ship goal, even though he won't be in office to see it realized. it also offered words of encouragement for carlucci and the new nominee
we look to will ball to continue working aggressively for a strong u.s. navy,'' spokesman marlin fitzwater said
budget constraints have delayed a 600-vessel navy, but it should still be realized in fiscal year 1992 or thereabouts, fitzwater said
the budget restructuring under way at the pentagon now is a difficult and painful process,'' fitzwater said. ``secretary carlucci is doing an admirable job. he's quite capable and suitable to the task, and he's carrying out the president's policies in that regard.''
of ball, he said, ``all of us who know him here at the white house know that the navy is getting a strong advocate and a strong fighter.''
ball is expected to have little difficulty winning senate confirmation, since the nomination will be reviewed by the senate armed services committee, where he once was an aide
the 39-year-old has been the president's chief congressional lobbyist since february 1986. before that, he served as the state department's chief liaison with congress
from 1981 to 1985 he was administrative assistant to then sen. john tower, r-texas, serving also as chief clerk of the senate armed services committee in 1981. he also worked as administrative assistant to former sen. herman talmadge, d-ga., in 1978
the south carolina native is a graduate of the georgia institute of technology and was a regular officer in the navy from 1969 to 1975
as secretary of the navy, ball will oversee approximately 584,000 navy personnel and 199,000 marines
several navy officials said tuesday that ball was an unknown who would confront a ``show-me'' attitude within the navy
we've had two very exceptional secretaries of the navy in the last seven years,'' said one official who asked not to be named. ``and you just don't find that caliber of individual on every street corner. so there is anxiety.''
another official said webb's sudden departure on monday had hurt morale within the navy, ``but hopefully that's only temporary.''
the thing is, we're used now to having an aggressive secretary who really fights for us inside and outside the building. and that's what we want to see in ball,'' he added. yerevan</head> on details of aremenian leaders' decision to not support annexation of region; no pickup.</note>
communist party officials today named an armenian as leader of a disputed region of the caucasus mountains after major protests in the armenian capital that one source said drew up to 200,000 people
the official tass news agency announced late today that genrikh pogosyan, 56, was named by the regional party committee to replace boris kevorkov as head of nagorno-karabakhskaya
a later tass dispatch said armenian party leaders had agreed with the communist party central committee that the region should remain under jurisdiction of the region of azerbaidzhan, rather than being annexed by armenia
tass said armenian leaders had gathered to consider ``urgent measures to normalize the situation'' in the armenian capital, yerevan, but it gave no details of the unrest
a former political prisoner said earlier that soldiers brought tanks into nagorno-karabakhskaya to put down protests there and that rumors had reached yerevan that some demonstrators were killed
paruyr ayrikyan, the former prisoner, said in a phone call from yerevan that 200,000 demonstrators converged on the capital's central square today, demanding an extraordinary meeting of the armenian parliament to resolve the dispute over control of nagorno-karabakhskaya
there are at least 200,000 people in front of the opera house _ i've never seen anything like it,'' ayrikyan said. he said he was speaking from an apartment 100 yards from the protest
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov confirmed that the territory dispute had prompted a major street demonstration in yerevan, 1,100 miles south of moscow. he said the gathering was peaceful and that he not know the number of protesters
gerasimov confirmed that four senior officials of the national communist party central committee were sent to the disputed region to quell the protests
it was not immediately clear whether transfer of power to an armenian would end the dispute, but the naming of pogosyan appeared to be a concession by the party to the yerevan protesters' concerns
today was the second day of unrest in the armenian capital and included widespread strikes and school boycotts, ayrikyan said
nagorno-karabakhskaya is 1,760 square miles in area, slightly smaller than delaware. most of its 150,000 people are armenians
outbreaks of ethnic tensions have occurred with increasing frequency over the past year as soviets embrace party chief mikhail s. gorbachev's call for ``glasnost,'' or more openness in tackling the nation's social problems
in a speech to the central committee last week, gorbachev expressed concern over nationalist tendencies among the more than 100 peoples comprising the soviet union and called for a special meeting to look into the problem
in a tass dispatch tuesday, the government took the unusual step of acknowledging the unrest. the report, read on national television, said the demands of the demonstrators ``contradict the interests of the working people.''
the government newspaper izvestia on tuesday night acknowledged a ``mass meeting'' of protesters in yerevan, student boycotts and the involvement of national party officials in trying to resolve the conflict
today's edition of the communist party daily pravda carried the tass report, but no commentary on the events
ayrikyan said two members of the party central committee's secretariat, vladimir i. dolgikh and anatoly i. lukyanov, arrived in yerevan on tuesday ``to calm the people.''
today, lukyanov and dolgikh persuaded the demonstrators to send a small delegation to party headquarters in yerevan to discuss the dispute, ayrikyan said
attempts to reach the offices of sovietskaya armenia, the republic's main newspaper, for an official account of today's incident were unsuccessful, and calls to other yerevan telephones also did not go through
ayrikyan, 38, spent 17 years in labor camps and exile for heading an underground armenian nationalist group in the 1960s
moscow dissident tamara grigoryants said nagorno-karabakhskaya, in the caucasus mountains north of turkey, was deeded to azerbaidzhan in the early 1920s
earlier this month, the local government council asked that the region become part of armenia, citing the soviet constitution's guarantee of the right of self-determination, ayrikyan said. the party central committee rejected the request
nagorno-karabakhskaya was the scene of other mass demonstrations last fall when ethnic armenians marched to protest what they claimed was mistreatment by azeris, the dominant population of azerbaidzhan
today was also the 70th anniversary of independent estonia, a small republic on the baltic coast that was incorporated into the soviet union in 1940. the official soviet news agency tass complained that western political figures were encouraging unrest there, a sign demonstrations were expected
a new contraceptive which resembles a condom but is worn by women will be tested in the united states this spring, a pharmaceutical company announced today
the disposable device may be one of the most effective ways of reducing the risk of sexually transmitted disease, said mary ann leeper, a researcher at wisconsin pharmacal, which hopes to market the device
the company, based in jackson, wis., said the device provides more protection than the male condom, in part because the material is stronger than most condoms and covers a larger physical area, reducing chances of infection or exposure to body fluids
the company hopes to submit an application to the food and drug administration this summer to permit sales of the device, ms. leeper said at a news conference
there was no estimate on the retail price
the product has undergone clinical trials in denmark, the united kingdom and several other european countries, the company said
the condom was developed by an international group of gynecologists and obstetricians, headed by danish gynecologist dr. erik gregerson and his wife, bente
the condom consists of a soft, loose-fitting polyurethane sheath and two diaphragm-like, flexible polyurethane rings, ms. leeper said
one of the rings lies inside the sheath and serves as insertion mechanism and internal anchor, much like a diaphragm. the other ring forms the outer edge of the sheath and remains outside the vagina. bgng ``republican pat...</note>
republican presidential hopeful bob dole was riding high today after twin victories over george bush in midwestern preludes to next month's super tuesday showdowns, but bush brushed off his losses. democrats richard gephardt and michael dukakis swapped victories and said they were eager to carry their battle to the south
meanwhile, democrat paul simon said today he would bypass the march 8 collection of 20 primaries and caucuses, citing a lack of money and the belief that super tuesday would result ``in a very mixed picture.''
the campaign will begin anew after super tuesday, starting in illinois'' on march 15, the illinois senator told reporters in washington
republican pat robertson, campaigning in georgia, said the news staff at his christian broadcasting network once knew the whereabouts of hostages in beirut _ proving, he said, they could have been rescued
the u.s. reaction to terrorism, robertson said, ``has to be quick, and it has to be a surprise. ... we identified in our news department at cbn the location of those hostages in lebanon very shortly after they were taken, and they were in a position where they could have been rescued. they were in beirut, and they could have been freed.''
robertson, asked if he had informed the reagan administration, said, ``i broadcast it on national television; they monitor our programs virtually every day.''
bush brushed off his losses in south dakota and minnesota, saying today after arriving to campaign in portland, maine, ``you can't win them all.''
the vice president, who made virtually no effort in the two upper midwestern states, said, ``i think the result was somewhat anticipated; you can't go everywhere.'' he added, ``we've done well out there. we've won in michigan and in nevada.''
tuesday night, dukakis said after splitting the two upper midwestern contests with gephardt, ``this is a marathon. it's going to be a long one.''
the massachusetts governor won in minnesota on tuesday, and dealt simon a crushing defeat. gephardt was the winner in south dakota with dukakis a respectable second
dole won both states going away _ with bush far, far behind. in minnesota, the vice president finished fourth behind robertson and rep. jack kemp. in south dakota, with dole winning all 18 of the delegates at stake, bush was narrowly edged for second place by robertson
the former television evangelist said today in atlanta, ``this helps me enormously as i go into the super tuesday states.'' he added, ``i believe that coming out of super tuesday i will be the acknowledged front-runner of the republican party with delegates.''
wasting no time before heading for the next battleground, dole was flying to south carolina today for four quick campaign appearances
i hope it can help me in the south,'' dole said of his latest victories. ``i've got a big hill to climb in the south.''
bush was buried in the tuesday night returns, running third in south dakota and fourth in minnesota. after his embarrassing defeat two weeks ago in iowa, bush chose to head south rather than take on dole again in the midwest
it was up one week and down the next in the gop race. after dole's strong iowa showing, bush bounced back to win the new hampshire primary a week ago. this was dole's week again, but now the scene shifts to the south, where bush is regarded as the front-runner
gephardt and dukakis were quick to hail their midwest victories
this...was a great victory that we have had in south dakota,'' said the missouri congressman
dukakis, who finished second in south dakota, said, ``i think it's very good news for us because we've finished strong in every one of these states.''
also able to claim a measure of victory was democrat jesse jackson, who was leading simon for second place in minnesota
one-time democratic front-runner gary hart also had a thumbs down for his lonely campaign to ``let the people decide.'' hart got 5 percent of the vote in south dakota and 1 percent in minnesota. unable to get 10 percent of the vote in two consecutive primaries, hart stands to lose his eligibility for federal matching funds
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee described his third-place finish in south dakota as a ``pleasant surprise,'' though he worked hard in the state and got just 8 percent of the vote
in returns from all but one of south dakota's 1,151 precincts, dole had 51,529 or 55 percent of the vote compared to 18,275 or just under 20 percent for robertson and 17,416 or 19 percent for bush. kemp trailed with 5 percent
that meant dole led for all of the state's 18 delegates to the republican national convention in new orleans next summer. robertson was just short of qualifying for delegates with one precinct's votes uncounted
none of the other three contests was directly allocating delegates, although each of the winners was getting an edge in the process
with all but one of the democratic precincts reporting in south dakota, gephardt had 31,226 or 44 percent and dukakis 22,367 or 31 percent. the also rans were gore at 8 percent, simon at 6 percent and hart and jackson at 5 percent each
in minnesota, republican results from 80 percent of the precincts gave dole 43 percent to 28 percent for robertson. kemp was third with 15 percent and bush was running fourth with 11 percent
the democratic caucus procedure in minnesota was complicated and returns were still trickling in well past midnight. with 74 percent of the precincts reporting, dukakis had 34 percent of the vote. jackson had just under 20 percent, with 19 percent uncommitted. simon had 18 percent, while gephardt had 7 percent. hart and gore had 1 percent each
patton electric co. of new haven, ind., has agreed to pay a $90,000 penalty to settle charges that it failed to promptly report defects in portable electric heaters it imported from hong kong, the consumer product safety commission announced wednesday
the commission had charged that patton delayed informing it that the model hf-10 space heaters contained a diode that could fail in low heat mode, producing intense heat and potentially leading to a fire
patton had received reports of 51 incidents, including the death of an 18-month-old baby, before notified the commission of problems with the heaters in february 1984, the agency said
patton imported 148,302 of the heaters in 1983, which were sold nationwide under the patton and sears names. they were recalled in 1984
anyone needing more information can contact the commission at 1-800-628-2772
cia director william webster testified today that president reagan would reject legislation tying his hands on covert activities, including any requirement that he tell congress of secret operations within 48 hours
webster told a house panel he agreed with the lawmakers' goal of preventing another iran-contra affair by tightening control of covert operations, but said a presidentially approved national security directive would do the job
the reagan administration has already lost round one in its battle to maintain greater discretion on when to notify congress. the senate intelligence committee voted 13-2 for legislation that includes the 48-hour requirement, and is similar in other respects to a house bill webster is now trying to derail
a bill which fails to preserve the flexibility and authority the president needs to conduct intelligence activities effectively will not be acceptable to the president,'' webster warned, although he did not use the word ``veto.''
members of both intelligence committees introduced the legislation after reagan failed for 10 months to notify congress of his february 1986 approval of u.s. arms sales to iran. and he did so only after a lebanese publication exposed the u.s.-iranian negotiations to free american hostages
a number of lawmakers said quick notification would have given them a chance to presuade reagan that his policy was a mistake
the law now requires an administration to give congress prior notification of significant intelligence activities, but allows the president to delay that in extraordinary circumstances. the notification must then take place in a ``timely fashion,'' although the word ``timely'' is left vague
in fact, webster said, there have been only three times when notification has taken more than two days: the iran-contra affair; the rescue of americans from iran who were hidden by canadian diplomats, and the failed military attempt to rescue american hostages in iran
testifying before a house intelligence subcommittee, webster said many problems in the iran-contra affair resulted from ``officials failing to follow existing procedures and rules.'' he said the secret operations to sell arms to iran and to the nicaraguan contras were run by national security council officials who did not normally work with these procedures
some allowance must be made for that rare case where a limited delay in congressional notification is critical to preserve the absolute security of an operation when, for example, lives are at stake,'' webster said
he added that the new presidential policy requires top administration officials to re-evaluate at least every 10 days a presidential decision to delay notification of a given finding
china will launch a nationwide campaign to stamp out illiteracy in five years, it was announced wednesday
the goal is to raise the level of literacy of those between 15 and 40 years old to 85 percent of the rural population and 90 percent of the urban population, the official xinhua news agency reported. it did not say what the levels are now
the literacy rate in 1987 was 80 percent nationwide, or more than 200 million illiterates, according to earlier reports
the campaign is prompted by china's need to provide better-educated and better-trained workers to carry forward the nation's recent economic development, the state council said
anyone reading fewer than 500 characters is considered illiterate. literacy standards for peasants is 1,500 characters and for industrial workers and urban residents is 2,000 characters. this level of literacy allows them to read newspapers and simple articles, do basic accounts and write simple essays
in 1949, when the communists came into power, four out of five chinese were illiterate. in some rural areas, entire villages were illiterate
a union representing vatican lay employees on wednesday announced a unique way to call attention to their salary complaints: donating part of their pay to pope john paul ii to help feed the poor
the association of lay vatican workers, which represents about 1,500 employees, said workers next monday would stage an ``active strike'' for three hours at the start of each shift to protest plans to change their pay schedule
the workers will do their jobs but will donate their first three hours' pay ``directly to the holy father as our contribution toward his work and in favor of those suffering from hunger in the world,'' a union statement said
this is clearly a new type of protest,'' said union president mariano cerullo. ``we felt we had to send a clear message, and the best way was to send it directly to the pope.''
for years the vatican employees have complained about their salaries, which cerullo said range from $927 to $1,370 a month. they are exempt from italian taxes, work a 36-hour week and have one month of vacation and 26 paid holidays
the labor action was called to protest the vatican's plan to pay workers at the end of each month, like most employees in italy. until now, most vitan workers have been getting their paychecks on the first day of the month
the union said the change will cause hardship to the families of the vatican employees. vatican officials have said the change is primarily to facilitate administrative matters
the change also would affect about 1,000 religious employees of the vatican
the lay employees work at the vatican museums, post office, main library, the daily newspaper l'osservatore romano and vatican radio and many offices. picking up in 7th gaf pvs, dukakis and</note>
sen. paul simon of illinois said today he would not challenge his democratic rivals _ including tuesday's winners michael dukakis and richard gephardt _ in the march 8 super tuesday contests but would rejoin the battle the next week
his announcement came one day after dukakis and gephardt each notched their second victories of the campaign _ in minnesota and south dakota respectively _ with simon well back in both states
dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, won the new hampshire primary last week, and rep. gephardt of missouri was the victor in iowa the week before
simon told reporters he would bypass the primaries and caucuses being held in 20 states on super tuesday because he didn't ``have the resources for winning'' there
but he promised to continue his campaign in his home state and in the primaries that follow
the campaign will begin anew after super tuesday, starting in illinois,'' simon said
he spoke of ``growing evidence that for the first time in recent history there will be no first-ballot winner at the democratic convention.'' and he said the primaries and caucuses on march 8 will not clear up the confusion
super tuesday is likely to result in a very mixed picture,'' he said
dukakis and gephardt, meanwhile, were settling in for a lengthy slugout
this is a marathon,'' dukakis said. ``it's going to be a long one.''
each had something to crow about. the missouri congressman pointed to his ``great victory,'' while dukakis gleefully noted that minnesota is a ``long way from massachusetts'' _ trumpeting the fact that he has shown vote-getting power outside his home turf
we did well in these two states which are a long way from massachusetts and very much in the backyard of some of the rest of these candidates,'' dukakis said in new york city, referring to gephardt and paul simon, the illinois senator
remember, i'm somebody that nobody knew in the midwest,'' dukakis said
gephardt, in texas, was exultant. ``it's a great victory in south dakota,'' he said. ``tonight is a gephardt night.''
dukakis targeted both south dakota and minnesota early, but gephardt staged a last-minute campaign blitz in south dakota in an effort to head off a midwest sweep by his rival
with all but one precinct counted in south dakota, gephardt had 44 percent, followed by dukakis at 31 percent. trailing were tennessee sen. albert gore jr. at 8 percent, simon at 6 percent, gary hart and jesse jackson at 5 percent and 10 votes apart
with 74 percent of the vote in minnesota, dukakis had 34 percent, jackson 20 percent, simon 18 percent, gephardt 7 percent, and uncommitted 19 percent. gore had 1 percent and hart trailed with just 179 votes
gore and hart had virtually ignored minnesota
gore tried to look past his dismal showings in the two states. ``we didn't focus on it,'' he said from arkansas. ``i made it clear from the beginning of the campaign, we're focusing on the national primary march 8, when over 1,000 delegates will be selected.''
jackson, in new york city, said his minnesota showing indicated ``we are attractive to voters in every region.'' with the scene shifting southward, jackson was considered well positioned for super tuesday, march 8, when 20 states, mostly in the south, will hold primaries and caucuses
dukakis was the best-organized democratic candidate in minnesota and spent the most money. his supporters recognized that anything less than a victory in minnesota would jolt his effort to prove he could win outside the northeast
gephardt ran ads in south dakota asserting that dukakis knew nothing of agriculture, recalling dukakis' suggestion in iowa a year ago that frmers should turn to products such as belgian endive and blueberries. dukakis countered with an ad saying that ``while dick gephardt has been publicly promising to fight for you, he's taking political action committee money from corporate insiders and washington lobbyists.''
south dakota and minnesota democrats bucked the national party to hold their contests earlier than party rules allowed
under a compromise worked out with south dakota, the vote in the democratic primary was legally non-binding, although the results were to help determine the allocation of delegates. a march 12 statewide caucus will apportion delegates according to the primary results
under the agreement with minnesota, the presidential preference poll taken at the democratic caucuses was to be kept secret by the party until 5 p.m. on march 8. but the state set up an independent reporting system to gather caucus results and make them public. reaction. picks up 9th graf pvs ``britain, the ....''</note>
the government today banned all political activities of the country's largest anti-apartheid organization, the united democratic front, and 16 other groups in one of its harshest crackdowns on the opposition
it banned several front leaders individually from working for the organization, writing articles, giving speeches or granting interviews. it also ordered that the main black labor federation, the militant congress of south african trade unions, limit its activities only to labor issues and stay out of politics
the government has declared war against all peaceful opposition,'' said azhar cachalia, treasurer of the united democratic front and one of its few leaders not in detention. the front represents more than 600 anti-apartheid organizations with more than 2 million members
anglican archbishop desmond tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize for his fight against apartheid, also said many south africans would see the restrictions as a ``declaration of war.''
the government's idea of reform is to smash all effective possible political opposition in the country, no matter how peaceful and lawful, and to rule with a jackboot,'' tutu said. he appealed to the united states and other western countries to intensify economic pressure on south africa
the restrictions, announced in a special government gazette, do not technically outlaw the front and the other groups, but effectively ban them by prohibiting them from carrying on any activities not approved by law and order minister adriaan vlok
the crackdown affects virtually all of the largest militant black political groups in south africa and appears aimed at eliminating competition for black moderates willing to accept the concept of white political control
the co-president of the united democratic front, archie gumede, was taken away by police from his office in durban, served with individual banning orders and released, colleagues said. albertina sisulu, the other co-president, was barred from leaving her home between 6 p.m. and 5 a.m. and also was affected by the new orders
the united states, in a statement issued in washington and pretoria, said it was ``appalled'' by the ban. ``by acting to outlaw the non-violent political activity of these organizations, the south african government dealt a severe blow to efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to south africa's problem. it is a giant step backward for south africa,'' said the statement issued by the u.s. embassy in pretoria
britain, the staunchest opponent of sanctions against south africa, condemned the crackdown. foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe said the ``oppressive'' restrictions could breed more violence
the rev. allan boesak, a co-founder of the front, said the government had acted out of frustration because its tough tactics during a 20-month-old state of emergency had failed to quell militant opposition
it is not possible, really, to ban the udf,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``the udf is much less an organization than a symbol of the determination of south africa's oppressed people to be free.''
he said one of the government's aims was to crush organizations that planned to call for a boycott of black municipal elections scheduled for october. if the united democratic front was unable to promote a boycott, he said, he would do so personally
under the restrictions, the organizations will be permitted to maintain bank accounts, perform administrative functions, and undertake legal action. but no other activities will be permitted unless authorized by vlok
several of the affected groups said they would challenge the new orders in court
vlok, who signed the order, said the regulations ``will contribute to a climate of stability, peaceful coexistence and good neighborliness among all population groups.''
he said the groups affected by the regulations encouraged civil disobedience and rebellion, advocated alternatives structures to replace official ones, and waged campaigns of intimidation
anti-apartheid activists had anticipated some type of crackdown this year, suggesting that president p.w. botha's national party government would move to blunt criticism from extreme-right white opponents
the order comes exactly a week before two parliamentary by-elections in which candidates from the far-right conservative party are favored to beat national party candidates. the conservatives oppose even the limited racial reforms implemented by botha over the past few years
in addition to the united democratic front, groups affected by the ban include:
_the azanian people's organization, the largest group espousing the black consciousness philosophy pioneered by steve biko, an activist who died in police custody in 1977
_the national education crisis committee, which has sought to promote ``people's education'' in which black communities would exercise greater control over their schools
_the detainees parents support committee, which monitors detentions and provides support for relatives of people detained without charge
_the soweto civic assoiciation, the main anti-apartheid community group in the country's largest black township and a key factor behind the rent boycott which has persisted there for nearly two years
other affected groups include local and regional youth and community organizations and the release mandela committee, a group which campaigns for the release of jailed african national congress leader nelson mandela
the black trade union congress, known as cosatu, said vlok's order ``has turned the clock back to the days of absolute control and no democracy.''
the order demonstrates that the government is completely incompetent,'' said cosatu's spokesman, frank meintjies. ``the end result is going to be conflict, fear and uncertainty.''
the country's 5 million whites control the government and economy and maintain segregated living areas, schools and hospitals. the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. was; subs 2 grafs for 10th graf pvs, bob dove, to correct date of last arrest.</note>
republican senators reacted angrily today after u.s. capitol police seized sen. robert packwood and carried him to the senate floor _ feet first _ to answer a quorum call during an all-night filibuster over campaign financing legislation
sen. arlen specter, r-pa., said the parliamentary arrest of packwood by senate sergeant-at-arms henry guigni and five plainclothes capitol policemen was ``demeaning and pointless.''
packwood was treated like a ``common criminal ... brought forcefully to the floor of the united states senate,'' said specter
but several republican senators actually ran away from police to avoid arrest, said sen. dale bumpers, d-ark
senators went off in a dead sprint. they should have been in calgary in one of the olympic events,'' he said. ``the spectacle of a united states senator running from the sergeant-at-arms in order to keep from being compelled to attend a session of the united states senate is an outrage.''
packwood's spokesman, bob witeck, said the oregon republican re-injured a broken hand, which has been in a cast the last two weeks, when the police entered his office with a passkey. witeck said that packwood went to a hospital early today to have x-rays taken but that no new breaks were found
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, said packwood's arm was ``severely jostled and hurt'' by ``banana republic'' tactics
when a senator is locked in his own chamber, i question whether it is constitutionally sound to break into his office and force him out of his office and carry him to the floor,'' hatch said
packwood's spokesman said the senator ``tried to hold the door closed with his shoulder, but they were able to push it open.''
i had to take him in,'' siad guigni, a one-time honolulu motorcycle and vice officer. ``i knew he was not going in under his own power.''
guigni said packwood walked with the detectives to the capitol, but made it clear he would not walk into the chamber. ``we picked him up in the elevator'' and carried him to his desk, guigni said
the motion to arrest absent senators was made by senate majority leader robert byrd of west virginia and was approved on a 45-3 roll call vote, with democratic senators dennis deconcini of arizona, howell heflin of alabama and richard shelby of alabama voting no. specter said the actual warrants were signed by sen. brock adams, d-wash
senate officials said the arrest was the first since democratic senators burnet rhett maybank of south carolina and lister hill of alabama were compelled to come to the floor in 1942
packwood, a leader of gop opposition to a democratic campaign finance bill, was brought in by four officers under terms of an unusual motion approved through late tuesday by the majority democrats
the democrats, who were forcing the republicans to wage the filibuster in an effort to subdue the gop opposition to the democrats' proposed limits on campaign spending and contributions from political action committees, employed the rarely used procedure to require absent members to answer quorum bells or face arrest
republicans had been taking turns holding the floor to prevent the democrats from bringing the bill to a vote they can win. this upset the democrats, who had been forced to stay close to the chamber, maintain a quorum and keep the senate in session
when most republicans stopped answering quorum calls, the democrats resorted to ordering guigni to scour the hallways and offices and arrest absent senators. he carried warrants for each of the 46 republicans
packwood was found in his russell building office, guigni said
i had to shove in a door to get into his office,'' guigni said. ``i think he hurt his finger. he was very courteous.''
packwood was not available for immediate comment
some 13 hours after the filibuster began, the two sides called a truce of sorts. republicans would continue to talk, but there would be no more quorum calls until 10 a.m., giving most members a chance to sleep
as dawn broke, sen. david durenberger, r-minn., wound up an hour of holding the floor, speaking against the bill in a steady, conversational tone
i've immensely enjoyed this, particularly at this time of day. there's nothing i'd rather be doing,'' durenberger said as turned control of the floor over to sen. john h. chafee, r-r.i
durenberger spoke to an almost-empty chamber. freshman sen. kent conrad, d-n.d., sat at the podium, while sen. wendell ford, d-ky., represented the democratic side of the aisle
eight teen-aged pages sat quietly on the carpeted steps leading to the podium and a few detectives sat in the otherwise empty gallery
the ``full-fledged filibuster'' was formally proclaimed by majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., on tuesday after republicans had done for five days what they had done for 22 days last year _ prevent a vote on the democrats' campaign spending bill
byrd has the votes to pass the bill, which would set voluntary spending limits for senate general elections. but he is still about five votes short of the 60 he needs to shut off debate and force a roll call
early today, democrats filed a cloture petition, which probably will be considered on friday
republicans, who last year beat byrd on a record seven cloture votes, say the proposed system to curb escalating campaign spending would prevent them from gaining seats in heavily democratic states
dove said the filibuster is the chamber's first knock-down test of attrition since a nine-day battle in 1960 over civil rights legislation
four senators from each camp have been negotiating since last week, trying to find a compromise. they say they have found some common ground on issues such as better disclosure of money going to political paries and forcing broadcasters to offer rock-bottom ad rates to candidates
but they report nothing but disagreement over limiting campaign spending, which has risen from $600,000 for the average senate race in 1976 to $3 million in 1986, with a big-state race often topping $10 million
the chief gop negotiator, mitch mcconnell of kentucky, said republicans were willing to discuss a compromise on another democratic demand: putting a ceiling on how much money a candidate can get from political action committees
the democrats' bill would establish voluntary spending limits, ranging from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population
a candidate observing the limit would get campaign funds from the treasury if the opponent exceeded the limit or an independent group spent large amounts of money against the candidate
the republicans would have some limits on individual pac contributions while strengthening campaign-finance disclosure requirements and opposing spending limits
federal trade commission member terry calvani escaped a contempt of congress citation wednesday by turning over documents demanded by a congressional panel, but he said he felt he had become a scapegoat in a turf fight between two congressmen
calvani had been subpoenaed to appear before the house committee on energy and commerce's subcommittee on oversight and investigations because he had refused to turn over some internal ftc documents sought by the panel concerning unfair advertising practices by the airline industry
he told the panel that the subcommittee's insistence on obtaining internal advisory documents ``represents a very poor development in the exercise of this subcommittee's oversight reponsibilities over the federal trade commission.''
calvani said that ``violation of the confidence between a commissioner and his or her personal attorney-advisers makes government less efficient.''
i tell the men and women that serve in my office that i want their wholly candid assessment and unvarnished recommendation about matters before me,'' calvani said. due to the subcommittee's insistence on access to internal documents, he said, ``this morning i have instructed my staff that from henceforth they should not commit their work to paper.''
he said that until friday, the panel had not provided the legal justification for him to provide the documents and said he could not test the legality of the demand without being willing to stand criminal trial
to my knowledge this kafka-esque mode of operations is unique in our system of justice,'' calvani said
after his appearance, calvani said he believed he had become caught in a ``turf fight'' between panel chairman john d. dingell, d-mich., and rep. james j. howard, d-n.j., chairman of the committee on public works and transportation
i'm the pawn,'' he said. ``they were looking for a scapegoat, and i'm the unfortunate person chosen for that.''
subcommittee counsel patrick mclain refused to comment on calvani's allegation. dingell's office referred all request for comment to mclain
at issue were internal documents concerning the ftc's views on whether unfair and deceptive advertising practices were occurring in the airline industry
a letter on the matter from the ftc to the national association of attorneys general indicated that the agency had not studied the matter, but a press release on the report indicated that the agency believed there was no problem with the airline industry's practices
a reference to the press release comment, included in a story by the washington post, was read on the house floor last october and helped defeat an amendment by dingell that would have transferred responsibility for oversight for consumer protection regarding the airline industry from the department of transportation to the ftc, mclain said
the subcommittee began asking the ftc for internal documents on the matter several days later. two commissioners said they had no such documents, two others allowed subcommittee staff to read pertinent materials in their offices, but calvani refused to provide access to such documents
after several letters back and forth between the subcommittee and calvani, who was insisting on the legal justification for the demand, the panel on feb. 4 subpoenaed calvani to appear and bring the documents
subway gunman bernhard goetz is looking for a new lawyer to handle his defense against civil suits seeking a total of $63 million for three of the four youths he shot, according to one of his attorneys
goetz decided to break with joseph kelner, the attorney he had hired for the civil cases, because of ``differences of viewpoint,'' said mark baker, who with barry slotnick last year won acquittal for goetz on the most serious criminal charges stemming from the shooting
published reports quoted kelner as saying he was withdrawing from the case because goetz was not cooperating
goetz was convicted of weapon possession but acquitted of attempted murder, assault and reckless endangerment in the dec. 22, 1984, subway shooting of four young men. goetz, who is white, said he feared the black youths were going to rob him
two of the youths brought civil actions for $5 million and $8.5 million, while lawyers for darrell cabey, brain-damaged and paralyzed by the shooting, seek $50 million. cabey's lawyers say the shooting was racist and ``wrongful retaliation for past injury'' goetz had suffered at the hands of others
here are excerpts from recent editorials in newspapers throughout the nation
feb. 23
tulsa (okla.) world on jimmy swaggart:
jimmy swaggart's tearful confession of sin _ presumably sexual misconduct _ was greeted with immediate forgiveness by many of his followers sunday
some of his parishioners went beyond mere charity. they praised swaggart for his admission. (``it took a man to do that.'')
the reaction of the public is likely to be less tolerant. swaggart's confession reportedly came only after he was confronted with photographs showing him entering a motel room with a prostitute
the so-called ``pearly gate'' scandals vary in some ways, but there seems to be one common rule: if you get caught, confess and ask forgiveness _ but only if you get caught
feb. 19
charleston (w.va.) dail mail on u.s. support of contras:
democratic leaders in congress hooted when president reagan wanted to give military aid to the nicaraguan contras in case the peace process broke down in central america
they should now send the same message to the marxist regime in nicaragua
with the contras out of the way, sandinista-backed warriors have picked up the pace of their battles elsewhere
americans who decry contra involvement in the deaths of nicaraguans might also find time to mourn victims of the sandinista-backed marxist guerrillas in el salvador
reagan's plan to keep the contra movement alive, as a check on the sandinistas, was prudent and necessary
feb. 18
the times record, brunswick, maine, on filing tax returns early:
the head of the internal revenue service is worried by a trend among many taxpayers to delay filing their federal tax returns
according to irs commissioner lawrence gibbs, five years ago 14 percent of all individual returns were filed in january and 34 percent in april. last year, only 4 percent were filed in january and almost 40 percent in april
gibbs told a senate finance subcommittee that the trend, if exacerbated by the 1986 tax reform law, could pose big problems for the irs
that's because the government is obligated to pay interest on refunds whenever returns are not processed within a 45-day period after april 15
he's unlikely to generate much sympathy among taxpayers with that complaint. ..
the irs ought to be glad that every taxpayer does not wait until april 15 to file
feb. 22
baltimore sun on president reagan's budget:
for the first time in years, president reagan has sent congress a budget that wasn't immediately dismissed as dead on arrival
the $1.1 trillion budget for 1989 ... has been received on capitol hill as his most realistic spending plan
the note of realism injected into this year's spending proposal reflects the two-year budget agreement reagan reached with congress last year, after the stock market crash brought home the drastic need for deficit reduction
it reflects the politics of this year, an election year in which the president lacks the kind of muscle needed to push through daring new proposals
and it reflects the constraints imposed by huge deficits, which rose to record levels during the reagan years
feb. 19
los angeles daily news on oscar non-nominations:
yes, we'll probably be seated in front of our sets on april 11, tuned in to watch the academy awards
but that doesn't mean something won't be missing: once again the academy of motion picture arts and sciences has snubbed director steven spielberg
this time spielberg's ``empire of the sun'' failed to be nominated for best picture and spielberg's name was conspicuously absent from the best director category
of course it's the academy's right to make its own nominations. but it's too bad that hollywood's elite has chosen repeatedly to ignore spielberg, who has captivated the country as few other living directors have done. ..
spielberg has the talent to make american film classics that will entertain young and old for generations
perhaps that's too much talent to bring him recognition from his peers
feb. 19
farmington (n.m.) daily times on president reagan's budget:
president reagan has submitted a $1.1 trillion federal budget to congress for the fiscal year beginning next oct. 1
reagan campaigned for the presidency eight years ago with a promise to ``balance the federal budget.''
he has failed to provide the kind of leadership that would encourage congress to act in a fiscally responsible fashion
as a result, we can expect annual budgets of more than $1 trillion and continued growth of the national debt, now somewhere around $2.5 trillion
to the millions of taxpayers who had looked to reagan to clamp down on the big spenders in washington, his two terms in the white house have been a dismal failure
feb. 16
medford (ore.) mail tribune on pat robertson:
voters shouldn't be shamed into supporting pat robertson's candidacy for president
he contends religious bias has dogged his campaign, ... comparing his trials with the anti-catholic forces that john kennedy had to deal with. ..
william manchester, in ``the making of the president 1960,'' noted that kennedy turned the bias issue so that a vote for kennedy signified religious tolerance, while a vote for hubert humphrey, his principal rival in the primaries, proved nothing of the sort
that's what robertson is attempting to do. ..
robertson isn't dogged by any issue of religious bias he hasn't manufactured
feb. 18
the jackson (tenn.) sun on richard gephardt:
u.s. rep. richard gephardt headed south after the new hampshire primary as one of two frontrunners in an uncertain democratic presidential campaign
gephardt's campaign, however, hardly sounded presidential after an iowa caucus victory and a second place in the nation's first primary
his campaign manager, william carrick, didn't make his boss sound like much of a frontrunner
among other things, carrick called u.s. sen. albert gore and his presidential campaign staff ``two-bit bastards,'' followed by ``meddlesome bastards.'' ..
only after several days did carrick apologize for the remarks
gore and his camp took the unintended compliment with good grace, refusing to engage in a name-calling match. ..
apparently, gephardt's campaign manager thinks gore is someone to worry about. if so, he's right
feb. 17
reading (pa.) eagle on social security:
is social security strictly a retirement account, or is it an annuity that takes effect when a participant reaches age 65 and is eligible for full benefits, or reaches age 62 and is eligible for reduced benefits?
that's the argument that has flared in washington once again as the effort is launched to eliminate the $8,400 a year earnings cap
those who support the proposal ... argue that (the cap) punishes the elderly
critics insist the original intent of social security was to provide income after retirement. they tread on uncertain grounds, however, when they bring up the matter of the original intent of social security
original intent ... was changed in a wholesale manner by ... revisions: a notable example of that is that widows of farmers who never paid social security taxes were granted benefits
also, ... the earnings cap ends at age 70. if earnings are a factor between the ages of 65 and 70, why not after 70?
repeal of the earnings cap is clearly in the public interest
feb. 19
the tacoma (wash.) news tribune on violence in israeli-occupied areas:
at first it seemed too reprehensible to be true. at this distance from israel, americans couldn't know for certain whether to believe a report that israeli soldiers had severely beaten four palestinian youths and then buried them alive using a bulldozer
the allegation, it turns out, is fact
the youths, who were dug out by villagers after the soldiers left the scene in the west bank village of kfar salem, all surivived. ... the youths were being ``punished'' for participating in disturbances
even israelis who have supported the government's policy of ``force, might and beatings'' to quell palestinian unrest in the occupied territories were stunned by the news reports on the incident. ..
israel is going to have to make a choice. it will have to choose between continuing an indefensible policy of repression in the occupied areas, or taking steps to address the legitimate grievances of more than 500,000 palestinians living under israeli control
israel's future as a nation of democratic ideals depends on the outcome
the american association of blood banks announced wednesday it is studying new screening techniques that may further reduce the chances of the aids virus being transmitted through blood donations
the aabb said the new study was prompted by reports that ``have raised concerns about the safety of blood transfusions administered to over 4 million people in the united states annually.''
the aabb cited a study published feb. 25 in the new england journal of medicine which traced 13 units of blood infected by the aids virus back to seven people who donated blood even though they had been recently exposed to the virus
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is a fatal disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus. it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from infected pregnant women to their offspring
donated blood is routinely tested for the hiv virus, but the tests are able only to detect antibodies which may not develop until long after the exposure to the virus. the aabb said its study will test for the hiv antigen, a marker that may appear in the blood of an infected person before the antibodies
the results of this study will determine if an antigen test would be useful in detecting individuals in early stages of infection who donate blood,'' the statement said. it added that there are currently no tests for the antigen that have been licensed
dr. paul j. schmidt, the aabb president, said current tests are ``nearly'' 99 percent sensitive, but do not detect people recently exposed to hiv
we expected that there would be some infection developing in transfusion recipients,'' he said. ``we are working on solutions to the problem of detecting persons even earlier iln this infectious state, and on how to discourage them from donating blood.''
schmidt added: ``the risk from not getting a needed transfusion is infinitely greater than the risk of getting one.''
the federal centers for disease control estimates that at least 12,000 americans have been infected by the aids virus from transfusions given before rigorous blood-screening programs were adopted that reduced the presence of the virus in blood supplies to less than one unit in 50,000
as of feb. 15, aids had been diagnosed in 53,814 americans, of whom more than half, or 30,158, have died since 1981, according to the cdc. no one is known to have recovered from aids
aids kills by destroying the immune system, leaving patients susceptible to opportunistic infections which often prove fatal
blood banks now screen donor candidates for aids risk factors, but the aabb said it would review these procedures to determine if they should be tightened
the aabb is the world's largest organization of blood banks and transfusion services, with 2,500 members. it accredits blood banks and transfusion services and sets standards for agencies collecting nearly half the nation's donated blood
feb. 21
bryan-college station (texas) eagle on president reagan's budget:
ronald reagan is going down in history as the country's biggest spendthrift president. he has put the nation in hock to the hilt, and mortgaged the future of our children and their children
the budget he presented to congress last week raised the national debt to $2.5 trillion _ a figure that has doubled during his administration. interest payments alone cost $140 billion a year. ..
to be sure, the president has had lots of help getting us into all this trouble. it was only with the help of a spineless congress that he was able to borrow vast sums to finance his massive defense buildup and to offset revenues lost in his tax-cutting programs
the next president simply must force the country to face the fact that we can't continue spending money we don't have
with all the presidential candidates whistling dixie this month, voters would be wise to listen closely for who is sounding the clear notes on this issue
feb. 18
the news tribune, woodbridge, n.j., on the verdict in the amtrak crash:
sixteen people died, scores were injured, and tens of millions of dollars worth of damage was done when a conrail engineer ran his locomotive through a stop sign and plowed into an amtrak passenger train. the engineer tested positive for marijuana use
after he pleaded guilty to one count of manslaughter, he was given a maximum sentence of five years in jail and a $1,000 fine
unless he had been hiding in a cave, rick gates knew what marijuana could do to the senses. gates also had to know the damage a misguided train could cause
so what was the message? sixteen dead passengers equals five years maximum, which doesn't sound like much of a deterrent to us
feb. 19
the duluth (minn.) news-tribune on the 1990 census:
let's conduct a census and count everybody but swedes ... or maybe irish ... or americans who migrate with the seasons ... or some other identifiable population group
why do that? to fix the outcome, silly. what other reason could there be?
a coalition of congressional members wants to do that in 1990 when the constitution says the country must conduct a decennial head count
about 40 house members want to count everyone but illegal aliens and will sue the census bureau to force the exclusion. it is estimated there are about 2 million illegal aliens in the united states
why do these members of congress want to ignore illegal aliens? to fix the outcome of the 1990 census, of course
the national head count is used to distribute seats in the house of representatives, and they fear aliens will cause unfair shifts from one state to another
to their credit, census officials say they read the constitution to say everyone must be counted (``the whole number of persons'')
of course, everyone should be included
feb. 19
honolulu advertiser on withdrawal of bruce babbitt and pete du pont:
both (bruce) babbitt and (pete) du pont bowed out before most voters could really assess them
but either is probably in a good position for a cabinet post or the like, depending on whose party wins in november
and they deserve credit for bringing up issues that expanded the scope of the campaign in its early period
sen. paul simon, battered in the early democratic contests, said today he is bypassing the march 8 super tuesday primaries and caucuses because he does ``not have the resources for winning'' them
but the illinois democrat said he was not dropping out of the race and would continue to campaign to win his home state primary on march 15 and the contests in the states that follow
the campaign will begin anew after super tuesday, starting in illinois,'' simon told a news conference
simon was dealt a crippling blow tuesday when he finished far behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and was trailing jesse jackson in minnesota's caucuses. he came in a distant fourth in the south dakota primary behind rep. richard gephardt of missouri, dukakis and albert gore jr
last week after coming in third in the new hampshire primary, simon said he would withdraw if he did not finish first in either minnesota or south dakota. he later backed off that statement
faced with primaries and caucuses in 20 states and american samoa on march 8, simon said he cannot raise the money to match the big warchests of dukakis and gore in the region
there is no sense in my fooling myself,'' the illinois democrat said. ``we just don't have the money.''
his campaign plunged into debt before the new hampshire primary, but he has been talking of close to half a million dollars gathered in the past two weeks
we have had record-breaking fund-raising,'' simon declared. ``monday, for example, $137,000 came in. we never had a day like that before. but you take $137,000 and then look at 20 states and what it would cost for a media buy, and you're talking about something that is nowhere near adequate.''
simon also said he had made the judgment that march 8 will not settle the race and that the battle for the 1988 democratic presidential nomination will go to the convention in atlanta in july
super tuesday is likely to result in a very mixed picture,'' he said. ``phase one of the selection process ends on march 8. ... but we do not have the resources for winning in the super tuesday states.''
phase two of the selection process begins march 15. i shall use phase two to deliver the message that we must become a nation with leadership characterized by compassion and vision and common sense. it is on to atlanta with that message.''
simon is on the ballot in all the super tuesday primaries, but he said he will do little or no campaigning in those states _ except for the nationally televised debates that are a major feature of the next two weeks
i'm not writing off the south. i want my friends there to vote for me,'' he said. ``i'm realistic about resources. i simply cannot do everything.''
dukakis and gephardt have split the four major democratic contests so far. and simon said he had concluded the party will not have a certain winner going into the atlanta convention
he cited ``growing evidence that for the first time in recent history there will be no first-ballot winner at the democratic convention.''
simon's best day so far was in iowa on feb. 8, where he finished a very close second to gephardt. he was third in new hampshire
he talked to reporters after a speech to the united auto workers at a washington hotel
the kremlin's attempt to bring 100 nationalities under one communist umbrella has been difficult in the southern caucasus mountain region, where dozens of ethnic groups strive to assert their identity far from the seat of soviet power
about 50 different nationalities have been identified in the caucasus area, some represented only by a few thousand individuals largely isolated amid the remote mountain valleys. the main peoples of the region are the azeris, georgians and armenians, all of whom have their own soviet republics
armenians drew attention this week because of demonstrations in their capital, yerevan, and in a small adjoining area that is part of azerbaidzhan. thousands of demonstrators in yerevan demanded that the area, the nagorno-karabakh region, be made part of armenia
nagorno-karabakh is a microcosm of the inconsistencies of soviet nationality policy. its population of 157,000 was 81 percent armenian and just 18 percent azeri, but the region was made part of azerbaidzhan in 1923 after having been deeded to armenia when it became part of the soviet union in 1920
the caucasus residents tend to be fiercely independent, bristling at attempts by the soviet union's dominant ethnic group, the russians, to interfere with their languages, customs and religions
in armenia, the most bitter fuel to nationalist passions occurred while turkey controlled western armenia in 1915. more than a million armenians are believed to have died or been massacred when turkey deported the local population
other armenian nationalism stems from religious beliefs, which are discouraged by the communist party government. patriarch vazgen i of the armenian church said in an interview at church headquarters in etchmiadzin last year that the majority of armenians are believers and that more than half of newborns are christened
the region's turmoil has led many armenians to leave their homeland, settling principally either in other parts of the soviet union or in the united states. armenian emigration to the united states approaches 1,000 per month
to the north, georgians say they have been more successful than their caucasus neighbors at resisting ``russification'' because they tend to stick close to home, limiting assimilation. but georgian students protested by the thousands in 1979 when the republic's government tried to change the official language to russian
georgians' spirit of independence is reflected in their business dealings. they are known for doing a brisk business growing produce in georgia's mediterranean-like climate and selling them in areas where supply is scare
azerbaidzhan's wealth traditionally was the oil found in its capital, baku, on the caspian sea. but oil production has dropped, causing economic problems in the republic
ethnic tensions have surfaced in areas of azerbaidzhan with large populations of armenians. in addition to nagorno-karabakh, demonstrators have also asserted armenian national rights in the village of chardakhlu. the village was the scene in october of a clash between native azeris and long-time armenian residents
there also is a sizable moslem population in azerbaidzhan, which is officially tolerated by the kremlin but serves as yet another wedge between the republic's people and the russian-dominated moscow government
given the choice, more than one out of every four west german women would ditch their husband before giving up their best friend, a magazine survey said wednesday
a survey by the journal for women magazine also reported that 86.5 percent of the women asked said they willingly accepted criticisms from their best female friends
according to the magazine, 26 percent of the women surveyed said they would give up their husbands before their best female friends
but in the end the men won out, with 71 percent of the women saying they would give up their best friends to keep their husbands, while three percent were undecided, the magazine said
the hamburg-based magazine did not say how many women took part in the survey. student body.</note>
about 100 hampshire college students occupied a dormitory office for a second day in a protest over racism and marched across campus today to present a list of 12 demands to the college president
the group then withdrew to the dakin house office they seized tuesday morning and said they did not plan to meet again with president adele simmons until 9 a.m. thursday
the protesters deliberately delayed negotiations, said penny predmas, a junior from new york city
we are building our sense of our community, so we can feel invincible,'' she said
the protesters were escorted across campus by about 100 students, who snaked through a classroom building and a building housing administrative offices chanting, ``one, two, three, four. racism has got to go.''
among the protesters' demands were additional library materials dealing with third world nations, establishment of a college policy on racial harassment, a full-time adviser for minority students, a permanent meeting place for non-white students, a minority recruitment week each semester, and no retaliatory actions against the protesters
about a dozen white supporters pitched tents and staged an overnight vigil outside dakin house, and students from nearby amherst, mount holyoke and smith colleges as well as the university of massachusetts joined the demonstraters this morning
a week ago about 125 minority students at the university of massachusetts began a six-day occupation at a building there
the problems are the same, although the sizes of the minority communities are different,'' said hampshire freshman anita fearman of los angeles
there's a general feeling here that we've been more or less pushed under the rug,'' said ms. fearman, who is black
although there have been racial attacks at the university of massachusetts, there have been none at hampshire, which lists 100 minority students among its 1,100 undergraduates. but minorities complained of verbal harassment and a lack of attention to third world issues
we have been to the administration several times over the past three years with our demands and concerns and nothing has been done,'' premdas said. ``it's been all lip service. it seemed this was the only way to get something done.''
here, at a glance, are highlights of actions taken wednesday by the supreme court

falwell-hustler

the court overturned a $200,000 award won by evangelist jerry falwell against hustler magazine and its publisher larry flynt, extending the legal protections for parody and satire, even when they are pornographic
the court unanimously ruled that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy the free-speech protections of the constitution's first amendment if those spoofs could not reasonably have been interpreted as stating actual facts about the person
the case is hustler vs. falwell, 86-1278

rent controls

the court expanded the power of communities to impose rent controls, ruling that hardships to tenants may be considered when landlords seek rent increases
by a 6-2 vote, the justices upheld a san jose, calif., ordinance that has been attacked as a ``robin hood'' law that steals from the rich to pay the poor
the case is pennell vs. san jose, 86-753

entrapment

the court broadened protection for criminal defendants who claim they were enticed by law enforcement officials into committing a crime
by a 6-2 vote, the justices overturned a bribery conviction against frederick mathews of milwaukee, wis., a former small business administration official
the case is mathews vs. u.s., 86-6109

defendant's testimony

the court made it a bit easier for prosecutors to talk to criminal trial juries about a defendant's failure to testify
in splintered voting, the court reinstated the mail fraud conviction of a man who prosecutors say set his tennessee home afire so he could file a false insurance claim
the case is u.s. vs. robinson, 86-937

default judgment

the court bolstered the right default-judgment losers have to challenge a judgment entered after they fail to respond to a lawsuit
the justices unanimously ruled for a houston businessman in his challenge of a default judgment awarded against him six years ago for a $5,000 debt owed to a medical center
the case is peralta vs. heights medical center, 86-1430

lawyers fees

the court ruled that federal judges lack authority to order the government to pay fees to lawyers who successfully obtain overdue federal welfare for poor people who are aged, blin or disabled
the 8-0 ruling in a case from arkansas held that federal officials are not required by law to withhold a portion of a recipient's benefits to pay the attorney
the case is bowen vs. galbreath, 86-1146. ``security sources...'' edits to trim and conform.</note>
angry palestinians today lynched an arab who they apparently suspected of collaborating with the israelis, stringing him up on a utility pole after he went on a shooting spree that killed a 4-year-old boy and wounded 13 other people, security sources said
israel radio called the incident in a west bank village ``a serious escalation'' of the unrest in the occupied territories and linked it to the palestine liberation organization's calls to deal with collaborators
the dead man's identity was not immediately known
details were sketchy concerning the incident in qabatiye, near jenin, 60 miles north of jerusalem. however, israel radio said the violence began when hundreds of residents marched to the man's house, threw firebombs and setting it afire
security sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the man shot into the crowd, which apparently suspected him of collaborating with israeli authorities, killing the boy and wounding the others
israel radio said the crowd then dragged the man away and hanged him. security sources confirmed the report
an army spokesman said soldiers arrived after the hanging. according to the united nations, 63 arabs have been killed, most by soldiers, since the wave of unrest began dec. 8 in the occupied territories
a general strike gripped the west bank and gaza strip today as businesses shut down and arab workers stayed home in response to a call for stepped up protests before secretary of state george p. shultz arrives
also today, the army reported what it said may be the first armed attack against the military in the past 2{ months of unrest in the territories seized by israel in the 1967 middle east war
an army spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a bomb exploded on a road near gaza as a vehicle was passing tuesday night and shots were fired. there were no injuries
extra-tight security arrangements went into effect today at ben gurion airport in advance of shultz's arrival thursday. airport police said riot police units were called in and will stay on duty through tuesday as shultz conducts his shuttle mission in the middle east
in the gaza strip today, few people were on the streets and only one or two cars were seen moving. most arab laborers stayed away from their jobs in israel, there was little public transport, and there were reports of a few scattered tire-burning and stone-throwing incidents
much of the west bank was dusted white with a thin layer of snow that fell overnight and some arab youths in a jerusalem neighborhood threw snowballs at passing cars, a relief from the stone-throwing of previous days
business was at a standstill today. there was little traffic and few workers left home, according to army radio
the underground national leadership of the uprising, in leaflets distributed throughout the territories, called for a general strike today and thursday
shultz is coming to israel to launch a new peace initiative he hopes will put an end to the violence of past weeks, bring the arabs and israelis to the negotiating table and eventually achieve an overall solution to the mideast conflict
the secretary of state has acknowledged he has only a slim chance of accomplishing that goal during his visit. the shultz initiative, which includes trading territory for peace, is likely to encounter opposition from prime minister yitzhak shamir's likud bloc
deputy prime minister david levy, interviewed on army radio, said on tuesday the new initiative contradicts the 10-year-old camp david agreement
there is confusion in it and an attempt to sell it to israel as camp david and to sell it to the arabs that will give them almost all of the west bank and gaza,'' he said
the plo has prohibited local palestinians from meeting shultz. fayez abu rahme, a gaza lawyer who was among a group of arabs who met with a u.s. official on saturday, said: ``as far as we are concerned there won't be a meeting.''
david good, spokesman for the u.s. consulate in jerusalem, said he did not know if palestinians will meet with shultz
informed u.s. sources said shultz would not meet with palestinians outside jerusalem. ``we're not taking directions from the plo on how to meet with palestinians,'' said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
president reagan's proposed cuts in programs to help the poor keep warm in the winter and cool in the summer will cause ``pain, stress and homelessness,'' a congressional report said wednesday
a proposed $518.3 million cut in federal energy assistance for the poor in reagan's fiscal 1989 budget would drop to 13 percent the eligible heating and cooling expenses covered by the program, which provides assistance to 6.7 million households, rep. howard wolpe, d-mich., said in releasing the study by the northeast midwest institute
in 1981, the year reagan took office, federal energy assistance for the poor covered nearly 25 percent of eligible heating and cooling expenses, wolpe said
the considerable erosion of federal support is all the more shocking considering the fact that `eligible costs' represent only about 40 percent of a recipient's energy bill,'' wolpe said
the declining funding for the program, an outgrowth of the oil crises of the 1970s, comes amid a background of rising energy costs, the study said
in 1981 the nation spent $7.47 billion on heating and cooling, and in 1988 the cost likely will be $9.67 billion, the study said
many poor families in this country are threatened with the loss of their home heating and other basic utility services because they cannot afford to pay their bills,'' the study said. ``as a visible result, the nation's poor experience a high level of pain, stress and homelessness.''
the program ``is grossly and tragically underfunded,'' said sen. john heinz, r-pa., the co-chairman of the coalition. ``both the administration and the congress are to blame _ the administration for failing to honor its long-stated commitment to the safety net, and congress for acquiescing.''
heinz and wolpe said they oped to stave off further cuts in the program and to roll back last year's 16 percent reduction in funding
the institute is a policy group formed by senators and representatives from the northeast and midwest
mayor tom young is asking a federal judge to order former mayor lee alexander and the people who bribed him to pay $1.5 million in restitution to the city
in a letter to u.s. district judge thomas a. mcavoy and u.s. probation officer frank waterson, young asked that the city be named a victim of alexander's extortion-kickback scheme in the pre-sentence report now being prepared
if that request is rejected, the city may sue alexander and five or more local businessmen who paid bribes for city contracts, young said tuesday
if your household was robbed of cash and valuable jewels and the thieves were found, along with some of the loot they stole, who'd receive the stolen cash and jewels? obviously the owner of the home,'' young said
i'm head of the household. we're requesting that what's been stolen from this household be returned to it.''
waterson declined to comment specifically about the alexander case, but he said consideration of restitution to the victim of any crime is a matter commonly brought up during sentencing
alexander and nine others who pleaded guilty to federal charges of racketeering, tax evasion and conspiracy will be sentenced march 10 and 11. the charges stemmed from a probe by the fbi and internal revenue service into corruption during alexander's tenure as mayor from 1970 to 1986
the administration believes the city was a victim, and we're doing the best we can to recover as much of the assets as possible,'' said syracuse corporation counsel frank harrigan
the city is asking for a portion of the money alexander has returned to the federal government, as well as restitution from the ex-mayor and his associates, harrigan said
alexander already has surrendered $1.4 million in cash, bonds and coins to the federal government
the ex-mayor could be sentenced up to 30 years in prison, but the u.s. attorney will recommend a term of 10 years
federal authorities have said they will administer a lie detector test to alexander next week to determine if he is withholding any other illegally gained assets
the nation's record trade deficit began to shrink in the final three months of 1987 as u.s. exports climbed 6 percent to record levels, the commerce department said wednesday
while narrowing just $200 million from the summer, the decline of the trade deficit to $40.2 billion on a balance-of-payments basis marked the first quarterly improvement since the spring of 1986
we have a genuine export boom going on and i think a lot of people are are pleasantly surprised,'' said robert ortner, undersecretary of commerce for economic affairs
ortner said further improvements were likely in the months ahead at present levels of the dollar, which he said appears to have stabilized in foreign exchange markets
still, the year finished with a record $159.3 billion balance-of-payments trade deficit for all of 1987, the report said
in terms of volume alone, the trade deficit actually showed a 5 percent improvement from 1986 to 1987. the fact that import prices rose more rapidly than export prices helped mask this improvement, commerce department analysts said
the new figures confirmed an end-of-year narrowing of the trade shortfall that already had shown up in the department's monthly merchandise trade reports. the earlier figures showed a $43 billion deficit for the fourth quarter and a $171.2 shortfall for all of 1987
wednesday's figures were smaller because they subtracted factors such as the cost of shipping, insurance and military sales from the monthly numbers. the balance-of-payments deficit is also adjusted for seasonal variations; the monthly figures are not
the october-december deficit was down from the $40.4 billion deficit sustained in the third quarter. that figure was revised upward from the $38.9 billion originally reported
exports, buoyed by a weakening exchange value of the dollar, increased $3.9 billion, or 6 percent, to a record $69.1 billion
imports also rose to a record $109.2 billion in the fourth quarter, but the increase of 4 percent or $3.8 billion was smaller than that for exports
the report was cited by analysts as further evidence that exchange-rate changes since 1985 finally are helping to trim the trade deficit
the dollar is worth just 50 percent of its mid-l985 value against japanese and key european currencies, a devaluation that is making imports more expensive to u.s. consumers while making american goods cheaper and more competitive abroad
the trend has changed. exports will continue to grow and i think you will see a major decline in imports in the first, second and third quarters of this year. the biggest surprise of 1988 will be the narrowing of the trade deficit,'' said jay goldinger, chief economist for capital insight, a los angeles bond brokerage
during the fourth quarter, the trade deficit with japan increased $1.3 billion to $15 billion; the deficit with western europe was up $1.5 billion to $8.2 billion, and the shortfall with canada rose $100 million to $1.8 billion
in the same period, the deficit with the newly industrialized countries in the far east _ taiwan, south korea, hong kong and singapore _ fell $2 billion to $8.1 billion
non-petroleum imports increased $5.3 billion, or 6 percent, to $98.1 billion in the fourth quarter. passenger cars from canada were up 52 percent, a $1 billion increase. auto imports from all other countries, including japan, fell by 7 percent, or $700 million
petroleum imports decreased $1.5 billion, or 12 percent, to $11.1 billion. both prices and volume were down
on exports, non-agricultural shipments of u.s. products increased $4.5 billion, or 8 percent, to $61.3 billion. among the largest increases were machinery, up $2.1 billion or 12 percent, and automotive products to canada, up $1 billion or 21 percent
however, agricultural exports fell during the quarter by $600 million, or 7 percent, to $7.7 billion
if ``constant'' dollars were used, subtracting the effects of inflation since 1982, the trade deficit would show a $1.2 billion decline in the fourth quarter, to $41.4 billion. for the year, the deficit would have shown a decline to $168.6 billon, from a hypothetical $177.4 billion constant-dollar deficit in 1986
the commerce department will use the figures to calculate an even broader measure of trade, the current account deficit, which measures not only trade between countries in merchandise, but also in services, primarily investment earnings and transfer payments such as foreign aid
the state department of motor vehicles today revoked the driver's license of a man who was driving the car that killed a black man in the howard beach racial assault case
dmv officials said the order against dominic blum's license would take effect march 10. blum would be eligible to apply to have the license reinstated after 30 days, said dmv spokesman r. bryan jackson
blum's lawyer, william breuer, said the order would be appealed to the dmv's administrative review board and then to the courts, if necessary
this is an aberration,'' breuer said of the dmv's action. ``there's no evidence to support this.''
three white men were convicted of manslaughter in connection with michael griffith being chased onto the belt parkway in queens where he was struck on the night of dec. 20, 1986, by blum's car
blum, a court officer and son of a new york city policeman, was not charged in connection with the case
in revoking blum's license, dmv officials said blum was guilty of leaving the scene of a personal injury accident, operating a motor vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent, and following too closely
seven of eight accused members of the westies gang were found guilty today of various crimes including murder conspiracy, extortion and drug dealing
the federal jury that convicted them will receive further instructions and resume deliberations on the most significant charges, racketeering and racketeering conspiracy
in its eighth day of deliberations, the sequestered jury in manhattan's federal court returned a finding that the westies gang was a racketeering enterprise and that seven of the eight defendants were involved with the gang
the jury of 10 women and two men also found that all but one of the defendants had each committed at least two of the 28 criminal acts listed in the racketeering charges, including murders, kidnappings, extortion, loansharking and drug dealing
but unlike other racketeering trials, u.s. district judge whitman knapp will give jurors additional instructions before sending them back to determine if those acts were committed as part of a racketeering enterprise
one defendant, john halo, was acquitted on all charges
convicted on various other charges were: reputed westies leader james coonan; his wife, edna; james ``jimmy mack'' mcelroy; richard ``muggsy'' ritter; william ``indian'' bokun; thomas collins; and collins' wife florence. oil spill</head>
reports that toxic chemicals may have been dumped into the ohio river while the water was fouled with diesel fuel have been turned over to environmental protection agency criminal investigators, an epa official said wednesday
robert boodey, head of the epa region iii criminal unit in philadelphia, declined, however, to say whether his office has opened a formal investigation. he said agency policy forbids commenting on criminal investigations
all i can tell you is we passed the information along,'' said thomas voltaggio, superfund chief for region iii. ``once we send the reports over to them we are really out of it. we want to separate any criminal activity from regulatory activity.''
epa officials received the toxic dumping reports in mid-january, several weeks after the jan. 2 collapse of an ashland oil inc. tank near pittsburgh fouled the monongahela and ohio rivers with an estimated 730,000 gallons of diesel fuel
sen. arlen specter, r-pa., on tuesday asked epa to investigate the reports
traces of chloroform and methylene chloride, which both cause cancer, and another industrial solvent, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, were found in water samples by the west virginia department of natural resources, according to officials in that department
they found no hard evidence, however, that the toxins were deliberately dumped to take advantage of the ashland pollution crisis, said ron sandy, branch head of field opertions for the natural resources department
the pittsburgh press reported sunday that the toxic chemicals were found in a 15-mile stretch of the river between wheeling and moundsville
the concentrations exceeded the levels set by epa as cancer risks, but probably had no effect on public health, said peter tennant, water quality program manager for the ohio river valley sanitation commission
the intakes of all the water companies were shut down as the spill passed,'' tennant said. ``also, those compounds ... are easily removed by the carbon filtration systems water companies use.''
the tank collapse cut tap water service to about 23,000 suburban pittsburgh residents and threatened to do the same for an estimated 1 million others. water companies along the ohio, which is formed by the monongahela and allegheny in pittsburgh, closed their intakes and relied on reserves and emergency supplies until the diesel fuel passed
the pennsylvania emergency management agency has helped process 70 claims against ashland from municipal governments seeking a total of about $1 million, karen critchfield, pema disaster assistance officer, said tuesday at a meeting of federal, state and local officials involved in the spill. everest</head>
the son of one of first two men to conquer mount everest has set his own sights on the mighty mountain, joining a team that hopes to scale the world's highest peak to mark the 35th anniversary of the feat
tenzing norbu, a connecticut travel agent and the son of tenzing norgay, said he joined the expedition to honor his late father, the sherpa guide who joined new zealander edmund hillary at the top of the world in 1953
for me, it is a pilgrimage to a mountain which has reshaped the lives of my family and my people,'' tenzing, 25, said at a news conference wednesday.``it will allow me to pay homage to my late father.''
the young tenzing, a university of new hampshire graduate who works for a travel agency in westport, conn., only will go as far as the base camp, about 17,000 feet, on the chinese tibetan side of the mountain that straddles the nepal-china border
the final assault on the summit of the 29,028-feet peak, the world's highest, will be made by an international team of mountaineers led by robert anderson, 30, a denver native now living in auckland, new zealand
anderson, joined by two other americans and a british climber, will attempt to reach the peak without oxygen by an untried route along the eastern side of the mountain
like the nepalese tenzing and hillary in 1953, the ``everest '88'' expedition will be supported by the united nations. miklos pinther, chief cartographer of the u.n. secretariat, will travel to the base camp and the climbers will have a u.n. flag to plant on the summit
the group leaves beijing on thursday for lhasa, the capital of tibet. from there, they will begin a five-day journey accompanied by 45 yaks to a site where they will set up their base camp
anderson, who came within 800 feet of the summit in a 1985 expedition to everest, said the team hopes to put a man at the peak by the end of april
he said the climbers will forgo oxygen to relive some of the challenge of the original assault, much of which has been diminished by technological advances in climbing equipment. tenzing and hillary used oxygen in their climb
the young tenzing said he will give the summit assault team objects similar to those his father took up the mountain, including a wooden black cat, a broken pencil and candy to pay respect to the mountain gods
tenzing and hillary reached the summit on may 29, 1953. since then, 209 people have conquered the mountain, but only about 15 without oxygen, according to anderson
tenzing norgay, the ``tiger of the snows,'' died in may 1986 at the age of 72 in darjeeling, india, where he set up a climbing school. hillary, now sir edmund, is new zealand's ambassador to india. the two men kept their vow never to reveal which first set foot on the majestic pinnacle. details on other plants; no pickup; adds byline.</note>
general motors corp. said today it has boosted its production plans for 1988 by 175,000 cars and trucks, will recall 8,600 laid-off workers and reopen a temporarily closed assembly plant
the strengthening demand for gm vehicles reflects the ongoing product quality improvements resulting from plant modernization and employee involvement programs,'' gm president robert stempel said in a statement
this combined with very competitive retail incentive programs has increased the value of gm products,'' he said
gm will increase production by running some plants, particularly for trucks, on overtime; restoring second shifts at two u.s. plants and one in canada; and reopening its closed framingham, mass., assembly plant
at the three plants where gm had dropped the second shift, workers from both shifts were sharing jobs by alternating between two weeks on layoff and two weeks on the job, gm said
the framingham assembly plant, which gm closed abruptly nov. 30, will reopen may 9 on one shift with 2,000 of its 3,700 workers. the plant will build the oldsmobile cutlass cierra, but will not resume production of the chevrolet celebrity, gm spokeswoman kathy tanner said
the second shift at gm's 4,200-worker van nuys, calif., assembly plant will be restored march 14, bringing 1,900 employees back full time. the plant, which gm's only chevrolet camaro and pontiac firebird source, dropped the second shift last week
gm also will restore the second shift at its oshawa no. 1 plant in oshawa, ontario, bringing back 2,700 laid-off workers on march 21. the plant builds the oldsmobile cierra and pontiac 6000. against delaying the trial again, prosecutors asking for contempt sanctions against mecham attorney. pickup 4th graf, `leonard said...' adds 5 grafs at end with details of request for contempt sanctions.</note>
gov. evan mecham's new attorney says he will seek a postponement of the impeachment trial before the arizona senate, which is set to start monday
we will be requesting ... that the trial be postponed,'' jerris leonard said in an interview late tuesday night. he said he would meet today with state supreme court chief justice frank gordon, who is presiding over the trial, and with senate president carl kunasek
senate majority leader bob usdane, a republican, noted today that the trial already has been delayed a week and added, ``my inclination is to not give them another minute of delay. ... i think it's a tactic. i think they've known all along what they were going to be doing.''
meanwhile, the state house's impeachment prosecutors today asked that contempt sanctions be imposed against mecham attorney murray miller for refusing to provide a list of planned witnesses before the senate trial begins. prosecutors william french and paul eckstein accused miller of ``patent, blatant disregard and disobedience'' of a deadline set by gordon
leonard, who headed the law enforcement assistance administration in the nixon administration, also said he planned to meet with miller
leonard said he was retained by mecham monday night
i am certainly very enthusiastic to take the case,'' leonard said
we're going to put together a very strong defense in his behalf, a very forceful, fruitful, responsible defense and hope that the members will be persuaded by it,'' leonard said
roy dunton, former mohave county republican party chairman and founder of the mecham legal defense fund, said tuesday that leonard was hired as the lead defense counsel
edith richardson, chief spokeswoman for mecham's recall election campaign, said tuesday night that leonard had been added to the defense team, ``but i'm not sure of the terminology, whether he is the lead attorney.''
she said she believed that miller and michael scott, the attorney for mecham's brother, willard, would handle the criminal defense
in addition to the impeachment trial, mecham and his brother face felony charges stemming from mecham's alleged failure to properly report a $350,000 campaign loan
leonard ran unsuccessfully for the u.s. senate from wisconsin in 1968 and in 1969 was named director of the law enforcement assistance administration by president nixon. he also served as an assistant u.s. attorney general in washington
he joined the washington law firm of manatt, phelps, rothenberg, tunney &amp; evan in may 1986
french and eckstein, in their motion for contempt sanctions, said mecham's defense should not be permitted to call any witnesses during the trial unless they meet today's 5 p.m. deadline to provide a list
the prosecution submitted a list of 41 possible witnesses monday
miller said in a letter monday he did not want to disclose his planned witnesses because he thought it was unfair to hold mecham's impeachment trial before his criminal trial is over
gordon also had set a 9 a.m. deadline today for miller to file any objections to the impeachment counts, but no documents were filed by that time
usdane said he thought the deadlines set by gordon appeared to be more of a request than an order, and questioned whether sanctions could be imposed if there was no direct order involved
evangelist jimmy swaggart, who is said to have confessed an obsession with pornography, once wrote a newspaper column saying pornography is as addictive as drugs
swaggart faces disciplinary action by his denomination, the assemblies of god, for sexual misconduct. he was reportedly observed and photographed while visiting a prostitute in new orleans
the rev. glen cole of sacramento, calif., one of 13 members of the assemblies of god's ruling executive presbytery, said swaggart had confessed last week to having an obsession with pornography dating back to his youth
james hammill of memphis, tenn., a member of the denomination's general counsel, said monday night that the panel had been given pictures of swaggart going in and out of a new orleans motel room with a woman
in a july 1986 column for the baton rouge sunday advocate, swaggart wrote:
pornography is now considered as addictive as drugs, leading, as with any addiction, to a need for escalated `doses' and intensity. that, in turn, breeds desensitization, which leads to the acting out of roles that have been at the heart of the nation's most sensational serial murder and serial rape cases
women and children, portrayed as nothing more than debased objects on screen and in print, pay a particularly high price when fantasy turns into reality.''
swaggart called those who make their living from pornography ``wretched, disgusting and dangerous.''
in another column, swaggart wrote: ``most of today's sex, i'm afraid, is a consequence of lust, and that has absolutely nothing to do with love
you see, the laws of god cannot be abrogated with impunity. yes, we can do it, we are free moral agents. to do so, however, means that we `pay the piper,' and we're now starting to do so.''
the december issue of swaggart's magazine, the evangelist, was critical of mercer university, a baptist school that did not take disciplinary action against six women who posed for playboy magazine
it seems to us that if the standards set forth in the word of god were truly being taught, neither the girls nor the university would find themselves in this embarrassing circumstance,'' the magazine said
portuguese prime minister anibal cavaco silva, disappointed in american aid levels, said today his nation wants to review a 1983 u.s.-portugal defense agreement giving the united states access to a key air base
cavaco silva, emerging from a two-hour meeting at the white house with president reagan, said he told the president that cuts in american aid have posed difficulties ``particularly at a time when we are committed to the re-equipment of our armed forces and trying to modernize the country.''
i stated to president reagan that the portuguese government intended to request that consultations be held under the terms of the agreement,'' cavaco silva said
reagan reiterated u.s. desire to help portugal, but he said ``the efforts remain firm, even within the context of the harsh budger realities that we all face. the task of leadership is to rise to the challenge.''
the portuguese leader is using his first official visit to washington to register disappointment that the united states is providing barely more than half the $205 million that portugal wants in aid each year for u.s. rights at lajes air base in the azores, a vital refueling point in the atlantic
the u.s. deficit-reduction program is responsible for the cuts, not just in aid to portugal but to the philippines, greece, and turkey _ other base-rights countries with struggling economies
a senior u.s. official, briefing reporters in advance of cavaco silva's meeting at the white house with president reagan today, said ``we're going to have a foreign policy job to do in convincing them why we're doing it and why we have to share the pain together.''
cavaco silva arrived on tuesday for three days of talks
portugal is disappointed in the aid levels, which have dipped to $117 million this year after hitting a high of $205 million in 1984, one year after the current base agreement was signed
in his budget proposal last week, reagan asked congress for $163 million for the fiscal year beginning oct. 1
the u.s. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he doubted the prime minister wanted a ``confrontation'' during his visit to washington
rather, we'll look for ways we can figure out _ at least in the short run _ some of our problems,'' the official said
earlier this month, defense secretary frank c. carlucci appeared to have soothed portuguese feelings enough to head off a request for a formal review of the u.s.-portugal defense agreement. he received permission from cavaco silva's government to send over surplus u.s. military equipment to make up part of the shortfall in financial assistance
experts from both defense departments are to meet soon to figure out what portugal can use from u.s. stocks
in the past two weeks, however, portuguese foreign minister joao de deus pinheiro and president mario soares have expressed reservations about the plan
nevertheless, the u.s. official said, ``i think what he (cavaco silva) told frank carlucci at the beginning of february, we expect, holds
obviously the portuguese are disappointed with the levels of assistance. so are we,'' the official said. ``invariably we've requested more money out of congress and in recent years have not done very well. as the budget crunch is being faced by all agencies, obviously security assistance is one of those areas hit
we're probably going to face it in a great amount of countries, particularly countries that feel they have a commitment for a certain level of military assistance and believe that they have been good allies.''
cbs inc. chairman william paley, recovering from emergency gall bladder surgery at new york hospital-cornell medical center, continues to improve slowly, the hospital said tuesday
paley has been moved out of the intensive care unit and into a private room, and his listed condition has been changed from very serious to serious. last week he had been listed as critical
paley, 86, entered the hospital on feb. 11. road''</head>
michael s. dukakis said wednesday he will do whatever he has to do to counter any negative ads by his rivals for the democratic presidential nomination but hopes ``we can get this campaign back on the high road.''
the massachusetts governor's second-place showing in the south dakota primary tuesday was blamed in part on ``attack ads'' by top vote-getter missouri rep. richard gephardt, dukakis' south dakota chairman fritz wiecking was quoted as saying
the ads claimed dukakis has no farm or trade policy and is the biggest taxer in massachusetts history. dukakis called the ads inaccurate
at a news conference, dukakis said ``maybe it is a vain hope'' for the democrats to avoid the kind of charges and countercharges circulating among the republican candidates, which dukakis termed damaging to the gop, their candidates and the election process
i would prefer that the democrats not copy the republicans, and that we try to run strong, positive campaigns in which if we disagree with each other we do so agreeably and accurately,'' dukakis said
but he added, ``negative campaigning and negative advertising apparently is the thing all of the sudden. i have had to go through that before, and if i have to do what i have to do, i will do so. but i would hope that we can get this campaign back on the high road.''
asked to elaborate, dukakis said, ``i'll deal with that when the time comes. i've had to do it before, i hope i don't have to do it (again).''
but he did specifically mention gephardt and tennessee sen. albert gore
dukakis said the american people ``are not interested with what mr. gore thinks of mr. gephardt, mr. gephardt thinks of mr. gore, what both of them think of me
these two guys are at it every day. now they are trying to get me into it,'' dukakis said
there is nothing wrong with disagreeing on particular issues,'' he said. ``i have no problem with that. but i would hope we could avoid it (negative campaigning). can we? we'll see.''
saying he was the only democratic candidate competing with equal force in all states, dukakis summed up tuesday's results, including his victory in minnesota, by saying, ``we competed aggressively in minnesota, competed aggressively in south dakota. and the results, i think, are very heartwarming.''
but as the candidates head toward super tuesday march 8, with 1,307 delegates up for grabs in 20 states and american samoa, dukakis said, ``i don't think any of us is in a strong position. i think it's wide open
super tuesday is two weeks ahead, and if there is one thing that we are learning as a result of this (process) is that nobody knows what's going to happen next,'' he said
cia director william webster said wednesday that president reagan isn't buying the house and senate intelligence committees' proposals for preventing another iran-contra affair, including a required 48-hour notice to congress of any covert action
webster said the proposals would tie a president's hands in cases where a premature leak could cost lives, and when a foreign intelligence service with vital information insists that congress not be told
a 48-hour notification requirement would ``promote tension'' between congress and a president ``for years to come,'' webster added
the cia director told a house intelligence subcommittee that a recent presidential directive would make certain all but the most extraordinary covert activities would be promptly reported to congress
and in any rare case where the president ordered a delayed notification, a top-level policy group would review the decision every 10 days, webster said
some lawmakers have suggested that they might have persuaded reagan not to sell arms to iran had he notified the intelligence committees or congressional leadership of his plans
reagan's approval was withheld from congress for 10 months in 1986, until u.s. negotiations with iran were disclosed by a lebanese publication
the administration has already lost round one in its battle to maintain greater discretion on when to notify congress. the senate intelligence committee voted 13-2 for legislation that includes the 48-hour requirement. it is similar in other respects to the house bill webster is now trying to derail
a bill which fails to preserve the flexibility and authority the president needs to conduct intelligence activities effectively will not be acceptable to the president,'' webster said. he did not say specifically whether reagan would veto such a measure
current law requires an administration to give the intelligence committees or eight top congressional leaders prior notification of significant intelligence activities. but it allows the president to delay in extraordinary circumstances, and issue the notification in ``timely fashion.''
in fact, webster said, there have been only three instances when timely notification was not given: the iran-contra affair, the rescue of americans from iran who were hidden by canadian diplomats and the failed military attempt to rescue american hostages in iran
webster said the iran-contra affair, in which profits from the arms sales to iran were diverted to the contra rebels in nicaragua, was caused by ``officials failing to follow existing procedures and rules.''
some allowance must be made for that rare case where a limited delay in congressional notification is critical to preserve the absolute security of an operation when, for example, lives are at stake,'' he contended
but former defense secretary clark clifford testified that the legislation does not go far enough
he suggested that congress stop financing any covert activity for which notification was not given. and he proposed that any government employee who willingly violated the prohibition of funds be subject to criminal activity
we are better off without covert activities entirely than with them out of control,'' said clifford, who served in the johnson administration
the supreme court today overturned a $200,000 award won by evangelist jerry falwell against hustler magazine and its publisher larry flynt, extending the legal protections for parody and satire, even when they are pornographic
the court unanimously ruled that even pornographic spoofs about a public figure enjoy the free-speech protections of the constitution's first amendment if those spoofs could not reasonably have been interpreted as stating actual facts about the person
the justices stripped falwell of the award he had won for ``emotional distress'' caused by an advertising parody in hustler
outrageousness in the area of political and social discourse has an inherent subjectiveness about it which would allow a jury to impose liability on the basis of the jurors' tastes or views, or perhaps on the basis of their dislike of a particular expression,'' chief justice william h. rehnquist wrote for the court
an `outrageous' standard thus runs afoul of our longstanding refusal to allow damages to be awarded because the speech in question may have an adverse emotional impact on the audience,'' he said
falwell's lawsuit arose out of a full-page ``ad parody'' that appeared in the november 1983 and march 1984 issues of hustler, a sexually explicit magazine
featuring a photograph of falwell, the ad purportedly quotes him discussing a sexual encounter with his mother and describing himself as a habitual drunkard
at the bottom of the page in small print readers are told that the ad is a parody ``not to be taken seriously.''
falwell charged hustler and flynt with libel, invasion of privacy and intentional infliction of emotional distress. he asked for $45 million in damages
a federal jury in roanoke, va., in late 1984 ruled that the ad did not libel falwell, and the presiding judge threw out the invasion-of-privacy allegation
but the jury ruled for falwell on his emotional-distress allegation, and awarded him $200,000. the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld the award, but today's decision threw it out
falwell, a baptist minister and founder of an organization known as the moral majority, said he had sued flynt and his magazine to protect his late mother's reputation. ``i can't imagine any red-blooded male in the world not being incensed,'' he told reporters when attending supreme court arguments in the case last december
i fully appreciate the deep concerns the court has shown for the sacredness of the first amendement,'' falwell said in a statement today. ``however, i respectfully disagree with their ruling. just as no person may scream ``fire!'' in a crowded theater when there is no fire, and find cover under the first amendment, likewise, no sleaze-merchant like larry flynt should be able to use the first amendment as an excuse for maliciously and dishonestly attacking public figures as he has so often done
i believe the supreme court has given the green light to larry flynt and his ilk to print what they wish about any public figure at any time with no fear of reprisal.''
flynt, who also attended the december argument session, had voiced concern about his fate before the high court but added, ``my indictment is mainly for bad taste.''
he said today, ``i'm excited, absolutely delighted. even though the suit had no merit in the beginning, i still spent over $1 million in attorney's fees. there is no way to get those back. it's what you call paying to defend the first amendment.''
flynt added: ``with this record on the book, i have protected ... other newspapers and magazines. i'm not talking about pornography. we are blazing a trail for a lot of people, like political cartoonists.''
in today's decision, the court noted that ``graphic depictions and satirical cartoons have played a prominent role in public and political debate.''
it discounted falwell's contention that the hustler parody was so outrageous that it should be distinguished from more traditional political cartoons
there is no doubt that the caricature of (falwell) published in hustler is at best a distant cousin of the (traditional) political cartoons, and a rather poor relation at that,'' rehnquist said. but he added that there is no way the law can punish one and let the other flourish
the court's vote was 8-0. justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court last thursday, did not participate in the decision
in other action, the court:
_ expanded the power of communities to impose rent controls, ruling that hardships to tenants may be considered when landlords seek rent increases
by a 6-2 vote, the justices upheld a san jose, calif., ordinance that has been attacked as a ``robin hood'' law that steals from the rich to pay the poor
_ broadened protection for criminal defendants who claim they were enticed by law enforcement officials into committing a crime
by a 6-2 vote, the justices overturned a bribery conviction against frederick mathews of milwaukee, wis., a former small business administration official
_ made it a bit easier for prosecutors to talk to criminal trial juries about a defendant's failure to testify
in splintered voting, the court reinstated the mail fraud conviction of a man who prosecutors say set his tennessee home afire so he could file a false insurance claim
_ bolstered the right default-judgment losers have to challenge a judgment entered after they fail to respond to a lawsuit
the justices unanimously ruled for a houston businessman in his challenge of a default judgment awarded against him six years ago for a $5,000 debt owed to a medical center
_ ruled that federal judges lack authority to order the government to pay fees to lawyers who successfully obtain overdue federal welfare for poor people who are aged, blin or disabled
the 8-0 ruling in a case from arkansas held that federal officials are not required by law to withhold a portion of a recipient's benefits to pay the attorney
the hustler case was hustler vs. falwell, 86-1278
a reagan administration proposal to reduce the questions asked in the 1990 census drew fire wednesday from city officials and statisticians who said vital information would be lost
the white house office of management and budget has required that several questions be dropped, or asked of fewer people, in this spring's census dress rehearsal
no final decision has been made on whether the changes will be extended to the 1990 census, according to joseph r. wright jr. of omb, who contended the cuts were made to reduce the paperwork burden on the public
but the dress rehearsal head counts in the states of washington and missouri are scheduled for march 20. on april 1, the formal questions planned for the 1990 census must be sent to congress
the proposed changes would introduce ``crippling sampling errors'' into the census, charged arthur young, retired chief of the census bureau's housing division
young spoke at a joint hearing of the house select committee on aging and the subcommittee on housing and consumer interests
it will look like a full census, but it will be nothing but a hollow shell,'' young said. eliminating questions or cutting by half the number of people answering some of them would all but eliminate much data on city block areas, he said
the omb cuts will leave the nation after the 1990 census with a housing data base inadequate for decision making at the local level,'' he said. and this loss of information would occur at a time when more and more programs are being switched from federal to state and local operation
art holland, mayor of trenton, n.j., added the warning that the cuts ``could have potentially debilitating impacts upon the cities of this nation to adequately plan for the future and to allocate scarce resources for the betterment of their residents and businesses
you don't have to be a statistician to know that reducing the number of people asked a particular question reduces the quality of the data collected, holland went on
cities use census information to target community development block grant funds and economic development money, to prepare housing master plans, to target neighborhood eligibility for federal, state and local assistance and to pinpoint areas in need of programs, he said
the cities depend on the census every 10 years as their primary source of information, and all other collections of information use the census as a base, or are mere estimates, he added
the omb proposal would drop questions on the cost of utilities, type of heating equipment and fuel used to heat water. in addition seven questions would be moved from the short form answered by everyone to the longer form sent only to a sample of households. those include information on number of rooms in a house, plumbing, rent and value, presence of a telephone and whether the residence is a condominium
the driver of the car that struck and killed michael griffith, the black victim in the howard beach racial assault case, had his driver's license revoked wednesday by the state department of motor vehicles
dmv officials said dominic blum's license was suspended effective march 10. blum would be eligible to apply to have the license reinstated after 30 days, said dmv spokesman r. bryan jackson
blum's lawyer, william breuer, said the order would be appealed
griffith was struck by blum's car on dec. 20, 1986, as griffith was chased onto a highway by a mob of white youths. three teen-agers have been convicted of manslaughter in the case, and seven other defendants face trial on lesser charges
blum, 26, a court officer in new york city family court, left the scene of the accident and didn't come forward for several hours
dmv officials said blum was guilty of leaving the scene of a personal injury accident, going 55 miles per hour in a 50 mph zone and following too closely
breuer said he filed a $20 million libel and slander suit last week against lawyers c. vernon mason and alton maddox jr., who had alleged that blum had intentionally hit griffith. subcommittee</note>
taxpayers are apt to get the wrong answer to one of every four tax questions they telephone to the internal revenue service, the agency acknowledged tuesday. even correct replies may not be complete
we are obviously not satisfied with answering only three out of four questions correctly,'' irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs said in reporting the results of a test of his employees. he questioned the validity of a separate survey by the general accounting office, which found even less chance of a correct answer
gao, an arm of congress, made 224 calls to irs telephone ``assistors'' and got the correct answer to only 61 percent of the technical tax questions asked; 57 percent of the answers were complete and 4 percent were accurate but incomplete
jennie s. stathis, an associate director of gao, acknowledged that because of the limited number of calls and because they were not statistically weighted, the results ``are very preliminary and not projectable at this time.''
the irs expects 22 million telephone calls for tax answers this filing season
the irs' own survey is based on 5,000 calls to some of the 4,500 agency employees whose job is to answer taxpayers' questions about how to fill out their tax returns. sixty-one percent of the questions were answered completely and correctly and another 13 percent were answered correctly but not completely
at this time a year ago, before most provisions of the massive 1986 tax overhaul took effect, gao said the irs was giving the correct answers to questions 79 percent of the time
i am comfortable that we are answering three out of four questions correctly,'' gibbs said
but rep. j.j. pickle, d-texas, chairman of the house ways and means oversight subcommittee, said, ``with one-fourth being given the wrong information, i don't know that that is a complimentary figure.''
no matter the source of advice on filling out a tax return, the taxpayer has the responsibilty to see that the return is correct. even if the irs makes a mistake in its advice, a taxpayer can be subject to a penalty and interest for underpaying. the agency traditionally has waived penalties if a taxpayer can prove a mistake resulted from bad irs advice, but there is a question whether the law permits interest on an underpayment to be waived
because of the new law, gibbs said, he is not surprised that the irs assistors are giving more wrong answers than they did a year ago. he noted money magazine had asked 50 tax professionals outside the government to calculate how much tax a hypothetical family owed and had received 50 different answers
very simply, taxpayers, practitioners and the irs are having trouble coping with the magnitude and the velocity of tax-law changes,'' gibbs said, noting that congress has fallen into the habit of passing a major tax bill almost every year
in the 1986 overhaul, said rep. richard schulze, r-pa., ``congress may have passed such sweeping tax changes'' that they will prove impossible to implement
most of the changes in that new law _ including lower rates, fewer deductions and higher personal exemptions _ are being reflected for the first time on the returns that are due by april 15
if another gao survey is any indication, the 1986 law brought anything but simplification. the agency asked 423 taxpayers outside irs offices in six cities how preparing this year's return compared with last year. the results:
_43 percent said it was harder or much harder this year
_32 percent found little difference
_13 percent said this year was easier or much easier
_10 percent were not sure
overall, the gao's ms. stathis said, ``irs did a good job in trying to prepare its employees and the taxpaying public for the 1988 filing season.''
in addition to the problem with incorrect answers to telephoned questions, she said some irs offices have run out of certain tax forms. some tax professionals also have complained that the irs has provided insufficient guidance on some fine points of the new law, she added
about 84 percent of taxpayers who went to irs offices for advice were satisfied with the result, and 74 percent received assistance within 15 minutes, gao found
shock-rock star alice cooper, who says he bought his first car years ago from impeached arizona gov. evan mecham, has half-serious plans to run for political office in his home state
i'm definitely a write-in candidate,'' said the phoenix-born singer. ``hey, i'm a native. i'm a registered voter. i represent the wild party and i even have a campaign slogan: `alice cooper _ a troubled man for troubled times.'''
cooper, 39, is in phoenix for a show saturday night that will end the american leg of his year-long comeback tour
cooper, born vincent furnier, a minister's son, said he bought his first automobile from mecham, who owned and operated a pontiac dealership in nearby glendale. cooper went on to fame with his outrageous makeup and performances, as well as such hits as ``school's out.''
the republican governor, who took office in january 1987, was recently indicted by a state grand jury for attempting to conceal a $350,000 campaign loan. mecham is facing both a criminal trial this month and a may 17 recall election. scandal</head>
evangelist robert schuller says he has no need to worry about facing a damaging sex scandal like fellow tv preachers jim bakker and jimmy swaggart because he's never been unfaithful to his wife
i can tell you right here and now, as far as robert schuller is concerned, i have had sex with only one woman _ my wife _ and the first time was my wedding night,'' the founder of orange county's crystal cathedral church said tuesday
bakker lost his tv ministry last year and was defrocked by the assemblies of god church after he admitted to a sexual tryst with former church secretary jessica hahn. the same congregation suspended swaggart after he admitted last week to having visited a reputed prostitute in a motel
schuller, 61, made his remarks to approximately 1,000 people attending a special tuesday night meeting where it was announced that the rev. herman ``bud'' ridder, president of the crystal cathedral since 1983, was resigning
schuller founded the crystal cathedral, originally known as the garden grove community church, in the mid-1950s. the church, known for its stunning crystal cathedral headquarters in garden grove, now boasts more than 5,500 members. users</head>
the chairman of a white house commission recommended wednesday that federal and local governments spend an additional $20 billion over the next decade to fight aids among drug abusers
retired navy adm. james d. watkins, head of the aids commission appointed by president reagan last summer, acknowledged that the call for such massive spending on drug addicts might prove controversial
but he said 200 hours of testimony from 350 witnesses has left the panel convinced that the deadly disease is spreading most rapidly among the nation's estimated 1.3 million intravenous drug abusers and their sexual partners
watkins noted that some health leaders are estimating 10,000 to 20,000 infants could be infected with the aids virus three years from now as a result of sexual unions involving drug addicts who can easily spread the disease among themselves by sharing contaminated needles
any realistic attempt to combat aids in general must focus on drug abusers, he said
health leaders have long feared that any significant outbreak of aids into the general population most likely would start with the sex partners of iv drug users, most of whom are concentrated in 24 major cities
the full 13-member aids commission is expected to adopt most or all of watkins' recommendations at a day-long business meeting next monday and then formally submit them to reagan the following week in what will be the panel's first substantive report
a final report is due at the white house june 24. watkins promised it will get into such controversial areas as widespread aids testing, discrimination against people with aids and other legal and social questions
he said the commission would be ``at loggerheads with ourselves'' if it tried to agree on recommendations on those matters at this point. the commission will turn specifically to hearing testimony on those topics next month
meanwhile, he said, the panel saw no reason to delay making recommendations in areas where there was consensus. there could be subsequent interim reports before the final one this summer, watkins said
watkins' call for an additional $1 billion a year in federal spending on drug abuse intervention programs alone would nearly double the total $1.3 billion public health service aids budget reagan has proposed for fiscal 1989
the retired chief of naval operations told reporters that state and local governments will need to increase their own combined spending on drug programs by a like amount and that both the federal and local efforts will need to continue for 10 years
you cannot just throw in some money one year and drop it out next year,'' said watkins
he said only 15 percent of the nation's intravenous drug abusers are in treatment plans and tht there are three- to six-month waiting lists in most major cities for addicts seeking help in getting off drugs
anyone crying for help should get help on demand,'' watkins said
another major theme among watkins' 60 pages of recommendations is additional financial support for the food and drug administration, which he characterized as ``a kind of orphan agency standing on their own'' in the annual budget fights
we're picking up his advocacy,'' watkins said of fda commissioner frank young. the chairman said the panel had toured fda headquarters in surburban maryland and concluded ``we look something like a third world agency out there.''
he noted that the new reagan budget proposes $25 million for an fda laboratory. ``we're saying he needs another building'' in addition to the one proposed, said watkins
watkins expressed confidence that the full commission would adopt most of his recommendations and declared, ``it is not in our charter to worry about the political impact.''
asked his reaction to the possibility of presidential candidates, particularly democrats, using his recommendations to ``zing the white house'' for not doing more earlier, watkins replied:
how do you avoid politicizing something in an election year? if they all adopt this and say `let's get on with it,' that's the kind of politicization i like.''
two teen-agers have been arrested after a series of violent armed robberies and a slaying in which one of them allegedly portrayed the sadistic character in ``nightmare on elm street.''
in all the incidents, angel regino, 18, allegedly used a sawed-off rifle, wore a blue bandana over his face, and donned a fedora, a guise worn by the film's protagonist, freddie, who had knives attached to his fingers, said police lt. mike melton
thursday night, a man was robbed, ordered to strip, and then shot as he fled from a robber calling himself freddie, melton said tuesday
the victim told police the robber had said, ```you'll never meet anyone like me again,''' the officer said
a sawed-off rifle, trenchcoat and blue bandana were discovered at regino's parents' home in the neighborhood where most of the attacks occurred, melton said
regino is alleged to have been involved in at least eight armed robberies and one killing since early january, several involving an accomplice, melton said
regino was booked for investigation of murder monday and was being held withox a| the harbor divison station. the alleged accomplice, a 16-year-old whose name was withheld because of his age, was being held for questioning, said sgt. larry kallestad
the two teen-agers are believed to be gang members, and regino, who was taken into custody at a drug treatment center, may have been a pcp user, kallestad said
the attacks blamed on the pair started jan. 5 and ended sunday when $300 was taken from a chinese restaurant
on jan. 7, a 49-year-old man was killed after being robbed and shot several times while he apparently slept in his truck. a passerby who stopped to help was also assaulted, police said
air force combat training over everglades national park would spoil the wilderness and threaten endangered species, the state cabinet concluded tuesday
voting unanimously, the cabinet urged air force secretary edward c. aldridge not to pursue a proposal for low-level, high-speed jet fighter missions over the national park
park superintendent michael finley agreed with the cabinet and said the park already is stressed by south florida's expanding population
to add one more type of stress to everglades national park could be the nail in the coffin,'' said finley. ``at some point ... the everglades will be to south florida what central park is to new york city.''
gov. bob martinez was on a trade mission in europe and did not participate in the cabinet vote
lt. tom barth, deputy for public affairs at homestead air force base, said the training missions still were in the planning stage and might not be carried out over the park. a second site is being examined southwest of lake okeechobee, north of alligator alley
the training missions would not use live ammunition or bombs, he said
air force officials say the south florida missions would be cheaper than continuing to send figters to other bases for combat training
homestead, once solely a training base, has been converted to an active fighter base. the base is home to two wings, the 31st and 482nd. in october, it will have three squadrons of f-16s and f-4s. ``west.''</note>
a crisis over an unconstitutional state budget blew over wednesday almost as quickly as it developed after west virginia officials agreed to continue government as usual until they hear more from the state supreme court
the high court issued a 3-2 opinion on tuesday calling the budget unconstitutional because it contains a $26 million deficit. but the court granted a 60-day grace period during which the order would be suspended while a rehearing is requested
check-writing officials were thrown into a panic initially, with treasurer a. james manchin saying he would not process any more state bills. but manchin reversed himself overnight and said wednesday he would process the checks as usual
he called the high court's ruling a ``whimper in the wind'' and said it carried enough delays to put off any final action until the new fiscal year that starts on july 1
manchin released a number of checks for hospital workers on wednesday. manchin's reversal also apparently clears the way for the state payroll to be distributed on monday as scheduled
gov. arch moore already has scheduled a special session of the legislature for april 12 to look at education matters, and the budget problem presumably could be considered at that time
the governor has a possible safety valve. on tuesday, he received a bill that would allow him to borrow up to $50 million from the state's pension and workers' compensation trust fund, said gubernatorial press secretary john price
if he signs the bill, it might be possible to solve the crisis by simply dumping $26 million into the current budget
auditor glen gainer, who also signs the state's checks, said he questions whether the loan is legal but said he would not contest it in court
a lawsuit filed last fall by the west virginia education association challenging $13.5 million in cuts in education this year sparked the high court decision
the unprecedented ruling comes as lawmakers grapple with bills that gainer estimates will be $170 million by the june 30 end of the fiscal year. in addition, lawmakers are trying to write a budget for the next fiscal year
tax collections are $35.7 million behind predictions this year, and a national investment firm issued a national bond rating warning against west virginia on dec. 15 because of the financial crisis facing the state
house finance chairman george farley suggested his colleagues simply ignore the high court decision and continue to work on the budget for next year
artist clayton lefevre has sulked for a couple of years because prince charles refused to sign a portrait, so he has taken his revenge with a window display depicting the queen of england and the duchess of york as derelicts
lefevre installed the display at his studio this week, anticipating the arrival on friday of the duke and duchess of york, also known as prince andrew and the former sarah ferguson. the couple is coming to participate in uk-la, a celebration of british art and culture
lefevre started his ``100 club'' celebrity collection in houston, where he lived until four months ago
he has completed 105 of the acrylic portraits, including frank sinatra, nancy reagan, eddie murphy, muhammad ali and dolly parton
working from photographs, he did two portraits of the prince. he sent both to charles, asking that one be signed and returned and the other be kept as a gift
prince charles is the only one of the 105 who has refused,'' said lefevre, who offered the portrats to prince charles and princess diana when they visited houston in 1986
they took the two paintings back to buckingham palace. they told me if i wanted the (one) painting back, they would send it unsigned, otherwise they would give it to charity
i was just happy to get my copy back,'' he said
angus mackay, public affairs officer for the british consulate in los angeles, said no insult was intended to lefevre by the royal family. they never sign autographs for anyone
i think it's unfortunate he interprets what is a general ground rule as a specific slight to him apparently,'' mackay said
a kindergarten teacher has inspired legislation which would designate mississippi mud cake as the official state cake
sen. hainon miller of greenvill introduced the bill monday at the urging of mary jo ayres of leland, who wants to add the chocolate dessert to the list of state-sanctioned m-words so she can help her students pronounce the consonant
if you think about it, it never occurred to me before, but we have `mississippi' _ it starts with an `m.' mmm-mmm-mmm-mmm,'' miller said
and the official state bird is the m-m-mocking bird,'' he said, ``and the official flower is the m-m-m-magnolia.''
and what would one eat with mud cake? the official state drink _ m-m-milk, of course
ewing oil is selling the southern cross ranch, where scenes for the television show ``dallas'' have been shot
the seller is the real ewing oil of dallas, not the nasty, power-hungry outfit run by j.r. ewing on the cbs nighttime serial
on the show, the ewings' ranch is supposed to be in san angelo in west texas. in real life, it's a breeding ranch in forney, 20 miles east of dallas
the 455-acre ranch features a two-story spanish-style home atop a hill, a swimming pool, a gazebo, a guest house, a foreman's house, stables and stock tanks
harry james, one of the principal owners of ewing oil, gave the ranch to the company as equity, and it was recently appraised at $61.5 million, the company said
tim bell, ewing oil's chief executive officer, said the ranch is not generating revenue for the company. ``it has nothing to do with the rise and fall of oil prices. we're just not in the ranching business,'' bell said
he said the ranch has not been used in the filming of ``dallas'' for several years
melvin giller, president of nationwide auction co., said he's unsure what the ranch will bring on the auction block march 12, but has received more than 500 calls since it was advertised
a $625,000 fund to assist u.s. artists appearing in international festivals and exhibitions was announced tuesday by the national endowment for the arts, the u.s. information agency and the rockefeller foundation
in 1988, $325,000 will be available from the fund for performing artists and $300,000 for visual artists
frank hodsoll, chairman of the national endowment for the arts, said that private contributions could raise annual funding to $1 million
i think it is important this fund never become so big or so powerful it's the only way american artists can be represented at international festivals and exhibitions. that preserves a degree of freedom for people who go to these things,'' hodsoll said
singer mickey gilley says he was shocked by revelations of sexual misconduct by his cousin, the rev. jimmy swaggart
the family has always held jimmy on a pedestal so high that this is a total shock to us,'' gilley said tuesday in an interview with the nashville banner
we were saddened when he went on television and said he had a personal problem and had made a mistake,'' gilley said from houston. ``but i will have to say it takes a very strong man to say what he did.''
on sunday, swaggart confessed to an unspecified sin before 7,500 people at his family worship center in baton rouge, la
gilley said he still has faith in the basic integrity of
swaggart, who has ``always been dedicated to the lord,'' even when he, gilley and their rock 'n' roll entertainer cousin, jerry lee lewis, were growing up together in ferriday, la., gilley said, and he says he still believes in the evangelists basic integrity
gilley once was partners with the owner of the honky-tonk gilley's in pasadena, texas. the bar was featured in the movie ``urban cowboy.''
the city of baytown, banking that city hall may be sitting on a pool of oil, is looking in its own back yard for more income
the city council has approved a plan for trace oil and gas to drill a shallow 5,000-6,000-foot well near the entrance to the 30-acre, wooded city hall complex. the city would receive a 20 percent royalty on any petroleum uncovered under the agreement
we're keeping our fingers crossed,'' said emmett hutto, mayor of this town of 57,000 people about 30 miles east of houston. ``if the well brings in $100,000 a year, we could knock a half-cent off our tax rate.''
jim bob jackson, a geologist and co-owner of trace oil in houston, projects the company has a 50-50 chance of hitting oil
we feel confident. we drilled a well 500 feet south of there on maryland avenue last year and got the smell of oil,'' he said
after careful calculations, his research indicated an oil pool could be trapped beside a fault under the lush complex, he said
the company has permission to drill about 2,000 feet from the city buildings. an 80-foot derrick will be erected and the drilling will continue around the clock for five to six days, jackson said. if oil is discovered, a fence will be erected around the site and landscaping will be used to disguise the oil pumping operations, he said
we made stipulations in the lease so that it won't be a messy operation,'' hutto said
the company will spend about $150,000 on the prospecting venture
we expect it could bring in anywhere from $500 to $15,000 per day in revenue, which is a minor find,'' jackson said
the prospect of oil under the building is not outlandish, said assistant city manager bobby rountree
after all, this is an oil town,'' agreed jackson. ``exxon, one of the world's largest refineries, made baytown what it is today.'' falwell</head>
the supreme court expanded significantly the legal protections for parody and satire wednesday as it overturned a $200,000 award evangelist jerry falwell had won against hustler magazine and publisher larry flynt
the justices ruled unanimously that ``emotional distress'' lawsuits filed by public figures targeted by such spoofs should be as difficult to win as libel suits
and the court unanimously said that even pornographic spoofs enjoy the free-speech protection of the constitution's first amendment
the hustler material was a phony ad purportedly quoting falwell discussing an incestual encounter with his mother in a virginia outhouse and his habit of getting drunk before giving sermons
small print at the bottom of the page said the ad was ``not to be taken seriously.''
led by chief justice william h. rehnquist, the court rejected falwell's arguments _ and a federal appeals court's ruling _ that some parodies are so outrageous they do not deserve legal protection
outrageousness in the area of political and social discourse has an inherent subjectiveness about it which would allow a jury to impose liability on the basis of the jurors' tastes or views,'' rehnquist said, adding that such results are constitutionally impermissible
the decision was praised by news organizations
it's easy to stand up for nice talk from nice people but the first amendment protects all speech, even the outrageous,'' said paul mcmasters of the society for professional journalists
editorial cartoons have been a particular target of lawsuits lately,'' mcmasters said. ``the court was right to speak up so forcefully on behalf of ... tools editorial cartoonists wield so well.''
but falwell, a baptist minister and founder of an organization called the moral majority, disagreed. ``no sleaze merchant like larry flynt should be able to use the first amendment as an excuse for maliciously and dishonestly attacking public figures,'' he said after learning of his defeat. ``i'm sure the justices were holding their noses while making the ruling.''
flynt said he was ``absolutely delighted'' by the ruling
even though the suit had no merit in the beginning, i still spent over $1 million in attorney's fees. ... it's what you call paying to defend the first amendment,'' flynt said by telephone from los angeles
he said he was concerned about small newspapers and house organs and others unable to afford to fight such a battle
they just go out of business,'' flynt said
rehnquist's opinion drew a distinction between the hustler ad and more traditional forms of parody such as editorial cartoons, calling the falwell spoof ``a distant cousin of the political cartoon, and a rather poor relation at that.''
following publication of the parody in november 1983 and march 1984, falwell sued hustler, a sexually explicit magazine, and its publisher for $45 million in damages for libel, invasion of privacy and the intentional infliction of emotional distress. he won on the emotional-distress allegations only and a federal jury in roanoke, va., awarded him $200,000 in damages in late 1984. the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld the award
but the high court said the same tough standard of proof falwell faced in trying to prove he was libeled should have applied as well to his emotional-distress allegations
the supreme court since 1964 has required that free-speech considerations be taken into account in libel cases. but those considerations never before have been required in emotional-distress cases
in order to win a libel suit, a public figure must prove that the allegedly libelous statement was false and was made with ``actual malice'' _ knowledge or reckless disregard of its falsity
until wednesday, winning an emotional-distress suit was easier for public figures. they only had to prove that the defendant intended to cause the distress, that the defendant's conduct was extreme and that emotional distress actually was suffered
now, if public figures sue over some spoof _ whether alleging libel or emotional distress _ they must meet the actual-malice standard of proof. and in proving falsity, they must show that the spoof reasonably could have been interpreted as stating actual facts
the court's vote was 8-0. justice anthony m. kennedy, who joined the court thursday, did not participate in the decision
in other decisions, the court:
_expanded by a 6-2 vote the power of communities to impose rent controls, ruling in a case from san jose, calif., that tenant hardships may be considered when regulating the increases sought by landlords
_ruled unanimously in an arkansas case that federal judges may not order the government to pay fees to lawyers who successfully obtain overdue federal welfare benefits for the aged, blind or disabled
_made it a bit easier for prosecutors to talk to criminal trial juries about a defendant's failure to testify as it reinstated a man's tennessee mail fraud conviction
_broadened protections for criminal defendants who claim they were enticed by law enforcement officials into committing a crime by overturning, 6-2, on entrapment grounds a milwaukee man's bribery conviction
democrat paul simon, admitting ``there is no sense in my fooling myself,'' said wednesday his battered presidential campaign is skipping the super tuesday primaries and caucuses to try to recover from four straight defeats
republican also-ran jack kemp vowed he, too, would press on despite an 0-5 record. unlike simon, the new york congressman said he would take his chances in the clump of primaries in the south and elsewhere on march 8
i'm in this all the way to new orleans'' and the gop convention in august, said kemp in beaufort, s.c
it is on to atlanta'' and the democratic convention in july, echoed simon at a washington news conference
simon, the illinois senator, has yet to win a democratic event, watching massachusetts michael dukakis and missouri rep. richard gephardt split the early contests. so he said he will skip the south and focus on his home state primary on march 15, one week after super tuesday
the campaign will begin anew after super tuesday, starting in illinois,'' simon said
money is the problem simon sees in the south
there is no sense in my fooling myself,'' the illinois democrat said. ``we just don't have the money.''
simon's campaign plunged into debt before the new hampshire primary, but he has collected close to half a million dollars in the past two weeks
we have had record-breaking fund-raising,'' simon said. ``monday, for example, $137,000 came in. we never had a day like that before. but you take $137,000 and then look at 20 states and what it would cost for a media buy, and you're talking about something that is nowhere near adequate.''
i'm not writing off the south. i want my friends there to vote for me,'' simon added. ``i'm realistic about resources. i simply cannot do everything.''
on the republican side, kemp said he was outspent in the tuesday contests in south dakota and minnesota, but that would not happen in the south. senate gop leader bob dole won both contests, with former evangelist pat robertson coming in second. vice president george bush trailed
we beat bush in minnesota. ... i was outspent 8-to-1 by dole and probably 10-to-1 by robertson. we're going to match them dollar-for-dollar in the south and in south carolina,'' kemp said
kemp's hopes have been badly shaken by robertson's strong showing in the early caucus states. and robertson has said that he will win the south carolina primary on march 5, the door-opener to the super tuesday primaries
i think last night proved the race is wide open. that's all i really needed. i needed to break up the idea that this is a bush-dole race. this is no longer a bush-dole race,'' kemp added
kemp finished second in michigan, third in new hampshire and minnesota and fourth in iowa and south dakota
among the democrats, simon said he has concluded that the super tuesday contests will continue the early pattern of confusing results with no clear front-runner emerging _ leading to a brokered convention in atlanta
super tuesday is likely to result in a very mixed picture,'' he said. ``phase one of the selection process ends on march 8. ... but we do not have the resources for winning in the super tuesday states.''
phase two of the selection process begins march 15. i shall use phase two to deliver the message that we must become a nation with leadership characterized by compassion and vision and common sense. it is on to atlanta with that message.''
he cited ``growing evidence that for the first time in recent history there will be no first-ballot winner at the democratic convention.''
simon claimed he was in second place in the delegate count, but the ap count places simon in third place with 33 delegates, behind dukakis with 44.5 and gephardt with 39. simon aides said he is claiming delegates out of minnesota, even though the returns allocating the delegates there will not be known until march 8
simon is on the ballot in all the super tuesday primaries, but he said he will do little or no campaigning in those states _ except for the nationally televised debates that are a major feature of the next two weeks
simon's best day so far was in iowa on feb. 8, where he finished a very close second to gephardt. he was third in new hampshire and then fourth in the tuesday contests
two of the networks have decided that the super tuesday primary is so unlikely to produce a clear winner in the presidential nominating races that they are cutting back on their planned prime-time coverage
cbs had planned to pre-empt its entire prime-time schedule for super tuesday coverage on march 8, but decided tuesday to cut back to two hours. nbc, which had planned a two-hour special, cut it to one hour
the reasoning is that after iowa and new hampshire, we determined that super tuesday was not going to be as conclusive as previously thought,'' said nbc news spokesman bill mcandrew. ``in planning coverage, we protectively booked two hours and decided we could cover it comprehensively in one.''
gene f. jankowski, president of the cbs broadcast group, said the network decided the public wasn't interested enough in the primary results to spend more than two hours
what we did was took a look at the public's attitude in iowa, what the public's reaction to the coverage in new hampshire was and did a reevaluation of what the reaction was going to be to the primaries that take place on march 8 and said to ourselves, from an editorial point of view and journalistic point of view, can we really fill three hours in a meaningful way that the audience would want to watch?'' he said
abc was sticking to its plan to have two hours of coverage, despite the fact that tuesday is its highest-rated night of prime-time programming. cnn will have comprehensive coverage throughout the evening, beginning at 6 p.m. est
on pbs, ``the macneil-lehrer newshour'' will wait until wednesday to assess the results
because we're not stupid, we're going to avoid projecting or predicting what may happen,'' said associate editor jim lehrer. ``it is so diverse and diffused down there, who knows what all of these many, many results are going to add up to when it's all said and done.''
this is the first year for super tuesday, when 20 states, most of them in the south, will select delegates to the two presidential nominating conventions. coverage of the event, stretching from massachusetts to american samoa, has confounded the networks, who are additionally hampered by budget cutbacks in the news divisions
before the presidential campaign began, the networks believed super tuesday would likely clinch the race in one or both parties. but after the iowa caucuses and the new hampshire primary failed to produce clear frontrunners, the networks decided super tuesday was less likely to be decisive
the networks are backing and filling. they're less sure than they were that we'll actually know who the nominee will be,'' said abc correspondent jeff greenfield. ``you have to assume at present it's going to be an extremely diffuse result. we may come out of this not knowing a thing.''
president reagan on wednesday sent congress the ``truth in federal spending act'' aimed at attacking budget deficits with a pay-as-you-go approach to new programs
the legislative proposal is part of the ``economic bill of rights'' reagan announced last july. it would force the executive and legislative branches to spell out the costs of programs and legislation
reagan said the bill ``will help us carry out the important goals'' reflected in the deficit-reduction accord reached in the aftermath of the oct. 19 wall street crash
faced with indications of growing investor uneasiness with red-ink budgets, reagan and leading lawmakers signed the nov. 20 agreement calling for a two-year, $76 billion reduction program
that accord also provided for $9 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1988, which began oct. 1, and $14 billion in fiscal 1989
in asking for enactment of the truth-in-spending bill, reagan said the agreement with congressional leaders ``reflects a strong consensus that federal spending must be brought under control.''
protecting the federal budget from special interest, budget-busting legislation requires a continued, ongoing commitment,'' he said in a message to congress. ``despite recent encouraging efforts to bring the federal budget deficit under control, major problems persist.''
the truth-in-spending proposal was among several reagan unveiled last july 3 in a speech at the jefferson memorial here
other components of the so-called ``economic bill of rights'' included a balanced budget amendment and line-item veto authority for presidents. it also contained a proposal to require a ``super-majority'' vote, rather than a simple majority, for enactment of tax hikes
the truth-in-spending legislation would require executive agencies and the congress to submit legislation and programs that are ``revenue neutral.''
each piece of legislation would have to be accompanied by a financial impact statement showing how much it would cost, and proposing concurrent cuts in other programs, or increases in federal revenues, to cover the costs
reagan said in his message he wanted to make it clear that there is no intent in the legislation ``simply to shift'' the costs of legislation from the federal to state and local governments
in another development, reagan budget director james c. miller iii said the president will not propose legislation to rescind pork-barrel spending as he promised in his state of the union address
it will not be in the form of a package of rescissions, but a list'' for congress to review, he told the senate appropriations committee. the president will be ``leaving it up to you, members of congress,'' he said
if the president proposed rescissions, those accounts would be frozen for 45 days while congress decided whether to make the cuts permanent in a process with procedural advantages. the list, however, would have no force of law
sen. mark o. hatfield, r-ore., criticized the administration for focusing so much attention on small items that ``really add up to a hill of beans'' compared to the huge budget deficit problems. ``every dollar counts,'' he said, ``but keep matters in perspective.''
hatfield also complained that the administration touts its own initiatives _ such as buying new leather flight jackets for the military _ as good government while congressional priorities become ``pork barrel.''
former colorado gov. richard lamm says the next president of the united states could end up in history books like herbert hoover, who was the nation's leader during the great depression
i think there is a four-out-of-10 chance that it's 1929 over again,'' lamm said tuesday in an address to journalism students at the university of denver
lamm, who practices law, also teaches at the university
i think there is a six-out-of-10 chance that it's a very severe recession that's going to cause lots of trouble,'' he said
lamm said he's not sure if any of the current presidential candidates are willing to take the tough steps he thinks are needed to deal with the nation's economic problems, including massive cutbacks in the federal budget
he was asked by one student if he ever considered himself presidential timber
would i like to run for president of the united states?'' lamm said. ``i not only would not like to run for president of the united states, but if the good fairy godmother would come down tomorrow and offer me the presidency of the united states for the next four years, i would say `no.'''
the chairmen of both major political parties are supporting a national student-parent mock election scheduled for nov. 3, five days before the real election that will determine the next president
two million students and parents took part in the 1984 mock election, picking president reagan as did the general electorate
the organizers, based in tucson, ariz., have the support of 46 national civic, religious and educational organizations, and former presidents ford and carter are honorary chairmen
both frank j. fahrenkopf, jr., chairman of the republican national committee, and paul kirk, chairman of the democratic national committee, joined in a statement urging educators to support the mock election
it is open to students of all ages, from kindergarten through college. participants will meet at local, state and national ``election headquarters'' on the thursday before election day to cast votes for federal offices and to make recommendations on key national issues
the party chairmen said it was one way to help overcome youth apathy about voting
four out of five eligible voters under age 30 never bothered to go to the polls in the last election, kirk said
a political activist peddled one of the most popular pins at last weekend's state republican convention: ``nixon in 88.''
mary stanley of fresno, calif., said she had sold more than 600 of them at other political events around the nation this year
the pins are popular with conservatives ``who wish he was doing our negotiating with the russians instead of the people we have now,'' said stanley, who made news in 1984 when she resigned from the state republican central committee to support democrat geraldine ferraro for vice president
she said many people also buy the nixon buttons for fun or because they can't decide which of this year's crop of republican presidential candidates to support
it's a fun thing,'' she said. ``with this button, they know they aren't going to get in trouble.''
a moslem guerrilla leader said wednesday that the united states has struck a secret deal with moscow to betray the insurgents fighting to overthrow afghanistan's soviet-backed government
gulbaddin hekmatyar, head of the extremist islamic party guerrilla group, reiterated his vow to keep fighting in afghanistan until peace is forged on the insurgents' terms
speaking to reporters and diplomats, he said evidence of washington's alleged betrayal was its acceptance of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's offer to begin removing red army troops from afghanistan on may 15 if a u.n.-sponsored peace accord is signed next month
soviet troops intervened in afghanistan in december 1979, and by western estimates 115,000 are still there
hekmatyar said the soviet pullout would leave the country in the hands of the communist kabul government, making it impossible for the nearly 5 million afghan refugees in pakistan and iran to return home
i don't think gorbachev (made the offer) without making a deal with the americans,'' he said
pakistan recently has insisted that any u.n. accord on foreign intervention in the afghan conflict include an agreement that an interim government would be installed in kabul during the withdrawal
asked why he thought the united states would betray the guerrillas after supporting them throughout the war, hekmatyar said, ``that's an impertinent question.''
asked whether his group would continue to accept u.s. military aid, he said, ``nobody can buy us or sell us out.''
the mujahedeen alliance, comprising the seven political factions of the insurgents, this week announced its own blueprint for a government to replace the soviet-backed one in kabul
it envisons a joint executive committee composed of all seven guerrilla leaders to preside over a 28-member cabinet composed of mujahedeen, afghan refugees and ``moslems presently living in kabul.''
the plan says the head of the cabinet would also be head of state but it did not suggest who would have that post
hekmatyar's said that if pakistan, the mujahedeen's headquarters, signed a u.n. accord without the guerrillas' approval, they might change their external operating base to iran
the next round of peace talks is scheduled to begin march 2 in geneva. islamabad, the capital of pakistan, and kabul have been the principal negotiators in the talks
pakistan has indicated it might not sign any agreement until a new government is installed in kabul. exporters</head>
president reagan said wednesday the decline in the value of the dollar has opened opportunities for u.s. exporters but they could be undermined by protectionist legislation being considered in congress
the fact that the dollar's exchange rate is at a far more realistic level is of great significance'' to the market for u.s. exports, the president told members of export now, a public-private group organized by the commmerce department
new opportunities are emerging because of the adjustment in the value of the dollar,'' he said. ``at the current exchange rates many american companies can now quote a lower price to customers in hamburg, antwerp or osaka than their competitors and still make a higher profit than on sales in the domestic market.''
in addition, he said, ``in the last few years, american industry has been going through an unprecedented period of renovation, computerization and modernization.''
what we don't need now, however, is protectionisn that undermines all the progress we've made,'' the president said
i strongly urge congress to send me a trade bill that does not imperil our ability to export by causing other countries to close their markets,'' he said. ``we shouldn't shoot ourselves in the foot after we have worked so hard and are in a position to win the race.''
the president said legislation being considered by a house-senate conference committee contains provisions that encourage exports ``and we don't want to lose those.''
but he said other provisions would violate the general agreement on trade and tariffs and make u.s. business less competitive
we ask for your support to ensure that we don't end up with an economy-killing, protectionist bill,'' reagan told the group
secretary of commerce william verity introduced reagan, saying he was to ``make introductory remarks and wave the flag.''
verity said the president had told him ``in no uncertain terms'' that the comemrce department would lead an effort to expand sale of u.s. goods overseas. the commerce secretary said there ``has been a tremendous improvement in the climate for exporting.'' he attributed that to an exchange rate that favors the united states and to an administration in washington ``that cares and would like to do more'' to stimulate u.s. sales abroad. floor</head> comments; subs pvs 3rd graf, bgng: it was, to correct times; subs pvs 4th graf, bgng: giugni found, to correct precedent; subs pvs 19th graf, bgng: democrats and, to correct to 52 co-sponsors sted 56; adds 2 grafs to give arrest precedent</note>
washington _ republicans angrily complained of ``banana republic'' tactics wednesday after armed capitol police broke into gop sen. bob packwood's locked office, arrested him and hauled him feet-first into the senate chamber during an all-night filibuster over democratic campaign finance legislation
on a motion by senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., sergeant at arms henry k. giugni was handed warrants for the arrest of absent republican senators, thus forcing them to answer a quorum call and keep the filibuster alive
it was after midnight, more than 10 hours after the filibuster began, when giugni and five armed plainclothes capitol policemen began stalking senate hideaways and senators' suites in nearby office buildings
giugni found several senators' offices empty but saw sen. steve symms, r-idaho, running down a hallway to escape arrest. then in an extraordinary incident that the senate historian said had not occurred since 1942, giugni used a passkey to unlock packwood's office door
bob witeck, a spokesman for the oregon republican, said packwood resisted and somehow jammed a finger he had broken two weeks ago in a fall. ``he tried to hold the door closed with his shoulder, but they were able to push it open,'' witeck said
i had to shove in the door to get into his office,'' said giugni, a stocky army veteran of world war ii and former vice squad policeman in honolulu. ``i think he hurt his finger. he was very courteous.''
packwood walked with giugni and his police escort a block or so from the russell senate office building to the senate wing of the capitol but refused to ``walk on the floor willingly,'' witeck said
at that point, three policemen grabbed packwood by his ankles and both arms and carried him bodily into the senate chamber, feet first. packwood later went to a hospital, where x-rays showed that his left hand _ enclosed in a cast _ had not been reinjured during the scuffle with giugni
i rather enjoyed it,'' packwood told reporters later. ``i instructed four of my staff to bring a sedan chair. but except for the honor of it, i'd rather walk.''
packwood said he bolt-locked his main office door after his staff reported that giugni would try to arrest him
the senator said ``it sounded like a battering ram'' at the door, with his shoulder pushing from inside against three shoulders on the other side. ``their mass beat my mass,'' packwood said, adding that he suffered only swollen knuckles
giugni served the arrest warrant signed by the presiding officer, sen. brock adams, d-wash., after 1 a.m
on a more serious note, packwood said the campaign spending bill has no chance of becoming law, because senate republicans have more than enough votes to sustain a certain veto by president reagan, and that byrd succeeded only in alienating his gop colleagues
packwood's arrest provoked angry clashes between democrats and republicans. sen. arlen specter, r-pa., said the incident brought to mind the police-state measures of ``nazi germany and communist russia.'' he protested that packwood was hustled into the senate chamber like a ``common criminal.''
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, complained of ``banana republic'' tactics, and said packwood's arrest ``flaunted the constitution of the united states.'' he proposed a change in the senate rules to forbid any future arrest of absentee senators
sen. john kerry, d-mass., responded that republican senators had engaged in a ``shameful display'' of fleeing the chamber to avoid a quorum call, requiring giugni to search them down like a ``headmaster chasing schoolchildren.''
senators went off in a dead sprint,'' said sen. dale bumpers, d-ark. ``they should have been in calgary in one of the olympic events.''
the incident was prompted by a walkout by republican senators from the filibuster that they had started in opposition to the democratic proposal to impose voluntary spending limits in general election campaigns for the senate
the republicans charge that the bill was a democratic attempt to discriminate against them in states with a heavy democratic edge in registered voters. they began a filibuster early tuesday afternoon to prevent the democratic majority from bringing the bill to a floor vote they are virtually certain to win
but when the gop senators failed to answer repeated quorum calls requiring the presence of a majority of no fewer than 51 senators, byrd invoked a parliamentary rule that requires every senator to attend floor sessions unless excused. after a series of roll calls failed to lure republicans back to the floor, byrd moved to have the sergeant at arms arrest the absentees and escort them to the chamber
his motion was approved, 45-3, with dissenting votes cast by democrats howell heflin and richard shelby of alabama and dennis deconcini of arizona. the arrest warrants were signed by adams, who was presiding over the senate at the time
byrd said later he had no choice but to resort to the arrest tactic because only 50 senators _ one short of a majority _ had answered the last quorum call and three democrats were unavoidably absent. he appealed for an end to the republicans' ``guerrilla warfare'' against the bill
the senate rules provide that the sergeant at arms can be ordered to ``request'' or ``compel'' the attendance of absentees. if that doesn't work, the senate can ``direct the sergeant at arms or his deputies to arrest absent senators and bring them to the bar of the senate.''
democrats and republicans have been at loggerheads for nearly a year over the democratic proposal, which has 52 co-sponsors, to impose voluntary senate campaign spending limits of $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population
under the bill, a candidate who observes the voluntary spending limit would get campaign funds from the treasury if an opponent exceeded the limit or an independent group spent large amounts of money in opposition
senate historian richard baker said the last time something similar to the packwood incident ocurred was on nov. 23, 1942, when a deputy sergeant at arms carried a subpoena to the mayflower hotel and escorted sen. kenneth mckellar, d-tenn., to the senate floor for a vote on poll tax legislation
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz will find israel deeply divided over how best to approach peace negotiations with the arabs
shultz's mission will take him to neighboring arab states, but he will also have to shuttle between conservative prime minister yitzhak shamir and his liberal foreign minister shimon peres
it may be difficult to wring concessions from shamir. many in his likud bloc are grumbling about the american timing, worried that any change of position will create the impression that israel is giving in to arab rioters
the country is in a very defiant mood,'' said a shamir adviser, adding that any hint of u.s. pressure would likely backfire
the shamir aide said he doubted an agreement on starting negotiations with the arabs was not possible in the five days shultz has set aside for his trip
a more upbeat assessment came from yossi beilin, director-general of the foreign ministry
we are welcoming the initiative. we are welcoming the timing. we understand, all of us, that there is no military solution for the uprising in the territories but only a peaceful solution,'' beilin said
i am far from thinking that it is an impossible mission,'' he added
the main difference between peres and shamir is over whether israel should exchange territory captured in the 1967 middle east war for peace with the arabs. the two also disagree over whether israel should participate in an international peace conference
peres favors the return of some land and has agreed to jordanian king hussein's demand for an international conference
shamir opposes returning land and argues an international conference would be a biased forum and would give the soviet union too great a say
shultz has tried to find middle ground in one disagreement by proposing that arab-israeli talks be launched at an ``international event.''
shamir, who has accepted the idea of soviet-american auspices, has not closed the door to shultz's proposal but asked the secretary for clarification on what kind of format he has in mind
to satisfy the arabs, shultz needs israeli approval for a land-for-peace trade
but his mention of this formula in a recent speech irritated shamir and prompted him to send emissaries to washington to stress that no pledge to give up land would be made in advance
shamir hinted at the possibility that he was ready to negotiate territory. we are ready to negotiate on the territorial issue, but that doesn't mean we are ready to agree in advance to withdraw (from occupied lands),'' said yossi olmert, a legislator shamir sent to talk with shultz
a senior israel official who demanded anonymity said shultz would try to hammer out guidelines for arab-israeli talks on both a temporary and a permament solution in the west bank and gaza strip
the first obstacle he faces in this quest is a u.s.-proposed, yearlong timetable designed to get the process moving before u.s. and israeli elections in november
according to his schedule, an international conference would convene in april. elections for a palestinian self-rule council would follow in october, and in december, talks would begin on a final settlement
shultz's formula is designed to overcome arab suspicions that negotiations would never move beyond the limited autonomy idea, a concept rejected by the palestinians since it was first proposed in the 1978 camp david accords
the palestinians seek an independent state, which is opposed by israelis on both the right and left
shamir has demanded a confidence-building period of several years to set the stage for talks on a final disposition of the west bank and gaza strip
not even the most optimistic israelis are predicting shultz will iron out the final guidelines for talks during his visit. the best they hope for is an ``initial breakthrough'' that will set the stage for further trips by shultz or other u.s. officials
shultz was dealt an early setback when palestinian moderates were banned by yasser arafat's palestine liberation organization from meeting with the secretary in jerusalem
without palestinian participation, the new u.s. peace initiative is unlikely to have the desired calming effect on rioting in the occupied lands
in fact, his visit may have the opposite effect. responding to leaflets calling for anti-shultz protests, a general strike was launched on the eve of shultz's visit and israeli security officials are preparing for an escalation of violence
nicolas b. tatro, bureau chief in jerusalem, has been based in israel since 1983 and served in cairo, beirut and tehran since 1977
a man who allegedly made a false report that he was in the wreckage of a plane crash was indicted on a federal charge wednesday
u.s. attorney richard wiebusch said mark blair, 29, would face up to five years in prison and a fine if convicted on the charge of making a false statement to a federal government agency
blair is accused of talking by radio for four hours with an airborne navy plane on jan. 8, saying that he was aboard a small jet that crashed near meredith, killing one and injuring three. the navy plane also detected intermittent beeping from an emergency locator transmitter
officials said as many as 100 people, 15 planes, five helicopters, six police agencies, a snowmobile club and search dogs joined in the search for the aircraft. harold buker, state aeronautics director, said the search may have cost as much as $50,000
blair, who was arrested blair at his apartment four days after the hoax, already faces a state misdemeanor charge
the later life of josephine baker, the american entertainer known as ``the darling of paris'' in the jazz age, is documented in a collection of personal papers, photographs and clippings acquired by the yale university library
the collection was assembled by harry harford janes of england, who died last year before he could complete a biography of her. yale's beinecke rare book and manuscript library bout the collection at auction in london in december
i knew that she was of ongoing interest,'' patricia willis, beinecke curator of american literature, said wednesday
baker, who died in 1975 at age 69, was known for her opulent costumes, singing and exotic dancing in the folies bergere in the 1920s
the st. louis native first dazzled french audiences in 1925 in her performance in the revue negre, or the black review, when she dressed in scarlet ostrich plumes and danced on a mirrored drum
that role, along with her love of the exotic, illustrated by a daily stroll down the champs elysees with her leashed pet leopard, earned her another nickname _ ``siren of the tropics.''
she was the first to have highly unusual costumes and to work with a chorus that was extravagantly beautiful, making a whole image of the stage,'' willis said
the yale collection, acquired in december, focuses on the second half of her life, beginning with her work entertaining allied troops during world war ii, willis said
the collection includes letters from princess grace of monaco, and photographs and articles from the french and british press
baker and her husband, jo bouillion, adopted 12 children whom they dubbed their ``rainbow tribe.'' one picture shows baker with the entire clan by a swimming pool at les milandes, their home in southern france
willis said she did not know if a collection of papers documenting baker's earlier life exists, and she said she did now know of any major biography of her
the papers have become part of the beinecke's james weldon johnson collection of negro arts and letters in the library's american literature collection. est.</note>
a test of a redesigned nozzle-to-case joint for the space shuttle booster rocket was set for wednesday despite computer problems which forced a delay
the six-second test, the fourth of six nozzle joint environment simulator experiments and one of hundreds of tests of booster rocket components, was rescheduled for 3 p.m. mst at the wasatch operations plant of morton thiokol inc., 25 miles west of here
the joint was deliberately flawed to allow hot gases to blow past bonded adhesive insulation and one of three o-rings to reach the craft's main seal, or primary o-ring, said company spokesman rocky raab
he said the test was designed to evaluate the main seal's ability to contain any gases that might leak through the insulation and a ``wiper'' o-ring during a launch
the test had been scheduled for 1 p.m. but was delayed because of unspecified problems with a ground computer, raab said
engineers concluded after the third test of the joint on oct. 8 that the o-ring system withstood gas pressure after a deliberate flaw was built into the joint, which connects the nozzle to the body of the segmented booster rocket
however, during a full-scale test on dec. 23, a ``blow hole'' was detected in the joint's adhesive sealant _ a defect nasa had not built into the test but one which officials described as ``very benign.''
for wednesday's test, engineers created a quarter-inch by five-hundredths-inch hole through the bonded insulation and damaged the wiper o-ring _ two flaws aligned to assure a gas path in the joint up to the primary seal
raab said the double defects would subject the joint to ``a little bit more severe'' conditions than previous tests
again, it's another step in the process of ensuring that this is a fail-safe and fault-tolerant design,'' raab said. ``it builds our experience base on the behavior of the joint, and it also serves as a precursor for the april full-size motor firing, which will have similar flaws,'' raab said
blow holes can occur during assembly of the 126-foot rocket, ``so it happens here at the factory, if it happens,'' he said
raab said the test simulates ``the most difficult portion of the environment for the o-rings, that is the first one second'' of launch
the solid-fuel rocket booster was redesigned following the jan. 28, 1986, explosion of the shuttle challenger. the disaster, which killed the craft's seven-member crew, was blamed on a faulty seal in a booster joint that allowed hot gases to escape and ignite the shuttle's external fuel tank
while the blow hole detected in december was not considered a major problem, the failure of a nozzle boot ring during the same test prompted national aeronautics and space administration officials to push back the june 2 target date for resuming shuttle flights
the launch of discovery is now planned sometime in august
in addition to the final two njes tests scheduled before shuttle flights resume, nasa and morton thiokol will conduct several more joint environment simulator tests of the booster rocket and three more full-scale horizontal tests, the first one tentatively set for early april, raab said
up to 1 million taxpayers will receive federal refunds as much as three weeks earlier this year by having a professional file their tax returns directly into the irs computer
already this year, 119,494 returns have been filed electronically _ compared with 77,612 for the entire filing season in 1987. if the taxpayers choose, their refunds will be deposited directly into their bank account
although the number of electronic returns are up considerably this year, the volume of ordinary, paper returns filed so far is 6.7 percent below last year's pace. however, the gap _ which officials blame partially on the new tax law _ is closing each week
through feb. 19, the internal revenue service said wednesday, 23.55 million returns had been filed, compared with 25.24 million a year ago. the irs has processed 9.74 million of this year's returns, up slightly from 9.72 million last year
the inventory of unprocessed return totaled 13.8 million last week, compared with 15.5 million a year ago
the number of returns qualifying for refunds is down 14.4 percent, a decline that irs officials cannot explain. through last week, 3.8 million refunds had been certified; the figure was almost 4.5 million at this time last year
the average refund is bigger this year: $782 compared with $727. by the time all 107 million individual returns are filed this year, the irs estimates, nearly 80 percent will qualify for refunds averaging about $1,000
it is taking the irs about five weeks to process a return and certify a refund check this year. but those taxpayers who file electronically are getting refunds within two or three weeks
this is the third year of electronic filing, and within three or four more years, says richard f. moran, who manages the project, about 35 million returns will be filed annually by computer
electronic returns save the irs considerable time, said moran, and these returns generally have fewer errors that would delay a refund. the irs estimates electronic filing could save $200 million in processing and storage costs over the next 10 years
and if a taxpayer who files electronically chooses to have the refund deposited directly into a bank account, that saves the treasury 23 cents that would have been spent to issue and mail a paper check
so far, electronic filing is available only to taxpayers in 10 states and parts of four others who are due refunds and who pay any of about 2,000 professional preparers to fill out their returns. although the preparer sends the completed return directly into the irs computer by telephone line, the taxpayer must sign a signature form which is mailed to the irs
electronic filing is avaible in alabama, arizona, indiana, kentucky, nebraska, north carolina, utah, virginia, washington and wisconsin and in the albany and buffalo areas of new york, the sacramento and san jose areas of california and the cincinnati and dallas areas
all electronic returns are processed to irs centers in ogden, utah, or cincinnati
an anesthesiologist performed experiments on a comatose patient, his superior said wednesday after france's health minister suspended the doctor for experiments on another comatose patient
on tuesday, a professor of medicine testified in a criminal trial in the western city of poitiers that a doctor he did not identify had placed a deeply comatose patient, considered legally dead, on sabotaged medical equipoment
professor jean lassner said the experiment was carried out to see if the effects were the same in the case on trial, in which a young woman died, possibly from medical sabotage
maurice peria, director of the regional hospital center of amiens, said wednesday that the experiment was carried out by dr. alain milhaud on 24-year-old man who had been in a deep coma since late january. he said the man's family had been notified and the patient survived the experiment
the experiment was videotaped and sent to dr. lassner so he could use it at the trial,'' peria said. he said milhaud proceeded without the consent of the hospital
lassner gave his testimony in the trial of three doctors charged in the 1984 death of nicole berneron after her operation for a benign tumor at jean bernard hospital in poitiers
mrs. berneron, then 33 and the mother of two children, apparently received nitrous oxide instead of oxygen after the operation and died of asphyxiation. an investigation showed that the tubes had been switched
milhaud was condemned by the medical community after he admitted experimenting in 1985 on a 20-year-old comatose man
health minister michele barzach on wednesday ordered milhaud suspended from his duties in amiens, north of paris, and asked the state prosecutor to investigate to find out who had carried out the latest experiment
the minister, a doctor, said she was ``indignant and revolted that in this country one can carry out experiments on humans, obviously without their consent, given their state.''
in comments during the 1985 controversy, milhaud called patients in a prolonged, chronic vegetative state ``almost perfect human models, who constitute intermediaries between animal and man.''
in the 1985 experiment, he injected in two minutes a quart of blood into the patient's bone marrow to try to show this was a viable treatment for patients in shock. the man, comatose for three years, died within months but no link between the experiment and the death was established
president francois mitterrand condemned human experimentation
human beings are not instruments,'' he said. ``neither the search for truth nor scientific progress must distance us from this certitude, this value of civilization.''
the nation must double its spending on public works projects ranging from highways to waste disposal plants to keep them from falling into ruin, a government-appointed commission said wednesday
but in an era of high budget deficits and a push to reduce spending, not increase it, there are few signs that either congress or the white house is prepared to embrace the call for spending billions of additional dollars for such programs
sen. daniel patrick moynihan, d-n.y., said he was introducing legislation calling for an additional $5 billion a year in public works spending, but aides acknowledged there is little chance the bill would go far this election year
the white house gave little notice to the report by the national council on public works improvement, although it appointed three of its five members. the administration recently sent a proposed fiscal 1989 budget to congress calling for reduced highway and mass transit spending
the special government council, created four years ago to examine the nation's public works needs, concluded that ``the quality of america's infrastructure is barely adequate to meet current requirements and insufficient to meet the demands of future economic growth'' without sharply increased spending
for america's public works, the yellow light is flashing. the danger sign is apparent. there is serious and very real cause for alarm,'' joseph giglio, the council's chairman and a wall street investment banker
if we do not act to shore up our nation's infrastructure, we could very soon be faced with enormous problems that imperil future economic growth,'' giglio said at a news conference
the report called for all levels of government and the private sector to double their capital spending on public works projects from an annual level of $45 billion to $90 billion by the end of the century
the council criticized the federal government for hoarding funds in various public works trust funds _ a cash balance of $24 billion in 1987, according to the report _ but said additional revenue must also be obtained
it suggested possible sources of new money ranging from higher federal fuel taxes to local ``impact fees'' on developers
in most cases we cannot rely simply on wiser spending. we also must generate additional sources of funding,'' the council declared
the five council members acknowledged that the call for billions of dollars of increased spending for public works comes as a variety of social programs, the military and other government needs are competing for limited funds
to throw one more urgent monetary request into the pot may seem foolhardy,'' said panel member freeman holmer, president of eugene, ore., city council. ``it is anything but. ignoring our infrastructure, the foundation of our economy, will be even more costly in the long run.''
the study also included a ``report card'' on progress made in dealing with each major type of public works
the panel gave no failing grades. however, it raised serious concerns about efforts to deal with toxic wastes, which received a grade of d, as well as attempts to grapple with mass transit, solid waste disposal and waste water treatment needs. all three areas received a c or c-minus grade
highway programs did a little better with a c-plus. programs to manage water resources was given a b, the best grade, followed by b-minuses for aviation and water supply management
as a whole, this is a report card that would make most parents weep,'' said council member peter goldmark jr., a vice president of the times mirror co. of los angeles
discussing hazardous wastes, the council said that while spending to clean up contaminated sites has increased fivefold in the last two years, ``only a small fraction of the 2 tons of waste per capita produced in america each year is being treated safely.''
on water quality, the council suggested that governments at all levels have been fighting a losing battle. ``despite (a) $44 billion federal investment in sewage treatment since 1972, water quality has not improved significantly. ... due in part to uncontrolled sources of pollution ...,'' it said
the report said overall spending on public works has declined from 3.6 percent of the gross national product in 1960 to 2.6 percent in 1985. money for public works programs accounted for 20 percent of total government spending in 1950, but only 7 percent in 1984, it said
in effect, we're drawing down past investments without making commensurate investments of our own,'' the report said. ``failure to reverse this decline will exact a high price for the nation in the future both in the cost of deferred investment and in reduced economic competitiveness.''
other members of the council are lowell b. jackson, an engineering consultant from aurora, colo., and freida k. wallison, a washington, d.c., lawyer
the arrest warrant used by the senate to bring sen. bob packwood to the floor early wednesday left no question about what sergeant-at-arms henry giugni had to do
i had to take him in. i knew he was not going under his own power,'' giugni told reporters
the warrants given to giugni listed missing republican senators individually by name:
to henry k. giugni, sergeant-at-arms, united states senate:
the undersigned, presiding officer of the senate, by virtue of the power vested in me, hereby command you in pursuance of the order of the senate, this day made, to forthwith arrest and take into custody and bring to the bar of the senate, bob packwood, who is absent without leave
hereof fail not and make due return of this warrant.''
the order was signed by the presiding officer, who at the time was sen. brock adams, d-wash
packwood, r-ore., was physically carried onto the floor after giugni and five detectives shoved their way into his office
packwood later quipped to reporters, ``real men don't get arrested by brock adams.''
here is a look at the major differences between prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres on peacemaking strategy and the plan by u.s. secretary of state george shultz:
international conference _ peres has agreed to jordan's demand that the five permament members of the u.n. security council meet to start peace talks
shamir opposes the idea, arguing such a forum would be weighted against israel and would give the soviet union too much of a say
land-for-peace _ peres favors territorial compromise, returning some of the land captured in the 1967 middle east war for peace agreements with jordan, syria and other arab states
shamir says he is willing to negotiate the territorial issue, but he will not pledge in advance that israel will return any land. his party views the west bank and gaza strip as essential to israel's security
both leaders agree to giving palestinians some form of autonomy as a temporary solution in the occupied lands
shultz plan _ shamir has expressed reservations, especially over u.s. proposals to start talks by the end of the year on a final disposition of the occupied lands. he insists the five-year interim period called for in the camp david accords is needed to build trust between the palestinians and israelis
peres has not objected to any elements publicly
soviet involvement _ peres has argued the soviets are already involved in the region. he conditions soviet participation on a significant change in the number of jews allowed to come to israel. he has placed less emphasis on a demand for full diplomatic relations
shamir opposes any opening that will increase soviet influence and has insisted on full diplomatic relations and free emigration for soviet jews as conditions for any soviet role
plo _ peres leaves open the possibility of talking to plo chairman yasser arafat if the palestine liberation organization ends all forms of violence against israel and accepts the right of the jewish state to exist
shamir rules out any dealings with plo leaders
three democratic presidential candidates could lose future federal matching funds based on poor showings in the south dakota primary but they have 30 days to turn that around before the money is cut off
democrats jesse jackson, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee and former colorado sen. gary hart became ineligible for matching funds by attaining less than 10 percent of the vote in two successive primaries _ south dakota on tuesday and new hampshire a week earlier
but election law stays the actual cut-off of money for 30 days after the second primary, giving the candidates a chance to re-establish their matching fund status by doing better in a subsequent primary
during the 30 days, the candidates can continue to receive federal matching funds for every contribution of $250 or less that they raise privately
there is absolutely no harm done to the campaign by this,'' said gore spokesman paul risley. he added that gore, by focusing his campaign on the south, had never expected to do well in new hampshire or south dakota but anticipated better results before the 30-day period ended
the candidates can regain eligibility by achieving a 20 percent or better showing in a successive primary
that means they have a chance to redeem themselves on march 8 when the super tuesday series of 20 primaries occurs. most of the states are in the south, where both jackson and gore have strong support
jackson's campaign manager, gerald austin, said he anticipates no problem in keeping matching-fund eligibility. he said that since jackson's respectable showing in iowa's caucuses on feb. 8, when he came in fourth, the campaign has raised $400,000
hart's possibilities are weaker. his campaign organization is tiny and he raised only $70,000 during january
the matching money is distributed from an u.s. treasury account that is supported by the voluntary $1 checkoff on individual income tax forms
gop contender pat robertson dropped below the 10 percent threshhold in new hampshire, but he redeemed himself with a 20 percent showing in south dakota
to be declared eligible initially by the fec, a candidate must raise $100,000 across 20 states in contributions of $250 or less
prince charles said tuesday he has banned the use of aerosols in his household because of concern that they damage the environment, and so far the only problem has been finding an alternative to hair spray
aerosols contain chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) which float into the stratosphere and attack the ozone layer, a 20-mile-deep belt of protective gas around the earth
we are always told that it is not scientifically proved,'' charles said
but i, personally, as i have become older and more autocratic, have banned the use of aerosols in my household.''
in a light-hearted reference to his wife, princess diana, the 39-year-old heir to the british throne added:
trouble still remains with finding adequate and good enough alternatives to hair spray _ as i am sure all husbands here will find.''
he spoke to representatives of businesses which won awards for improving the environment under a program organized by the royal society of arts
he said the award-winners had found solutions to environmental problems, ``so if anybody can come up with a really good answer, an alternative to hair sprays, then for god's sake do so and i will come and give the award next year.''
the environmental group friends of the earth welcomed the prince's action, but said he did not have to ban sprays completely from his household
there are environmentally safe alternatives for every single kind of spray, including hair spray,'' said charles secrett, a spokesman for the group
holes in the ozone layer allow the sun's ultraviolet rays to reach the earth, causing skin cancer and threatening to damage crops and alter weather patterns
the supreme court was told wednesday that police should be allowed to pursue someone who starts running at the sight of them without having any other reason to suspect a crime has been committed
the alternative is for the police to shrug their shoulders and let a crime occur,'' said andrea l. solak, an assistant state prosecutor from detroit
but carole m. stanyar, representing a man who started running when he spotted a police cruiser on a detroit street, said, ``people run from the police for a variety of reasons.'' she said some people fear harassment, that they will be falsely accused of a crime or ``they may not like the police.''
the justices, hearing arguments in a case that could expand police power to stop people on the street, reacted skeptically to ms. stanyar's assrtions
don't you think sound law enforcement would want (the police) to see what's up?'' asked justice antonin scalia
justice thurgood marshall suggested that ms. stanyar's client, michael mose chesternut, initiated the chase. ``could it be he had a guilty conscience?'' marshall said
michigan authorities are seeking to reinstate as evidence drugs dropped by chesternut, who was standing on a detroit street corner talking to another man a little after midnight on dec. 19, 1984, when he saw the cruiser
police said chesternut immediately started running away and they followed him in the car. after turning a corner and as the cruiser drew alongside of him, chesternut threw a number of packets to the ground and then stopped
the officers said they picked up the packets, which appeared to contain narcotics, and they then arrested chesternut. he was charged with possessing heroin, codeine and diazapan
a judge in detroit threw the case out on grounds police lacked a reasonable suspicion to pursue chesternut and therefore seized the evidence unlawfully
michigan law enforcement officials said the judge may have dismissed the case out of a concern for innocent joggers
mrs. solak argued wednesday that the show of police authority which apparently prompted chesternut to drop the packets and stop did not amount to an illegal search and seizure barred by the constitution's fourth amendment
she also said that when chesternut dropped the packets he abandoned any right of privacy he had to protect them from a police search
ms. stanyar countered that chesternut reasonably believed he was being seized when police chased him and acted in ``an aggressive and confrontational'' manner
under the circumstances, a reasonable person would feel he was not free to leave,'' she said. he was prevented from asserting ``his right to go on his way,'' she said
the supreme court previously has held that police must have a reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing before stopping and questioning someone in a public place. the court also has said police must have more specific probable cause to believe a crime has been committed when arresting or detaining someone
a ruling in the case argued wednesday is expected by july
the case is michigan vs. chesternut, 86-1824
vice president george bush, saying ``you can't win them all,'' said wednesday he was disappointed but not surprised by finishing third in south dakota's republican presidential primary and fourth in minnesota's gop caucuses
i think the result was somewhat anticipated,'' he told reporters, but ``you can't go everywhere.''
in south dakota on tuesday, bush finished behind sen. bob dole of kansas and pat robertson, while bush trailed dole, robertson and rep. jack kemp of new york in minnesota
bush won the new hampshire primary feb. 16 after coming in third in iowa's gop caucuses feb. 8 behind dole and robertson
we've done well out there,'' bush said. ``we've won in michigan (at the convention jan. 29-30) and in nevada (in a non-binding straw poll at caucuses feb. 18). so you can't win them all,'' he added
bush is favored in maine's republican town caucuses this weekend. bush said that ``i think we have to do our best. the same is true for all these southern states'' in the march 8 super tuesday balloting, which also includes primaries in massachusetts and rhode island
state sen. pamela cahill, a leader of dole's maine campaign, said he is ``still optimistic'' but she did not expect him to win; instead, she said, at best, dole will finish second or third in maine
meanwhile, in burlington, vt., on wednesday, bush asked robertson to apologize or provide proof for suggestions that political motivations were behind the timing of reports of sexual misconduct by television evangelist jimmy swaggart
robertson, a former tv evangelist, provided no evidence to support his accusation on the timing, and declined to say who might be behind any such effort. but he claimed bush's campaign was the only one in the gop engaging in ``dirty tricks.'' robertson said it was odd that swaggart's tearful confession of sin came just two weeks before super tuesday
by sundown in the old south, i'd like to see him stand up like a southern gentleman with a little evidence,'' bush said. ``i'd like to see an apology or proof.''
bush was in vermont to meet with supporters, and shook hands with about 100 backers at burlington airport. he said he was looking for a victory in vermont, which holds a non-binding presidential primary next tuesday
asked whether he would support a regional approach to federal dairy policy, a key issue in vermont, bush said he has not taken a firm stand on the matter. attack</head>
the bechtel group inc. offered in 1985 to sell oil to israel at a discount of at least $650 million for 10 years if it promised not to bomb a proposed iraqi pipeline, a foreign ministry official said wednesday
but then-prime minister shimon peres said the offer from bruce rappaport, a partner in the san francisco-based construction and engineering company, was ``unimportant,'' the senior official told the associated press
peres, now foreign minister, never discussed the offer with other government ministers, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the comments marked the first time israel has acknowledged any offer was made for assurances not to bomb the planned $1 billion pipeline, which was to have run near israel's border with jordan. the pipeline was never built
in san francisco, tom flynn, vice president for public relations for the bechtel group, said the company did not make any offer to peres but that rappaport, a swiss financier, made it without bechtel's knowledge or consent
another bechtel spokesman, al donner, said bechtel ``at no point'' in development of the pipeline project had anything to do with the handling of the oil. he said proposals submitted by the company ``did not include any specific arrangements for the handling of the oil or for the disposal of the oil once it reached the terminal.''
asked about bechtel's disclaimers after they were made in san francisco, the israeli foreign ministry official said peres believed rappaport made the offer for the company
rappaport came to peres as a representative of bechtel and said he was speaking on behalf of bechtel,'' the official said. ``if he was not, he misrepresented himself.''
the jerusalem post on wednesday quoted sources close to peres as saying that according to rappaport, bechtel had said the oil sales would have to be conducted through a third party to keep the sales secret from iraq and jordan
the foreign ministry official said peres did not take the offer seriously
this is a man who sees 10 people every day,'' he said. ``thirty percent of them come with crazy ideas. he just says, `yes, yes. we'll think about it.' that's how things work in israel.''
the offer appeared to be the one mentioned in a september 1985 memo to attorney general edwin meese iii. the memo referred to an arrangement between peres and rappaport ``to the effect that israel will receive somewhere between $65 million and $70 million a year for 10 years.''
the memo from meese friend e. robert wallach, rappaport's attorney, also states, ``what was also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor,'' a reference to the political party peres leads
the wallach memo has become the focus of an investigation into whether meese knew of a possibly improper payment. peres has denied any wrongdoing and has denounced the memo as ``complete nonsense.''
the israeli official said rappaport, a native of israel and a close friend of peres, relayed the offer to peres earlier in september
peres thought the offer was unimportant. for him, the most important thing was to have an iraqi oil port near israel's border,'' the official said
the thinking was that this would put iraq in a position where it would not be able to wage war with israel, out of concern for its pipeline.''
a person answering the telephone at rappaport's swiss residence said he was out of town and could not be reached for comment
sailors from an american guided-missile cruiser risked their lives in a three-hour operation to free a 30-ton sperm whale tangled in fishing nets in the arabian sea, u.s. officials said tuesday
at one point, lt.j.g. james m. syvertsen of wading river, n.y., rode the back of the 40-foot mammal like ``something out of a rodeo'' while cutting the nylon cords, according to a navy news release issued in manama
he was one of four divers who went into the water to cut the nets loose in the dangerous operation sunday
in the end, the female whale was freed and swam off, with one last piece of line dangling ``like dental floss'' between its teeth, according to capt. clinton j. coneway, skipper of the cruiser truxtun.
through the ordeal the whale made no attempts to harm the swimmers. it seemed that she knew they were trying to help,'' said coneway. ``all in all it was a most unusual and rewarding way to spend a sunday afternoon. jacques cousteau would be proud.''
the rescue occurred after crewmen aboard a helicopter from the nuclear-powered carrier enterprise spotted the whale floating listlessly. the helicopter was on a routine patrol and the crew dropped smoke flares to mark the spot for the truxtun, which was 30 miles away
the two ships are part of a u.s. battle group that arrived in the arabian sea earlier this month to support naval operations in the persian gulf
the helicopter crewmen said they thought the whale was dead until they ``saw water spouting from its blowhole,'' according to petty officer james cox, a rescue specialist aboard the helicopter
rear adm. guy zeller, commander of the enterprise's escort group, ordered the truxtun to the scene
its crew used grappling hooks to snag the net and pull the tired animal next to the ship where they worked to remove the net. the navy said the nylon net was a type used by fishermen in the area, but it was ``of unknown orgin.''
curtis michitsch of reno, nev., was lowered in a sling to cut the nets
when he became exhausted, he was replaced by seaman gerald samples of wilbur, neb
although they appeared to have nearly freed the whale, which swam a short distance away, coneway said he feared the animal still might not survive because of the the remaining nets and he dispatched a whaleboat to overtake it
syvertsen, one of two volunteers, became entangled in the net for about 15 minutes, and finally was relieved by seaman adam webber, a rescue swimmer from portland, maine, who finished the task
coneway said he doubted at first his sailors would be able to free the whale from the ``tangled mess,'' but ``i completely underestimated the ingenuity, perseverance and courage of truxtun's swimmers and deck force.''
about 5,000 lawyers marched on parliament on wednesday to demand the ouster of india's top policewoman, and they vowed to continue a strike that began because police handcuffed a lawyer who allegedly rifled a woman's purse
the lawyers voted by show of hands to keep up their paralyzing boycott of new delhi's district courts and india's supreme court, which has been shut since feb. 15
the dispute also closed courts around the country monday when an estimated 500,000 lawyers struck in sympathy for their new delhi colleagues. that strike also continues
the object of their ire is kiran bedi, a deputy police commissioner who has a reputation for stepping on toes. she made headlines last year by arresting a member of parliament for violating curfew laws
the continuance of ms. kiran bedi in her official position is detrimental to the interests of justice,'' the lawyers said in a petition to the government
she has struck a blow at the independence of the judiciary, which we will not allow, '' protest leader gobinda mukhoty told the lawyers' demonstration
home minister buta singh on wednesday rejected demands to suspend ms. bedi, 38
the controversy began jan. 4 when students at a college caught a man who allegedly rifled a female student's purse
he was handed over to police and taken in handcuffs to district court, where he identified himself as rajesh agnihotri, a new delhi lawyer
angry district court lawyers went on strike the following day to protest the handcuffing of a colleague and demanded the suspension of the police officers involved
on jan. 21, striking lawyers picketed the office of ms. bedi, who has jurisdiction over the agnihotri district, where the arrest took place
police charged the corridors with bamboo clubs to disperse the barristers, injuring 13 lawyers. the following day, the high court bar association joined the strike, and the supreme court lawyers followed suit on feb. 15
the lawyers say that ms. bedi was responsible for ordering police to charge them with clubs. but they underestimated her public support. more than 1,000 people demonstrated in her favor on feb. 17
ms. bedi was the first female member of the indian police service, the training ground for senior officers
in the past, she has booked several senior officials and politicians for traffic violations in the indian capital, where such minor indiscretions by the powerful are routinely ignored
ms. bedi has been uncharacteristically silent on the lawyers' strike and her office has refused to comment. she met with lawyers on the eve of the national strike in an unsuccessful pitch to call it off
lawyer ram jethmalani said the issue goes beyond the recent handcuffing incident
we are against this officer because she represents an evil principle, the arrogance of the executive,'' he said
jethmalani, considered one of india's best criminal lawyer, said the strike would cause difficulties to litigants
i want the people to suffer a little inconvenience. this show of solidarity will help us serve the people better,'' he said
but new delhi's largest daily newspaper, the hindustan times, rendered a different verdict
the lawyers must plead guilty to the charge of having ignored their obligation to the clients and the society at large,'' it said
margaret thatcher rebuked ireland on tuesday for conducting its own investigation of the death of a man killed by a gunshot from a british army observation post just inside northern ireland
the prime minister said she did ``not think it right or possible'' under the 1985 anglo-irish agreement for the irish republic to investigate the shooting sunday of aidan mcanespie, 23, in the british province
during the house of commons question-and-answer period, she declared: ``the irish government can inquire into anything they wish, but not of course into matters north of the border.'' the anglo-irish accord gives ireland an advisory role in the northern ireland affairs in an effort to redress grievances of roman catholics in the protestant-dominated province
mrs. thatcher's remarks appeared likely to worsen relations, already strained by disputes that include britain's refusal to prosecute police officers involved in the shooting deaths of six unarmed catholics in 1982
the british army also disclosed tuesday that a soldier given life in prison for the shooting death of a catholic in belfast had been freed and returned to his regiment after serving three years
reports that pvt. ian richard thain was back in uniform, although not in northern ireland, provoked sharp responses from leaders of the province's catholic minority
thain was convicted of fatally shooting thomas reilly, road manager of the pop group bananarama, on aug. 9, 1983. he claimed in court that he fired because riots were going on and he believed reilly was about to pull a gun
the judge found him ``deliberately untruthful.'' thain was the first soldier sentenced to life in prison for actions in northern ireland
an army statement said thain was 18 at the time and, ``while the army in no way condones his action, we consider the incident to have been a tragic error of judgment made by a young man in very difficult circumstances.''
the home office said thain was released on a life license, a form of parole under which he can be returned to prison ``should his behavior give rise to concern.''
a security cordon ringed the town of aughnacloy for mcanespie's funeral tuesday. he was buried across the border in the irish republic
the irish government sent eugene crowley, deputy police commissioner, to the border town of monaghan to investigation mcanespie's death. protestant politicans called the irish inquiry unwarranted interference by a foreign government in northern ireland's affairs
mcanespie supported sinn fein, the legal political wing of the outlawed irish republican army. he was killed by a bullet from a british army observation tower at a checkpoint near aughnacloy in county tyrone, half a mile from the border
relatives said he was walking to a weekly gaelic football game and had passed through the checkpoint
press association, the british domestic news agency, said the soldier told interrogators the shooting was an accident. he was in military custody tuesday. and tighten; restores ap logo. picks up 14th graf pvs, ``jay naidoo ...''</note>
the government on wednesday banned political activity by 18 opposition groups, including the nation's largest anti-apartheid organization and its biggest union federation, in the most sweeping crackdown in a decade
anglican archbishop desmond tutu said the move would be seen by many government opponents as a ``declaration of war.''
law and order minister adriaan vlok, however, said the regulations ``will contribute to a climate of stability, peaceful coexistence, and good neighborliness among all population groups.''
vlok's order prohibits the united democratic front, which represents more than 2 million members, from any activity except bookkeeping and court action. the same order was applied to 16 other groups, covering most of the large militant black political groups in south africa
it gives vlok the power to prohibit any organization ``from carrying on or performing any activites or acts whatsover.''
security police notified at least nine udf members of restrictions on their activities, which included being confined to home and prohibited from speaking publicly
udf co-president archie gumede was prohibited from participating in any udf activities and banned from speaking to journalists
albertina sisulu, the other co-president, was ordered confined to her home from 6 p.m. to 5 a.m., prohibited from participating in activities of the udf and other organizations, and barred from addressing meetings of more than 10 people
we are all peaceful organizations trying to unite the people. ... is this the way of reform? ... we dare say the government is declaring war on the people of south africa,'' mrs. sisulu told reporters. she said she wasn't sure if she was prohibited from speaking to the press
the 750,000-member congress of south african trade unions was ordered to stick to labor issues and barred from political activities, such as advocating holidays with special meaning to blacks and calling for the release of detained union members
anti-apartheid activists had anticipated a crackdown this year, suggesting that president p.w. botha's national party government would seek to blunt criticism from the extreme right in advance of parliamentary by-elections next week
the union and several of the affected organizations said they would consider legal action to challenge the regulations
the government's idea of reform is to smash all effective possible political opposition in the country, no matter how peaceful and lawful, and to rule with a jackboot,'' said tutu, who won the nobel peace prize in 1984 for his fight against south africa's system of racial segregation
tutu appealed to the united states and other western countries to intensify economic pressure on south africa, saying that if they do not act, ``then god help us.''
in washington, state department spokesman charles redman said the government was ``appalled'' at the restrictive measures
this is a giant step backward for south africa,'' redman told reporters
jay naidoo, general-secretary of the trade union federation, said, ``the closing of the avenues of democratic expression will possibly lead to an escalation of civil conflict and violence. there cannot be a peaceful resolution of south africa's crisis without freedom of expression and association, and without credible organizations which can articulate the needs and interests of the majority
vlok said the groups being acted against had encouraged civil disobedience and rebellion, advocated alternative structures to replace official ones, and waged campaigns of intimidation
all the groups denied wrongdoing
in addition to the udf, groups affected by the ban include:
_ the azanian people's organization, the largest group espousing the black consciousness philosophy pioneered by steve biko, the activist who died in police custody in 1977
_ the national education crisis committee, which has promoted a ``people's education'' philosphy in which black communities would exercise greater control over their schools
_ the detainees parents support committee, which monitors detentions and provides support for relatives of people detained without charge
_ the soweto civic association, the main anti-apartheid community group in the country's largest black township and a key factor behind the rent boycott that has persisted there for nearly two years
others included regional and national youth and community organizations and the release mandela committee, a group campaigning for the release from prison of african national congress leader nelson mandela
the outlawed anc is the main group fighting to oust south africa's white-led government. under the government's system of apartheid, the nation's 26 million blacks have no voice in national affairs, and the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate schools and districts
it must be friday because the disney channel is looking for youngsters who look like the original mousketeers for a movie about the start of ``the mickey mouse club'' in 1955
on the syndicated show, which lasted until 1959, friday was ``talent roundup day.''
the producers are looking for kids who look like annette funicello, darlene gillespie, tommy cole and all the other original mousketeers
the search begins friday in dallas, goes to radio city music hall in new york on march 5, to chicago on march 19 and los angeles on march 26. parents can also send their children's photos to mousketeer casting, disney studios, 500 s. buena vista, burbank, calif., 91521
let's hear it _ ``m-i-c-k-e-y m-o-u-s-e!''
bulgaria and turkey signed a protocol on good neighborly relations tuesday in an apparent effort to resolve their bitter dispute over bulgaria's estimated 1 million ethnic turks
the text of the protocol, as released by the yugoslav state news agency tanjug, was a clear indication that the two feuding neighbors are determined to normalize relations after years of discord
the signing averted a clash between the two countries at the balkan foreign ministers' meeting opening here wednesday
earlier, sources said the turkish delegation was planning to raise the issue of the ethnic turks, who were forced by bulgarian authorities to adopt bulgarian names. the sources spoke on condition of anonymity
the ``bulgarization campaign'' began in 1984 and reportedly led to violent clashes between the turkish population and bulgarian police. it was first reported by turkish newspapers and was later confirmed by western diplomats and amnesty international
foreign ministers peter mladenov of bulgaria and mesut yilmaz of turkey signed the protocol at a meeting in a belgrade hotel, said tanjug
mladenov and yilmaz arrived in belgrade on tuesday for the first meeting of foreign ministers from six balkan countries. the other participants come from albania, greece, romania and yugoslavia
neither the protocol nor the two ministers in news statements mentioned bulgaria's turkish minority, whose existence has so far not been acknowledged by bulgarian officials in public
the protocol we have just signed does not solve the problems, but i am convinced that it will serve as a sound basis for seeking positive solutions to the existing problems,'' mladenov was quoted as saying
tanjug quoted yilmaz as saying the protocol ``makes it possible for us to develop and settle a number of issues of our bilateral relations.''
the protocol, as reported by tanjug, provides for a joint working group ``with a view to finding a solution to the existing problems in bilateral relations, the area of humanitarian cooperation included.''
it said, ``another high-level working group shall be established to determine specific measures to speed up cooperation ... in the field of economics, trade, tourism, technology, transport, communications and culture.''
under the protocol, the two countries' foreign ministers are to make periodic visits to the other country and ``review the activities'' of the two working groups with regular political consultations between the two foreign ministries
a similar protocol between the two countries was signed in 1975
spanish officials and leaders of the basque separatist organization eta established preliminary contacts in algeria tuesday that could lead to a cease-fire, spain's national efe news agency reported
it said the resumption of talks between the government and eta leaders living in exile in algeria might bring an end to 20 years of violence that has convulsed the three basque provinces in northern spain and spilled over into the rest of the country
last friday, government spokesman javier solana told reporters socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez was willing to resume the talks, broken off after a dec. 11 car bombing at a civil guard barracks in zaragoza that killed 11 people
he said the eta appeared to be respecting a 60-day truce it offered jan. 28 in return for a resumption of the talks
efe, citing unnamed algerian sources, said chief negotiators at the talks in algeria were eugenio etxebeste, an eta leader, and julen elgorriaga representing the government
the government made no comment on the efe report. solana said last week the news media ``should not expect daily updates'' on the progress of any future talks
eta is an acronym in the basque language that stands for homeland and liberty
since taking up arms in 1968, the group has claimed responsibility for killing more than 600 people in its campaign for independence for the basque area. most of the victims were police and military officers
gonzalez acknowledged in august that his government had made contacts with eta leaders in algeria in an attempt to secure a cease-fire as a basis for future talks
the government has said it is prepared to discuss when, where and how eta guerrillas will lay down their arms and possible pardons for jailed eta members not directly involved in attacks
according to various reports, eta still seeks greater political autonomy for the basque region that would include predominantly basque parts of neighboring navarre province
the el pais newspaper said gonzalez was expected to discuss the contacts with eta in his annual state-of-the-nation address to parliament wednesday
but it reported government sources said gonzalez probably would warn there could be breakdowns during arduous negotiations and no guarantee of success
police stormed a social welfare department office in a cloud of tear gas wednesday and rescued eight hostages who had been held nine hours by a man with a cleaver
one policeman was slightly injured but the eight hostages were unharmed. the hostage-taker, identified only as shum, 44, was hospitalized with head injuries
reports from the scene said shum was homeless and had applied to the office for public assistance. he went there tuesday afternoon armed with a cleaver and two knives and demanded to see the person handling his application, police reported
when he was told the person was not in, shum argued with the staff, who called the police. he locked himself and the employees inside the office until police broke the door down
robert yiu, a police spokesman, said officers made their assault at about 1:45 a.m
sen. bob dole, the gop winner of the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses, now has 60 delegates to the republican national convention, one fewer than vice president george bush
the kansas senator got all 18 of the national convention delegates from south dakota by winning 55 percent of the vote. dole was the only candidate to win more than 20 percent of the vote, the minimum necessary under state gop rules to win any delegates
former television evangelist pat robertson came close, but with 99 percent of the precincts reporting, he finished at 19.6 percent, just shy of the threshold
the democratic primary in south dakota, which missouri rep. richard gephardt won with 44 percent of the vote, was non-binding
party leaders in the state say they feel an obligation to honor the voters' wishes. nevertheless, the results must first be ratified by a statewide caucus on march 12 to have any effect on how south dakota's 15 pledged delegates to the democratic national convention will be awarded
if the caucus accepts the results of the primary, gephardt would gain nine delegates, and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis would win six. none of the other democratic candidates on the ballot received at least 15 percent of the vote, the minimum needed under party rules to claim any delegates
following bush and dole on the republican list so far is rep. jack kemp of new york with 35 delegates and robertson with eight. ten are uncommitted. those totals include delegates allocated in michigan, kansas, pennsylvania, new hampshire, guam and south dakota
in all, 2,277 delegates will attend the gop national convention in new orleans next august, and 1,139 are needed to win the nomination
in minnesota, dole won a straw poll taken in the republican caucuses, but that has no binding effect on how the state's 31 gop national convention delegates will be allocated among the candidates. that will not be decided until minnesota republicans pick 24 national convention delegates at congressional district conventions in mid-april and choose the remaining 7 delegates at the state convention in mid-june
minnesota democrats will have to sort their way through a mountain of paper ballots that will come in from tuesday's precinct caucuses before the allocation of their national convention delegates can be calculated
the figures from the tuesday night caucuses represented an informal poll of the presidential preferences of the delegates elected to attend the county conventions. that poll had no binding effect, and the county convention delegates will be expected to follow the results tallied from the separate paper ballots
state party leaders do not plan to count those ballots before march 8, under an agreement worked out with the national party, which had objected to minnesota democrats holding their caucuses so early in the season
democratic national delegate totals remain unchanged by tuesday's events
dukakis has 44.5, gephardt has 39, simon has 33, gore has 10.55, jackson has 9.8, and 278.4 are uncommitted. those totals include delegates allocated in iowa and new hampshire, as well as the results of an associated press survey of party leaders who automatically will hold seats as convention delegates
in all, the democratic national convention next july in atlanta will include 4,162 delegates, and 2,082 are needed to win the nomination
about 80,000 people joined hands to form a 42-mile link through the industrial ruhr valley tuesday to protest the loss of jobs in the steel industry, union organizers said
after spending hours forming their line, the demonstrators joined hands for about 15 minutes, according to the ig metall labor union
thousands of people held flares and banners calling for aid to unemployed steelworkers, while church bells pealed throughout the area
police said they could not confirm that the human chain ran unbroken for 42 miles and they did not provide a crowd estimate
traffic was disrupted on main roads during much of the evening
the demonstrators formed their line from the krupp steel works in duisburg-rheinhausen in the western ruhr region to the hoesch-westfalen steel works in dortmund
tens of thousands of steel workers are scheduled to be laid off, retrained or retired early because of the expected closure of steel plants
an italian newspaper said tuesday that the chief of afghanistan's diplomatic mission in italy, reported missing since last week, defected to the west with american help
the foreign ministry confirmed that the afghan embassy reported last thursday that charge d'affaires mohamed nazir fedaiy, 43, had ``disappeared.''
but a ministry spokesman declined comment on the front-page report in the turin newspaper la stampa that the diplomat defected with his wife and was flown to another european country with the help of u.s. intelligence agents
the state-run rai-tv, without giving attribution, said the envoy was probably being held under the protection of american agents, possibly in the united states
a spokeswoman for the u.s. embassy said she had no comment on the case
the officials spoke on the condition of anonymity
la stampa said fedaiy had sought to defect for some time and a few weeks ago met with a representative of the former king of afghanistan and offered him information on his country
former king mohammad zaher shah, deposed 14 years ago while vacationing in italy, has been mentioned as possibly playing a role in a peace settlement in afghanistan. he lives in exile in rome
italian-afghan relations are at the charge d'affaires level. italy recalled its ambassador from kabul after soviet troops entered afghanistan in december 1979 to support the communist government in its battle with islamic rebels. homicide</head>
injected sedatives hastened the death of an 83-year-old woman whose severed head was frozen in hopes she could someday be restored to life with a new body, officials said wednesday in classifying the case as a homicide
the riverside county coroner's office, after reviewing the results of extensive toxological tests on the tissues of dora kent's headless body, said she was given a lethal dose of a barbiturate shortly before her death in early december
the coroner has classified the death as the result of a homicide due to the administration of medicinal drugs which assisted kent's death,'' supervising deputy coroner dan cupido said wednesday
those involved in the attempt to preserve mrs. kent's head for eventual resurrection denied the coroner's office charge, saying the drug was administered after she died as part of their effort to preserve the brain
the coroner's office amended its death certificate tuesday, referring the case to the riverside county district attorney's office, where it is now under investigation. the original death certificate did not state a cause of death pending further tests
deputy district attorney curt hinman said the tests indicated mrs. kent was alive when the drugs were administered. the sedatives pentobarbital and secobarbital were found throughout the woman's system, including her liver, kidneys and bone marrow, and investigators concluded her body had metabolized the drugs, he said
we think they gave it (the drug) to her before she was dead,'' hinman said
but mrs. kent's son, saul, 48, said wednesday the allegations of homicide were ``smear tactics'' to discredit the alcor life extension foundation, a cryonics lab here
kent is a strong supporter of the cryonics movement, which believes bodies or heads may be stored at subfreezing temperatures and then brought back to life through future advances in science
mrs. kent had been living in a riverside nursing home, but on dec. 9, her physician, dr. steve harris, determined that she was gravely ill. based on that information, kent moved her from the home to alcor
kent said his mother was maintained there briefly on a respirator before dying dec. 11. her head was surgically removed soon afterward
alcor spokesman carlos mondragon said the drug nembutol was given to mrs. kent after the death. her son explained barbiturates are given immediately after death to slow damage to the brain from lack of oxygen. and another alcor official, michael darwin, said cardiopulmonary resuscitation was also given after death to distribute the drugs throughout her system
kent said the foundation had previously explained those methods and the use of drugs in its notes regarding his mother's preservation
now suddenly to come up and say that they think it's homicide is kind of absurd,'' he said. ``i was there and she died of natural causes and then the procedure was started.''
but cupido said the drugs ``expedited dora kent's death.''
the death certificate amendment states mrs. kent died between dec. 9 and dec. 11, cupido said
mrs. kent's death has been under investigation since the coroner's office learned of it. she died at alcor's lab in riverside, where a body and six other heads are frozen in liquid nitrogen
no doctor was present when she died, which prompted the coroner's office to investigate her death. the location of her head has been kept secret by her son and alcor officials, despite a coroner's request to examine it
a judge earlier this month blocked the coroner from disturbing any of the frozen remains at alcor. rally; picks up 21st graf, ``street demonstrations ...''</note>
the kremlin on wednesday installed an armenian as the communist party chief of a disputed territory in an apparent effort to end ethnic protests in soviet armenia that a dissident said involved 200,000 people
soviet authorities also ordered an end to the unrest
protesters in yerevan, the armenian capital, want the nagorno-karabakh region in neighboring azerbaidzhan turned over to armenia, smallest of the soviet union's 15 republics
in another apparent concession, moscow radio said armenian party leaders would ask the central committee in moscow to discuss nagorno-karabakh in a meeting on nationality policy. no such meeting has been scheduled, but soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev proposed one last week
yerevan was the scene tuesday and wednesday of industrial strikes, school boycotts and public demonstrations said to be the largest in the soviet union's 70-year history
in the baltic republic of estonia on wednesday, there was a rally on an national anniversary day, with demonstrators shouting ``get the russians out!'' according to a dissident
the demonstrations were the latest in a recent burst of ethnic conflicts in a huge nation that stretches from europe through asia and encompasses more than 100 nationalities, under a central government dominated by ethnic russians
paruyr ayrikyan, an armenian activist who spent 17 years in labor camps and internal exile for national activities, said 200,000 people gathered in the central square of yerevan
he said in a telephone interview that they chanted ``we want a session!'' _ demanding that a special session of the republic's legislature decide whether nagorno-karabakh should become armenian
western reporters could not travel to yerevan immediately, and telephone contact was not always possible
about 150,000 people, most of them armenians, live in nagorno-karabakh, the disputed autonomous region in the caucasus mountains whose 1,760 square miles make it smaller than delaware. annexation would increase armenia's area by 14 percent and its population, about 3.4 million, by 4 percent
last fall, armenian sources said more than 2,000 ethnic armenians marched in the region, just north of turkey, to protest mistreatment by azeris, the dominant ethnic group in azerbaidzhan
the party central committee has declared nagorno-karabakh should remain part of azerbaidzhan, which caused armenian protests and began an argument about whether the party has the right to decide such issues
in a dispatch wednesday night, the official news agency tass said the regional party organization named a 56-year-old armenian, genrikh pogosyan, party leader in nagorno-karabakh
while tass said pogosyan was armenian and born in nagorno-karabakh, it did not give the nationality of his predecessor. the surname of the former leader, boris kevorkov, indicates he is russian or azeri
the agency also referred to a ``passive, wait-and-see attitude of the autonomous region's party and government bodies whose leadership had displayed a superficial approach to evaluating the . .. situation and the existing sentiments
tass said party leaders plan to take all necessary steps to restore order in yerevan, effectively declaring an end to the dispute
foreign ministry spokesman gennady i. gerasimov confirmed there were mass demonstrations in yerevan. he described them as peaceful and said he did not know the number of protesters
arikyan, the armenian activist, said protesters were angered by central committee interference in a territorial question, which he said the soviet constitution defines as a matter for the government, not the party
in a telephone interview from yerevan, he said major industries were crippled by strikes wednesday and virtually all students at colleges and technical institutes boycotted classes
ethnic tensions have arisen with increasing frequency over the past year as soviets embrace gorbachev's call for ``glasnost,'' or more openness about some social problems
another national demonstration was reported in tallinn, the capital of estonia. wednesday was the 70th anniversary of the establishment of an independent estonia, which was annexed by the soviet union in 1940
alexander podrabinek, a moscow-based dissident, said 2,500-3,000 people gathered at a tallinn landmark and shouted ``independence to estonia!'' and ``get the russians out!''
plainclothes agents photographed the demonstrators and militia surrounded them, bringing in a bus with a loudspeaker that blared music and propaganda to drown out the demonstrators. no one was detained and the demonstrators dispersed after about three hours, he said
podrabinek said he received his information from a correspondent in tallinn for the underground journal express chronicle, which podrabinek edits
earlier, tass reported there was an official rally in tallinn to protest what they considered u.s. provocation of nationalist activists
street demonstrations occurred last summer in estonia and its neighbors latvia and lithuania, which were annexed at the same time
in the central asian republic of kazakhstan, at least 3,000 people rioted dec. 17-18, 1986, in the capital, alma ata, to protest appointment of an ethnic rusian to replace a kazakh as the republic's party leader
in a tass report tuesday, the government acknowledged the unrest in armenia and said it was not in the public interest
gerasimov said the government believes ``things should remain as they are now'' in terms of which republic governs nagorno-karabakh. he said he had spoken with officials in armenia by telephone, but had no more information than that contained in media reports
izvestia, the government newspaper, recommended more public discussion of the dispute. it acknowledged a ``mass meeting'' of protesters in yerevan, student boycotts and involvement of national party figures in seeking a solution
wednesday's edition of the communist party newspaper pravda carried the tass report, but no commentary on the events
ayrikyan, who said he spoke from an apartment 100 yards from the protest site, said wednesday: ``there are at least 200,000 people in front of the opera house. i've never seen anything like it
he said two members of the central committee secretariat, vladimir i. dolgikh and anatoly i. lukyanov, arrived in yerevan on tuesday ``to calm the people'' in the city 1,100 miles south of moscow
dolgikh addressed the protesters tuesday, the armenian activist said
on wednesday, lukyanov and dolgikh asked the demonstrators to send a small delegation to party headquarters in yerevan to discuss the dispute, ayrikyan said
rep. richard gephardt echoed a george wallace refrain on wednesday, saying there is ``hardly a dime's worth of difference'' between his chief democratic presidential rivals on economic issues. republican sen. bob dole sought to slice into vice president george bush's southern support
gephardt blistered gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore jr., while a fourth democrat announced he would not compete in the delegate-rich round of primaries known as super tuesday on march 8. illinois sen. paul simon, reeling after a spate of poor finishes, insisted he would remain in the race but conceded he lacked the money to compete across the south
among the republicans, former television evangelist pat robertson said his christian broadcasting network once knew the whereabouts of the american hostages in lebanon and suggested they could have been rescued
the assertion drew a tart response from the white house, where spokesman marlin fitzwater said, ``why didn't he tell us where they were?''
it was the second startling comment in as many days from robertson. he suggested on tuesday that bush's campaign aides were behind the recent public disclosure of television evangelist jimmy swaggert's sexual misconduct, and said they timed the disclosure to make life difficult for another television evangelist running for president
bush denied that charge anew, saying, ``i'd like to see an apology or proof.''
the vice president shrugged off dole's solid victories tuesday night in the south dakota primary and minnesota caucuses, saying, ``you can't win them all.'' he made a flying tour through new england, where he hopes to win the maine caucuses over the weekend and the vermont primary next tuesday
but those events _ one in a state where the vice president owns a home and the other that has no bearing on the hunt for convention delegates _ drew little attention from the rest of the field
instead, other eyes turned to dixie, which is hosting most of the 20 democratic and 17 republican contests that will be held on a single day on march 8
dole campaigned in south carolina with sen. strom thurmond at his side, and said he supports legislation on textile imports that is popular in the state
i recognize that i've got to catch up,'' he said. ``but we believe there is some momentum'' after his twin wins in south dakota and minnesota
even so, a fresh poll showed just how far dole has to go
the denver post survey of southern voters showed bush favored by 54 percent of republicans most likely to vote on march 8, with dole favored by 33 percent. and the dole forces said their prospects were particularly bleak in texas, which offers the biggest single cache of super tuesday delegates
dukakis was a narrower favorite in the democratic survey, at 26 percent, with gore at 18 percent, jesse jackson at 16 percent, and gephardt at 12 percent. the poll was conducted feb. 19-21 among 759 registered voters in 13 southern states
but if gephardt's speech in waco, texas, was any indication, the fight for the region's hundreds of delegates will be intense
he said gore and dukakis seem committed to ``nothing more than redecorating the facade of the status quo.'' he charged that the approach both men have taken to the federal deficit problem ``invites a post-election round of income tax increases and federal cuts in medicare and social security.''
on the central economic issues of this campaign, there is hardly a dime's worth of difference between gov. dukakis and sen. gore,'' said gephardt
he also ridiculed dukakis's foreign policy experience, saying it consists ``almost entirely of negotiating with the governor of new hampshire over the issue of nuclear power.''
the ``dime's worth of difference'' phrase was a reminder of former alabama gov. wallace's third party campaign theme of 1968, when he used it to sneer at the major party nominees
dukakis' initial response was made by campaign aide leslie dach
we welcome a comparison of the candidates' records but first we need to know which of dick gephardt's records he's talking about,'' he said
mike dukakis is the only candidate in this race who's balanced budgets, put people back to work and lowered taxes five times in five years.''
there was no immediate response from gore, who ridiculed dukakis and gephardt as ``two peas in a pod... i don't see either one of them to stand out as a principal challenger.'' gore has based his candidacy on making a strong showing in his native south
simon announced his scaled-back campaign at a news conference in washington, saying, ``there's no sense in fooling myself'' about his chances for success in the south
simon said he would concentrate on the primary in his home state of illinois on march 15 and the states that follow. but without prospects for delegates from the super tuesday states, his chance of winning the nomination appeared non-existent
republican also-ran jack kemp vowed he would stay the course, despite two more disappointing finishes in minnesota and south dakota
kemp's campaign has been victimized by robertson's emergence as a strong contender in the early caucus states. ``i needed to break up the idea that this is a bush-dole race,'' he said. ``this is no longer a bush-dole race.''
the world's largest black religious organization will begin construction in march on its world center headquarters, church officials announced wednesday
the $9.2 million development for the national baptist convention u.s.a. inc. is expected to be completed in april 1989, said t.j. jemison, president of the organization
more than 40,000 convention members are expected to attend dedication ceremonies two months later, he said
with 7.7 million members, the national baptist convention has grown to the point where the leadership decided we need a central headquarters from which to manage our many missions,'' jemison said
the six boards which now comprise the convention are currently located throughout the country, and to bring them all under one roof will result in a fundamental restructuring of our entire organization from which we should reap tremendous benefits,'' he said
the 75,000-square-foot building, containing a 2,000-seat chapel and crowned by a 225-foot spire, will be built on 12.5 acres near the seminary of the national baptist convention and the southern baptist convention in downtown nashville. higgins' role with defense department; picks up 5th graf pvs: ``the pro-iranian...''</note>
heavy rain on wednesday slowed the search for a kidnapped u.s. marine and forced a top u.n. official to postpone a helicopter flight to beirut to press for his release
the rain flooded citrus groves in south lebanon, where amal, the largest shiite moslem militia faction, and united nations peacekeepers have searched since lt. col. william r. higgins was abducted feb.17 near tyre, 50 miles south of beirut
an amal spokesman confirmed a report the militia captured gunmen involved in the kidnapping of higgins, a onetime aide to former u.s. defense secretary caspar weinberger and leader of a u.n. observers' group in lebanon
defense secretary frank c. carlucci, weinberger's successor, said wednesday in washington that too much was being made of higgins' role with the defense secretary's office
carlucci, responding to a question, said: ``let me point out that lt. col. higgins was a lower-ranking officer in the office of the secretary of defense, which has about 38 people in it. my principal military aide is a major general.''
lt. col. higgins' functions were mainly administrative. i think overly much is being made of this in the press and if i may say, i'd prefer to limit by comments to that because i think any further comment tends to encourage undesirable and unwise press speculation.''
the amal spokesman said the detainees had not been able to provide information on the whereabouts of higgins or the abduction's mastermind, who escaped
the pro-iranian organization of the oppressed on earth has claimed it abducted higgins and alleged he was a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the accusation
on monday, the group released a videotaped message in which the captive recited conditions for his release _ israeli withdrawal from south lebanon, release of palestinian and lebanese detainees held by israel and suspension of u.s. diplomatic activity in the middle east
security sources in tyre said the amal search for higgins, 43, of danville, ky., was continuing
the weather has generally been against the search campaign,'' said one source, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``heavy rains and storms hamper the search by amal.''
the amal spokesman said the group arrested in the tyre region three gunmen ``who seized col. higgins and forced him into the first getaway car and three men who had monitored higgins' movements before the abduction.''
amal also captured ``the man who was supposed to transport higgins to beirut,'' he said
the seven detainees are among 42 members of the fundamentalist hezbollah, or party of god, arrested by amal in the past week
hezbollah, which is backed by iran, has supported higgins' abduction, calling him a ``filthy american.'' it claimed amal has abducted 150 of its members
hezbollah is believed to be an umbrella group for smaller factions involved in the kidnapping of 24 other foreigners missing in lebanon. the kidnapped include eight other americans
the longest-held foreign hostage is terry anderson, 40, of lorain, ohio. anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, was abducted march 16, 1985
hezbollah and amal have been vying for control of south lebanon
the amal spokesman said the group was ``coordinating efforts'' with the united nations interim force in lebanon. ``we keep unifil informed on all developments.''
the amal spokesman said his militia group, which is headed by justice minister nabih berri and backed by syria, ``supports unifil and will not permit such acts to reflect negatively on the peacekeeping force.''
higgins headed a 76-man u.n. team of observers that monitored violations of a 1949 lebanese-israeli armistice agreement along the border. the observers were attached to the u.n. forces when the nine-nation, 5,800-man force deployed in south lebanon in 1978 after an israeli intervention
the u.n. commander, lt. gen. gustav hagglund of finland, told reporters tuesday that further kidnappings of u.n. personnel would ``endanger the future'' of the peacekeeping forces. he said swedish soldiers have been ordered ``not to leave their posts or move around south lebanon alone.''
hagglund met in naqoura on wednesday with u.n. undersecretary-general marrack goulding, a u.n. source said. goulding had flown to unifil headquarters by helicopter from israel, hoping to fly on to beirut
he later returned to israel, said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
unifil's chief spokesman, timur goksel, said only that ``mr. goulding's helicopter flight to beirut has been postponed due to bad weather conditions.''
an acquaintance of abbas hamadi testified tuesday he could not link the defendant to explosives that were smuggled into west germany
the lebanese-born hamadi is on trial of charges of masterminding the kidnapping of two west german businessmen in beirut in january 1987 in a bid to force the release of his brother, mohammed hamadi, held as a twa hijacker
abbas hamadi is also charged with smuggling liquid explosives into west germany from lebanon for possible use in terrorist attacks
rashid hage, an acquaintance of abbas hamadi's, testified that he and his three sons helped the defendant pick up suitcases from a train station in the town of merzig in mid-january 1987. but he said he did not know what was in the suitcases, nor what hamadi later did with them
on jan. 20, hage's son, ali, told the court he helped hamadi pick up the suitcases and that he suspected the luggage contained explosives
police found explosives buried in a field near merzig on jan. 27, 1987, and said hamadi had left them there
the 47-year-old hage on tuesday repeatedly denied any knowledge of hamadi's activities
in earlier testimony, hamadi was linked to the beirut kidnappings by a west german government official and by transcripts of wiretapped telephone conversations with his friends and acquaintainces in west germany
in january 1987, west german businessmen rudolf cordes and alfred schmidt were abducted separately in beirut
the abductions followed the jan. 13, 1987 arrest of mohammed hamadi at the frankfurt airport
mohammed hamadi is charged with air piracy and murder in connection with the june 1985 hijacking of a twa airliner, in which 39 people were held hostage 17 days and a u.s. navy diver was killed
schimidt was released in september, but cordes remains a hostage. another west german, ralph rudolf schray, was kidnapped in beirut jan. 27 and is still being held. authorities saying both hostages were lawyers, sted one a judge. no pickup. adds byline.</note>
a disgruntled workers' compensation recipient, waving a .38 caliber handgun, held two attorneys hostage for nearly three hours in a brooklyn office building wednesday afternoon before quietly surrendering
no one was injured in the incident, which started at the workers' compensation board around 1:15 p.m., police said. the man pulled a gun in a hearing room and grabbed the two hostages, said detective joseph mcconville, a police spokesman
the man was holed up inside the room with his two hostages until about 3:45 p.m., when he released one of them. fifteen minutes later, he turned the second attorney loose and surrendered to police, said police spokesman lt. thomas fahey
earlier, he had demanded that john johnson, a local television news reporter, come to the scene and had aired his grievances about his case to johnson. and workers' compensation board chariman barbara patton agreed to review the case, which involved a 1984 car accident that led to a settlement in december, authorities said
the two lawyers were identified as richard kelman and richard wolf. initially, police had said one of the two lawyers was an administrative law judge
one of the attorneys had represented the gunman in his workers' compensation case, said alice mcgillion, deputy police commissioner for public information
apparently, his grief is with the workmen's compensation board,'' mcgillion had said during the incident. ``we'll wait it out.''
the gunman's only demand was to meet with johnson, mcconville said. the television newsman arrived shortly before 2:30 p.m., riding in a police car with its sirens and lights on and cheered by workers in the six-story office building
the gunman complained to johnson that he was being harassed over the $20,000 settlement in his case
thirty-four oil rig workers arrived safely on land tuesday after their platform sank into the gulf of mexico, forcing them to flee in watertight capsules
the workers on the rig e-302, owned by keyes offshore inc. of sugar land, were evacuated monday night from the rig, 82 miles south of galveston, then transferred to a workboat for the trip back to galveston, said bill keyes, president of keyes offshore
the vessel radioed the u.s. coast guard about 1:15 a.m. that it had picked up the workers, said coast guard duty officer don merwin
about three hours earlier, a distress call had been relayed to the coast guard from the rig, merwin said. coast guard rescue ships were dispatched from houston, corpus christi and sabine
the accident occurred when one of the 396-foot legs of the triangular, jack-up rig punched through the gulf floor, keyes said
it resulted in bending the three legs on the rig,'' he said. ``the rig was about five feet above the water because we had not jacked up all the way.''
workers had been at the site about three hours before the accident, which happened in seconds, he said
southwesterly winds at 30 knots, causing 7- to 10-foot waves, may have contributed to the collapse, merwin said
that kind of wind, though, shouldn't have been enough to sink a rig like that,'' merwin said. the rig was capable of drilling 20,000 feet, he said
the coast guard marine safety office would investigate, he said
company spokesman bill flores said the rig appeared to be salvageable
the soviet union has bought 350,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department said wednesday
it was the first u.s. corn sale to the soviet union since last fall, although moscow has been buying huge quantities of wheat at subsidized prices under the department's export enhancement program (eep). corn is not eligible for the subsidy
jean nollmeyer of the department's foreign agricultural service said it was the first substantial sale of corn to the soviets since last oct. 23 when u.s. exporters reported 600,000 tons. some small quantities were sold after that, she said
no selling prices or other information about the corn sale were disclosed. when subsidies are involved, the exporting firms, quantities and amounts of eep payments are shown, but not when straight cash deals are involved
under eep, private exporters are given surplus commodities owned by the department's commodity credit corp. so they can sell a foreign buyer wheat or other authorized commodity at competitive world prices
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 350,000 tons of corn would be about 13.8 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.82 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $25 million
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought a little more than 2 million tons of corn, or just half of the minimum amount specified by the agreement
by comparison, the soviet union has bought more than 6.3 million tons of wheat at subsidized prices, plus 800,000 tons of soybeans and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal for delivery this year
panamanian president eric arturo delvalle has indicated to associates that he may be ready to break his close links to military strongman manuel antonio noriega, according to u.s. officials
the officials, in interviews this week, said any such move would narrow further noriega's base of support and possibly hasten his demise as panama's dominant political force
the reagan administration looks upon noriega as the principal obstacle blocking its goal of an eventual transition to elected, civilian-led rule in panama
the officials, who asked not to be identified, said delvalle has privately expressed his intention for many weeks to distance himself from noriega, but they recognize that such a step would require considerable courage
we get information from all sorts of sources, including friends and relatives, that he is about to do something along these lines,'' one official said. congressional sources, also insisting on anonymity, said they have heard the same reports
since last summer, the administration has been publicly encouraging panama's military officers to withdraw from politics as a means of promoting a return to rule by civilians. in the meantime, much of the u.s. aid program to panama has been suspended and panama has expelled all american aid personnel
two federal indictments against noriega on drug trafficking charge added a new dimension to the already strained relationship. the indictments, handed down in florida earlier this month, portrayed noriega as a key member of an international drug-smuggling conspiracy. in congress, opposition to noriega spans the political spectrum
delvalle assumed the presidency in 1985 under circumstances that strongly suggested noriega had forced his predecessor, nicolas ardito barletta, from office
it was a constitutional succession, but delvalle has been widely perceived as no more than panama's titular head
noriega has maintained that executive authority rests with delvalle and that panama has achieved a full transition to democracy. noriega says his u.s. critics are campaigning against him for the purpose of annulling the panama canal treaties, under which the waterway reverts to panamanian control at the end of 1999
attempts to obtain comment from the panamanian embassy on delvalle's purported intentions were unsuccessful
for the united states, the stakes in panama are extraordinarily high. the administration believes that a democratic, politically stable panama offers the best assurance for the continued efficient operation of the canal
the u.s. officials noted that challenging noriega would not be an easy step for delvalle. they said the president's extensive business interests and his family could be threatened if he breaks with noriega. in addition, delvalle's health is said to be tenuous because of a heart operation
however, the officials said delvalle has become increasingly disturbed by his ties to noriega and that some of his friends have rebuffed him because of that association
delvalle also may be tempted to act because of panama's growing financial crisis. ``the country is falling apart all around him,'' said one source
lawrence chewning fabrega, a panamanian diplomat who resigned recently in protest over noriega's rule, said in an interview this week that the country's financial problems are so severe the government may not be able to meet its payroll next month
assemblies of god leaders, swamped with protests that the penalty recommended for television evangelist jimmy swaggart's moral lapses was too mild, indicated wednesday it may be stiffened
a torrent of complaining telephone calls has poured into the denomination's headquarters here, more than 3,000 of them in the past two days
there's a strong sense of moral outrage at the leniency applied in this case,'' said the rev. howard cummings of aurora, colo., who said he got that assessment from two of the denomination's top executives
a special meeting was called for thursday of the church's 13-member executive presbytery, which rules on such matters, to examine the louisiana state presbytery's recommendation that swaggart be suspended from preaching for three months and undergo two years' rehabilitation
swaggart, known for his harsh denunciations of sexual lapses in his worldwide tv preaching, was charged with such an offense himself, although details have not been specified
photographs showing swaggart with a prostitute reportedly were given to church officials by rival evangelist marvin gorman, who filed a $90 million suit charging swaggart with unjustly accusing him of numerous sexual affairs
an unidentified new orleans prostitute said on abc-tv tuesday night that she had had sex with swaggart, while other reports described the case as involving ``pornographic'' activity
a suburban new orleans sheriff said wednesday that a tattooed prostitute with an arrest record in louisiana, florida and tennessee is believed to be the woman photographed with swaggart last october
jefferson parish sheriff harry lee told the state-times that the 28-year-old woman was rumored to be in florida on thursday. he said he has a warrant for her arrest for failure to show up for a dec. 9 hearing on a soliciting for prostitution charge
the likelihood that swaggart's penalty may be extended came in official word that the issue was expected to be turned back to the louisiana district, which had proposed the penalty, for reconsideration
that is the prescribed procedure under church bylaws for getting a punishment revised if it is deemed inadequate
if the matter is returned to the state district, a final decision may not come for several weeks, said juleen turnage, the denomination's information officer
church sources also said the louisiana district, in announcing its decision tuesday, had violated a church bylaw that such recommendations are not to be disclosed until approved by top officials
it created tremendous pressures, appearing that the louisiana district was trying to dictate its judgment,'' cummings said
it was learned that some members of swaggart's board are on the louisiana district council, and did not abstain from participating in the case
asked whether the $12 million that swaggart contributes annually to the denomination might have been a factor in the louisiana handling of case, ms. turnage said, ``it won't affect the decision here.''
the church's final verdict, when it comes, will be in accord with ``the seriousness of the offense,'' ms. turnage said
an unwritten church precedent is that those involved in sexual offenses are barred from preaching for at least a year. ``it's never been less than a year,'' she said
ms. turlage said a ``high percentage'' of those calling the church about the louisiana district's proposal ``were not pleased.''
a lot of people are unhappy with the initial recommendation,'' said the rev. richard champion, editor of the denomination's weekly, pentecostal evangel. but he added, ``many thought it too light. some thought it too severe.''
cummings, pastor of 2,000-member first assemblies of god church in aurora and former district presbyter, said protests at the lightness of the sentence had come from overseas as well as across the united states
pastors and leaders are deeply concerned about the adverse effects on young people and church efforts to teach them moral principles,'' he said, as well as on the ``image of the church and american christianity'' generally
most pastors take their marriages seriously,'' he said, and to ``give approval to this sentence is to say we're soft on sin.''
he said some overseas leaders have demanded immediate cutting off of swaggart's overseas broadcasts
the denomination has 2 million members nationally, and about 16 million in autonomous assemblies churches overseas
nobody is out for blood, or after swaggart's hide,'' cummings said. he said most want the case handled not only with compassion and forgiveness, but ``with a sense of accountability'' for conduct
a communist official who monitors religious affairs indirectly attacked thursday a group of roman catholics who organized a petition to the government signed by more than 300,000 believers
deputy culture minister frantisek jelinek said ``so-called activities we have witnessed in recent days not only do not explain accurately (church problems), but essentially damage'' their solution
jelinek oversees church affairs in the czech republic
the 31-point petition, said by knowledgeable religious activists to have garnered 243,000 signatures in slovakia and about 100,000 in the czech lands, demands separation of church and state, more religious education and permission for priests and bishops to fill vacant positions in 10 dioceses
it gained support from cardinal frantisek tomasek and was signed by far more people than any other document of its kind in 40 years of communist rule in czechoslovakia
authorities were slow to comment on the petition, which has circulated since late december. an article in the communist party daily rude pravo last saturday, however, attacked some points as unconstitutional, while admitting that some demands, such as the one for more bishops, were ``natural.''
in reporting jelinek's remarks, the state news agency ctk did not quote him as mentioning the petition. but the comments appeared directed at petition organizers, who have been attacked in the state-run media
jelinek was speaking in the moravian capital of brno to leaders of the government-sponsored pacem in terris group, a priests' organization not recognized by the vatican
in prague, an official at the state office for church affairs said talks between the communist authorities and the vatican on filling vacant sees will not resume for at least one month. the two sides met last month but did not report progress
the official spoke on condition of anonymity
the government favors pacem in terris candidates to fill the vacant sees. the vatican wants other candidates. no new bishops have been named in czechoslovakia since 1973
no official statistics are kept on the number of believers in czechoslovakia, but church sources estimate the roman catholics make up about 60 percent of the 15.5 million population
interest in roman catholicism and other religions in czechoslovakia has revived in recent years, particularly among young people
in an article feb. 13, the north bohemian communist party daily pruboj attributed this to what it described as the low morals of society and suggested the new believers could not be condemned for turning to religious faith
a public show of the strength of religous belief is expected march 6 in prague during a mass for the blessed agnes, a 13th-century czech princess who became abbess of a prague convent. she is to be made a saint later this year
czechoslovakia is a federal socialist republic consisting of two nations, the czech socialist republic and the slovak socialist republic
former navy secretary james h. webb never approached defense secretary frank c. carlucci to complain about proposed navy budget cuts before webb quit in anger, carlucci told congress on wednesday
carlucci said he had heard that webb was unhappy but said webb ``never elected to come and talk to me about it.''
webb abruptly resigned monday with a public blast at carlucci for rejecting webb's proposals on the navy budget, which was reduced along with budgets for the other services to meet lowered military spending totals approved by congress and president reagan
webb will be replaced by william l. ball iii, a veteran capitol hill lobbyist for the administration
carlucci appeared before the house armed services committee to defend reagan's military budget, unveiled last week, and carlucci's decisions about how to reduce defense spending by the $33 billion total approved by reagan and congress late last year
to meet the lowered spending goals, carlucci said, he ordered reductions in ships, helicopters and other hardware and chose to retain spending for pay raises and training
carlucci pronounced himself committed to the 600-ship navy, the fleet size set by reagan shortly after he took office in 1981 when the navy had about 450 ships
carlucci ordered 16 aging frigates mothballed, which will mean that the navy will have 580 ships at the end of the current fiscal year. but carlucci also pointed out that the navy would be authorized to build 17 ships in reagan's proposed budget
as most people who've worked with me know, i function with an open door,'' said carlucci, a veteran of numerous top government jobs
he said webb ``never came to me with any protest over the budget cuts nor was i aware of his intention to resign until the letter actually landed on my desk (monday).''
carlucci was generally praised wednesday by legislators who noted that he had a difficult job, taking office late last year at about the same time the $33 billion cut was ordered. because of that reduction, the proposed pentagon budget for the next fiscal year will be $299 billion
rep. william dickinson, r-ala., ranking republican on the panel, referred to webb and noted, ``i don't understand where this fit of pique comes from...if anybody's living in fat city, it's the navy the past few years. we've worked toward a 600-ship navy, that's fine, but there's nothing magic about that.''
he criticized webb for what dickinson said was ``ill grace.''
adm. william j. crowe jr., chairman of the joint chiefs of stafff, also disputed webb's statements that the joint chiefs had opposed carlucci's plan to mothball the 16 frigates. webb said the ships should have instead been transferred to the reserves, where they could later be returned to the active fleet
crowe said didn't support putting the ships into the reserve fleet
both crowe and carlucci reiterated their warnings that u.s. security might be damaged if defense budgets are not increased
the budget ``reflects significant force structure reductions _ fewer ships, fewer aircraft, fewer weapons systems _ that have long-term implications for our national security,'' said carlucci
he added: ``we must weigh carefully our future decisions on defense budgets and programs if we are not to reverse the substantial achievements in our military forces realized at great cost over the last seven years.''
a new ``condom for females'' pioneered in europe will be tested this spring in the united states, and its developers predicted wednesday it would be a major weapon in the fight against aids and other sexually transmitted diseases
the new disposable contraceptive, made of polyurethane, resembles a condom but is worn by women, researchers said wednesday as they unveiled the device
it takes the advantages of both the male condom and the female diaphragm and gets rid of significant disadvantages,'' said mary ann leeper, head of the research team developing the device for wisconsin pharmacal co., which will market it in the united states and canada
but dr. gerald zatuchni, a gynecologist with 25 years experience in researching and developing new contraceptives, said he saw the potential for ``real problems'' with the device
i have not seen the device nor have there been any published studies that would indicate its acceptability to couples, the effectiveness of the device in preventing pregnancy or any side-effects from using the device,'' zatuchni said
the device, known in europe as a ``fem-shield'' or vaginal shield, isn't sold anywhere yet, but testing has begun in europe and is scheduled to start in the united states in march, officials said
the contraceptive consists of a soft, loose-fitting polyurethane sheath and two flexible polyurethane rings, ms. leeper said
one of the rings lies inside the sheath and serves as an insertion mechanism and internal anchor, fitting against the woman's cervix much like a diaphragm, she said. the other ring forms the outer edge of the sheath and remains outside the vagina
it is no more difficult to insert than a tampon,'' said dr. paul salmon, who helped organize tests of the device at london's middlesex hospital
the company, based in jackson, wis., said the device would provide more protection than the male condom, in part because the material is stronger than most condoms and covers a larger physical area, reducing chances of infection or exposure to body fluids
from a medical perspective, this product is likely to offer additional protection against sexually transmitted diseases,'' salmon said
it also is more convenient to use than a diaphragm, ms. leeper said, because it doesn't have to be initially fitted by a doctor and can be inserted up ``six hours before the sex act or six minutes before.''
zatuchni, a gynecology and obstetrics professor at northwestern university medical school in chicago, said the idea of a ``one-size-fits-all'' condom for women ``would be sort of ridiculous because women's anatomy varies so much.''
it would be hard to envision such a device staying on during the act of intercourse,'' he said
ms. leeper said secure and proper fitting actually would occur during intercourse
she said the company had no estimate on how much the device would cost consumers
the ``female condom'' was developed by an group of gynecologists and obstetricians headed by danish gynecologist dr. erik gregersen and his wife, bente
the device has been tested so far on 80 couples in the united kingdom, denmark and sweden, and clinical trials are continuing in europe, ms. leeper said
the world health organization also plans to conduct clinical trials in 15 countries, including brazil, thailand, singapore and african nations battling the spread of aids
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is believed to be spread mainly through sexual intercourse, shared hypodermic needles and from infected mothers to their infants at or before birth
researchers won't have statistics on how effective the device is in preventing pregnancy or the spread of diseases like aids until additional studies are completed, salmon said
the company hopes to apply to the u.s. food and drug administration sometime this summer for permission to begin marketing the device commercially in the united states
if everything goes as planned,'' ms. leeper said, ``this product will be available to the consumer by the end of the year.'' loans</head>
a house panel voted unanimously wednesday to approve legislation requiring additional disclosures for increasingly popular home equity loans
the measure received the full support of the eight-member house banking consumer affairs subcommittee, chaired by rep. frank annunzio, d-ill., including rep. fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., chairman of the house banking committee
similar legislation is expected to be introduced in the senate in the near future. sen. christopher j. dodd, d-conn., chairman of the senate banking consumer subcommittee, held hearings last year on the general subject of home equity loans, in which a home owner borrows money against the equity in his or her home
according to u.s. housing markets, a research survey published by lomas &amp; nettleton, the dallas mortgage banking and financial services firm, the value of new second mortgages and home equity loans were to increase to more than $150 billion by the end of 1987
home equity loans totaled $30 billion in 1981, according to the report, but topped $50 billion in 1984. the popularity of such loans began mushrooming when a new tax law took effect in january 1987 that limited the deductibility of interest on most consumer loans, but preserved deductions for home loans
the house bill, introduced by annunzio and rep. david price, d-n.c., would, among other things, put limits on a creditor's ability to terminate a home equity credit line and demand full and immediate repayment of the balance due
the measure also prohibits the creditor from unilaterally changing the terms of the home equity credit line agreement and allows states leeway to provide for additional requirements
the consumer bankers association, a group representing retail banks, savings and loans and credit unions, supported the subcommittee's action
two major consumers organizations, consumers union and the u.s. public interest research group, applauded annunzio for moving the bill out of the subcommittee but criticized the panel ``for failing to correct major abuses in the hel (home equity loan) market.''
the organizations said panel members promised to work toward changing the bill when it is considered by the full banking committee
michelle meier, counsel for government affairs with consumers union, said the present bill ``doesn't do enough to protect consumers. it doesn't prohibit some fundamentally unfair contract terms. it only makes the lenders tell you about them.'' investigation of kidnapping, quotes from officer, mother on reunion, other detail, and to correct spelling of name to vernier, sted venier. no pickup.</note>
police found 5-week-old rachael ann white on tuesday, four days after she was kidnapped by a woman answering a baby-sitter ad. the baby appeared to be in good condition, police said
we found found her, and we reunited her with her parents at 11:42 a.m. at the detective bureau,'' said lt. joe vernier. ``there were many smiles and tears throughout the investigations bureau here.''
acting on a tip through police at the air force academy, police found rachel ann abbott at a home on the north side of the city, vernier said
when i saw (rachael ann) come through the door, nothing could have made me more happy in my life _ nothing,'' said the child's mother, cora abbott, 27. officers appaluded as she and the baby were reunited
abbott had issued a nationwide plea monday for the safe return of her baby
police said maritza rentz, a psychologist, was arrested for investigation of kidnapping
it appears it was a replacement baby,'' said vernier. the suspect had a pregnancy that terminated in october, he said. he didn't say how the pregnancy ended
the child was taken from abbott's home friday morning by a woman who had come to the house in response to an ad for a baby sitter
the child's grandmother, evelyn reed, 52, asked the woman to hold the child while she answered a telephone in another room. when the grandmother returned, the child and the woman were gone
rentz's husband, capt. paul rentz, is an instructor in the air force academy's behavioral sciences department, police said
authorities said that he was being questioned but that it was not known if he was involved in the abduction
jesse jackson's campaign manager on wednesday heralded his second-place finish in the minnesota caucuses as a ``rainbow coalition'' victory and proof that the so-called electability issue is dying off
jackson got 20 percent of the vote in a state with a voting-age black population of 1 percent, proof that his appeal went far beyond the his traditionally strong base among blacks, said gerald austin
we're thrilled about what happened yesterday,'' he said
observers said there was evidence that jackson's targeting of the hard-pressed, blue collar workers may be paying off, although there were no exit polls to confirm that
austin predicted that as voting occurs in more states, people will stop talking about whether the fact that jackson is black means he can't be elected
i haven't heard it in a couple of weeks,'' he said of the electability issue
opinion polls tend to support the notion that jackson has made some strides in his effort to reach out out to whites, although this early in the election season it is not yet clear how much of that will translate into votes across the country
overall, i think he has made a slight inroad into the white vote. i do not think there's any evidence so far that it has been substantial,'' said polling associate john brennan of abc-tv's polling operation
pollster geoffrey garin of peter hart research associates said the firm's polling has consistently found ``that we're looking at very different jesse jackson than in 1984.''
the sense of polarization that was there four years ago really isn't there this time. there are obviously some white voters who are not open to jesse jackson, but the negatives and the degree of antagonism ... has really worn out over four years.''
for whites who are either strongly liberal or sort of feel ignored by the establishment, there is a real sense of sympathy for the things that jackson's been saying.''
jackson himself makes a particular point of chiding white voters who think along the lines of ``i like jackson, i like what he's saying _ but ...''
he told a ballroom full of receptive united auto workers members this week that those people ``should move from `but' to `therefore.'''
jackson edged out sen. paul simon for second place after the illinois senator had banked heavily on a good showing there
jackson also had targeted the state _ where he got only 2.4 percent of the vote in his 1984 race _ but had spent only four days campaigning there this time around, and put only about $45,000 into the state, said austin. he credited much of the success to organizing by a devoted crew of volunteers
minnesota political analyst d.j. leary said jackson's support appeared strong among liberal whites and blue collar workers. jackson has gone after union worker support across the country, travelling to many strike locations to back them, including the hormel strike in austin, minn
he was doing very well among working people,'' leary said. he said he attended a minneapolis caucus where 44 of the 134 participants supported jackson, and only one of those 44 was black
austin said jackson also got strong support from gays in minnesota. jackson had drawn a capacity crowd during a campaign appearance last week at a minneapolis church led by a lesbian pastor
in the super tuesday primaries on march 8, jackson expects also to expand his large base of black supporters into the gay community and trade union groups, austin said
nationwide, polls show jackson has his work cut out for him among white voters. a cbs-new york times poll taken last week showed jackson was the choice of 3 percent of the white voters, and 13 percent overall
in a mid-january poll, he did better, getting 6 percent among the whites polled, said cbs news director of surveys kathleen frankovic
however she noted the polls have also shown that he gets ``a clear measure of respect'' from whites, admiration for his leadership qualities, and a feeling that he cares strongly about their problems
in jackson's adoptive home state, a chicago tribune poll in mid-january showed that among 507 democratic voters, 39 percent picked him as their first or second presidential choice. the electorate is 26 percent black
among the whites, 35 said they had a impression of him, and 37 percent reported a negative impression
her mother wanted her to come home to massachusetts, but 17-year-old lenora rolle wanted to stretch her vacation in new york by just one day. it turned out to be her last
i begged and pleaded with her to come home,'' coralie rolle said after learning that her daughter had been shot to death at a party in brooklyn. ``i missed her. i wanted her back. i didn't like her being there too long. i begged her to be careful.''
it was a lack of care _ or a surfeit of trust _ that led to miss rolle's death tuesday morning, according to accounts by police
miss rolle, a senior at rindge and latin high school in cambridge, had used the money she earned as a cashier at warburton's pastry shop in harvard square to finance the trip to new york, where she stayed with aunts in the bronx
detectives say she was at the port authority bus terminal in manhattan on monday night with a 15-year-old friend, bianca, when the two were lured away from their boston-bound bus by a peddler of exotic fragrances
the man, who may have known bianca, urged the girls to come to a party at his mother's house in the brownsville section of brooklyn, and promised to pay their bus fare home
she was a good girl, but she liked to party,'' her mother said. she also said that lenora was not very streetwise
the party was in a two-bedroom apartment on the second floor of a four-story apartment building. police sgt. arthur stoecker, who is investigating the case, said at least seven people were at the party; one of those in attendance told new york newsday that there were about 15. stoecker said a few empty crack vials were found in the apartment afterward
after miss rolle arrived, police and witnesses say, she was approached by a man who demanded to have sex with her
is she for me? is this one for me?'' the man asked, according to a witness quoted by the new york post
when miss rolle refused, the man pulled out a 9mm hand-held machine gun and fired two shots into the floor, authorities said. he then forced her to undress and, as she screamed in protest, dragged her into a bedroom
the other partygoers fled in terror. ``they were fearful for their own lives,'' stoecker said
he said the witnesses tried to telephone police, but were unable to get into an apartment building across the street. a street phone was out of order, they said
after about a half-hour, they saw the gunman, still clutching his pistol, leave the building. when they entered, they found miss rolle dead
an autopsy wednesday determined that she had been shot in the back, the right thigh and the left arm, according to a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner's office, ellen borakove. fluid samples were sent to a lab to determine if miss rolle had been raped
stoecker said police were searching wednesday for michael mays, 20, a convicted felon. ``he's a suspect,'' stoecker said, although he added that ``there hasn't been an official warrant yet.''
mays served about two weeks in rikers island in 1986 on a misdemeanor sexual misconduct conviction, according to a spokeswoman for the city correction department, ruby ryles. last june he was sentenced to three to nine years in state prison after pleading guilty to attempted robbery, according to glenn goldberg, a spokesman for the brooklyn district attorney's office
criminal court records indicate the sentencing was imposed in absentia. in any case, mays never served the time. a spokesman for the state correctional services department, james flateau, said the prison system had no record of mays. goldberg said the prosecutor's records end with mays' sentencing. ms. ryles said mays never served time in city jail on the attempted robbery charge
richard gephardt opened fire wednesday on michael dukakis and albert gore, rivals in the race for the democratic presidential nomination, saying their vague positions invite a round of income tax increases and cuts in medicare and social security after the election
echoing the rhetoric of former alabama gov. george wallace in past presidential campaigns, gephardt called dukakis and gore the favorites of ``editorialists and elites'' with ``hardly a dime's worth of difference'' between them on economic issues
with the crucial super tuesday primaries and caucuses less than two weeks away, gephardt, a missouri congressman, leveled his charges at dukakis, governor of massachusetts, and gore, a senator from tennessee, who are the two he must beat march 8 to become the democratic front-runner. gephardt generally trails both in the polls in the super tuesday states
on foreign policy, gephardt said dukakis' experience ``consists almost entirely of negotiating with the governor of new hampshire over the issue of nuclear power.''
on the economy, gephardt said gore ``has talked more about what is wrong with the iowa caucus than what is wrong with the national economy.''
he accused gore of having ``no budget solution at all'' and dukakis of being off the mark by as much as $95 billion with his claim of the return on more aggressive pursuit of tax cheats
on the central economic issues of this campaign, there is hardly a dime's worth of difference between governor dukakis and senator gore,'' gephardt said in a speech. ``the gore-dukakis approach is to distract the voters from those fundamental questions _ to divert the campaign to tactics or drown it in generalities
the gore-dukakis approach is worse than an evasion. it invites a post-election round of income tax increases and federal cuts in medicare and social security _ which is the standard prescription of too many editorialists and elites,'' gephardt said
i am not their candidate. i have not been a favorite of the establishment editorialists. michael dukakis is. i have not been endorsed by the neo-liberals of the new republic. they have endorsed albert gore.''
on farm policy, trade and the idea of an oil import fee, gephardt contended: ``governor dukakis talks competence; senator gore talks strength _ but there is nothing competent or strong (about their policies).''
dukakis and gore were on the road campaigning wednesday and did not have an immediate response to gephardt's blast
but dukakis aide leslie dach said: ``we welcome a comparison of the candidates' records but first we need to know which of dick gephardt's records he's talking about.''
dach said that ``mike dukakis is the only candidate in this race who has balanced budgets, put people back to work and lowered taxes five times in five years.''
gore has ridiculed dukakis and gephardt as ``two peas in a pod. ... i don't see either one of them to stand out as a principal challenger.''
gephardt has been hitting dukakis with ads accusing him of raising taxes in massachusetts and of making ridiculous suggestions to farmers that they should diversify with crops such as blueberries and belgian endive
gephardt and dukakis have split early democratic tests, while gore has focused on super tuesday when 20 states and american samoa hold primaries and caucuses _ many of them in the south
polls across the south generally put gephardt third or fourth in the field. jesse jackson has usually been the leader in the southern surveys, but a new gallup poll conducted last week gave dukakis the lead
dukakis and gore have big campaign warchests for march 8, while gephardt's campaign has been on a slimmer budget
in austin, texas, gephardt, who won tuesday's south dakota primary, said he doesn't think gore will have much impact on the march 8 elections
albert gore has not run and won anything in any of these races (so far),'' gephardt said. ``he pulled out of iowa. he ran hard in new hampshire and got not many votes. he was very active in south dakota, probably spent more than i did and did not get many votes. i don't see this as a gephardt-gore race, i think it's a gephardt-dukakis race.''
the house ethics committee has decided to hold off introducing a resolution calling for the expulsion of 10-term rep. mario biaggi because he is involved in litigation, according to a letter released wednesday
the committee on standards of official conduct will not bring the matter berfore the house for a vote until ``an appropriate time can be established with congressman biaggi in order to allow for his particiaption in the floor proceedings,'' the letter said
biaggi, d-n.y., is appealing his conviction on charges of accepting illegal paid vacations from an old political friend and ally. he is also due to be tried on bribery and racketeering charges in the wedtech case starting march 7 in u.s. district court in new york
the ethics committee announced last week it would recommend that biaggi be expelled for violating the house code of conduct by accepting the vacations and not reporting them on his financial disclosure forms; obstructing justice; and illegally crossing state lines to accept the free trips
in a 148-page report explaining why it was recommending its most severe punishment, the 12-member committee said, ``the offenses for which representative biaggi was convicted involved criminal conduct of a most serious nature going to the heart of his representational responsibilities.''
biaggi has vowed to fight the expulsion resolution on the house floor, but his spokesman, bob blancato, said the congressman needs time to prepare his defense. he declined to say how much time
a resolution to expel must pass by a two-thirds vote of the 435-member house
the last member of congress to be expelled was rep. michael myers, d-pa., in 1980, who had been captured on videotape accepting a $50,000 bribe in the abscam sting
biaggi was convicted sept. 22 of illegally accepting a paid florida vacation from meade esposito, the former brooklyn, n.y., democratic leader. esposito was seeking government help for coastal dry dock and repair corp., a financially troubled brooklyn shipyard which owed $280,000 in premiums to esposito's insurance brokerage firm
biaggi was sentenced to 2{ years in prison and a $500,000 fine. he is free pending appeal. nagorno-karabakh and subs 4th pvs: `georgia _ a ...' to correct spelling of tbilisi. also subs 7th graf `lithuania _ five ...' to correct to vilnius sted riga</note>
here is a look at recent unrest involving some of the soviet union's more than 100 national groups:
armenia _ police broke up a demonstration in the capital, yerevan, on oct. 18, 1987, by at least 1,000 people supporting armenian national rights in the village of chardakhlu in neighboring azerbaidzhan, according to moscow dissidents. as many as 200,000 armenians demonstrated in yerevan this week to demand annexation of an area of the neighboring republic of azerbaidzhan called nagorno-karabakh, witnesses report
azerbaidzhan _ a clash between azeris, the natives of azerbaidzhan, and long-time armenian residents occurred in october in chardakhlu, according to moscow dissidents
georgia _ thousands of georgians staged an unsanctioned rally in 1979 in the capital, tblisi, to protest the omission from the republic's constitution of a phrase acknowledging georgian as the state language. about 100 people demonstrated in 1983 in the capital, tbilisi, after the arrest of two nationalist students
kazakzhstan _ up to 3,000 people rioted dec. 17-18, 1986, in the capital, alma ata, to protest the appointment of an ethnic russian to replace an ethnic kazakh as the republic's party chief. two people are killed, 200 injured and dozens arrested
crimean tatars _ members of this national group flocked to moscow in july 1987 and demonstrated in red square for the right to return to their historic homeland along the black sea. this month, the government endorsed steps to promote the culture of the crimean tatars but indicated they won't be given privileges in their homeland, from which they were expelled in 1944
lithuania _ five-hundred people gathered outside a church in the capital, vilnius, on aug. 23, 1987, to protest on the anniversary of the 1939 german-soviet pact that allowed soviet takeover of lithuania and the other formerly independent baltic states. moscow-based dissidents report that police and soldiers beat hundreds of lithuanians in vilnius as they gathered feb. 16 to mark their homeland's brief independence. a soviet spokesman denied the reports
estonia _ a group of estonian nationalists gathered in the capital, tallinn, on aug. 23, 1987, to protest the german-soviet pact. dissidents were denied permission to stage demonstrations wednesday to mark the days when their homeland declared independence from soviet russia
latvia _ five-thousand people assembled at a world war ii memorial in the capital, riga, on june 14, 1987, to mark the 47th anniversary of ``deportation day,'' when josef v. stalin sent thousands of baltic residents into exile at the time of the soviet takeover of their homelands. up to 7,000 people gathered aug. 23, 1987, at the memorial to protest the german-soviet accord, witnesses said. describing weapon. picks up 10th graf pvs, an army ... with minor editing to trim</note>
west bank villagers burned the home of a fellow arab accused of helping the israelis and lynched him after he fired on a crowd wednesday with a submachine gun, killing a 4-year-old boy and wounding 13 people, security sources said
israel radio called the event ``a serious escalation'' of 11 weeks of violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, and linked it to calls by the palestine liberation organization for harsh action against collaborators
a reporter for the arabic-language jerusalem newspaper al quds said residents of qabatiya village accused the man of collaborating with israeli authorities. the reporter, who spoke on condition of anonymity, identified the man as mohammed al ayad
palestinians began a general strike in the occupied territories wednesday and the army reported the first attack on israeli soldiers with explosives and firearms since riots began dec. 8
the army said a bomb exploded on a road near gaza as a military vehicle passed at about 11 p.m. tuesday and shots were fired at the soldiers, but no one was injured
secretary of state george p. shultz arrives in jerusalem on thursday to discuss a new u.s. plan for ending the unrest and reviving negotiations for middle east peace
israel radio said hundreds of residents marched to the suspected collaborator's house in qabatiya, near jenin, 60 miles north of jerusalem, and destroyed it with firebombs
security sources said the man killed the boy and wounded the others when he fired from the house at the attackers
the national itim news agency said ayad fired an uzi submachine gun and that after the shooting, people dragged him away and hanged him. security sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed the report, saying the man was strung up on a utility pole
the arab-run palestine press service identified the slain boy as mohammed qassem abu zeid kmeil
an army spokesman called it a fight among arabs and said soldiers arrived later
at least 63 arabs have been killed by israelis since the violence began, according to u.n. figures. about 1.5 million palestinians live in the west bank and gaza, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
three arabs were shot and wounded wednesday during disturbances at the nuserat refugee camp in the gaza strip, including a 9-year-old girl, hospital officials said. several other confrontations were reported between soldiers and young arabs throwing stones and burning tires in the streets
jerusalem's police force has been strengthened for the shultz visit by 1,500 officers, to at least twice its normal size
the military also provided extra manpower at the request of jerusalem police, an army spokesman said
no details were available on the attack on the military vehicle
palestinian protesters have avoided using firearms in what they call ``the uprising'' against israel, confining themselves to throwing stones, bottles, and occasionally firebombs. several knife attacks have been reported
plo chief yasser arafat has said arms would not be used at this stage, but did not rule out using guns and explosives later
escalation of the violence could prompt an even harsher military response and might cost the arabs much of the sympathy they have won abroad
in jerusalem, police said about 20 arabs were arrested in recent days on suspicion of taking part in disturbances. all palestinians leaving silwan, an arab village inside the jerusalem city limits, were checked and searched wednesday
a senior police officer at the scene said: ``we are throwing the book at them: traffic violations, drug trafficking, not paying taxes. the people in silwan for the last two months thought they belonged to palestine. we are now teaching them they live in israel, and they will never forget it.''
amnesty international, the human rights organization based in london, urged israel to conduct a thorough investigation of human rights violations
sometimes soldiers have found themselves in the immediate context where some force was necessary, or maybe even gunfire was necessary, but in our view the step toward firing a combat rifle at people who are not themselves armed with firearms is a very big step to make,'' clayton yeo, head of research for amnesty, said on israel radio
the general strike, called for wednesday and thursday by the underground ``united national leadership of the uprising,'' appeared to be almost total
few people were on the streets in the gaza strip. in the west bank, business was at a standstill
shultz is likely to meet resistance in jerusalem, particularly from prime minister yitzhak shamir, whose right-wing likud bloc opposes the secretary's idea of trading land for peace
it also appeared shultz will not be able to meet with palestinians during his mideast shuttle between jerusalem and arab capitals. those invited say they will not confer with him because the plo has forbidden such a meeting in jerusalem
a meeting with palestinians is considered critical to the peace effort
ucla's lambda delta lambda is believed to be the nation's first sorority founded by lesbians, but the group's nine charter members say they started out to make friends, not history
when you meet someone from a sorority it's almost like a built-in friendship,'' marci kaye, one of the group's founders, said wednesday. ``we just wanted something like that that we could have, kind of a way for people to meet other people.''
officials of the sprawling university of california, los angeles, campus in westwood formally recognized lambda delta lambda as a campus organization last week
it was very validating for us,'' said sorority president allison adler, a junior creative writing major
university regulations forbid exclusion of heterosexuals who may want to join, and krisi burk, the group's spokeswoman, said lambda delta lambda hopes to sign up some heterosexual women during sorority rush week next month
if they're comfortable with us, then we're comfortable with them,'' said the 20-year-old junior political science major
she said several heterosexual women have inquired about joining, and the group hopes to at least double its membership next month
i hope people don't think our non-discriminatory policy is a paper policy because it's not,'' she said. ``i have a lot of straight friends and i'd like to see them all join.''
several lambda delta lambda members said they considered pledging traditional greek sororities before forming their own. they said they were frightened away by stories of lesbian members who had been ostracized after their sexual preferences became known
maybe i'm just paranoid, but i don't always feel comfortable about traditional sororities,'' ms. burk said
now that she's a member of her own group, she spoke excitedly as she outlined some of lambda delta lambda's plans for the weeks ahead, including participation in rush week, the spring mardi gras carnival, homecoming and other campus activities
also high on the agenda will be raising the money to rent a sorority house. the group now meets on campus
ms. burk said the sorority hopes to get more involved in political issues than most traditional greek letter organizations, including efforts on behalf of women, gays and minorities
she said the group can also serve as a support network for its gay members
we've all had family problems or at least tense moments,'' she said. ``we can help each other.''
in her case, after the group went public she decided to tell her grandparents she was a lesbian ``because i was afraid someone might ... send them a letter.'' she said they took the news well
thus far, members said, reaction to the sorority has been generally positive
yesterday in one of my classes someone approached me and said he thought it was very courageous what we were doing,'' said ms. kaye, a 25-year-old senior english major
ms. burk noted that one person did complain in a letter to the editor of the campus newspaper, the daily bruin, that if lesbians were allowed to share a sorority house it would be the same as allowing men and women to share sorority and fraternity houses. she dismissed the argument with a chuckle
it's not just a sexual thing, which of course everybody thinks it is,'' she said of the sorority. ``it's no more sexual than any collection of human beings.''
richard a. oppel, editor of the charlotte observer, and ted turner, chairman of the turner broadcasting system, were honored wednesday night with the national press foundation's awards for journalistic achievements in 1987
oppel received the george d. beveridge jr. editor of the year award for directing the observer's ``aggressive yet careful'' coverage of the jim and tammy bakker-ptl story
turner was presented the sol taishoff award for excellence in broadcast journalism for inaugurating cnn as the first 24-hour television news network
in addition, fred w. friendly, an educator, media critic and former president of cbs news, received the foundation's award for distinguished contributions to journalism
friendly's selection was based on his contributions to the quality of american broadcast journalism over more than two decades
the national press foundation is an independent, non-profit organization devoted to the support and improvement of journalism. it offers in-career training and other programs to print and broadcast journalists
the 159-nation general assembly will convene monday on the dispute between the united states and the united nations over the fate of the palestine liberation organization mission, u.n. officials said
congress passed an anti-terrorism law ordering the plo observer mission closed by march 22, despite a 1947 treaty in which the united states agreed to let official delegations function in new york, the u.n. headquarters
the legislation is really an assault on the independence of the united nations and on its integrity,'' said former u.s. attorney general ramsey clark, who has been providing legal advice to the plo
state department and u.n. officials also said closing the mission would violate the treaty under which the united states became u.n. headquarters
but attorney general edwin meese iii has reportedly said he intends to enforce the measure
what plan of action the general assembly might advance at the special session is not clear. it has already passed a resolution calling on the united states to leave the mission alone
the plo and the 21-nation arab league say the assembly may ask the international court of justice in holland for a ruling. the plo and the league have also said they may ask the assembly to move from new york to geneva if the united states closes the mission
clark said binding arbitration, as called for in the treaty, is the best way to resolve the dipute. he said the plo would bring suit in a u.s. court ``only as a last resort.''
the plo was given official observer status 13 years ago. its mission is a manhattan townhouse with a staff of three political officers and two secretaries. heptachlor</head>
a federal judge on wednesday gave the environmental protection agency until april 15 to ban the sale and commercial use of products containing an anti-termite pesticide believed to cause cancer
u.s. district judge louis oberdorfer ruled that the epa had acted illegally by allowing 197 holders of federal pesticide licenses to sell existing stocks of products containing the pesticides chlordane and heptachlor
oberdorfer said epa failed to take into account whether continued sale or use of the products ``would pose any unreasonable risk to man or the environment.''
epa scientists have concluded that chlordane causes cancer and excessive residues remain in homes even after proper application of the chemical, which is usually injected into soil around the foundations of houses
last year, velsicol chemical corp., the nation's only manufacturer of chlordane and heptachlor, agreed to stop selling the chemical while it tries to find an acceptable method of applying the pesticide
but the epa's agreement with velsicol did not cover products containing chlordane made by other companies for the retail market
epa separately agreed to allow 197 companies that hold federal pesticide licenses to sell existing stocks of their chlordane products if they surrendered their licenses
the agency estimates these companies have 1,700 pounds of chlordane products in their stocks compared with the 110,000 pounds in velsicol's inventory
the judge found that epa's decision to permit continued sale of the products ``is arbitrary, capricious and an abuse of discretion'' and violates the federal insecticide, fungicide and rodenticide act
epa spokesman albert heier said the judge's decision ``has really tied our hands on this one because it will actually result in the product returning to the market.''
if we go ahead and ban these products, they can appeal the ban,'' heier said. ``under the law, the registrants can appeal, and while it's under appeal they can manufacture and sell'' the chemicals
that 's the reason we went on the voluntary route,'' heier said. ``it will take two years to get rid of them. we thought we could get rid of them faster this way.''
jay feldman, a spokesman for the national coalition against the misuse of pesticides, one of the plaintiffs in the lawsuit against the epa, said the agency can always use its emergency powers to suspend use of chlordane
they have assumed they have no authority to use their emergency powers, and that is certainly incorrect,'' feldman said
they have simply misused their discretionary authority in this case and refused to consider emergency suspsnsion,'' feldman said
if epa believes that application of the regulatory standards in fifra results in extended product life and the only way to protect public health and the environment is to circumvent fiftra, they should be seeking statutory changes,'' feldman said
besides the coalition, the lawsuit was brought by 10 other environmental groups and two labor unions
doctors who believe any humanitarian aid to nicaraguans must help both sides in the conflict said wednesday they are seeking $20 million to set up an american hospital in the war-torn country
they want the money from congress, which is voting on a democrat-sponsored aid package thursday, but say they'll try to raise it elsewhere if necessary. the hospital proposal has been sent to congressional leaders but is not included in the democrats' plan
dr. william burman of the newly formed pan american trauma association said he and swiss dr. hansjurg holdener would be willing to work for one year in nicaragua to set up the facility which they said should include three airplanes, 10 ambulances and a 150-bed hospital to treat sandinista, contra and civilian victims
burman described the proposal as an unprecedented offer by american doctors to help the united states provide humanitarian aid to central america. he provided a list a dozen doctors supporting the project and said u.s. doctors would work in nicaragua for a salary of no more than $20,000 a year
there is no way to consider food and clothing for an army engaged in a war as humanitarian,'' said chris orsinger of the council on hemispheric affairs, which sponsored a news conference with the doctors and endorsed their project. the council describes itself as a nonpartisan supporter of democratic political processes in the western hemisphere
burman said he resigned as an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at the state university of new york to work full-time on the nicaraguan proposal. he and holdener said they met last november with medical officials in nicaragua and toured the area where the hospital would be set up
burman said east germany, cuba and czechoslovakia all have hospitals in nicaragua, which he said are apparently open to all victims of the conflict
he said the u.s. hospital proposal was intended to ``put the united states' best foot forward in the region and express the highest ideals of medical ethics.''
wilson morris, an aide to house speaker jim wright, d-texas, said congressional leaders had seen the doctors' proposal, but funding for it it was not included in the democrats' $30.5 million contra aid measure which wright said he is confident will pass. the house narrowly defeated president reagan's proposal for $36.2 million in military and other aid to the contras three weeks ago
the democrats propose to give $14.6 million for food, clothing, medicine and shelter for the rebels and about the same amount for medical aid to nicaraguan children who are victims of the conflict. an additional $1.4 million would go for aid to miskito indians, who ended their resistance to the sandinista government earlier this month
the quintessential chanteusse, liliane montevecchi, has brought the songs, the movements, and all the atmosphere of the cosiest french cabaret to the off-broadway kaufman theater
the petite singer, with gamin face and haircut, wins the audience before she sings a note. she wears a long-sleeve, high-neck, black minidress which almost covers her black leotard, revealing slim, shapely legs in black hose and spike heels
when she sings, her voice proves even more winning. and her jolie, unflappable air delights
draping herself across the top of joel silberman's upright piano to sing what she calls ``new frangles tango,'' she says: ``this song, i have not done it yet once perfectly.'' she flubs the first line; everybody laughs, and she starts over
miss montevecchi's show, ``on the boulevard,'' which opened monday night, wisely varies its mood. she dips into bittersweet regret, a mood which fits a french singer so well _ but only does it a couple of times. and she throws herself entirely into songs, but again not too often, fervently raising temperature and volume
she has a light touch with humor and exquisite timing. introducing cole porter's ``you don't know paree,'' her voice is as beautifully inflected as any dramatic actress conveying emotion as she says, ``i have friends there. some are still there and some are gone.''
miss montevecchi's french-accented english singing has been heard here before, in ``nine'' on broadway. here, she often moves directly from one song to the next, so the audience doesn't break its french enchantement with applause
lighting by jeffrey schissler is subtle and effective. martin r. kaufman, who owns the tiny theater, with seats on two sides of the stage, is the presenter in association with jean-claude baker
the house on wednesday unanimously condemned north korea for the bombing last year of a south korean airliner that killed 115 people aboard
on a 396-0 vote the house approved the resolution, which urges ``other countries, particularly with close relations with north korea,'' to adopt sanctions and other measures against the pyongyang government
the bombing was one of the most outrageous acts of terrorism perpetrated since the end of the second world war,'' said rep. stephen solarz, d-n.y., chairman of the house subcommittee on asian affairs
kim hyun-hee, a surviving member of an alleged two-agent north korean team, confessed on south korean television that she helped plant a time bomb on korean air lines flight 858 before leaving the plane in abu dhabi. the plane exploded off burma
solarz said the united states has ``fairly persuasive'' independent evidence of north korean responsility for the bombing
britain and japan have been asked to participate in a program that would allow their subjects to visit the united states for up to 90 days without a visa, a state department spokeswoman said wednesday
a 1986 immigration law authorized the state department and immigration and naturalization service to approach up to eight countries to see if they were interested in participating in a pilot project to determine if visa requirements could be waived in some cases
britain announced earlier this week that it is interested in taking part in the program, and u.s. spokeswoman ruth van heuven confirmed that japan also has been asked to participate
current rules require all visitors, except canadians, bahamians and some mexicans, to obtain a visa to come to the united states. the normal process is for u.s. embassies to rule on visa applications and check the names against lists of people barred from entry
visitors from some nations are required to prove they have the means and the intention to go home again
the pilot program would allow tourists and business people from the two countries to come to the united states for 90 days or less without going through that process
among those for whom visas are required, britons and japanese top the list of visitors to the united states. last year, the state department issued nearly 1.2 million visas to citizens of japan and 496,000 visas to britons
those two countries also are high up on the list of countries where visa applications are rarely rejected
van heuven said the program would not go into effect until the immigration and naturalization service completes the installation of an automated arrival and departure system that would permit authorities to monitor people coming and going from the united states. a completion date for the system has not been announced
under the 1986 law, the program would permit entry by people with round-trip, non-transferable tickets, valid for a year or less and not refundable in the united states
carriers also would be required to certify that they will provide return transportation for the visitors
participating countries also would have to waive visa requirements for u.s. visitors. britain does not require visas for americans, but japan does
her mother wanted her to return home to massachusetts, but 17-year-old lenora rolle wanted to stretch her vacation in new york by just one day. it turned out to be her last
i begged and pleaded with her to come home,'' coralie rolle said after learning that her daughter had been shot to death at a party in brooklyn. ``i missed her. i wanted her back. i didn't like her being there too long. i begged her to be careful.''
miss rolle, a high school senior in cambridge, mass., had used the money she earned as a cashier at warburton's pastry shop in harvard square to finance the trip to new york, where she stayed with aunts in the bronx
detectives say she was at the port authority bus terminal in manhattan on monday night with a 15-year-old friend, identified only as bianca, when the two were lured away from their boston-bound bus by a peddler of exotic fragrances
the man, who may have known bianca, urged the girls to go to a party at his mother's house in brooklyn, and promised to pay their bus fare home
she was a good girl, but she liked to party,'' her mother said. she also said that lenora was not very streetwise
police sgt. arthur stoecker, who is investigating the case, said at least seven people were at the party; one of those in attendance told new york newsday that there were about 15. stoecker said a few empty crack vials were found in the apartment afterward
after miss rolle arrived, police and witnesses say, she was approached by a man who demanded to have sex with her
is she for me? is this one for me?'' the man asked, according to a witness quoted by the new york post
when miss rolle refused, the man pulled out a 9mm hand-held machine gun and fired two shots into the floor, authorities said. he then forced her to undress and, as she screamed in protest, dragged her into a bedroom
the other partygoers fled in terror. ``they were fearful for their own lives,'' stoecker said
he said the witnesses tried to telephone police, but were unable to get into an apartment building across the street. a street phone was out of order, they said
after about a half-hour, they saw the gunman, still clutching his pistol, leave the building. when they entered, they found miss rolle dead
an autopsy wednesday determined that she had been shot in the back, the right thigh and the left arm, according to a spokeswoman for the city medical examiner's office, ellen borakove. samples were sent to a lab to determine if miss rolle had been raped
stoecker said police were searching wednesday for a 20-year-old man with a previous felony conviction, but no official warrant had been issued
the man spent two weeks in jail in 1986 on a misdemeanor sexual misconduct conviction, then was sentenced to three to nine years after pleading guilty to attempted robbery, officials said
criminal court records indicate the sentencing was imposed in absentia, and prison officials said there was no record that he had served the time
at warburton's pastry shop, which serves soups and pastries to a clientele heavily weighted with harvard students and professors, manager ed buschard recalled lenora rolle as ``a very desirable employee.''
i thought that she was a good worker,'' buschard said. ``she came in on days when i was shorthanded. if i needed someone to work, she would work. ... she probably was a very popular girl in school, because she got along with everybody here at work. she seemed like a very outgoing girl
everybody's pretty shaken up. it's a shock to everybody.'' millar is not a defendant; subs graf 8 with one graf to clarify that some defendants face possible life sentences; picks up graf 9 pvs, the government.</note>
a key prosecution witness in the sedition trial of members of a white supremacist group testified under cross-examination from a defendant that he receives direct guidance from god
after the government used jim ellison's testimony to implicate many of the 10 men accused of plotting the violent overthrow of the government, defendant louis ray beam jr. questioned ellison on his religious beliefs
ellison testified tuesday ``a prophet of god'' led him to settle in arkansas, where he was annointed ``king of the ozarks'' by robert millar, leader of a religious group in oklahoma
ellison also said he has the gift of prophecy and is a descendant of the biblical king david
has anyone ever suggested to you before today that you, sir, might be paranoid?'' beam asked
before today, i've heard it,'' ellison said
beam and nine others, including aryan nations leader richard butler, are accused of seditious conspiracy. the 10, and four others on trial, espouse white supremacist goals or belong to white supremacist groups, the government alleges
those four, and one of the accused conspirators, are charged with plotting to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent. two also are accused of interstate transportation of stolen money. those charged with conspiring to overthrow the government face maximum sentences of 20 years in prison and $20,000 fines if convicted, while the charge of plotting to kill federal officials carries a maximum life sentence
the government contends the conspiracy involved actions to kill jews, who were seen by the white supremacists as in charge of the united states government
ellison has testified that in 1983, members of an arkansas-based religious-military group he led had participated in a murder, robberies and attempts to blow up utility facilities
ellison is serving 20 years for racketeering and weapons violations committed when he led the group, called the covenant, the sword and the arm of the lord. he was arrested in 1985 after a four-day standoff
richard wayne snell, a member of ellison's group, is on death row in arkansas for the 1983 murder of texarkana pawn broker william stumpp
ellison testified that snell, one of the 14 on trial here, decided to kill the pawn broker because he considered him to be ``an evil man, he was a jew, and that he just needed to die.''
snell also is serving a sentence of life without parole for the 1984 slaying of state trooper louis bryant
ellison said beam and others agreed in 1983 at hayden lake, idaho, to step up activities to bring down the government and replace it with an all-white state in the northwest
ellison also has testified that defendant robert miles, 63, of cohoctah, mich., gave him a 30-gallon barrel of cyanide to poison the water supplies of new york or washington, d.c., to create civil unrest
butler, 69, of the aryan nations group, gave approval for the csa to provide sanctuary to members of the order when they were ``in trouble with the law,'' ellison said
at a trial in seattle, more than 20 people, many of them members of the order, were convicted of racketeering for robberies of banks and armored cars. some of the defendants in the fort smith case were sentenced in the seattle case
overweight people often get that way because their bodies burn calories more sparingly than normal-size folks', and this difference between the fat and the lean can be seen in the first months of life, two new studies show
together, the studies demonstrate that whether people are chubby or svelte may depend as much on how efficiently their bodies use energy as it does on what they eat
in one of the studies, researchers found that fat babies _ all of whom had overweight mothers _ were already expending less energy than other infants when they were just 3 months old
low energy expenditure in infants seems to be making them become overweight,'' said dr. susan b. roberts of massachusetts institute of technology, who directed the study
the other report found that some grownups have lower metabolic rates, or energy expenditure, than others. they need less food to keep going, and they gain weight more quickly
it all boils down to how much you eat and how much you expend. some people are just unlucky enough that they can't eat too much,'' said a co-author of the adult study, dr. clifton bogardus of the national institutes of health in phoenix, ariz
other studies have shown that fat people often use up relatively low amounts of calories when resting. but a crucial question remained: is their metabolism low because they are fat, or are they fat because their metabolism is low?
by following people over time, the new studies conclude that people get fat because their bodies are especially fuel efficient, although overeating also aggravates this problem. but when two people the same height and sex eat the same amount, it appears that one may stay trim while the other gets chubby, solely because of this difference in metabolism
what's being shown here is that there is some broad pattern of vulnerability to weight gain,'' commented dr. william i. bennett of harvard medical school. ``they are starting to get awfully close to showing that there is a set of genes'' that controls obesity
the two latest studies were published in thursday's issue of the new england journal of medicine
in the infant study, doctors studied six babies who were born to lean mothers and 12 who were born to overweight women. they used a newly developed urine test called the doubly labeled water method to measure the infants' energy expenditure while living at home
at age 3 months, all of the babies were normal sized. but by age 1, six of the fat mothers' babies had become overweight. total energy expenditure at 3 months was 21 percent lower in the infants who later became fat
the researchers theorize that these babies have an inherited tendency to be fat. their bodies have a high ``set point,'' or weight goal. they try to reach this point by taking in more energy or using up less
roberts said she believes that the fat babies ate no more than the normal ones. so they put on weight to reach their set point by being less active
that would be a logical thing to do in small infants, because their food intake is largely controlled by their mothers, so they didn't have the option of going to the fridge and having another sandwich,'' she said. ``but in adults, who have the option of going to the fridge, high food intake may also contribute to the maintenance of being overweight.''
the phoenix study was conducted on pima indians, who have a high rate of obesity. researchers measured their energy expenditure while resting and while living for 24 hours in a small room
they found that those whose 24-hour energy expenditure was low were four times more likely than those with high metabolisms to gain over 17 pounds during the following two years. they also found that low and high metabolisms tend to run in families
it means that some people have to eat less than others to maintain their weight. it's like they always said, but nobody ever believed,'' said bogardus
he said he hopes the research will help convince doctors that ``everyone who is fat isn't that way just because they are gluttonous slobs. they have something wrong.''
estonian nationalists shouted ``get the russians out!'' in the streets of tallinn on wednesday to commemorate the small baltic nation's brief generation of independence from the soviet union, which ended in 1940
tass noted the demonstration, the latest expression of unrest among the nation's more than 100 nationalities. the official news agency did not say how many people took part, but a moscow dissident in touch with an estonian journalist put the number at 2,500 to 3,000
the associated press could not get a telephone call through to tallinn, the estonian capital, to verify the reports
wednesday was the anniversary of estonia's declaration of independence in 1918. the soviets took it back in 1940 under a secret agreement with nazi germany
nationalists in estonia had asked official permission for a demonstration wednesday but were refused
alexander podrabinek, the moscow dissident, gave this account of the day's events in tallinn:
about 1,000 people gathered in the downtown area late in the afternoon for an official rally intended as a protest of what the government called u.s. provocation of estonian nationalists
nationalists rallied in a tallinn square wednesday night at a monument to estonian writer antonu-hansenu tammsaare, laying flowers on it as militiamen watched. plainclothes police photographed the protesters
an elderly man began speaking to the crowd about estonian independence and militiamen tried to take him away, but other demonstrators intervened. the militiamen backed off and remained at a distance for the rest of the three-hour rally
speakers shouted ``independence to estonia!'' and ``get the russians out!''
authorities brought in a bus with a loudspeaker blaring music and official propaganda. demonstrators were invited to hold their discussion in the warmth of nearby buildings, but most refused
no one was detained and the people remaining outside dispersed on their own
tass quoted tallinn's mayor, harry lumi, as saying people gathered at the monument to discuss ``the actual problems of modernity and the historic past of estonia.''
lumi said the demonstrators were invited to go inside buildings to continue their discussion because it was cold and windy, tass said, and quoted him as saying:
there occurred an improvised meeting with leading scientists of the republic, deputies of the city council. problems of the economic development of estonia, national relations, ecology and the democratization of society were discussed.''
podrabinek said his information came from a correspondent in tallinn for the underground weekly ``express chronicle,'' which podrabinek edits
nationalists in tallinn also demonstrated on aug. 23 against the german-soviet pact under which the soviets annexed estonia
snow fell wednesday across much of the great lakes region, the upper ohio valley and the central appalachians, and light rain fell in southern florida, while most of the rest of the nation had dry weather
winds gusting to 35 mph caused ``whiteout'' snow squalls in eastern upper michigan, particularly west of sault ste. marie
up to 8 inches of snow were forecast for the erie, pa., lakeshore, which receives ``lake-effect'' snow brought by cold air blowing across the great lakes
a snow squall warning was posted in upstate new york. up to 6 inches of snow were reported at boonville, n.y., overnight
snow advisories went up across northwestern pennsylvania and extreme northeastern ohio. three to 7 inches of snow fell in astabula county, ohio, early wednesday
heavier snowfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 3 inches at erie, pa., and 1 inch at grand rapids, mich
clear to partly cloudy skies prevailed elsewhere across the nation. rainfall was largely limited to a few light showers in southern florida
northwesterly winds of 15 to 25 mph with a few gusts to around 30 mph were common across the midwest. the wind, combined with midday temperatures in the teens and 20s, produced subzero wind-chill readings across the upper midwest
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 8 degrees at international falls, minn., to 80 degrees at homestead, fla., and fort myers, fla. the early-morning low for the nation was 17 below zero at gunnison, colo
the forecast for thursday called for scattered snow in upper michigan, the lower great lakes region and the central appalachians, and rain in southwestern california
highs were forecast in the 20s and 30s from the dakotas across the northeastern quarter of the nation, except from eastern minnesota across upper michigan, where highs in the teens were forecast. highs in the low 60s were forecast for parts of southwestern oregon, louisiana and southern mississippi, and in the 60s and 70s from california through much of texas and in florida. the rest of the nation will generally have highs in the 40s or 50s
communist party leader milos jakes pledged to implement reform in czechoslovakia wednesday, while at the same time denouncing the ``prague spring'' reforms crushed by warsaw pact forces 20 years ago
jakes spoke at a celebration marking the 40th anniversary of communist rule here, on the same day that czechoslovakia and east germany announced the imminent removal of soviet nuclear missiles
czechoslovakia was the last country in eastern europe to turn communist, setting the seal on kremlin domination of the region
the 65-year-old jakes gave little indication he is about to plunge into economic and political reforms now being enacted in the soviet union, poland, hungary and bulgaria
jakes took over party leadership last december from gustav husak, now 75. his hourlong speech to about 500 communists in the resplendent white and gold spanish hall of prague's hradcany castle displayed the same cautious conservatism that characterized husak's leadership for 18 years
he had harsh words for the communists who, under the leadership of alexander dubcek, tried in 1968 to introduce some of the reforms soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev advocates today
as head of the party's chief disciplinary body from 1968-77, jakes was responsible for purging almost half a million people from the communist party after soviet-led warsaw pact tanks crushed the 1968 reforms
on wednesday, jakes denied there is any need to reassess the official view of 1968 and rejected any comparison between dubcek's reforms and gorbachev's perestroika, or restructuring, of communist society
without mentioning dubcek by name, jakes said czechoslovaks were hopeful and supportive when dubcek was made party leader in january 1968, but that anti-socialist forces ``frustrated the great opportunity that occurred for the solution of important problems.''
the healthy forces in the party and society saw this growing danger and conducted a difficult and complicated struggle against it,'' jakes said
he said dubcek failed to ally with these forces, and a ``tragic development'' was averted only ``thanks to the international assistance of our friends.'' public reference to the warsaw pact invasion has been rare over the past year
jakes went on to praise husak, who presided over the ceremonial meeting, the first official event to mark the communist takeover in february 1948
the communists got almost 40 percent of the vote in elections in 1946, but assumed sole power only after a series of political maneuvers during street demonstrations from feb.20-25, 1948
it was no communist coup, as it's always described by hostile propaganda,'' jakes said of the 1948 takeover. ``it was the will of the people.''
jakes' speech set off celebrations that will include a mass rally thursday in prague's old town square, scene of a triumphant speech by then communist party leader klement gottwald on feb. 21, 1948
jakes' speech signaled that his leadership is likely to be conservative, despite official talk of economic reform
czechoslovakia's communists adopted the rhetoric of reform a year ago, but a much-delayed blueprint for economic changes will be published only later this week and reforms are not to be finally be implemented until 1991
political change is scarcely mentioned. jakes made clear it will not _ as in hungary, poland and even the soviet union _ lead to a dialogue between communists and unofficial opposition groups
the broadening of democratization in no case means the creation of space for the legalization of political opposition which, as all experiences to date show, cannot be other than anti-socialist,'' he said
in announcing the imminent removal of soviet missiles, east germany and czechoslovakia hailed the move as a goodwill gesture before the u.s. congress votes on ratification of the superpower arms treaty
east germany said removal of shorter-range ss-12 missiles from its territory would begin thursday. czechoslovakia's communist party daily newspaper rude pravo said withdrawal of ss-12s deployed here would begin in ``the next few days.''
neither country specified how many rockets will be removed, nor how long the process will take
the announcements came one day after u.s. secretary of state george shultz ended a moscow visit and talks with soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze
east germany said last week that ss-12s there had been dismantled and were ready for removal, but did not say then when withdrawal would begin
under the arms control agreement signed by the united states and the soviet union last december in washington, all intermediate and shorter-range nuclear weapons in europe will be scrapped within three years. correct spelling of acetaminophen.</note>
st. joseph's aspirin for children, once a leader in over-the-counter pain relief for youngsters, is slowly disappearing from medicine cabinets
the manufacture of the chewable orange tablets ended in december 1986 as shering plough corp. of madison focuses on chewable low-dosage aspirin products for adults concerned about preventing heart disease
aspirin-free pain relievers and name-brand aspirin products competed with each other until the american academy of pediatrics, in a report in 1982, said giving aspirin to children suffering from chicken pox and influenza increased the risk of contracting reye's syndrome
the illness is fatal in about 20 percent to 30 percent of the cases, and some survivors suffer permanent brain damage. the government in 1986 ordered warning labels on all aspirin bottles about the risk to children and teen-agers of contracting reye's syndrome
the market ``dropped considerably from 1980 with the reye's syndrome business,'' said terry kelly, a spokesman for sterling drug inc. of new york, which still manufactures bayer's aspirin for children
we feel there are certain patients for whom children's aspirin is appropriate,'' kelly said
st. joseph's aspirin for children, first marketed in 1949, was replaced with aspirin-free tablets called st. joseph's aspirin-free fever reducer
jim saberton, a consultant with kline &amp; co. inc. in fairfield, said wednesday that the children's aspirin market has become relatively small with sales of about $15 million in 1986 compared with sales of about $115 million for the non-aspirin pain reliever acetominophen that same year
the risk and work involved in making aspirin is unattractive, especially since there's acetominophen,'' he said
st. joseph's aspirin for children and bayer children's aspirin each had about $5 million in sales in 1986, with the balance of sales taken up by generic brands, he said
he also said johnson &amp; johnson's tylenol products, which use acetominophen, cut heavily into sales of st. joseph's, which once held 50 percent of the children's pain-reliever market while bayer had the other half
lewis nolan, a schering plough spokesman, said, however, that his company disputes the link of aspirin to reye's syndrome
it's been our position that there's been no scientific valid evidence to link aspirin and reye's syndrome,'' he said
st. joseph's low dose adult aspirin was introduced last month, although the company makes no claim in relation to aspirin's effectiveness against heart disease. the low dose aspirin product label advises it not be given to young children, he said
kelly said his company showed higher sales of bayer children's aspirin during 1987, although he could not say if it was due to shering plough leaving the market
i think the first increase you saw was ours last year. i cannot analyze why that is,'' he said
czechoslovakia and east germany said they will start removing shorter-range soviet nuclear missiles from their territory thursday
dmitri t. yazov, the soviet defense minister, said monday while secretary of state george p. shultz was in moscow that withdrawal of the ss-12s would begin this month as a ``display of goodwill.''
the weapons must be eliminated under the u.s.-soviet treaty on intermediate-range nuclear arms signed in december, which has yet to be ratified
dusan rovensky, spokesman for the czechoslovak foreign ministry, said wednesday: ``under an agreement between the czechoslovak and soviet governments, the withdrawal of soviet army rocket units armed with operational-tactical missiles from czechoslovak territory will start on feb. 25.''
ctk, the official news agency, said the defense ministry confirmed the announcement
a brief announcement by the east german diplomatic mission in bonn, west germany, said: ``withdrawal of the soviet shorter-range missiles from the german democratic republic will begin on febrary 25 (thursday), 1988.''
east germany announced last week that soviet ss-12s stationed at waren had been dismantled, crated and prepared for return to the soviet union
according to figures released after the treaty was signed, there are 54 ss-12s in east germany. czechoslovakia has not said how many soviet missiles were installed on its territory, but western analysts put the number at 39
the intermediate-range treaty requires elimination of nuclear weapons with ranges between 300 and 3,000 miles
east germany said missiles would be removed thursday from waren and another site at bischofswerda. the only location ever given for the weapons in czechoslovakia was a military base near hranice, 180 miles southeast of prague
in 1983, nato began installing u.s.-built cruise and pershing 2 missiles in western europe to counteract soviet ss-20s pointed at the west. the kremlin responded by moving some ss-12s from bases in the soviet union to east germany and czechoslovakia
foreign ministers from six balkan nations meet in belgrade wednesday to discuss ways of ending conflicts in the area, long troubled by regional disputes
the three-day session will be the first such conference since world war ii
military, ethnic, environmental and political disputes mar relations among the six
ministers from nato allies greece and turkey, warsaw pact members bulgaria and romania and non-aligned yugoslavia and albania arrived in belgrade tuesday
at a meeting in sofia, bulgaria, on monday, prime minister andreas papandreou of greece and bulgarian leader todor zhivkov said the balkan conference should be a forum for cooperation
we hope that this meeting will turn into an institution,'' the official bulgarian news agency bta quoted papandreou as saying in a dinner speech. he suggested that such meetings be held every two years
bta quoted zhivkov as saying the conference first ``should discuss the questions that unite us
we do not underestimate the contradictions and the difficulties between the balkan states, but they must continue to be discussed on a bilateral and multilateral basis.''
although the conference is expected to focus largely on economic, scientific and cultural cooperation, festering issues are expected to be raised
bulgaria and greece are likely to raise the possibility of establishing a nuclear-free zone in the balkans, a proposal opposed by turkey
turkish and greek diplomats, however, have said they won't raise the dispute over cyprus, which is divided by forces loyal to each nation
the yugoslav state news agency tanjug has reported that bulgaria plans to propose a special balkan conference on environmental issues, apparently to take romania to task for pollution on the bulgarian-romanian border area
one potential problem apparently was resolved tuesday when bulgaria and turkey signed a protocol on good neighborly relations
a turkish diplomat had said earlier his delegation planned to raise the issue of bulgaria's ethnic turkish minority at the conference. bulgaria's estimated 1 million ethnic turks were forced by the government to adopt bulgarian names as part of a ``bulgarization campaign.''
the protocol was seen as a clear indication that the two neighbors seek to normalize relations after years of discord
ethnic tensions also strain relations between albania and yugoslavia, which has a large albanian minority in the southern province of kosovo
there are many problems that we must review, concerning both bilateral cooperation and cooperation among the balkan countries in general, in order to create an atmosphere of confidence,'' albanian foreign minister reis malile said in a television interview upon his arrival in belgrade
malile is the highest-ranking albanian to visit yugoslavia in 40 years. albania strongly condemned yugoslavia's decision in 1948 to break with the soviet loc, but 20 years later albania followed suit
alexei magarik, a jewish cellist imprisoned in the soviet union on charges of drug possession, arrived in israel on wednesday after a five-year struggle for an exit visa
magarik, 28, was accompanied by his wife natasha, 26, and their 2-year-old son chaim
magarik, a poet and songwriter, was active in jewish musical groups in moscow. he first applied for an exit visa in 1983
in march 1986, magarik was arrested on his way back to moscow from tbilisi on a domestic flight when airport authorities searched his luggage and reported finding a cigarette pack containing drugs
magarik said he never saw the pack before, and a blood test revealed no trace of drugs
but he was sentenced in 1986 to three years in prison on charges of drug trafficking and possession. a year later he was released after soviet authorities reviewed his case
magarik's release was attributed to the policy of greater political openness initiated by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
when i was released from prison i was told that i was the last of the prisoners of zion. but in this great and terrible country, the soviet union, you never can tell who is still being held in jail,'' magarik told dozens of friends at ben gurion airport in tel aviv. workers</head>
the federal government will seek supreme court review of a ruling that overturned mandatory drug and alcohol testing for railroad workers, the justice department said wednesday
in a 2-1 decision, a federal appeals court in california declared on feb. 11 that such testing violates the constitutional protection against unreasonable search and seizure
justice department spokeswoman amy brown said the government planned to seek high court review within the next several weeks
brown also said the justice department will notify the court that the government no longer opposes supreme court review of another drug testing case, involving the u.s. customs service
the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans last year supported a drug testing program for customs workers in sensitive positions such as those involved in drug interdiction. the appeals court overturned a u.s. district court decision which had held the testing to be unconstitutional
the justice department originally had opposed supreme court review of the customs service case because at that time there were no conflicting decisions from other appeals court circuits
the national treasury employees union, which brought the suit challenging the customs program, went to the supreme court last summer seeking review
energy secretary john herrington was asked wednesday to halt rail shipments of radioactive waste from the three mile island nuclear plant until a new study can be made of the route by which they are transported
sen. john danforth, r-mo., ranking minority member of the senate commerce, science and transportation committee, made the request in the wake of an incident involving a tmi train in the st. louis area earlier this month
herrington took the senator's request under consideration, a danforth aide said
the federal railroad administration confirmed on wednesday it is investigating a rail car switching incident on feb. 9 just before a tmi train passed through st. louis. the agency is determining whether there were violations of rail regulations, which could draw civil penalties of up to $10,000
the train was carrying casks of radioactive wastes from the damaged tmi plant in pennsylvania to a government laboratory in idaho
bill loftus, an fra spokesman, said the possible violations involve mislabeling of a covered hopper car, which was added to the tmi train in a railyard in east st. louis, ill
the car carried a placard stating that it contained a flammable material, but later was found not to be carrying the dangerous cargo
loftus said the investigation is looking at possible violations by the rail switching yard, the union pacific railroad which operated the train after it left the yard and a lime company that was shipping the car
federal rail regulations, loftus said, require shippers to properly label goods being moved by rail. regulations also prohibit switching yards from offering mislabeled cars for addition to a train and railroads from transporting any improperly labeled freight
herrington met on wednesday with danforth and several other senators from states along the tmi rail route. the missourian wants the energy department to halt the waste shipments until the transportation department can study the rail route used by the energy department to move the materials to the laboratory in idaho falls, idaho
since the shipments began in 1986, missouri officials have complained that the government's route takes the radioactive materials through densely populated cities such as st. louis
amtrak has begun installing smoke detectors in crew cars as a result of a weekend fire that killed an employee, a spokeswoman said wednesday
the installation of smoke detectors began monday in the 15 or so double-decker cars that serve as crew sleeping quarters on long-distance trips, debbie marciniak said in a telephone interview from chicago
the move came after a 70-year-old amtrak employee died of smoke inhalation from a fire that began early saturday in the crew car of a westbound california zephyr. nineteen people suffered minor injuries
the fire was discovered as the train pulled into hastings, about 150 miles west of here, for a scheduled stop
some passengers complained that they were not warned about the fire, and questioned why there were no smoke detectors on the train
marciniak said the train crew's first priority was to rescue those in the employee car and evacuate those in a passenger sleeper
amtrak officials said the passengers were in no danger because the burning crew car and the passenger sleeper were detached from the coach section of the train
amtrak spokesman john jacobsen had said commercial smoke detectors were too sensitive and that the vibration of the trains would set them off. he said train fires were rare, but that amtrak had been looking for a reliable smoke detector
marciniak said wednesday that the newly installed smoke detectors may go off as a result of cigarette smoke or dust, but that the false alarms would be preferable to not having any alarms
the railroad also is considering installing smoke detectors in passenger sleepers, she said
amtrak has been trying to develop a fire and smoke alarm system for several years, and during the last six months has asked vendors for assistance, marciniak said
four companies appear to have a concept that may work and amtrak is working with them, she said
the state fire marshal's office has blamed the fire on an electrical short in the crew car
marciniak said amtrak officials believe the fire may have begun when boxes of pillows placed next to a heating element in the luggage storage compartment of the crew car ignited. however, amtrak officials are continuing to investigate, she said
in the meantime, marciniak said amtrak had disconnected all heating elements in the luggage storage compartments in similar crew cars. in addition, emergency windows in the dormitory section of the cars are being expanded, she said
a girl was shot and killed tuesday and three other people were wounded during an anti-government demonstration in the town of azua, radio commercial reported
it identified the slain girl as mary ramirez, 17, and said she was shot in the head when protesters clashed with police and soldiers in azua, 75 miles west of santo domingo, the capital. the brodadcast said another youth, who was not identified, and two policemen hit by rocks were treated at hospitals
demonstrators had started their protest monday, stoning cars and businesses to demand the government build more public works projects in the town
demonstrations also were reported tuesday in two other towns, both involving claims of pollution by the government-owned rosario gold mine north of santo domingo
in cotui, 60 miles north of the capital, 500 farmers joined the rev. carlos guerra in a protest at the town's roman catholic church, according to radio popular. it said the rally was held at the end of a 72-hour general strike by cotui residents
a protest demonstration also was held in bonao, 50 miles north of the capital, according to local news reports, but no details were given
president joaquin balaguer declined comment on the latest demonstrations. he said sunday the disturbances were organized by political opponents, but no oposition party has identified itself with the protests
an inmate who had called eight killers to the stand as character witnesses was sentenced a second time wednesday to die in the electric chair for the rape-murder of his 13-year-old stepniece
judge gary formet said the convicts' statements on behalf of 31-year-old james hitchcock were believable ``but fall short of convincing this court'' to spare his life
testifying last week under extraordinary security, the eight death row inmates from florida state prison had portrayed hitchcock as a model prisoner, a peacemaker, teacher and generous person who should be spared execution
a jury late saturday recommended by a 7-5 vote that the judge impose the death penalty
formet was free to set aside the recommendation but cited hitchcock's confession, which he later recanted, and agreed with the prosecution that the 1976 slaying of cynthia driggers was ``heinous, atrocious and cruel.''
hitchcock's original death sentence was overturned in april by the u.s. supreme court, which ruled the original jury in 1977 had not considered mitigating evidence of the defendant's character and background
prosecutors steve wallace and belvin perry had denigrated the testimony of the ``eight despicable criminals.''
all these murderers stated their opposition to the death penalty while seeming oblivious to the fact that each had himself imposed that ultimate penalty upon innocent victims,'' the prosecutors said. observers saying majority backs roh. no pickup</note>
president roh tae-woo was sworn into office thursday and promised to end decades of harsh authoritarian rule and form a ``people's government.''
it was the first peaceful transfer of power in south korea's violent 40-year history
roh said human rights abuses and government repression would not be tolerated under the new sixth republic and his administration would swiftly carry out democratic and social reforms
the day when freedoms and human rights could be slighted in the name of economic growth and national security has ended. the day when repressive force and torture in secret chambers were tolerated is over,'' the 55-year-old roh said in a tough speech
but roh also warned opposition groups to work with his government and end the country's long tradition of confrontational and violent politics. he said he would not tolerate disorder
outgoing president chun doo-hwan, whose authoritarian government crushed opposition and imprisoned and beat dissidents, listened impassively as roh criticized past abuses of power and said south korea could accept nothing less than full democracy
roh was chun's hand-picked successor
there is a strong wind of change blowing over the country,'' roh said to applause at the heavily guarded ceremony
roh said the new government would ensure full democracy along with social and economic reforms to aid the poor and other disadvantaged groups
i declare that the new administration will be a government of the people. it will open an era of democracy in which each citizen can reach his full potential,'' he said
then, in a warning to the opposition, he said, ``the day when confusion was irresponsibly created on the pretext of freedom and participation must also come to an end.''
thousands of radical students staged demonstrations wednesday to protest roh's inauguration and protesters hurling firebombs and rocks battled police in seoul and two other cities
it was massive demonstrations led by students last summer that prompted chun to agree to democratic reforms. he accepted the changes after roh publicly urged him to do so
but roh, a former general, is identified with the military-backed governments that ruled the country since 1960 and many koreans are doubtful he can achieve widespread democratic change
in washington, an international observer team said wednesday that roh's election appears credible despite some government abuses during nationwide voting last dec. 16. the observers, co-sponsored by the washington-based international human rights law group, said ``it appears that the vast majority of the korean people have accepted'' roh's victory
thousands of riot police and security agents guarded thursday's ceremony attended by 25,000 invited guests in the square in front of the national assembly building under a hazy late winter sky. the general public was not admitted and the 120,000-man national police force was on nationwide alert
army and navy bands played, trumpeters blew fanfares and a traditional korean folk orchestra in red robes and black horsehair hats performed
detachments of riot police stood guard in side streets as roh rode to the inauguration ceremony
about 150 protesters remained thursday in the compound of the roman catholic myongdong cathedral in seoul after battling riot police in the surrounding streets during the night
five students armed with bombs and knives briefly seized a u.s. government building in seoul and detonated two bombs wednesday before being overpowered by police. nobody was hurt or taken hostage in the hourlong incident
main streets of seoul were decorated with the white, red and blue south korean national flags and thursday was declared a national holiday. pink and blue arches proclaimed the founding of the new republic that comes into being with the adoption of a new constitution
roh told this nation of 41 million people, ``let us here and now bury regional antagonism, partisan and factional egoism and personal resentment.'' roh won the country's first democratic presidential election in 16 years on dec. 16 with 36.6 percent of the vote. he defeated rival opposition candidates kim young-sam and kim dae-jung, who split the opposition vote
opposition parties contend the government will continue to be run by the armed forces and an entrenched elite of government officials and business leaders
many koreans reacted with dismay last week when roh announced a new cabinet that included seven holdovers from the chun government. top security posts went to right-wing hardliners
other koreans argue roh must be given time to meet his promises for major reforms
roh has emphasized the need for political stability and continued economic expansion as well as democratic reforms. he has stressed that security must be sufficient to ensure the 1988 olympic games are carried out successfully in september
chun stepped down at the end of a seven-year term. africa. top 7 grafs new to update with reagan comments; picks up 2nd graf pvs, bgng: ``by acting ...''</note>
president reagan said wednesday the u.s. government was constrained from helping black south africans fighting the government partly because of divisions among them
reagan was asked at a news conference whether he had considered aiding the african national congress or other groups opposing the pretoria government since his administration has aided guerrillas fighting oppression in other countries
no, we have not involved ourselves in that, other than things such as the sanctions and so forth,'' reagan said. ``we have tried our best to be persuasive in this very difficult problem.''
he was asked what the difference was between south africa and other countries where the united states is supporting ``freedom fighters.''
the difference is that we don't have an armed insurrection going as we have in some other countries and we have a great division even among the people who are being oppressed,'' he said. ``it's a tribal policy more than it is a racial policy and that is one of the most difficult parts here.''
reagan noted that the state department had contacted the south african government earlier wednesday to object to the government's banning of anti-apartheid organizations
they should be working toward a multiracial democracy and not oppressing political organizations there, and we've made our feelings clear about that,'' he said
the state department had said it was ``appalled'' by south africa's decision to ban political activity by the nation's largest anti-apartheid group and 17 other opposition organizations
by acting to outlaw non-violent political activity of these organizations, the south african government has dealt a severe blow to efforts to achieve a a peaceful solution to south africa's problems,'' state department spokesman charles redman said
he said the affected organizations represent the aspirations of a broad cross section of the black community
we are appalled by the announcement from the south african government today that it is effectively outlawing the activities of a large number of organizations,'' redman said, adding: ``this is a giant step backward for south africa.''
redman said assistant secretary of state chester crocker had summoned south africa's ambassador to the state department to register ``shock and distress'' over the crackdown
a federal appeals court wednesday night granted a stay of execution to a man scheduled to die early thursday for a murder committed at age 17
a three-judge panel of the 5th u.s. circuit of appeals in new orleans, in granting the indefinite stay, said it needed more time to study the case of 24-year-old gary graham. earlier wednesday, a federal judge in houston denied a stay
the stay came hours before graham was scheduled to die by injection for the 1981 shooting death of bobby grant lambert, 53, of tucson, ariz., in a houston grocery store parking lot
lambert was robbed of less than $100, although police said the victim had $6,000 on him
defense attorney doug o'brien had asked for a stay pending a decision by the u.s. supreme court in an oklahoma case contending that people who commit crimes when under the age of 18 should not be executed
his appeal also was based on a texas case contending jurors should be allowed to hear mitigating circumstances when considering punishment. arguments in that case are scheduled before the u.s. supreme court on march 1
five other texas death row inmates have execution dates this year
twenty-seven people have been executed in texas, more than in any other state, since the supreme court allowed states to resume use of the death penalty in 1976. anniversary of marcos ouster. no pickup.</note>
church bells rang thursday and thousands of filipinos joined hands in a ``chain for peace'' to mark the second anniversary of the ouster of ferdinand marcos
president corazon aquino clasped the hands of defense secretary fidel ramos and chief of staff gen. renato de villa on epifanio de los santos avenue
it was along the broad avenue, known popularly as edsa, that hundreds of thousands of civilians rallied to support military mutineers in the uprising that forced the former president from the country on feb. 25, 1986
as church bells pealed thursday, a philippine air force t-28 swooped low over the crowd dragging a banner reading ``people power.'' police estimated that by 8:30 a.m. (7:30 p.m. wednesday est) about 20,000 people had packed the avenue for the all-day celebrations
leftists scheduled their own rallies thursday at which they planned to accuse mrs. aquino of abandoning the reformist goals of the 1986 revolution. on wednesday, about 20,000 people marched along the boulevard and burned an effigy of mrs. aquino
during celebrations thursday, armored personnel carriers carried images of the virgin mary in a procession along epifanio avenue. officials said the images were the ones carried by priests and nuns during the 1986 revolt
roman catholic cardinal jaime l. sin, archbishop of manila, said in a radio broadcast that the celebrations showed ``we want brotherhood and not bloodshed.''
in 1986, sin called on filipinos to fill the streets to support mutineers led by ramos and former defense minister juan ponce enrile
they had broken with marcos, charging him with fraud in the feb. 7, 1986, presidential election in which he ran against mrs. aquino. the rebels' action galvanized the opposition that began after the 1983 assassination of opposition leader benigno aquino, mrs. aquino's husband
marcos fled to hawaii
during a leftist protest wednesday, about 200 police officers blocked the road leading to the military's camp crame in suburban quezon city as helicopters hovered above. the crowd of students, workers, farmers and roman catholic clergy dispersed without incident after three hours of anti-government speeches
the leftist protesters chanted ``dismantle the u.s.-aquino regime'' and burned effigies of mrs. aquino. red banners said ``advance the people's genuine revolution'' and one poster read: ``cory _ closet dictator.''
we had high hopes when cory aquino said she would be the exact opposite of marcos. but after two years, we have no more hope that she will fulfill her promises,'' crispin beltran, head of the militant may first movement labor organization, told the rally
people distributed leaflets of the outlawed national democractic front, the umbrella organization of 12 marxist groups including the communist party and its armed wing, the new people's army
the aquino government has betrayed the filipino people's hope for fundamental changes in society after ousting marcos...,'' the democratic front statement said
also wednesday, mrs. aquino denied charges by the wife of a discredited navy officer that ramos was involved in a november 1986 coup attempt
as far as i'm concerned, general ramos has proven himself not only now but in the past, especially in his abiding by the constitution,'' she told reporters. ``he has not been any part of any coup attempt.''
ramos also denied the charges by marilyn robles, wife of capt. rex robles
the plot involved killing leftist officials, installing a military junta and reducing mrs. aquino to the role of a figurehead
foreign ministers of eight latin american countries opened a conference wednesday at which they will consider calling for the readmission of cuba to the organization of american states
the foreign ministers of peru, panama, brazil, colombia, mexico, uruguay, venezuela and argentina are scheduled to meet for three days in the colombian port city of cartagena
also on the agenda are peace efforts in central america, british naval drills near the falklands, the region's $400 billion foreign debt and increased policing of drug trafficking, said esther lozano de rey, chief secretary for the colombian foreign ministry
the ministers make up what is called the group of eight, organized last year mainly to monitor the situation in central america
mrs. lozano de rey told the associated press that a preliminary agenda for the group of eight meeting, drawn up by assistants to the foreign ministers, included a proposal to support cuba's re-entry into the oas
cuba was expelled from the organization in 1962, three years after fidel castro came to power
in a meeting of the eight latin american countries' presidents last november in acapulco, mexico, president jose sarney of brazil told reporters that the leaders had agreed that the communist nation should be readmitted to the oas. however, such a statement was not included in a final document from the meeting
the u.s. state department has said the united states can not support the readmission of cuba to the oas until that country stops trying to subvert democratic rule in the hemisphere
at the cartagena meeting, the latin american ministers are considering calling for an end to the british naval maneuvers that have taken place around the falklands islands in the south atlantic since the 1982 war between argentina and britain, according to ms. lozano de rey
argentina invaded the islands, which it calls the malvinas, but later surrendered to the british
the ministers planned to discuss a statement urging wealthy countries to fight consumption of cocaine and calling on the eight latin american countries to work to cut production of the drug
colombia, peru and bolivia are south america's three biggest cocaine-producing countries
panama's foreign minister, jorge abadia, said wednesday his government is not discounting the possibility of u.s. military intervention in panama because of the indictment on drug trafficking charges of gen. manuel antonio noriega, head of panama's armed forces
if there is an invasion, ``we won't have the capacity to stop it,'' abadia said
the reagan administration publicly called for noriega to step down following his indictment this month by a federal grand jury in miami
abadia said the charges do not constitute an attack on noriega but on the panamanian military. he claimed the charges are an attempt to break the treaty under which the united states has promised to turn the panama canal to panama by the year 2000
when the meeting ends, the eight foreign ministers will head for hamburg, west germany for a series of meetings with central american officials on the situation in their region. freed'</head> spokesman</note>
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said wednesday his christian broadcasting network once knew the whereabouts of american hostages in lebanon ``and they could have been freed'' but president reagan said if that were so ``he kept it to himself.''
robertson's comments came at an atlanta news conference during which he complained that u.s. intelligence in the middle east is inadequate and declared that action must be quick when americans are taken hostage
a robertson aide said later that the former television evangelist was referring to passengers who had been taken hostage by hijackers of a twa flight in the middle east
we identified in our news department at cbn the location of those hostages in lebanon very shortly after they were taken, and they were in a position where they could have been rescued,'' robertson said
they were in beirut, and they could have been freed.''
robertson did not provide specifics and did not say which hostages were involved
reagan, at a nationally broadcast news conference, responded to robertson's claim
it'd be very strange if he actually did have information as to the location of those hostages,'' said the president. ``isn't it strange that no one in our administration was ever apprised of that?''
if he thought that he knew,'' the president said of robertson, ``he kept it to himself.''
reagan added that ``we have tried our best and through every kind of channel to establish their (the hostages') whereabouts because that's the beginning of efforts to try and get them free.''
it's very frustrating to try and establish a location,'' reagan said. ``but we've never let up, and we never will, in trying to obtain the freedom of all the hostages.''
after reagan spoke, robertson's deputy press secretary, scott hatch, said: ``i think what pat said was accurate.''
benton miller, spokesman for cbn, based in virginia beach, va., later issued a synopsis of the news report to which robertson referred. he said it involved hostages who had been taken from twa flight 847
the synopsis said that in response to a question from robertson, a cbn middle east correspondent, who was not named, said the hostages, ``are in several locations in and around lebanon and we have also learned that maybe at least one of them, and we do not know which one, but we have been told by intelligence sources in lebanon, that at least one may be being held in tehran.''
the suspicion concerning the hostage thought to be held in tehran was later reported as incorrect in a subsequent news report on robertson's ``700 club'' talk show, miller said
asked whether he had told the reagan administration what he knew, the former television evangelist said, ``i broadcast it on national television; they monitor our programs virtually every day.''
later, in an interview on atlanta radio station wgst, robertson said the information about the hostages was obtained by a cbn-affiliated tv station in lebanon. ``my reporters in lebanon had information, initially, on where these hostages were taken,'' he said
robertson said that was ``several years ago, when the first hostages were taken.''
rival republican candidate jack kemp called robertson's statements irresponsible and said he should ``apologize to the families of the hostages whom he has needlessly hurt in an attempt to gain publicity.''
vice president george bush, campaigning in boston, was asked about robertson's statements. ``my question would be, how come he didn't get hold of the proper authorities in the united states government that were working day and night, trying to figure out how they could get these people out?''
in his news conference, robertson said action to rescue hostages ``has to be quick and it has to be a surprise, that once the situation has hardened, six months have gone by, eight months, a year, it's virtually impossible to get any movement because the hostages are dispersed and the captors are more or less dug in.''
robertson aide gary lane told the associated press that in 1985, ``during the twa flight 847 crisis,'' cbn beirut bureau chief gus hashem ``had information from sources where the hostages were being held in west beirut and who was holding them.''
lane said the state department contacted cbn for information at that time, but he said he did not know exactly who made the contact
a state department terrorism expert said he was puzzled by the contention
the official, who commented only on condition of remaining anonymous, said he was unaware that cbn ever broadcast the precise locations of any hostages. he also said knowledge of hostages' whereabouts in terms of a particular city or even a section of a city wouldn't be enough to mount a rescue mission
nine americans are in captivity in lebanon, including marine lt. col. william r. higgins, who was captured last week. terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, is the longest-held captive, having been kidnapped on march 16, 1985
robertson's comments on the hostages marked the second time in two weeks that his statements on international matters have sparked controversy. during a republican presidential debate on feb. 14, he alleged that the soviets have nuclear missiles in cuba, pointing to the united states. the reagan administration denied it
in yet another controversy, bush asked robertson to apologize or provide proof to back up his suggestion on tuesday that anti-robertson political motivations were behind the timing of public allegations of sexual misconduct against television evangelist jimmy swaggart
by sundown in the old south, i'd like to see him stand up like a southern gentleman with a little evidence,'' bush said. ``i'd like to see an apology or proof.''
federal agents wednesday arrested 17 people, most of them in virginia, and were looking for seven more in the windup of a four-year sting operation aimed at illegal bear hunting
nineteen search warrants were executed in 12 states and trophies and animal parts were seized at some locations. five airplanes were seized at anchorage, alaska, but no arrests were made there
clark r. bavin, chief of law enforcement for the fish and wildlife service, said at a news conference, ``we may have 30 to 35 people charged eventually.''
arrest warrants were obtained for two people in maryland, one in montana, four in north carolina, four in west virginia and 11 in virginia, a total of 22. twelve people in fact were arrested in virginia and an additional suspect was being sought, but officials in washington did not immediately know where
agents established a kind of hunters' brokerage in purcellville, va., about 50 miles from washington, that arranged hunts for customers, bringing guides and hunters together
bavin said the company, abrams creek outfitters, spent a year establishing its cover through advertisments, attendance of employees at conventions and visits to guides
the investigation began with a focus on out-of-season and airborne hunting of caribou and brown bears in alaska, but grew to include illegal killing of black bears, frequently in and near shenandoah national park in virginia, and sale of bear parts
bavin displayed a mounted, stuffed bear he said was taken in alaska by a two-plane party that landed the hunters at a makeshift camp to kill the bear as it was driven toward them by the other airplane
this is totally illegal,'' he said
appearing with federal officials at the news conference, gerald simmons, chief of law enforcement for the virginia game and inland fisheries commission, said, ``virginia was delighted to take part'' because it appeared that as many as 200 black bears were killed illegally last year out of a population of 2,000 to 2,500. in legal hunting, 557 bears were killed in the state
simmons and bavin displayed about a dozen bear gall bladders, wrapped in plastic bags, that had been seized in one arrest earlier in the day. these organs are considered valuable medicine in the far east and may bring $300 each
in addition, hides brought up to $250 each
the forest-dwelling black bear was found in 49 states 200 years ago, but practically decimated by the early part of this century. conservation programs have restored the bear to 30 states, and hunting is often permitted
federal law makes it a crime to transport across state lines widlife taken in violation of state law. that statute says violations can bring a year in prison and a $10,000 fine unless a sale across state lines is involved, in which case the term may be five years and the fine $20,000. under a 1984 law, the fine may be multiplied to $250,000
a 1971 law makes it a federal crime to shoot or harass wildlife from aircraft, with penalties specified as a possible yearlong prison term and fine of $5,000. the 1984 statute makes it possible to multiply the fine to $100,000. include reagan slips; should stand for ams</note>
president reagan said wednesday night ``we've never let up and we never will'' in efforts to free the american hostages in lebanon, adding that if republican presidential candidate pat robertson knew of their whereabouts, it was ``very strange'' that ``he kept it to himself.''
in his first full-dress news conference in four months, reagan also said he thought outside terrorists had been at work stirring up the middle east violence on the west bank that has prompted an israeli military crackdown
the president said he had ``every confidence'' in the personal integrity of embattled attorney general edwin meese iii. but said he could not comment on reports of the investigation of meese's role in a proposed middle east oil pipeline
as is his custom, reagan opened the nationally televised session in the white house east room with a quip. ``on the networks at last,'' he said in a wry reference to the refusal by cbs, nbc and abc to carry his prime-time feb. 2 speech on the eve of a house vote on aid to the contra rebels in nicaragua
the news conference blended international affairs with the domestic presidential campaign swirling outside the white house gates, and reagan showed his zest for political combat with a few jabs at the field of democratic contenders
to hear them, he said, ``we're in an economic slump'' suffering from a variety of ills. ``at the moment none of those things are true,'' he said
so i just think, you know, the kids will play,'' he said as laughter filled the room
the president also confirmed anew that vice president george bush expressed reservations during the iran-contra affair. but he refused to say precisely what bush had told him
on other topics, reagan:
_said secretary of state george shultz had given him an ``encouraging'' report on his just-completed trip to the soviet union. during the talks in moscow, shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze set a one-month deadline for arms negotiators to complete drafts on key elements of a new treaty to curb strategic nuclear weapons
_noted that shultz was embarking on a fresh peace-seeking mission to the middle east, and said he hoped israelis and arabs would ``rid themselves of old ideas and stances that cannot work'' and begin serious negotiations
_issued a fresh condemnation of the leftist sandinista government of nicaragua, and said the soviet union had doubled military assistance to the nation in the first two months of this year over 1987 levels. he provided no figures
_said he had not decided whether to tell congress that aid should be resumed to panama. he has to certify that panama is helping in anti-drug efforts, but gen. manuel noriega, panama's military leader, has been indicted on u.s. drug-trafficking charges
reagan passed up several invitations to criticize israeli action against arab protesters on the occipied west bank and gaza strip
we don't support that sort of thing,'' was as strong a statement as the president would make, but he added quickly that there was evidence that the riots that provoked an israeli military crackdown were not ``spontaneous.''
asked to elaborate, he said, ``we have had information that there have been certain people suspected of being terrorists, outsiders coming in and stirring up the trouble in those areas.''
he ducked a request for more information, replying that to say more would ``get into areas that violate security.''
the subject of associated press correspondent terry anderson _ nearly three years in captivity _ and the other american hostages in lebanon arose early in the 30-minute nationally televised question-and-answer session
we've never let up and we never will in trying to bring freedom for all our hostages,'' reagan said
asked about gop candidate robertson's claim that his christian broadcasting network had once known the location of some of the hostages and the administration may have missed a chance for a rescue, the president said:
i can only say this. it would be very strange if he did have information ... isn't it strange that no one in our administration was apprised of it.''
reagan said he didn't want to become involved in the campaign to succeed him in the white house, but he said, ``if he felt that he (robertson) knew he kept it to himself.''
the president's statement on the contras seemed to be a soft appeal for support in congress for fresh aid to the rebels. he noted with regret that the democratic-run house had rejected his call for $36.2 million in fresh aid to the contra, including some money for weapons
house leaders have scheduled a vote for next week on an alternative support calling for humanitarian aid
reagan was unclear on a number of points. for example, he said that soviet membershin||nt on tariffs and trade, is under review but he failed to point out that the united states strenuously opposes soviet participation
he also said that secretary of state george shultz and former defense secretary caspar weinberger did not object to the secret sale of arms to iran on grounds that it was a trade of arms for hostages. however, the secretaries have said otherwise, and the iran-contra report issued by two congressional committees said shultz and weinberger ``called it a straight arms-for-hostages deal that was contrary to u.s. public policy.''
reagan jockeyed a busy round of talks on foreign policy problems wednesday with last-minute preparations for the news conference, the 42nd in his seven years as president but his first since last oct. 22
his first appointment wednesday was with shultz, who returned from moscow on tuesday night after talks on arms control and the likelihood of a soviet pullout of military forces from afghanistan
shultz headed out again wednesday night, this time to the middle east to try to spark arab-israeli peace talks. shultz said in advance he had only a slim chance of succeeding, and that the two sides would have to moderate their ``extreme positions.''
during the talks in moscow, shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze set a one-month deadline for arms negotiators to complete drafts on key elements of a new treaty to curb strategic nuclear weapons
the roman catholic prelate of guatemala offered wednesday to mediate peace talks between the government of president vinicio cerezo and leftist guerrillas who have waged a sporadic war since 1960
monsignor prospero penados del barrio told reporters he accepted a request to act as mediator from the general command of the guatemalan national revolutionary union, which is made up of three leftist armies
there was no immediate comment from the president's office
the archbishop told at a news conference, ``we would carry out our mediation at any place, whether it be proposed by the guerrillas or by the government, since the important thing is to end the fratricidal fight that ... has served to blind useful lives.''
he said the first round of talks should be held before holy week at the end of march
the talks would be held in accordance with a central american peace plan signed last august by the presidents of guatemala, nicaragua, el salvador, honduras and costa rica
asked about the talks, defense minister gen. hector alejandro gramajo morales said the army ``is very close to achieving a total victory'' over the rebels
in a very short time,'' he said, ``the subversive activity in the country will be ended.''
he said the guerrillas number 500 to 700
last october, representatives of the government and the guerrillas met for the first time since the rebels took to the hills in 1960 after a failed coup attempt. their four-day talks were held in madrid, spain
the talks foundered over the role of the army, how to interpret the term ``cease-fire,'' and rebel concern over whether the government can control rightist death squads
foreign minister alfonso cabrera said then that further peace talks would be pointless and called on the rebels to ``become part of the country's political and productive framework once again.''
the request to the archbishop to negotiate new talks was made by leaders of the three rebel armies in the revolutionary union _ rolando moran of the guerrilla army of the poor; gaspar ilom, a pseudonym for rodrigo asturias, of the organization of people in arms and pablo monsanto of the rebel armed forces
in ads in local newspapers, the guerrillas said a dialogue with the government ``is the only way to avoid death and suffering.''
gramajo morales, the defense minister, said the rebels should put down their arms and rejoin public life before any talks are undertaken. he said guatemala was complying fully with the new peace plan
the plan calls for cease-fire talks between the government and rebels in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua as a first step toward democratic elections. it also urges political amnesties and a ban on all outside military assistance to rebel groups
right-wing death squads have operated for the past decade in guatemala, kidnapping and killing labor leaders, suspected communist leaders and human rights activists. details. picks up 13th graf pvs, earlier wednesday ...</note>
an ira bomb exploded in central belfast late wednesday night, killing two part-time soldiers of the ulster defense regiment and wounding two others and a civilian pedestrian, police said
the irish republican army claimed responsibility in a telephoned statement to belfast news organizations
belfast police headquarters said in a statement that the explosion occurred at security gates in royal avenue
the british broadcasting corp. said the blast was heard more than 12 miles away. police estimated the size of the bomb at 150 pounds. the explosion shattered shop and office windows hundreds of yards away
the police statement said the four soldiers were on patrol in a land rover. it said police believe the bomb was hidden behind an advertising billboard fronting a building site
police earlier said they believed the bomb was thrown by hand but later amended this, saying they thought the bombers detonated it from some distance away using a control wire
the vehicle was stationary at the time. one soldier died almost instantly. the other died later in belfast city hospital, police said
they said a 57-year-old pedestrian passing by was slightly hurt. the army said the two wounded soldiers received only minor injuries
chief inspector jim boyd of belfast police said the attack occurred about 11 p.m. when few people were around
the locally recruited ulster defense regiment is part of the british army
wednesday's death brings to at least 2,628 northern ireland's overall toll since sectarian and political violence flared in 1969
the mainly roman catholic ira wants to drive the british from northern ireland and unite the predominantly protestant province with the overwhelmingly catholic irish republic under socialist rule
earlier wednesday, police charged an 18-year-old british soldier with unlawfully killing an unarmed roman catholic civilian
a magistrate in cookstown, 25 miles west of belfast, ordered pvt. david jonathan holden held in police custody until his appearance at a belfast court on march 9
the defense said holden will plead innocent to the charge of unlawfully killing aidan mcanespie, 23. he was hit sunday by a bullet fired from an army observation post at a checkpoint near auchnacloy, half a mile from the irish republic's border
the irish government angered britain by launching its own police investigation
anglo-irish relations have also been strained by britain's refusal to prosecute police officers involved in shooting to death six unarmed catholics in 1982
british and irish leaders wednesday held their first meeting since october under the auspices of the 1985 anglo-irish agreement, which gave ireland an advisory role in northern ireland affairs in an effort to redress grievances of the catholic minority
ireland's foreign affairs minister, brian lenihan, met with northern ireland secretary tom king, the top british official in the province. after the meeting, king said they had arranged for their police chiefs to meet next month to discuss security cooperation along the border
but the irish government later denied that the two sides agreed on such a meeting
a joint communique issued after wednesday's talks focused on proposed british legislation aimed at guaranteeing a fair division of employment between catholics and protestants in northern ireland
meanwhile, police in dublin said they had uncovered a cache of weapons, including 30 soviet-made kalashnikov semi-automatic rifles, in a makeshift bunker beaneath a shed at malahide in the city's northern outskirts
police, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the weapons apparently were destined for the ira and may have been part of four shipments they believe were smuggled from libya into ireland over the last three years
the cache included a dozen rocket warheads, 64 hand grenades, 30,000 bullets and 500 pounds of explosives. additional comments; trims last 7 grafs for length</note>
president reagan said wednesday night the administration has information that suspected terrorists from the outside have been stirring up trouble in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
reagan made his statement in a nationally televised news conference as secretary of state george p. shultz headed for the middle east with admittedly little chance of setting up arab-israeli negotiations
reporting on shultz' mission, reagan said, ``in the middle east, it's time for all parties to rid themselves of old ideas and stances that cannot work and to begin a serious process of negotiation and reconciliation.''
he was not specific, however, and he passed up several invitations to criticize israeli action against arab protesters in the occupied territories
we have spoken to the government there and we have also spoken to the palestinian leadership because there is every evidence that these riots are not just spontaneous and home grown,'' the president said
asked about the israeli actions against palestinian protesters, reagan said, ``we don't support that sort of thing and we are trying to persuade all the participants to try to arrive at a solution representing justice for all.''
when he was asked to whom he was referring in his statement about the riots not being ``home grown,'' the president responded, ``we have had information that there have been certain people suspected of being terrorists, outsiders coming in, not only with weapons, but stirring up and encouraging the trouble in those areas.''
now, that isn't something you can go out and say we absolutely know, but certainly the violence is both ways,'' the president said
he said he could not be more specific ``because i get into areas there that would be violating security rules, and i don't think i should.''
on a related subject, reagan was asked about reports out of geneva that palestinian liberation organization leader yasser arafat might be willing to accept two united nations resolutions, which he has scorned in the past and which are the cornerstone of u.s. policy in the mideast
well, i know that this is one other thing we're pursuing,'' the president said. ``if he really is, and if he is willing to acknowledge the right of israel to exist as a nation ... i'm sure that the secretary of state will be _ is apprised of that fact, and will see what we can do there.''
reagan said his administration would continue to seek ways to alleviate israeli-arab conflict
that's a goal that i think would ... be one of the greatest achievements of this administration, if before i leave, we could bring about a peace in the middle east,'' he said
before departing for jerusalem, shultz added syria to his itinerary despite u.s. sanctions against a country the state department has condemned as a supporter of terrorism
when we have an issue to address we're going to address it in the most effective way we can,'' department spokesman charles e. redman said. he called syria ``one of the key players in the region.''
sources in damascus said shultz would visit on saturday. redman refused to provide a specific itinerary, saying only that shultz would make stops in israel, jordan, egypt and syria, and that he ``was ready to meet with palestinians.''
he will remain in the region until next tuesday when he flies to london to see king hussein of jordan, who is in the british capital for dental work, and then to brussels for a summit meeting of the north atlantic treaty organization
shultz is leaving his schedule open for a return to the middle east next thursday for a few more days of diplomacy before returning to washington on march 6
shultz rates his chances of setting up negotiations as slim, and said succcess would depend on the israelis and arabs moderating their ``extree positions.''
at a news conference tuesday in brussels, he said ``it's just possible attitudes have shifted enough.''
looking forward to it?'' shultz joshed. ``it's going to be tough.''
the u.s. goal is to find a way for israel and a mixed delegation of jordanians and palestinians to hold negotiations to lower tensions on the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza
temporary self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live under israeli control is the short-term aim. negotiations by december that leave open the option of a state linked to jordan is the projected second step
this would mean israel's surrendering most of the territory it gained from jordan and egypt in the 1967 six-day war. israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and his likud bloc do not accept the state department's concept of ``trading territory for peace,'' while hussein refuses to commit himself to negotiations with an uncertain outcome
the palestinians, meanwhile, are divided about their objectives and unable to agree on who would represent them in negotiations
i don't think many people give me much chance,'' shultz said in brussels. he said he found ``intense skepticism'' even among the nato allies
however,'' he said, ``we do have a few ideas. the engagement of the united states on an intense basis is welcomed. i believe that even if the chances are small it's worthwhile trying, and you can't be too afraid of failing.''
shultz will have some good news for mubarak. a u.s. official said wednesday the state department will notify congress it plans to go ahead with a $2 billion, 10-year project to produce m-1 tanks jointly with egypt
the official, who demanded anonymity, said the project would involve the first foreign purchase of the top-of-the-line u.s. tanks. it will be financed from the $1.3 billion in grants that egypt receives annually from the united states
shultz returned to washington tuesday night to report to president reagan on his two days of talks in moscow. he also met with visiting portugese prime minister anibal cavaco silva and spoke to a meeting of the business council
ten years ago, the united states, israel and egypt produced the camp david agreements. this led in 1979 to a peace treaty between israel and egypt and to unsuccessful negotiations over palestinian ``autonomy,'' or limited self-rule
as shultz weighed a trip to the region this month, many arab countries led by egypt and jordan informed the united states that they firmly rejected another interim negotiation based on camp david
egyptian president hosni mubarak, who heads the only arab country formally to make peace with israel, called the camp david formula ``a thing of the past whose time has ended.'' news digest: washington _ reagan; washington _ contra aid; washington _ filibuster; seoul, south korea _ korea; undated _ political rdp; washington _ also rans; washington _ robertson-libel; sacramento, calif. _ toxic warnings; riverside, calif. _ head removed; chicago _ student demotions; stockholm, sweden _ palme.</note>
west bank villagers burned the home of a fellow arab accused of helping the israelis and lynched him after he fired on a crowd wednesday with a submachine gun, killing a 4-year-old boy and wounding 13 people, security sources said
israel radio called the event ``a serious escalation'' of 11 weeks of violence in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, and linked it to calls by the palestine liberation organization for harsh action against collaborators
palestinians began a general strike in the occupied territories wednesday and the army reported the first attack on israeli soldiers with explosives and firearms since riots began dec. 8
secretary of state george p. shultz, barely pausing to catch his breath and pack a fresh shirt, headed to the middle east wednesday with admittedly little chance of setting up arab-israeli negotiations
before departing for jerusalem, shultz added syria to his itinerary despite u.s. sanctions against a country the state department has condemned as a supporter of terrorism
when we have an issue to address we're going to address it in the most effective way we can,'' department spokesman charles e. redman said. he called syria ``one of the key players in the region.''
the government on wednesday banned political activity by 18 opposition groups, including the nation's largest anti-apartheid organization and its biggest union federation, in the most sweeping crackdown in a decade
anglican archbishop desmond tutu said the move would be seen by many government opponents as a ``declaration of war.''
law and order minister adriaan vlok, however, said the regulations ``will contribute to a climate of stability, peaceful coexistence, and good neighborliness among all population groups.''
the supreme court expanded significantly the legal protections for parody and satire wednesday as it overturned a $200,000 award evangelist jerry falwell had won against hustler magazine and publisher larry flynt
the justices ruled unanimously that ``emotional distress'' lawsuits filed by public figures targeted by such spoofs should be as difficult to win as libel suits. and the court unanimously said that even pornographic spoofs enjoy the free-speech protection of the constitution's first amendment
republican presidential candidate pat robertson said wednesday that his christian broadcasting network once knew the whereabouts of american hostages in lebanon ``and they could have been freed.''
told of robertson's statement, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater asked, ``why didn't he tell us where they were?''
robertson's comments came at an atlanta news conference during which he complained that u.s. intelligence in the middle east is inadequate and declared that action must be quick when americans are taken hostage
we identified in our news department at cbn the location of those hostages in lebanon very shortly after they were taken, and they were in a position where they could have been rescued. they were in beirut, and they could have been freed,'' said robertson, who did not provide specifics and did not say which hostages were involved
the kremlin on wednesday installed an armenian as the communist party chief of a disputed territory in an apparent effort to end ethnic protests in soviet armenia that a dissident said involved 200,000 people
soviet authorities also ordered an end to the unrest
protesters in yerevan, the armenian capital, want the nagorno-karabakh region in neighboring azerbaidzhan turned over to armenia, smallest of the soviet union's 15 republics
yerevan was the scene tuesday and wednesday of industrial strikes, school boycotts and public demonstrations said to be the largest in the soviet union's 70-year history
the chairman of a white house commission recommended wednesday that federal and local governments spend an additional $20 billion over the next decade to fight aids among drug abusers
retired navy adm. james d. watkins, head of the aids commission appointed by president reagan last summer, acknowledged that the call for such massive spending on drug addicts might prove controversial
but he said 200 hours of testimony from 350 witnesses has left the panel convinced that the deadly disease is spreading most rapidly among the nation's estimated 1.3 million intravenous drug abusers and their sexual partners
as many as 460 americans may get aids infections each year from transfusions of tainted blood that slip through blood-bank screening programs, according to a new federal estimate
a study by the u.s. centers for disease control concludes that there is ``a remote but real risk'' of infection with the aids virus when people get transfusions of blood that has been checked for the virus
the researchers calculate that the odds are about 1 in 40,000 that a blood transfusion will contain the aids virus
a lively pentecostal denomination, shattered by the successive shaming of its two most dazzling tv evangelists, this week was in a state of trauma
some of its leaders were questioning the propriety of television preaching itself
there's a great deal of sadness, shock and grief over the whole situation,'' said juleen turnage, communications officer for the assemblies of god, based in springfield, mo
we're back in the shades of 1987,'' she added, referring to when the sexual lapses struck in the case of ex-tv star jim bakker, and now had hit fiery tv preacher jimmy swaggart
it's a tremendous shock, so totally out of character with what he preached,'' said the rev. robert spence, president of the denomination's evangel college
it's going to have a very, very serious effect on those ministries that are still on television. the element of suspicion of it is going to become even more acute.''
some think that may be a good idea. clinical psychologist larry bass, a denominational member, says there is ``something corrupting about the power'' of dominating huge crowds
there's a kind of narcissistic evil that attracts people to that kind of work, all the self-aggrandizement it gives them. tv gives it even larger magnitude.''
he suggests local congregations should teach people to be more critical in viewing tv preachers and particularly to guard against these dangerous tendencies:
_``putting anyone up on a pedestal, or believing they're virtually the voice of god
_``ministers who put down other religions and people and who are extremely judgmental about the faults of others.''
he said swaggart seemed to fit these categories, almost mesmerizing crowds with his sizzling, emotional fervor and his blistering attacks on other religions and on other people's sexual flaws
nobody has all the answers, and for anyone to act as if they do is a big danger sign,'' bass said. noting that swaggart sometimes said anyone who disagreed with him was wrong, bass added:
anyone who sets himself up with that kind of authority, that he's always absolutely correct, is a dangerous thing, and hardly to be trusted.''
however, he said ``it's unfortunately true'' that the typical kind of followers swaggart attracts ``are the most gullible.''
religion professor stanley m. burgess, an assemblies scholar of southwestern missouri state university in springfield, said the fall of such high-powered evangelists as swaggart serves this clear warning:
we must be careful not to label as gold everything that glitters.''
such celebrated preachers ``still have feet of clay,'' burgess said. ``people have to show greater discernment about them, recognizing that we're not dealing with god here but humans who can fall.''
even in the scandals, he said, ``i would hope people will not drool over it, but learn from it, and look for a silver lining.''
for one thing, he added, ``people who have supported tv ministries may now put their support back in local churches and synagogues, where it has been missing in many cases.''
a noted church communications expert, the rev. william f. fore, maintains that religion, when it buys into television, is co-opted by it and becomes a victim to its focus on self-gratification and quick-fix answers
it ``maximizes self-interest,'' he said in his recent book, ``television and religion,'' grossly twisting the biblical emphasis on selfless service
this corruption of the fundamental biblical concept of conscience into self-interest is perhaps the most serious of all the electronic church's distortions.''
spence said there is ``nothing wrong'' with the medium of television itself, but that it does involve detachment from the local congregation, ``where there is a greater degree of accountability.''
in television, there's not that closeness, of a minister living among his people,'' spence said
furthermore, he added, other aspects of tv raise the ``posibility of distortion,'' such as tv's continual concern of ``what it will look like,'' and how a ``program will go over'' with a mass, theologically uninformed audience
he said that when someone in that situation has been very successful, there's a tendency ``to live in an unreal world, filled only with people who are saying what they think he wants to hear
it's an artificial environment that distorts the whole perspective and can lead to a point of assuming you're stronger than you really are ... that `what might bother other people does not affect me'.''
but despite the deflecting aspects, he said, ``a person has to be of the compromising type to cross over the line'' in his morals, something swaggart was ``definitely not'' in his words. his conduct turned out to be something else
that, spence said, ``is part of the tremendous shock.''
the rev. richard champion, editor of the denomination's weekly, pentecostal evangel, said church leaders ``are going through a personal trauma. here was this brother in christ, and suddenly this happens, and we have to deal with the fallout.''
a noted church growth specialist says the ``prognosis for the sunday school in america is not good,'' with enrollment falling from 40.5 million in 1970 to 26.6 million in 1986
win arn, head of the institute for american church growth, says that in 1970, only 10 percent of the adult population said they received no religious training as a child, while in 1986, the proportion had climbed to 27 percent
mother teresa, founder of the missionaries of charity and winner of the 1979 nobel peace prize, is to receive greek orthodoxy's third athenagoras human rights award at a banquet here saturday, feb. 27
the award, named for the late eastern orthodox patriarch athenagorus, is made by the archons of the order of st. andrew, an organization of greek orthodox laymen
former president jimmy carter, a southern baptist, received the award last year
a leading evangelical theologian says continued controversy in the southern baptist convention has reduced its influence as an evangelical force
the rev. carl f. h. henry, a visiting professor at southern baptist theological seminary here, said the denomination's theological-political struggle has produced the image of a divided denomination, discouraging people from identifying with it
people in the secular city feel they don't want anything to do with either'' side in the conflict over bible interpretation and organizational control, he said
he said energies that would have been devoterd to evangelistic efforts have been devoted to denominational in-fighting
two interreligious affairs leaders say catholic-jewish relations are undergoing a ``severe time of testing'' which must not be allowed to undermine the extraordinary improvements in mutual trust since roman catholicism's reforming second vatican council of 1962-65
eugene l. fisher, executive secretary of the u.s. catholic bishops' secretariat for catholic-jewish relations, told a conference real problems remain, but the past gains are ``irreversible and filled with enormous promise.''
rabbi james rudin, the american jewish committee's interreligious affairs director, said, ``in a world filled with growing religious fanaticism and extremism, we are planting the seeds of reconciliation'' between catholics and jews. ``this legacy ... must be nurtured for the future.''
works of 34 asian christian artists offer their interpretations of faith in a special exhibition, ``that all may be one,'' now touring the united states
the 40 works by artists from japan, indonesia, thailand, sri lanka, korea, australia and india are being shown feb.16-march 18 at manhattan's interchurch center, in new haven, conn., march 21-april 15, in arlington, texas, may 20-27, and in purdue, ind., july 13-18, with further showings being arranged
the exhibition is being sponsored by the east asia and pacific committee of the national councidl of churches
the u.s. catholic conference has petitioned the supreme court to throw out lower court decisions ordering extensive records about abortion turned over to a group seeking to eliminate the church's tax exemption
the conference maintained the group, abortion rights mobilization, has no standing to attack the church's tax exemption, and that allowing it would invite similar challenges to all reglious bodies by political opponents
the group wants the irs to revoke tax exemption of the church's functions, national and local _ thousands of parishes, schools, hospitals, religious orders and other agencies _ on grounds the church engaged in political activity against abortion
people who attempt to determine just what is going on in the executive suite are eyeing a vital statistic that appears to have changed direction again:
the average age at which chief executive officers are appointed to lead top corporations is declining again after a fairly steady rise since the mid- and late 1960s
the changing numbers are likely to prompt a spate of explanations, along with interpretations about the consequences for management and the economy. but, says one authority, they could signify only a tendency of herd behavior
professor eugene jennings finds that in each five-year period from 1950 through 1969 the average age of newly appointed chief executives fell, from 57.7 in 1950-1954 to 50.1 in 1965-1969
after that, the age at appointment rose steadily again, reaching 56.7 years in the 1980-1984 period
but, he advises, it is now on the way down again, and he projects it will be down to 52 years or less in the 1989-1994 period
such patterns obviously invite economic and political interpretations, but jennings cautions against reading too much into them
it may be, he speculates, that it simply ``becomes proper, smart.''
jennings, a pioneer in the study of executive mobility, has been observing corporations since 1949 and has written the book, so to speak, on the upward, sideways and downward patterns in the fortunes of high-ranking executives
his basic studies, ``the mobile manager'' and ``routes to the executive suite,'' have educated graduate students, helped executives understand where they fit in the larger scheme and guided executive recruiters
in studying the numbers, the professor _ he teaches business at michigan state university when he isn't offering confidential advise to chiefs _ found two curious, telling splits, or indications of bimodality, in the age groupings
these splits occurred in 1965-1969 and 1980-1984, and in each instance led to changes in the pattern
when the age level fell to 50.1 years in the earlier period it hardly represented uniformity. instead, 33 percent of the appointments were below age 47 and 35 percent were above 52 years
that bimodality, says jennings, was a turning point. thereafter, the average age of appointment began rising again, reaching a top in 1980-1984. but then that old bimodality came into play again
in the latter period, the split found by jennings was made up of 36 percent below age 50 and 37 percent above age 55. and just as the split back in the 1960s led to a change in direction of the age pattern, this one did also
following the latest split, the average age fell sharply in the 1985-1987 period to 54.6 years. and, jennings speculates, it should continue falling right into the 1990s
jennings recalls that in the 1960s, when he was well into a career of advising corporations about their own behavior, he had little difficulty in selling the idea that a chief executive was good for five years
the notion then, he explains, was to seek optimum power from the executive staff. ``get them at their peak, utilize them and get another.''
companies were growing. ``you didn't want to block the movement of cream to the top,'' he said
there was a strong belief in the system, in ``this is the way we do things at this company.'' executives were there to manage within the system, not necessarily to lead
eventually, however, that attitude changed and the age pattern rose, accompanied by a feeling that a good chairman was hard to find and so you kept him or her for 10 to 15 years
the feeling developed that if age plugged up the movement of cream to the top, then so be it. ``those who left because the plug was stuck in the neck of the bottle were felt to detract less from the organization than the continued contribution of a well-seasoned chief,'' jennings said
the new bimodality began showing up as early as 1982, and says jennings, probably indicates less belief in the system's strength. in fact, there is a suspicion that the whole system is probably faulty and needs changing
this split, jennings says, suggests the feeling has developed in some corporations that people are needed at the helm who aren't so enamored with the system that they wouldn't dare to change it
if my speculation is correct,'' jennings says, ``we have two or three years during which corporate systems will continue to be rebuilt.'' by younger chief executive officers
you wouldn't think perry king and lauren hutton would need a makeover to be ``perfect people'' _ until you saw them in makeup for the abc movie
king, a chiseled, matinee-idol type, spent more than two hours in makeup every morning to look like a middle-aged, overweight, out-of-shape couch potato. the same for hutton, a former fashion model
in ``perfect people,'' which abc will telecast monday, the couple take a good look at themselves and their lifestyle and decide to change
when i read the script, i said this is great but it would be physically impossible for me to play this role,'' said king. ``after they did a transformation on me and took pictures, nobody recognized me except my daughter, louise. she knew me instantly
i'd walk around in makeup and in the fat suit and see how people reacted to me. i had thinning hair, bags under my eyes, jowls. i also spent some time watching fat people to see how they moved. i also stole from tom bray, one of my co-stars on `riptide.' he's thin, but he has a lot of mannerisms and gestures. i called him up and said i was going to use some of them.''
the movie follows kenneth and barbara (ken and barbie?) as they work to regain their lost youth
everything we do is possible,'' king said. ``the plastic surgery, the hair transplants, the implants, the liposuction. but i hope that we make it very clear that it's potentially dangerous, painful and takes a long time. so the differences between the way we looked in the beginning and the way we look at the end can be done
our approach is humorous. we show how they want to look as they did 20 years earlier and the problems it causes. they're no longer grounded in reality. if you can change your appearance, what's real? they were high school sweethearts. it bothers ken that men are now ogling at his wife. it shows that you don't fall in love with someone for their looks. you fall in love with someone for what they are. it's really a sweet little movie about two good people.''
king calls it a nice change from his role as ``a terrible person'' in the miniseries, ``i'll take manhattan.''
i'm getting older and more of my life shows on my face,'' he said. ``that makes it better for me as an actor. i can be cast in different parts.''
king said he was most excited about a pilot for abc he will do with dorian harewood, with whom he has been friends since they did the tv movie ``foster and laurie'' in 1975 about two new york city policemen killed in an ambush in 1972
the projected series was developed from an idea by harewood's wife, ann mccurry, and her friend, louise hoven. the working title is ``black and white.''
we're not cops,'' said king. ``we're half-brothers. our mother has left us only one thing, an investigative newspaper. the only way we can keep it going is to work together. there's a lot of rivalry and dissention between us. hopefully, it'll have the humor of `the rockford files.' jim garner used to call his show an hour-long smile
we're two brothers who've had no contact with each other, although we knew about each other. our mother had had two marriages and two separate lives. if would be great if we could do something with this. people talk all the time about doing something together, but they never do. so, here are two friends who got an idea and decided to do something with it.''
away from work, he continues to work on his motorcycle collection. he has eight motorcycles and two sidecars
it's like owning a fine painting,'' he said. ``if you buy good stuff you'll never lose a penny. jay leno's got really beautiful stuff. mine is sort of middle of the road. he has rare motorcycles. mine are more common, like triumphs, bmws and ducati.''
elsewhere in television:
two camerons make `full house' _ teen heartthrob kirk cameron of abc's ``growing pains'' will guest on his sister's series, abc's ``full house,'' on march 4. candace cameron, six years younger than kirk, plays oldest daughter d.j. on the series. bob saget plays her dad. john stamos and dave coulier are his buddies helping him raise his kids. kirk will play d.j.'s older cousin who comes for a visit and makes her insecure when he hits it off with her dad, making her wonder if he would have preferred a son
the news lately has been anything but comforting for people getting ready to file their tax returns for 1987
when the general accounting office made test queries in the internal revenue service's telephone assistant program for taxpayers, it says it got wrong answers 39 percent of the time
when money magazine asked 50 professional preparers to compute the taxes owed by a hypothetical family, no two came up with the same number. and the preparers' fees ranged from $187 to $2,500
a person might conclude from this that the annual exercise of reckoning up with uncle sam is becoming a high stakes game played under very uncertain rules
if you can't rely totally on the irs's own people for guidance, and if the professionals appear to be taking no more than educated guesses, to whom should you turn for guidance?
even for middle-income taxpayers, a lot rides on the answer to that question. you don't want inadvertently to pay a bigger tax bill than you have to _ but at the same time, you don't want to venture into territory that invites an irs audit
and the value of, say, a $500 tax saving pales if it costs you $600 in preparation fees to get it
the whole situation is certainly troublesome, but it need not be cause for panic. as money magazine describes it, the ``financial profile'' of its theoretical family was more complicated than most people in the real world are likely to have
the tax reform law that contributed so much to all this confusion also made it possible for larger numbers of americans to file using short forms
furthermore, there have been gray areas for many years in the black and white of the income tax forms. though many people complain about this, few have been eager to give up their favorite deductions and credits to the cause of ``simplification.''
even in the present turmoil, many people relish the challenge of tackling the tax forms on their own. they reason that it is about the only chance they get to work for aftertax pay, since a refund isn't taxable income
if you prefer to let somebody else do the work, there are ways to improve your chances of coming out in good shape
first of all, says robert smith, an assistant professor of accounting at boston university school of management, it's important to figure out what kind of help you need
if you determine that your situation is pretty simple, for instance, you don't want to choose a high-priced preparer who specializes in dealing with top corporate executives or rock stars
if you're not sure whether your case is simple or complicated, smith suggests asking for a meeting with a preparer simply to evaluate the degree of service you need
get organized as soon as possible,'' smith says. ``if your preparer has to spend time sorting through your records, your bill may be higher
organized records reduce the chance that an error will occur,'' he adds
another incentive not to put the business off until the april 15 deadline approaches: that is precisely the time when preparers are the busiest and most in demand
some firms lower their fees for clients who come in early or who are willing to have their return filing date extended,'' smith observes
should you find that you need continuing and fairly elaborate tax help, it makes sense to seek out a preparer the way you would a family dentist, doctor or lawyer
as smith concludes: ``you may establish a long-term relationship that will save tax dollars for years to come.''
the u. s. catholic conference has petitioned the supreme court to throw out lower court decisions ordering extensive records about abortion turned over to a group seeking to eliminate the church's tax exemption
the conference maintained the group, abortion rights mobilization, has no standing to attack the church's tax exemption, and that allowing it would invite similar challenges to all religious bodies by political opponents
the group wants the irs to revoke tax exemption of the church's functions, national and local _ thousands of parishes, schools, hospitals, religious orders and other agencies _ on grounds the church engaged in political activity against abortion
works of 34 asian christian artists offer their interpretations of faith in a special exhibition, ``that all may be one,''now touring the united states through the fall
the 40 works by artists from japan, indonesia, thailand, sri lanka, korea, australia and india are being shown feb.16-march 18 at manhattan's interchurch center, in new haven, conn., march 21-april 15, in arlington, texas, may 20-27, and in purdue, ind., july 13-18, with further showings being arranged
the exhibition is being sponsored by the east asia and pacific committee of the national councidl of churches
two interreligious affairs leaders say catholic-jewish relations are undergoing a ``severe time of testing'' which must not be allowed to undermine the extraordinary improvements in mutual trust since roman catholicism's reforming second vatican council of 1962-65
eugene l. fisher, executive secretary of the u.s. catholic bishops' secretariat for catholic-jewish relations, told a conference real problems remain, but the past gains are ``irreversible and filled with enormous promise.''
rabbi james rudin, the american jewish committee's interreligious affairs director, said, ``in a world filled with growing religious fanaticism and extremism, we are planting the seeds of reconciliation'' between catholics and jews. ``this legacy...must be nurtured for the future.''
a leading evangelical theologian says continued controversy in the southern baptist convention has reduced its influence as an evangelical force
the rev. carl f. h. henry, a visiting professor at southern baptist theological seminary here, said the denomination's theological-political struggle has produced the image of a divided denomination, discouraging people from identifying with it
people in the secular city feel they don't want anything to do with either'' side in the conflict over bible interpretation and organizational control, he said
he said energies that would have been devoterd to evangelistic efforts have been devoted to denominational in-fighting
a university of missouri expert in church-state law contends the confirmation of justice arthur kennedy to the u.s. supreme court may result in reopening religion cases from the past four decades
law professor carl h. esbeck says kennedy, a roman catholic, can be expected to support government aid to parochial schools, a more balanced role for religion in public school textbooks, and a voluntary moment of silence for school children
mother teresa, founder of the missionaries of charity and winner of the 1979 nobel peace prize, is to receive greek orthodoxy's third athenagoras human rights award at a banquet here saturday, feb. 27
the award, named for the late eastern orthodox patriarch athenagorus, is made by the archons of the order of st. andrew, an organization of greek orthodox laymen
former president jimmy carter, a southern baptist, received the award last year
a noted church growth specialist says the ``prognosis for the sunday school in america is not good,'' with total enrollment in sunday schools falling from 40.5 million in 1970 to 26.6 million in 1986
win arn, head of the institute for american church growth, says that in 1970, only 10 percent of the adult population said they received no religious training as a child, while in 1986, the proportion had climbed to 27 percent
the minister basked in glory, so exalted that special choirs of women sang praises to him. born poor, he had become rich and famous. when he preached, people sighed and waved handkerchiefs in admiration
but he tumbled into obloquy
that happened to a third-century syrian bishop, paul samosata, dethroned as a heretic, a story recalled as resembling the fall of modern tv-famed evangelists, including the latest, jimmy swaggart
there's nothing new in this _ it's as old as the hills,'' says stanley m. burgess, professor of religion at southwestern missouri state university in springfield, mo., but tv makes it a spectacle for millions
the higher the pedestal, the heavier the winds,'' burgess said in a telephone interview. ``the higher they get up the mountain, the thicker the fog
`it's harder for them to reflect on themselves and see who they really are. with people constantly telling them how wonderful they are, that they're the `man of god for this hour,' it's not a position to be in if one wants to be honest with himself.''
it's the old egocentric problem, as old as the biblical adam who sought to be god himself, but burgess said the glorified are especially vulnerable
this is a common strand that runs through all religious literature,'' he said
as second samuel 1:25 puts it, ``how the mighty are fallen.''
swaggart's fall, over reported involvement with a prostitute, is particularly stark because of his ``hard-line preaching,'' burgess said
he had preached against almost everything imaginable, and then for him to do the very thing he preached against makes it all the more dramatic,'' burgess said
burgess, a scholar of the assemblies of god, the denomination to which swaggart belongs, said some ministers go wrong in every century, and in every denomination ``virtually every day.''
but swaggart, who lashed out at sexual lapses, becomes ``the epitome of hyprocrisy,'' burgess said. ``i do appreciate that he came out with it.''
richard champion, editor of the denomination's weekly, pentecostal evangel, said that when ``people surround themselves with those who always agree, who tell them only good things, they get tripped up in public adulation
ego takes over, and gets out of control. they see evil as something in other people, and rationalize their own behavior...with somebody like swaggart, it a very visible thing.''
clinical psychgologist larry bass of springfield, mo., said that without being specific about swaggart, his case seemed to fit the category of someone who has ``difficulty accepting his own humanness
while he is so vocal attacking other people's sexual sins, he is guilty of some of that himself and struggling with it, but he feels as if he has to be above it, and so he hides it
he comes across as very judgmental and critical of other people. he can't accept his his own vulnerability to sin, so what he has to do is hide it in a kind of self-righteous hypocrisy.''
bass, who also belongs to the assemblies of god, said that many times those who are the ``most judgmental, putting down others and condemning, are guilty of the same thing they're haranguing about
but they have to hide it, that's the shame, they're so afraid to deal with it.''
that kind of ``ego is a tremendous burden to carry around,'' bass said, adding that swaggart's preaching often was bigoted and absolutist, condemning other religions as well as other people
that was his downfall,'' bass said
he noted swaggart had been ``very, very vocal'' in condemning preachers caught in sex scandals, including fallen tv evangelist jim bakker and new orleans evangelist marvin gorman
swaggart admitted to his congregation sunday he had been involved in sin after gorman reportedly supplied church officials with pictures of swaggart at a motel with a prostitute
bass said the highly judgmental types have a ``kind of omnipotence that `i can get away with things,' that `i'm above it all,' above the rules, but it finally catches up with them
he had pushed himself and was most successful, but he had faults and inferiorities that he was hiding and running from. that isn't healthy or mature, and it finally is self-defeating.''
robert spence, president of the denomination's evangel college in springfield, said the ``eminently successful'' tend to live in an ``unreal world, filled with people who say only what they think'' is wanted
it become unreal, an artificial environment, that distorts the whole perspective, and leads a person to the point of assuming he's stronger than he really is...he's lulled to the place he thinks that `what bothers other people doesn't bother me'.''
end adv for fri ams, feb. 26
at age 65, native texan george a. mcalister is a big, friendly, drawling former coach, educator and inventor turned businessman, rancher, historian, author and dreamer
his dream was to make a film based on the battle of the alamo. that dream is coming true
with blazing cannons and bloody sabres, the heroes of the alamo relive on a giant new screen this week the fateful 13-day siege that inspired texas to win its independence from mexico in 1836. a black-tie premiere of the docudrama is set for saturday
entitled ``alamo ... the price of freedom,'' the 45-minute film is an account of the battle based largely on the research and books of mcalister, and it has stirred some controversy
academy award-winning filmmaker kieth merrill directed the movie, part of a $7.2 million project that includes a new imax theater with its 84{-foot wide, six-story high screen. the 426-seat theater is housed in the new rivercenter mall, which overlooks the alamo grounds
the imax system is designed to give viewers visually stunning images as well as a sense of participation in the on-screen activity
the price of freedom'' was filmed last summer at alamo village near brackettville, where john wayne built the set for his epic 1960 film, ``the alamo.''
saturday's premiere benefits the research library operated by the daughters of the republic of texas and includes a reception and dinner-dance and remarks by dallas billionaire nelson bunker hunt
gov. bill clements will be on hand the next day for formal dedication ceremonies, which coincide with the 152nd anniversary of the fall of the alamo to mexican gen. santa anna
there are two great symbols of freedom in america,'' mcalister said. ``first is the statue of liberty. but it is just that _ a symbol of freedom. then there is this old stone mission, the alamo, a shrine to the price of freedom
and there is a difference between a symbol of freedom and a price of freedom.''
a veteran of world war ii and the korean conflict, mcalister pointed out gently that a lot of people are willing to live for a cause but only a very few are willing to die for one
the defenders of the alamo were willing to die for freedom,'' he said. ``and more than 3 million people from all over the world came to the alamo last year to pay homage to those 189 brave men who gave their lives that texas might be free.''
mcalister once stood outside the alamo for days asking visitors if they would pay to see an authentic movie of the historic battle and if they were familiar with imax theaters
he liked the answers. and the premiere this weekend showcases the results of that private poll
while stressing the importance of authenticity, mcalister points out quickly that much of what occurred at the alamo is subject to speculation and individual interpretation
there are no chronicles of the alamo and what happened there,'' he said
still, mcalister spent 12 years researching his books. his travels took him to goliad, san jacinto, washington-on-the-brazos and other battle sites and to louisiana, tennessee, south carolina and alabama to visit the hometowns of the most famous defenders of the alamo: col. william b. travis, jim bowie, davy crockett and james bonham
mcalister also describes the alamo contribution of the tejanos, the nine mexicans who supported the texas cause
he and his colleagues say they have made their movie as historically accurate as possible without sacrificing dramatic and entertainment value
if we were going to make a movie for several generations, i did not want it to be fiction,'' mcalister said
the movie has no stars but uses 450 members of war-enactment societies across the country who are dedicated to historical accuracy, costume and customs
mcalister was surprised and dismayed when san antonio city councilman walter martinez and a group of residents accused the producers of distorting historical facts
after viewing a rough cut of the movie, martinez complained that the film demeaned hispanics by making them look like bad guys, and presented a list of objections to texas cavalcade corp., the production group headed by mcalister
kathy pena-sosa, a spokeswoman for texas cavalcade, said some objectionable scenes were deleted in the final editing from 73 minutes to 45 minutes, but professed to be puzzled by the criticism
in a community that's 54 percent hispanic,'' she said, ``we're not going to make a movie that's offensive to hispanics.''
born and raised in east texas, mcalister got his first exposure to texas history in a two-room, two-teacher schoolhouse in a tiny hamlet near commerce
he interrupted his collegiate studies at east texas state in 1942 to enlist in the marines, but returned after the war to get a master's degree in math. his minor was history
during an academic career that was interrupted when he was recalled to active duty in korea in 1950, mcalister was a dean at howard county junior college in big spring, as well as chairman of the math department, coach of the track team and an amateur inventor
in 1955, with $150, he founded a company called gamco to create and build teaching aids for math students, including a classroom computer and an electronic teaching machine. the sale of gamco in 1966 made him a millionaire
it also freed him to pursue his ranching and writing interests and to devote more time to historical research
his first novel, ``nothing is forever,'' was based on the early life of travis. that book evolved into a second novel, ``a time to love ... a time to die.''
this led in turn to ``alamo ... the price of freedom,'' a non-fiction book which mcalister describes as ``history as i view it and my personal research reveals it.''
for mcalister, ``the price of freedom'' is more than a movie or a business venture
said he: ``i would like to leave a legacy on the screen that retells the story of this sacrifice for freedom ... that demonstrates to a new generation that freedom isn't free ... that liberty rests finally on those willing to die for it.'' 2. najib, one name, is cq.</note>
the united states and the soviet union both are pushing for an end to the war in afghanistan as negotiations in geneva enter a decisive stage this week, but complex issues remain to be settled
secretary of state george p. shultz's talks in moscow last week ended on a note of optimism. the kremlin said again it wants to end the red army intervention that has cost an estimated 10,000 soviet lives in what mikhail s. gorbachev has called a ``bleeding wound.''
pakistan and afghanistan are negotiating with united nations mediation. but the two major players are the soviet union, which intervened in 1979, and the united states, which backs the moslem guerrilla forces fighting afghanistan's marxist government
the soviet leader sent hopes soaring when he pledged moscow will withdraw its estimated 115,000 troops within ten months starting may 15, provided a peace settlement is signed by pakistan and afghanistan by march 15
with the geneva talks starting wednesday, gorbachev's deadline would leave just 13 days to tie up the package of agreements designed to end nine years of fighting
after a 20-day shuttle between kabul and islamabad, u.n. mediator diego cordovez reported early this month ``virtual agreement'' on the timetable of the soviet withdrawal. the united states and pakistan still would prefer to give the soviets less than 10 months to leave
in almost six years of negotiations, accords have been reached on mutual non-interference, on superpower guarantees that afghanistan will be non-aligned, and on the return of 3.5 million afghans sheltered by pakistan _ the largest concentration of refugees in the world
but crucial aspects are still unresolved. the major issues:
_at what stage is the aid to the guerrillas to be cut off? gorbachev hinted in a feb. 8 statement the american support is no longer a problem
but washington officials have said the timing of the cutoff has not yet been determined. u.s. supplies reportedly totaled $670 million in 1987. the supplies funneled through pakistan include shoulder-fired stinger missiles said to have downed more than 200 soviet and afghan aircraft
_how should the withdrawal be phased? gorbachev has said a ``relatively greater portion'' of the soviet forces will be withdrawn rapidly. but a diplomatic source close to the talks, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there were still ``very different approaches'' to the pace of the withdrawal
_will the settlement involve iran, host to another 2 million afghan refugees and base for other moslem resistance groups pressing for a non-marxist islamic government? iran has refused to join in the talks but says it will accept any settlement satisfying the ``legitimate aspirations'' of the afghan people
the most difficult question, however, is outside the scope of the geneva talks: who will sign for afghanistan and what government will be installed in kabul during the withdrawal?
pakistan argues that a durable settlement requires the prior formation of a ``broad-based'' interim government to prevent more bloodshed and assure the refugees' safe return
president zia ul-haq said in an interview in the washington post last month that pakistan would not sign any settlement with the present marxist government headed by president najib in kabul, the afghan capital
pakistan does not recognize najib's government and insists the geneva talks be conducted in an indirect fashion, with cordovez acting as go-between. zia reportedly would like to see an interim coalition in kabul, including the anti-marxist guerrillas, afghan exiles and some representatives of najib's people's democratic party
gorbachev, who assured a visiting najib in december 1986 that moscow would not abandon him, says the makeup of the future government is an internal matter and ``none of our business.''
still, gorbachev is expected to seek some guarantee to prevent a bloodbath during or after the troop withdrawal. otherwise, najib and members of his government, as well as departing soviets, could be left defenseless against reprisal killings
the soviet union shares a long border with afghanistan and there has been no indication whether the kremlin will be willing to relinquish any attempt to influence events in the country once the red army is withdrawn
most of the pakistan-based groups representing the estimated 200,000 moslem guerrillas fighting the soviets and the kabul government's army of about 50,000 have ruled out any power-sharing with najib
last week, the guerrillas announced plans for a 28-member transitional cabinet to replace najib's government and sign the geneva settlement on behalf of afghanistan ``if the terms are deemed acceptable.''
the insurgents vowed they would not lay down their arms until an islamic government was established
kabul radio reported that najib insisted a new government should be formed after the soviet forces withdraw and the composition of a new government is a matter for ``afghans alone.''
at the same time, pakistan is trying to win allies in its push for an intersion would be similar to president reagan's proposal that was narrowly killed by the house three weeks ago, but would exclude any money for new weapons. it would retain the cia as delivery agent for the supplies, and would give president reagan the right to seek a new vote on a weapons package after may 1
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, called the democratic proposal ``the most workable kind of program'' and one that will provide ``balanced incentives'' for the contras and the leftist sandinista government to pursue peace talks called for in a regional accord
the package was unveiled late tuesday by rep. david bonior, d-mich., after two weeks of intensive negotiations among several factions of the chamber's majority party. it went before the rules committee today, where republicans were expected to demand the right to offer their own alternative
president reagan did not immediately react to the democrats' package. his own $36.2 million aid proposal for the rebels, including weapons, was narrowly rejected by the house three weeks ago
among major elements in the democratic proposal:
_about $3.6 million a month for the contras: half to buy food, clothing, medicine and shelter, and the other half to pay for delivery of the supplies to rebel troops inside nicaragua. the aid would run from march 1, after current aid expires, until june 30. it could continue until the end of the year if a cease-fire is reached by june 30
_about $1.4 million for nicaragua's miskito indians, an opposition group that has been carrying out its own battle against the sandinistas, but has consistently refused invitations to join with the contras. the indians already have worked out their own cease-fire with the managua regime
_a new $14 million ``children's survival fund,'' to provide medical help for children on all sides of the conflict. the aid would be administered by ``non-political'' private aid groups or international relief agencies already working in the region
not included in the package was any long-term economic development aid for the region, but a democratic fact sheet said ``congress will welcome proposals'' from reagan on that subject
current aid to the rebels expires feb. 29, and with it the legal authority for the cia to continue air drops of previously stockpiled weapons and ammunition. the new package contains no such authority
under the new proposal, the contras' ``humanitarian'' supplies would be delivered by private contractors supervised by the defense department until the contras and the sandinistas are able to agree on a cease-fire
the deliveries would be monitored by the congressional intelligence committees and the general accounting office, congress' investigative arm, to ensure that no weapons were included
after fighting stops, responsibility for delivery would shift to a private aid group or an international relief agency such as the red cross
the package also would provide for an expedited procedure for a vote on new military aid for the rebels _ a high priority for the reagan administration _ if a cease-fire should fall apart and the sandinistas should fail to keep their promises to democratize
the determination of whether expedited procedures should be initiated would be made by the house intelligence committees, according to a fact sheet on the package. but republicans were skeptical of the provision, saying it was not a solid guarantee that military aid would come to a quick vote in both the house and senate
wright said he was ``not necessarily'' confident of the votes to pass the package. republicans have remained aloof from the drafting process, holding out for more aid and for continued authority for the cia to deliver previously stockpiled eapons
the key to this really will be how much support it gets on the republican side,'' said rep. stephen solarz, d-n.y., a longtime contra aid opponent who added that he planned to vote against the package
other democrats said they expected at least 70 in their party to oppose the proposal
the party is seeking a middle ground on an issue that is not compromisable,'' said rep. robert torricelli, d-n.j. ``it appears to me to be an exercise in attempting to cover ourselves'' and avoid political blame if the contras go out of business and the sandinistas renege on promises to increase civil liberties
democrats have argued against new military aid, saying that providing it would endanger peace efforts. talks between the contras and sandinistas broke off over the weekend without progress, and no date has been set for their resumption
reagan and many congressional republicans have countered that it is only consistent military pressure from rebel attacks that has forced the sandinistas into peace talks
a dozen turbaned, bearded men with machine guns patrol a walled villa where the seven leaders of afghanistan's guerrilla alliance draw up plans for an islamic nation of afghanistan
the meetings have become almost continuous in this dusty frontier city, a short ride from the afghan border, since the soviet union announced last month it planned to pull out troops backing afghanistan's marxist government. moscow said it would withdraw its estimated 115,000 soldiers within ten months starting may 15 if pakistan and afghanistan sign a peace agreement by march 15
with the geneva talks entering a crucial stage on wednesday, the time pressure is helping fuse the often fractious mujahedeen guerrilla military alliance into a united political force
they're closer than before but the question is, for how long?'' said abdul haq, a guerrilla commander from kabul province
so far, the resistance leaders have agreed to install themselves as a joint executive over a 28-member cabinet that will include guerrillas, afghan refugees and moslems ``presently living in kabul.''
it calls for the head of a cabinet to be head of state, but the plan contains no names. it proposes to replace the soviet-backed kabul government before an accord is signed at the u.n.-sponsored talks in geneva
neither pakistan, which backs the guerrillas, nor the afghan communists appears likely to accept the proposal unchanged. the pakistanis have told the insurgents they may have to share power with the communists, at least in a transitional regime
we're in a hurry. there is little time,'' said abdul qadir karyad, head of the political wing of the fervent moslem party hezb-i-islami, led by gulbaddin hekmatyar
although his party is considered the most extreme of the ``fundamentalist'' groups, karyad indicated the hezb-i-islami was coming around to compromise with the more moderate ones in the name of unity
we want to be logical. we want to show the world we can accept responsibility for our country,'' karyad said
nevertheless, the guerrillas' blueprint for a new government does not explain just how it would come to power. it assumes the soviet-backed kabul regime will simply step aside
the flurry of compromise follows pakistan's insistence that an afghan settlement must consist of a military accord, such as the one near completion at geneva, and a political accord for a ``broad-based'' interim government that could head off a bloody power struggle as soviet troops head home
the three ``moderate'' guerrilla parties _ ittehad, the afghan national liberation front and the national islamic front for the liberation of afghanistan _ apparently have dropped their support of bringing back ousted king zahir shah to head a neutral transitional regime
it's not really proper to raise the zahir shah issue just now,'' said zabiullah mojaddedi, son of anlf leader sibghatullah mojaddedi. ``we should have a leader from within the mujahedeen. if not, then we can consider that option.''
all seven parties fully agree on one point: they refuse to join even a temporary coalition with communists
how can i work in an office with somebody who killed my brother, my neighbors?'' said karyad
hezb-i-islami, along with the jamiat-i-islami and the hezb-i-islami faction led by alliance chairman yunis khalis, have gone so far as to threaten to ignore a geneva accord as long as the mujahedeen are excluded from the talks
the indirect negotiations have been between the kabul government and pakistan, which serves as the guerrillas' headquarters and shelters about 3.5 million afghan refugees. the united states, which backs the guerrillas, and the soviet union are to be the guarantors of an accord
all seven resistance parties say they want to negotiate directly with the soviets because they view the kabul government as moscow's puppet
i hope the soviets will be wise enough to sit down and discuss the technicalities (of a withdrawal) with the mujahedeen,'' mojaddedi said
here is a brief look at what the soviet union hopes to achieve in the march 2 negotiations in geneva between its ally, afghanistan, and pakistan
_ through their afghan allies, the soviets likely will formally commit themselves to withdrawing their estimated 115,000 troops starting may 15 and to completing the process within 10 months. soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev announced the plan on feb. 8
_ the kremlin is likely to reiterate its demand that the united states, pakistan and other western countries stop supplying weapons to the moslem guerrillas fighting the pro-soviet kabul government. the soviets have suffered heavy losses of aircraft since the united states and britain first began sending the rebels stinger antiaircraft missiles, which can track and down aircraft by sensing engine heat
_ gorbachev has said his country wants no say in who governs afghanistan or the country's politics after the troops come home. even so, he is expected to seek some guarantee that a bloodbath will not occur during or after the troop withdrawal. without such a promise, afghan leader najib and members of his government, as well as departing soviets, would be left defenseless against a widespread insurgency, which could lead to reprisal killings
_ the soviets likely will resist any attempts by pakistan to tie an afghan settlement in geneva to formation of a coalition government in afghanistan. gorbachev said afghanistan's future government should be decided as ``an internal matter.'' ranking soviet officials have accused pakistan of delaying a settlement by insisting the future government issue be resolved before the troop withdrawal begins. soviet first deputy foreign minister yuli vorontsov contended in a pravda interview published thursday that the future government ``has nothing to do with the geneva agreements.''
here is a brief look at what the united states hopes to achieve in the negotiations between afghanistan and pakistan in geneva:
_ the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet troops from afghanistan has been a high priority for the white house and congress since the soviet occupation began in december 1979
quick withdrawal remains an immediate goal of the united states, the anti-marxist moslem guerrillas and the pro-western government in pakistan, which has provided sanctuary for 3.5 million afghans and channels millions of dollars in covert military aid to the resistance from the united states, china and arab nations
secretary of state george p. shultz and other u.s. officials welcomed the statement by kremlin leader mikhail gorbachev that he wants to start pulling the estimated 120,000 red army soldiers out of afghanistan by may 15 if u.n.-sponsored negotiations produce an agreement by march 15
but the reagan administration is pushing the soviets to either shorten their proposed 10-month withdrawal, or to pull out most troops early
we don't see any reason why they couldn't be out by the end of the year if they start in the middle of may,'' shultz said
under a plan being discussed behind the scenes, the united states would stop sending military aid as soon as the soviets began to withdraw. half the soviet troops would withdraw within the first 90 days, 30,000 more over the next 90 days, and the remaining 30,000 over the following four months
_ a longer term goal, on which guerrilla groups and the pakistani government are split, is over the government to replace the soviet-backed regime in kabul. u.s. officials believe that no pro-soviet regime could survive after the red army leaves
shultz said this month that the guerrillas would not accept positions in a government run by president najib, the head of the kabul regime
it is difficult to imagine how an interim regime is going to be put together,'' shultz said
for the first time since 1928, a u.s. governor faces trial before his legislature monday. in the following report, an ap special correspondent offers a portrait of arizona, its people and their governor at the crossroads of impeachment
for evan mecham, arizona's governor-in-exile, it has come to high noon
here in the land of geronimo and wyatt earp and the ok corral, a part of america never known for pussyfooting, the arizona senate on monday begins the final act in a course of redress not seen in this nation in more than half a century. it will decide whether to remove the impeached governor from office
members of the senate will not predict the outcome, only that it likely will be close and that however it turns out there will be, politically speaking, a lot of blood left on the ground
it's ripping up our party and state in a fashion that's going to take years to recover,'' says u.s. sen. john mccain
when mccain and three other republican members of arizona's congressional delegation suggested that fellow republican mecham resign, the senator began receiving hate mail by the sackful
the mob that crucified our precious lord is the same kind of mob that is after our governor,'' wrote one constituent
the other day about 2,000 mecham supporters took out their anger, while raising money for his defense, by bashing an automobile with a sledgehammer, three licks for a dollar. the car was painted with slogans such as ``media bias,'' identifying what they perceived as the causes of the governor's predicament
the arizona house approved impeachment articles feb. 5 accusing mecham of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from funds raised by his inauguration committee, and trying to thwart an investigation into a state official's alleged death threat against a witness in a grand jury probe of mecham
the 63-year-old, staunchly conservative governor also had antagonized many arizonans with controversial statements on ethnic groups and social issues
after the vote, mecham stepped down provisionally as governor and moved into political exile, in an office in nearby glendale. now the house charges are to be tried in the 30-member senate, where 20 votes would convict him and remove him permanently from office
but not even the extreme measure of an impeachment trial is likely to put to rest the turmoil in arizona. if mecham survives, he still faces a criminal trial for not reporting a campaign loan and a recall election resulting from a public petition
recall election? all right then, said mecham supporters, and began circulating petitions to recall as well house members who voted for the governor's impeachment
yes, there is little stability these days in arizona politics
anywhere in arizona, for that matter
the phoenix area, maricopa county, is the second-fastest-growing urban area in america, just behind san diego. it gains one new citizen every 12 minutes. that's net gain. state figures also show that for every four newcomers, three others move out
all that coming and going causes such instability that one mental health organization recommended a state program to discourage growth. arizona, for instance, has one of the nation's highest divorce rates, a suicide rate 50 percent higher than the national average and, among adolescents, 70 percent higher. it also ranks last in per-capita funding for mental health
we have an enormous amount of work to do in this state,'' says state sen. greg lunn, a tucson republican
that's another reason why the impeachment is such a distracting turn of events. the senate will be tied up with it for weeks. important matters that should be dealt with this session will have to be deferred to the next.''
lunn has a special interest in environmental matters. well he might. the phoenix area is promoted to tourists and potential settlers as the valley of the sun. but dust and emissions and temperature inversions conspire against the sun. phoenix's smog rivals the worst in the nation. so do its traffic jams
once outside phoenix, however, or tucson, the state's only two urban areas, you can drive for hours without seeing another car. geographically as well as politically and socially, arizona is a state of stunning contrasts and contradictions
the state is sixth in the nation in size but its 3.35 million population ranks 25th. three-fourths of its people live in the phoenix and tucson metropolitan areas. the rest live in villages and towns scattered across mountains and deserts and forests staggering in their solitude, and, in many areas, their poverty
in rural areas much of the frontier west prevails, and not just in the rigorously independent attitude of the people. at cordes junction, near prescott, the cafe requires patrons to check their weapons at the door. many do just that, since in arizona it's perfectly legal to pack a gun openly
rivalry in arizona is fierce between city and country for the state's attention to their needs. mecham was supported by rural voters who saw his two election opponents as representing the phoenix elite. his impeachment intensifies those jealousies
feelings for and against evan mecham are held with such passion that some longtime friends are reluctant to bring up the subject, not knowing how the other stands
some thingsks and orientals. he dismissed those petitioning for his recall as ``dissident democrats and homosexuals.''
now it comes down to the impeachment trial itself
only 15 u.s. governors have faced impeachment proceedings. only seven were removed from office, the last oklahoma's henry simpson johnston in 1928
thomas jefferson was once impeached, in 1781 as governor of virginia. his accuser was patrick henry, who thought jefferson left the capital with unseemly haste when british troops attacked. jefferson insisted on a trial and won vindication
so evan mecham, it appears, is in pretty good company. but, then, so are his accusers
adv for release sunday, feb. 28, and thereafter
the battle for the white house won't be the only thing on the minds of some super tuesday voters. in mississippi, they'll begin choosing a new senator; in louisiana's 4th district they may elect a new congressman, and in monroe, n.c., they'll decide whether to legalize sales of mixed drinks
of the 20 mostly southern and border states holding presidential primaries and caucuses march 8, four _ arkansas, mississippi, maryland and texas _ are holding their regular state primaries at the same time
but even in places where the state primary will be held later, officials have slipped statewide or local issues onto the super tuesday ballot
it's a cost-effective measure and it would tend to draw a larger turnout for both issues,'' explains jim hamilton of the florida division of elections
in mississippi, the retirement of sen. john c. stennis after 41 years has sparked a close democratic primary race between rep. wayne dowdy and secretary of state dick molpus. ed cole, state democratic chairman, says the combination of the presidential and senate primaries ``should ensure a pretty good turnout.'' rep. trent lott is unopposed for the gop nomination
in maryland and texas, democratic sens. lloyd bentsen and paul sarbanes faces token challenges for renomination and will be heavily favored over whichever republicans win their party's nominations. texas also has primaries for five of nine seats on its supreme court, which has become a political battleground with two justices publicly reprimanded, two others quitting and republicans hoping to achieve an unprecedented majority
arkansas features a heated democratic primary in the 1st congressional district, where 10-term rep. bill alexander is challenged by campaign consultant darrell glascock, who says the incumbent neglects his district and spends too much time jetting to central america
the texas secretary of state estimated it would have cost $12 million extra to hold separate state and presidential primaries. bob fisher of the arkansas attorney general's office said the two parties would have had to ``raise filing fees to an unholy amount'' to finance separate primaries
in louisiana, voters in the 4th district will select a replacement in the u.s. house for gov.-elect buddy roemer, who takes office on march 14. roemer asked that the balloting be scheduled for super tuesday to cut down on election costs in his financially strapped state
nine democrats and one republican are competing in the open primary in which a candidate is elected if he receives a majority. otherwise, the top two finishers compete in a runoff. the field includes former rep. claude ``buddy'' leach, who lost to roemer in 1980 following leach's acquittal on vote-buying charges
in georgia, legislators added a statewide referendum to the ballot with the hope of bolstering turnout for the presidential primary. the measure asks voters whether to increase from $8,000 to $10,000 the amount of gross income people 62 and older may receive and still be exempt from some school and property taxes
every presiding officer that i've talked with, every governor, is worried about a low turnout,'' said speaker of the house tom murphy prior to pushing the referendum through the general assembly. ``we need a tremendous turnout _ the more folks the better.''
in north carolina, referendums on whether to permit mixed drink sales are scheduled in monroe and three other cities and counties
this is an excellent way to avoid the cost of a separate election,'' said state treasurer harlan boyles. ``in wake county, for example, they're having a separate election and it will cost something like $100,000.''
in tennessee, state election coordinator david haines estimates that about 40 of 95 counties will hold their primaries for tax assessor and school superintendent on march 8, mainly to save money
the tennessee legislature last year appropriated $2 million to cover the cost of the presidential primary, and gave counties the option of conducting their county primaries then at state expense or in may at their own. counties must also pay for the august statewide primary and the november general election
ironically, in oklahoma, two ballot issues relating to economic development were taken off the march 8 ballot and rescheduled for september because of fears that they wouldn't get the necessary attention because of the presidential campaign
the two were so important that we were afraid they would get lost in all the hullabaloo, in all the things going on,'' said gov. henry bellmon's assistant press secretary, wendy johnson
governing boards of two of the nation's largest energy unions have met separately in denver to discuss a possible merger, according to a union source
executive boards of the united mine workers of america and the oil chemical and atomic workers international union have been meeting privately in denver since monday, the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said tuesday
experts said the combination of the unions _ each of which report about 100,000 active members _ would consolidate the bargaining power of the two unions in their dealings with major oil companies
the supreme court has ruled that businesses may not be sued in federal court in certain cases involving their contributions to union benefit funds
the court said tuesday the federal courts have no authority over cases in which companies refuse to contribute to multi-employer union benefit funds after a collective bargaining agreement expires
in an 8-0 ruling in a case from california, the court rejected reagan administration arguments that barring lawsuits in such cases could undermine the solvency of the multi-employer pension plans
mcdonnell douglas corp. surpassed two competitors last year to reclaim the title of largest u.s. defense contractor, the pentagon says
in its annual rating of the top 100 military contractors, the pentagon said tuesday that mcdonnell douglas jumped past general dynamics corp. and general electric co. to win the top ranking for fiscal 1987
st. louis-based mcdonnell douglas increased its pentagon work by $1.1 billion during the year to a new total of $7.7 billion, easily surpassing general dynamics' $7 billion
the national governors' association has voted 30-5 to support ratification of the u.s.-canada free trade agreement despite some governors' fears that it will hurt home state industries
the governors acted tuesday after amending their resolution to express ``significant concerns about issues created or not fully resolved by the agreement,'' and demanding to be consulted on legislation to ratify and implement the treaty
nike inc., which has been using the beatles' recording of the song ``revolution'' in its advertising despite the group's protests, will discontinue the ads in late march
nike's license to use the beatles' recording expires next month, but before it runs out, the company plans to run one more new commercial with the song, gerald sobel, a new york-based lawyer for the athletic footwear company, said tuesday. the ad campaign began last spring
the three surviving beatles, through their recording company, apple records, have claimed they never intended their recordings for use in commercials
the stock market finished little changed tuesday. the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks slipped 1.17 to 2,039.12
precious metals futures fell sharply on federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's predictions of modest economic growth and continued low inflation. on other futures markets, livestock, meat, orange juice, grains, soybeans and stock indexes retreated
bond prices rose in response to falling commodity prices and greenspan's remarks
the dollar mostly was lower in choppy foreign currency trading. gold prices also fell
footwear maker nike inc., which has been using the beatles' recording of the song ``revolution'' in its advertising despite the group's protests, plans to scrap the ads next month
nike spokesman kevin brown said the athletic footwear company was happy with the results of the ads, which have been running since last spring, but wants to freshen its advertising approach
as a result, he said nike decided against exercising its option to use the beatles' recording for another year
its license to use the recording expires march 22, but before it runs out, brown said nike plans to run one more new commercial with the song. the new ad, which debuts this week, is aimed mainly at women, he said
nike's ``revolution'' commercials to date have shown people walking, playing basketball and participating in other sports while wearing nike shoes. the only sound is the beatles' recording
the three surviving beatles, through their recording company, apple records, have claimed they never intended that their recordings be used in commercials
nike, which is based in beaverton, ore., has insisted it is an innocent bystander in a longstanding dispute between apple and companies that hold the licensing rights to the beatle's original recordings
nike reportedly paid $250,000 to capitol records inc., which holds the north american licensing rights to the beatles' recordings, for the right to use the group's rendition of ``revolution'' in nike ads for a year
last july, apple records, controlled by the three surviving beatles and john lennon's widow, yoko ono, filed a suit charging that nike was using the rock group's ``persona and goodwill'' in its advertising without permission
the suit, which is still pending in u.s. district court in new york, asked for $15 million in damages and named nike and its ad agency, capitol records and emi records ltd., which holds licensing rights outside north america
nike has contended it had a valid contract to use the recording, intended no disrespect to the beatles and was an innocent victim in a dispute between apple, capitol and emi
leonard m. marks, an attorney for apple, said he felt the decision showed nike was ``being responsive to the lawsuit and the numerous complaints of beatles fans'' about its use of the recordings
he said he was optimistic that after nike's action ``we will be able to reach a settlement of the case with nike shortly.''
but brown insisted the decision not to renew rights to the music was unrelated to the suit
it was a business decision,'' he said. ``it makes sense to continuously update your ads.''
he said nike had received about 150 to 200 letters from people objecting to nike's use of the song, but said the company was generally satisfied with the performance of the ads. he said sales for the six months ended nov. 30 were up substantially from the same period a year earlier
public service co. of new hampshire, which sought bankruptcy-court protection because of the stalled $5.2 billion seabrook nuclear plant, has attracted takeover interest from a neighboring utility
the proposed takeover disclosed tuesday by new england electric system, based in westborough, mass., would not include public service's 36 percent share of seabrook
it also would require approval by a bankruptcy judge, state regulators in massachusetts and new hampshire, both companies' directors and possibly some federal agencies
public service, new hampshire's largest power company and the lead seabrook owner, sought federal bankruptcy protection last month, a move that symbolized the difficulties facing public utilities with heavy investments in nuclear power. it became the first major investor-owned utility to seek the refuge of bankruptcy court since the depression
under new england electric's proposal, public service, would be left only with its share of the reactor, which is completed but has been unable to surmount evacuation-planning obstacles to an operating license
new england electric subsidiary new england power co. owns 10 percent of seabrook. officials of the parent company would not comment on why they don't want to increase their share of the controversial plant
samuel huntington, president of the parent company, said in a statement that the takeover would let the new public service pay its share of the costs of keeping seabrook ready while plant owners keep fighting for an operating license. huntington did not explain how that would happen
a spokesman for seabrook's joint owners, david scanzoni, speculated that ``it would be likely that there would be some kind of cash infusion that would be part of the arrangement'' to let the new public service maintain its share of seabrook carrying costs, estimated at $3 million to $4 million a month
scanzoni said new england electric would want to continue supporting seabrook since it already owns a chunk of the plant
in many ways this a very positive step for seabrook station,'' scanzoni said of the takeover talks
one seabrook foe said he can't see how the takeover would let the remaining public service pay seabrook carrying costs on its own
they can't gt any revenue out of it unless they license it,'' manchester lawyer robert backus noted
new hampshire law bars utilities from charging ratepayers for power plants before they operate commercially. the state supreme court upheld that law on jan. 26, denying public service an emergency rate increase and forcing the utility to seek bankruptcy protection two days later
a wall street utility analyst, dan scotto of l.f. rothschild holdings inc., said a takeover would make business sense for new england electric since aside from seabrook, public service is a profitable company
but ``this is not going to be clear sailing,'' scotto said, partly because of unresolved questions about ratemaking authority
scotto also said the proposal indicates new england electric is showing a lack of confidence in seabrook's prospects
evacuation plans for a 10-mile zone around seabrook must be approved before the plant can be licensed. massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, a democratic presidential hopeful, has played a key role in blocking the plant by refusing to submit plans for six communities in his state within the zone
seabrook has submitted its own plans for massachusetts. no hearings have been set on them yet
american standard inc. faced intensified takeover pressure from black &amp; decker corp. after the power-tool maker raised its offer to $2.11 billion, but analysts began to query whether the price was getting expensive
black &amp; decker said tuesday it would pay $68 a share for the american standard's stock, compared with $65 a share or about $2.03 billion offered previously. it was the third time black &amp; decker has raised the offer
some wall street securities analysts were surprised and said the price was becoming inflated for american standard, a maker of plumbing, heating and air conditioning equipment. it has been maneuvering to escape a takeover
they (black &amp; decker) obviously see something i don't see,'' said guy nielsen, an analyst at brown brothers harriman and co. in new york. ``the bidding has gotten to the point where i can't justify the $68 price.''
he said the bidding ``already is a bit on the rich side.''
others had expected black &amp; decker to raise the offer or drop the takeover attempt entirely after american standard announced monday it had financing commitments for a recapitalization aimed at thwarting the hostile bid
black &amp; decker's latest offer, which would expire at midnight est march 7, compares with the initial offer of $56 a share made in late january. the towson, md.-based manufacturer had said previously it would not raise the offer above $65 a share unless it could see american standard's books
american standard has rejected both previous offers as inadequate. the new york-based company urged shareholders tuesday not to tender shares under the latest bid until it was reviewed by the board of directors
american standard stock rose 12{ cents to $68.25 a share in new york stock exchange trading, while black &amp; decker dipped 12{ cents to $19.37{
in a news release, black &amp; decker said it also intended to file counterclaims in federal court in delaware seeking to invalidate american standard's ``poison pill'' takeover defense and to halt any action on the recapitalization
the $2.1 billion recapitalization plan would make american standard less attractive as a takeover target by boosting its long-term debt to more than $2 billion and sharply increasing its outstanding shares and equivalents, such as stock options
american standard, incorporated in delaware, had asked the federal court to validate its poison pill, designed to make a takeover prohibitively expensive by diluting the target company's stock. the court last week rejected black &amp; decker's attempt to block american standard from seeking such a ruling
black &amp; decker also has challenged delaware's new anti-takeover law as unconstitutional
in addition, black &amp; decker is awaiting regulatory approval to begin a maneuver similar to a proxy fight to oust american standard's board of directors. if successful, black &amp; decker could repeal the recapitalization and the ``poison pill.''
texaco inc.'s agreement to pay the government $1.25 billion to settle claims it overcharged customers during the 1973-81 era of price-controls removes one uncertainty confronting the troubled oil giant, which has been under federal bankruptcy court protection for nearly a year
but the third-largest u.s. oil company still faces a complicated exit process from chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, a $3 billion payment to pennzoil co., a possible takeover fight with two well known corporate raiders and a back-tax bill of up to $6.5 billion from the internal revenue service
under the overcharge-dispute settlement announced tuesday with the energy department, texaco will pay the first installment totaling $400 million, with the rest to be paid over 5{ years. it is one of the largest settlements ever reached between the government and a company
james w. kinnear, texaco's president, said in a statement that the company had set aside reserves for such a contingency and it would have no impact on earnings
kinnear also said the settlement would free texaco from what he called a costly and time-consuming legal process and enable the company to concentrate its efforts on getting out of chapter 11 federal bankruptcy protection
the company sought bankruptcy court refuge last april because of its protracted legal dispute with pennzoil, which had won a record $10.3 billion judgment against the oil giant from a texas jury that ruled texaco unfairly sabotaged pennzoil's plan to buy part of getty oil co
in december texaco settled that battle by agreeing to pay pennzoil $3 billion cash, but the company's efforts to return to normal operations have been complicated by disputes over its bankruptcy reorganization
in addition, the company faces a possible takeover threat from carl c. icahn, the company's largest shareholder. t. boone pickens, another well-known takeover strategist, also has expressed interest in buying texaco stock
texaco's problems have been further complicated by the irs. company officials said last month that the irs had told texaco it may owe $6.5 billion in back taxes because of possible undervaluations of oil purchased from saudi arabia from 1979-81
some analysts have said texaco would be virtually destroyed if it had to come up with that amount, but they also speculated the final bill would be much lower
the white plains, n.y.-based oil giant is the latest in a line of companies forced to relinquish large sums of cash to resolve charges they violated pricing restrictions on crude oil and refined products during the eight-year period of federal controls
jack vandenberg, a spokesman for the department of energy in washington, said prior to the texaco settlement, it received about $6.1 billion in settlement funds. he said the department expects to collect about $1 billion more to resolve similar claims, bringing the total to $8.2 billion
the government had argued that during the era of price controls, companies illegally profited by classifying ``old'' oil _ obtained from properties producing before 1973 _ as ``new'' oil and selling it at higher prices
texaco had argued that federal regulations defining old and new oil were ambiguous, but said tuesday that challenging the government on this dispute was not worth the effort
vandenberg said about 15 percent of the $1.25 billion settlement covered refined product price violations, with the money destined to go into a fund to repay injured parties
the remaining 85 percent covers crude price violations, and a fifth of that will go into the injured party fund and the rest will be split evenly between the federal government and the states, he said
late last year, the department of energy extended the deadline for injured parties to file claims to june 30. more than 16,000 claims had been filed before the extension
the agency said at that time that a claim for a million gallons of refined products overcharged would mean about $800 coming to the claimant
most of the injured parties are businesses, school districts and municipalities that kept detailed records of crude oil and refined products purchased from oil concerns that the government accused of overcharging
other companies that have paid to settle complaints include exxon corp., amoco corp., shell oil co., mobil corp. and atlantic richfield co
ford motor co. said it was able to expand its largest automatic transmission plant without interrupting production and at less than half the cost of similar projects because of worker participation
it truly was a team approach. each plant area analyzed how the expansion and quality improvements could be achieved. issues were discussed openly and plans were refined to reflect the suggestions of each team,'' henry nickol, general manager of ford's transmission and chassis division, said tuesday
the $50 million project added 100,000 units to the plant's 795,000 yearly transmission production while improving quality and saving 190 jobs without interrupting the assembly line, ford said
the expansion has helped ease a shortage of automatic transmissions for rear-wheel-drive cars and trucks, particularly ford's popular f-series pickup, that use 4.9-liter, six-cylinder engines and 5.0-liter v-8 engines
the f-series pickup was the best-selling vehicle in the united states in 1986 and 1987, but ford was forced to offer incentives to boost sales of manual transmission trucks because it didn't have enough automatic transmissions, company spokesman rex greenslade said
greenslade said a comparable transmission plant expansion would have cost $100 million to $150 million
nickol's remarks reflect what has become cliche at ford, where top executives never note a new profit, sales or quality achievement without crediting hourly workers and their cooperation with management
but the employees, hourly and salaried, who have worked together on the project since september 1986 and who will live with its results, say it proves that cooperative management is more than a 1980s buzzword
it's certainly the way we'll go from now on, on any new program,'' said jim o'neill, the livonia transmission plant's manufacturing manager
o'neill said the expansion saved jobs that would have been cut if efficiency had improved but total production did not. trading</head>
a finance ministry committee wednesday approved a report calling for tougher laws against insider trading on japan's stock markets, where traders say information about companies frequently is leaked to selected investors
the ministry's securities and exchange council approved an advisory panel's findings, including a recommendation that insider trading be made a criminal rather than a civil offense. it proposed that the offense carry a penalty of up to three years in prison and a fine of up to 3 million yen, or $23,000, ministry officials said
the panel also called for a revision of japan's current securities and exchange law to specifically prohibit insider trading, or the use of inside information about companies to profit on stock markets
other recommendations called for an expansion of the ministry's investigation powers and a tightening of the definition of actions falling under insider trading laws, the officials said
ministry officials now will formulate legislation based on the panel's recommendations to submit to japan's parliament, probably this spring
large-scale insider trading is limited in japan because of the infrequency of corporate takeovers, analysts say. but leaks of information about company developments to certain investors is believed to be frequent, along with stock manipulation by some large brokerages, financial sources say
japan's markets are dominated by four large securities firms _ nomura, nikko, daiwa and yamaichi _ creating a climate favorable to market manipulation
the advisory panel began forming its recommendations about two months ago, after allegations of stock sales by officials at a chemical company shortly before it announced bankruptcy, news reports said
implementation of the recommendations will make japan the last major industrialized country to adopt such regulations, the japan broadcasting corp. (nhk-tv) reported
the panel said insider trading restrictions should apply to employees and others inside companies that issue stocks, to underwriting securities firms, lawyers and certified public accountants, and to reporters that have access to sensitive information
the report also recommended that securities firms be required to report the stock ownership of large stockholders
the changes are not likely to take effect before the summer of 1989 because of a one-year notice period necessary for the strengthened criminal penalties, officials said
barclays bank plc, one of britain's four major commercial banks, said wednesday that its 1987 profit plummeted 70.8 percent, largely because it raised its provisions for loans to latin american and other countries
barclays said it earned 185 million pounds, or $327 million last year, compared with 633 million pounds, or $1.12 billion, in 1986. included in the 1986 figure was a one-time gain of 21 million pounds, or $37 million, from the disposal of certain assets
on a per-share basis, that works out to 25.8 pence, or 46 cents, a share, vs. 88.9 pence, or $1.57, a share in the previous year
last summer, barclays raised its provisions against loans to lesser developed countries to 30 percent of its total loans outstanding, then increased that stake at the end of the year
as of dec. 31, its total provisions stood at 716 million pounds, or $1.27 billion _ 35 percent of the bank's total 2.026 billion pounds, or $3.59 billion, outstanding
the results achieved in our group operations through the year reflect a credible performance,'' said chairman john quinton. ``even though we decided to recognize the further deterioration in the quality of ldc debt by making further provisions, the impact on our capital has been comfortably absorbed.''
barclays de zoete wedd, the bank's investment banking subsidiary, reported a loss of 11 million pounds, or $19 million, for the year, compared with a profit of 1 million pounds, or $1.77 million, the year before
barclays said the unit was profitable up to october and in the final two months of the year, but that trading losses suffered during the crash pushed it into the red
the unit announced last november that it lost 50 million pounds, or $89 million, during the crash
profits from barclays' u.s. unit were hurt by the fall of the dollar
the bank said profit grew 14 percent in dollar terms, but only 1.6 percent in terms of pounds _ to 64 million pounds, compared with 63 million
the stock market edged upward today, bidding to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 6.14 to 2,045.26 in the first half hour
gainers outnumbered losers by about 7 to 6 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 557 up, 480 down and 480 unchanged
big board volume came to 27.08 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
stop &amp; shop gained 1~ to 41 in active trading. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .13 to 148.86. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .18 at 282.90
on tuesday, the dow jones industrial average slipped 1.17 to 2,039.12
advancing issues outpaced losers by a narrow margin on the nyse, with 767 up, 725 down and 493 unchanged. big board volume rose to 192.26 million shares from 178.93 million shares on monday. items</head> deficit figures; uppicks 3rd graf pvs: the new...</note>
the nation's foreign trade deficit edged down to $40.2 billion in the final three months of 1987, pressured lower by a 6 percent boost in u.s. overseas sales, the commerce department reported today
in the previous quarter, the gap had hit a record $40.4 billion, while the year finished with an overall record $159.3 billion deficit, calculated on a balance-of-payments basis
the new figures confirmed a yearend narrowing of the trade shortfall that already had shown up in the department's monthly merchandise trade reports
those parallel figures showed a $43 billion deficit for the fourth quarter and a $171.9 deficit for all of 1987
today's figures are smaller because they subtract factors such as the cost of shipping, insurance and military sales from the monthly numbers
the balance-of-payments deficit is also adjusted for seasonal variations, while the monthly merchandise figures are not
exports increased $3.9 billion, or 6 percent, in the final quarter of 1987, to $69.1 billion, bolstered by the weakening dollar, which made u.s. goods more price-competitive overseas
the report came one day after federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said he did not forsee a recession or heightened inflation this year
greenspan made his assessment in testimony tuesday before congress, where he appeared unperturbed by a commerce department report that orders for so-called ``big ticket'' american-made durable goods fell 2.8 percent in january
the fed chief, who wields enormous control over interest rates and the supply of money, said the risk of a recession is about equal to the risk of renewed inflation, but he agreed with the reagan administration that neither appears imminent
the remarks by the head of the nation's central bank were seen as inconclusive by the financial markets
the dow jones average of 30 industrials lost 1.17 points to 2,039.12, while the price of the key 30-year treasury bond rose about $7.50 for every $1,000 in face value. the dollar was lower against most major foreign currencies
the decline in orders to u.s. factories for durable goods reflected a return to more normal levels of demand for aircraft and primary metals, the commerce department said
the steep decline, only the third setback in the past 13 months, was the biggest since an 8 percent drop in january 1987. the latest figures followed a big december advance of 4.1 percent, the strongest rise since march
the numbers that were released on durable goods, if one subtracts some of the temporary fluctuations, were really quite strong,'' greenspan said during an appearance before the house banking committee
delivering the fed's semi-annual report on monetary policy to congress, greenspan took pointed exception to the economic philosophies espoused by chief white house economist beryl sprinkel
if the fed had let the nation's money supply grow to the extent sprinkel would have liked, it would have spawned an ``unduly inflationary environment,'' greenspan told the house committee
analysts suggested that greenspan's testimony did not signal any imminent fed action on interest rates
he left himself a lot of room to either tighten or loosen,'' said david wyss, chief financial economist for data resources inc. wyss said there are signs ``that the fed does not know what it wants to do yet. it is seeing some very conflicting signals from the economy and it wants to leave itself as much room to react as it can.''
the stock market declined slightly today, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 6 points in early trading, was down 2.32 at 2,036.80 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 558 up, 669 down and 498 unchanged
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
coastal corp. led the active list, down ~ at 29[. underwriters priced an offering of 10 million coastal shares at $29.50
stop &amp; shop gained 1} to 40~ in active trading. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .42 to 148.31. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .08 at 282.80. up 3rd graf pvs bg'ng, after that ...</note>
the battle for iu international corp. has intensified with the company's board of directors first endorsing a $21.50-a-share buyout from a group backed by dean witter capital corp., then neoax inc. raising its hostile bid
the board announced tuesday that it had accepted a cash offer totaling around $650 million from the dean witter group, but shortly after neoax sweetened its bid to $22 a share
after that occurred, iu issued a statement saying it would consider other alternatives
shareholders will be advised of the board's recommendations when the board has completed its review.'' said iu spokesman e.k. sheldon, refusing to elaborate
neoax, a stamford, conn., manufacturing conglomerate, has been trying since early january to take over philadelphia-based iu, which has interests in trucking, food services and waste management
neoax started the bidding on jan. 6 with an offer of $17.50 per share, increased it to $19 on jan. 17 and boosted it to $20 on feb. 1
iu's board suggested shareholders ignore the $20 iu offer, saying the board was exploring alternatives such as recapitalization or a leveraged buyout
in the agreement between iu and the dean witter group, which includes iu president william h. waltrip and other iu executives, dean witter would receive up to $15 million from iu if another bidder acquires a majority of the outstanding shares
neoax, which has acquired about 2.9 million of iu's 30.2 million shares outstanding, has filed a motion in federal court in baltimore seeking to stop payment of that fee. to be determined; picks up 3rd graf, `the judge; inserts two grafs after graf 7, ``the decision,'' with explanation of procedure, picks up 8th graf, `about 1,300 ...; also moved on general newswires</note>
a federal judge's landmark ruling that occidental chemical corp. was liable for the cost of cleaning up love canal strengthens anti-pollution laws nationwide, a federal official says
after nine years' deliberations, judge john curtin ruled tuesday that occidental was responsible because wastes generated by the company's plant were stored in a way that would eventually result in leakage
a trial expected to start in 1990 will determine the amount of damages, but state and federal officials say $200 million has already been spent on the cleanup and estimate that $50 million more will be required
the judge ruled in a 1979 lawsuit filed by the federal environmental protection agency. in 1978, earlier, toxic chemicals at love canal prompted state officials to evacuate children and pregnant women, and eventually 728 families. of those, 175 families are still waiting to learn whether it is safe to return
curtin's ruling upheld the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980. the judge said that law was designed to compel the waste disposal industry ``to correct its past mistakes and to provide a solution for the dangers posed by inactive abandoned waste sites.''
this will strengthen environmental laws throughout the country,'' roger j. marzulla, head of the u.s. justice department's land and natural resources division, said in washington
frank ashley, a spokesman for occidental's parent company, occidental petroleum, based in los angeles, said the company did not agree with the decision and would appeal
the decision which has just been issued on partial summary judgment, without a trial and without any factual determination, that occidental had acted negligently or with fault contradicts the resolution of these problems by amicable adjustments reached in other actions involving occidental chemical corp.,'' ashley said
the law entitles a judge to determine the issue of liability, and the next stage of the case is a trial to determine the amount of damages, said martin littlefield, assistant u.s. attorney for the buffalo district
in its motions, occidental had challenged that procedure
about 1,300 former residents of the love canal neighborhood accepted a $20 million damage settlement with occidental in 1984
the eventual amount occidental pays will depend on costs proved in court and assessed by the judge. u.s. attorney roger williams' staff said that $200 million has been spent so far and it is estimated that there will be $50 million more in costs
lois gibbs, a former love canal resident who runs the citizen's clearing house for hazardous wastes in alexandria, va., said she hopes the company will be found liable for the full $250 million
that will at least make them blink,'' gibbs said
the company said it was covered by insurance and that the expenses would not adversely affect its finances
occidental contended that it was not responsible for the landfill because hooker chemicals and plastics co., which was later acquired by occidental in 1968, yielded ownership to the niagara falls school board in 1953. the board built a school on the grounds
occidental said the construction project broke a clay seal on the dump and allowed the chemicals to leach into the environment. the company acknowledged that hooker dumped 20,000 tons of chemical wastes into the canal during the late 1940s and early '50s
littlefield, assistant u.s. attorney for the buffalo district, said tuesday's decision was ``a great victory for the state because it means companies are indeed responsible for what they've done in years past.''
state attorney general robert abrams said the decision was ``a resounding defeat for occidental's strenuous and expensive public relations campaign to shift the entire blame for love canal.''
curtin's ruling does, however, allow occidental to sue other parties the chemical giant contends should share the responsibility. the company is expected to countersue the state, the city of niagara falls and its school board
nunzio loverdi, president of the love canal environmental action committee, said, ``i think occidental should accept the decision and not take action against the city and school board because if it does we will all suffer. we want to get on with our lives and put this behind us.''
a federal judge has rejected black &amp; decker corp.'s request to block delaware's new corporate anti-takeover law, but did not rule on the constitutionality of the statute
u.s. district judge joseph j. longobardi on tuesday rejected black &amp; decker's request for an injunction against the law, which it contended was hindering its attempt to acquire american standard corp
black &amp; decker, a power tool and household appliance maker based in towson, md., has a hostile $68 a share, or $2.12 billion, tender offer outstanding for american standard, which is based in new york but incorporated in delaware
american standard had rejected two previous black &amp; decker offers, and proposed a defensive recapitalization that analysts have valued at between $68 and $71 a share
american standard rose 50 cents to $68.75 a share in early new york stock exchange trading. black &amp; decker dipped 50 cents to $18.87{
delaware's new anti-takeover law was enacted on feb. 2, and immediately was challenged as unconstitutional by black &amp; decker.
black &amp; decker also claimed shareholders of american standard, an air-conditioning, plumbing and building products company, were confused by the law and reluctant to tender their shares
but longobardi rejected the request for an injunction. he ruled black &amp; decker hadn't shown it would suffer irreparable harm under the law, and therefore would not rule on its constitutionality
such a gratuitous discussion of the constitutionality of (the statute) could be used to upset the balance between the parties in the quest for their respective positions,'' longobardi said of the takeover battle
the court also noted that black &amp; decker was attempting to take control of the american standard board, and if successful then could exempt the company from the law
the boards of directors of delaware corporations have 90 days from the law's enactment to exempt their companies
under the law, any shareholder who acquires more than 15 percent of a company's stock is prohibited for three years from entering a business combination that would allow the stockholder to acquire the firm
if a takeover is launched before the law is triggered, the bidder would have to acquire 85 percent of the outstanding shares in a single transaction to complete the merger
john f. geer, vice president of american standard, said the company was ``gratified'' by the decision. richard l. templeton, delaware's assistant secretary of state, said he was ``encouraged by the decision.'' also moved on general newswires</note>
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan said today that he had ``objected quite strongly'' to an instance of political pressure from the reagan administration and warned that further pressure on the central bank could be counterproductive
greenspan said his protest was sparked by a letter written in january by michael darby, assistant treasury secretary for economic affairs
greenspan was questioned about the letter by sen. william proxmire, d-wis., who said the letter was one of a series of recent attempts by the reagan administration to pressure the fed to lower interest rates as a way of spurring economic growth during a presidential election year
i think it is both deplorable and counterproductive for the reagan administration to pressure you as much as they have in recent months,'' proxmire, the chairman of the senate banking committee, told greenspan
greenspan said that he had a disagreement with both darby and beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, over the matter of money growth
he said that while disagreements over policy were acceptable he was concerned about the manner in which the administration's criticism could be perceived by financial markets
when i heard about dr. darby's letter i objected quite strongly. as best as i could determine, he was not aware of the implications,'' greenspan said. ``i am reasonably sure such an action will not occur in the future.''
greenspan said his concern was that the letter was sent in the weeks before a key meeting where top fed officials were going to set monetary targets for the next year
greenspan did not say with whom he raised his objections, although it has been reported that treasury secretary james baker was instrumental in toning down criticism of the fed in the economic report of the president before it was released last week
greenspan said he fully expected to have policy disputes with this administration and the next administration, but he added, ``the only thing i hope that does not happen is that the concern over political pressure gets so extraordinary that we end up taking actions'' in the opposite direction just to prove that the fed is independent
greenspan's comments on political pressure came during the second day of his congressional testimony on the fed's economic outlook and monetary targets for 1988
in his appearance tuesday before the house banking committee, greenspan had also been critical of sprinkel's monetary arguments
in the president's report, sprinkel suggested that tight-fisted fed policies were partly to blame for the collapse of the stock market on oct. 19
sprinkel is a proponent of ``monetarism,'' the theory that steady growth in the money supply is esential to economic growth. the president's report noted that the money supply expanded very slowly last year, below the targets set by the federal reserve
one measure of the money supply, m-2, grew just 4 percent in 1987, the slowest increase in almost three decades. the advance was even below the rate of inflation, something that has occurred only three previous times. in each of those instances, a recession followed
asked about this, greenspan contended that money growth was influenced by special factors last year and that traditional relationships between money growth and economic activity have broken down since banking deregulation created a host of new types of savings accounts
greenspan said that he and sprinkel had a ``difference of opinion on this particular issue.'' he argued that the central bank could not have allowed the money supply to grow more rapidly ``without creating an unduly inflationary environment.''
private economists generally gave greenspan high marks for his testimony, contending that he steered the proper course between concern about inflation and concern about economic growth
in setting monetary targets for 1988, the fed expanded the distance between the low-point and high-point of acceptable growth by a full percentage point, saying it was now aiming for m-2 growth of between 4 percent and 8 percent
this money growth will be enough to support economic growth this year of between 2 percent and 2.5 percent, as measured by the gross national product, the fed said in its economic outlook. this would be in the range of the 2.4 percent gnp growth being forecast by the administration
greenspan left himself a lot of room to ither tighten or loosen,'' said david wyss, chief financial economist of data resources inc. ``the fed is seeing some very conflicting signals about the economy and it wants to leave itself as much room to react as it can.''
greenspan confirmed in his testimony that the fed, in an effort to keep the recovery alive, had taken a ``small easing step a few weeks ago.'' many analysts had suggested that the fed had eased slightly based on the fact that a variety of interest rates, including mortgage rates, have dropped sharply in the past six weeks
greenspan said that currently he believed the risks of a recession or accelerating inflation were about equal and said he agreed with the administration's view that neither appeared imminent
he said that it was still too early to assess the full impact of last year's stock market collapse but ``there are very few signs that we are about to tilt over'' into a recession
grain and soybean futures prices opened mostly higher but quickly turned mixed today on the chicago board of trade
talk of new soviet purchases of u.s. corn gave corn futures a boost, analysts said
wheat and soybean futures were pressured by follow-through selling from tuesday's weaker close, but losses were limited by scattered commercial buying, said dale gustafson, an analyst for drexel burnham lambert inc. in new york
beneficial rains in the soybean-growing areas of south america added to the weakness in u.s. bean futures, gustafson said
in early trading, wheat was unchanged to 2\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.16{ a bushel; corn was 2 cents to 3 cents higher with march at $1.98{ a bushel; oats were { cent lower to \ cent higher with march at $1.90\ a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent higher to } cent lower with march at $6.22 a bushel
cattle futures were mostly higher while pork futures were mixed in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .43 cent to .58 cent higher with april at 72.20 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .12 cent lower to .30 cent higher with march at 80.90 cents a pound; hogs were .22 cent lower to .03 cent higher with april at 43.70 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .18 cent to .48 cent higher with march at 52.20 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures closed sharply lower on tuesday
the stock market churned in place today, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials eked out a .50 gain to 2,039.62 by noontime on wall street
but losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 629 up, 673 down and 504 unchanged
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
coastal corp. was actively traded, down ~ at 29[. underwriters priced an offering of 10 million coastal shares at $29.50
stop &amp; shop rose 2[ to 41\. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
gainers among the blue chips included eastman kodak, up | at 41]; usx, up ] at 32]; sears roebuck, up [ at 36[, and ford motor, up [ at 44|
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .25 to 148.48. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .06 at 282.78
volume on the big board came to 86.51 million shares at noontime, against 112.65 million at the same point tuesday
general motors corp. said today it will restore 1,900 jobs at its van nuys, calif., plant on march 14 by putting both shifts back to work six weeks earlier than expected
the announcement came as gm indicated it will be recalling about 8,600 workers nationwide to produce an extra 175,000 cars and trucks annually
the night shift at the van nuys plant was elminated feb. 15 because gm had too much unsold inventory of the pontiac firebirds and chevrolet camaros assembled there
at the time, gm said it expected the plant would operate with only one shift until at least may 2 or until the inventory was reduced
in a unique experiment that had run into stiff resistance among senior workers, all 3,800 of the plant's hourly workers were affected, with half being off for two weeks at a time, then returning to their jobs while the others were furloughed for two weeks
the staggered-layoff system was to have continued at least until may 2, or longer if necessary, gm said
similar systems of staggered layoffs have been tested elsewhere in the gm system, but at van nuys the plan had to be approved in a vote by workers
the vote was required because when the workers agreed in 1986 to adopt japanese-style work rules to speed production and cut costs, the company agreed to negotiate with the union to ease any impact from changes in staffing levels
in an initial vote, the plan was defeated by eight votes, but after some maneuvering the union agreed to hold a second vote and to do it at the plant so more workers with less seniority could cast ballots. the plan was approved on the second vote, despite grumbling by older workers that making all workers take part in the furloughs was an attack on seniority rights
the camaros and firebirds produced at the van nuys plant have been plagued for some time with slow sales. when gm announced plans for the layoffs earlier this year, the company's inventory of the two cars was well in excess of 100 days, meaning it would take that long at existing sales rates to dispose of already-assembled cars
normally, gm operates with about a 60-day inventory on its various models
with both shifts operating, the van nuys plant produces about 800 of the two car models daily. graf pvs bg'ng, the umw ...</note>
united mine workers president richard trumka said today he's disappointed by the decision by oil, chemical and atomic workers union officials to withdraw from a proposed merger and said he considers the idea dead
we thought it was a perfect fit,'' trumka said. ``the philosophies of the two unions are extremely close.''
trumka said the umw's executive board voted to rescind its merger offer in the wake of tuesday's ocaw decision
obviously, i'm quite disappointed by the outcome ... but we're going to go back and put it back together and go on,'' he said
he said the umw will look for other ways to expand
trumka said the apparent sticking point for the ocaw board was the umw's inability to guarantee there would be no dues increases during its next regularly scheduled constitutional convention in 1990
trumka said he cannot control what the delegates will do ``and therefore i consider it a closed deal.''
the ocaw board voted late tuesday to reject the merger proposal
there's a decision from ocaw not to go forward,'' spokesman rod rogers said late tuesday night. ``i don't know that that sets everything in concrete. but that's where it stands for now.''
a news conference had been tentatively set for this morning to announce the merger, but the ocaw backed out after meeting with umw leaders most of tuesday afternoon
the merger would have bolstered the strength of the two energy workers' unions, whose memberships have been shrinking throughout the last decade
the umw board has authority to approve a merger without a vote of its full membership, though rogers said any merger required a two-thirds majority vote at the ocaw convention in august
the umw and the ocaw find themselves negotiating with the same companies, ``because the major oil companies own the lion's share of the energy and coal reserves in the united states,'' rogers said
since 1986, the two unions have been sharing information about employers
the umw once had more than 400,000 members, but it now has about 85,000 active members _ about two-thirds of the nation's working miners
ocaw membership is down by half from a peak of nearly 200,000 members in the early 1970s
the computers and high technology now used to search for oil and gas would have been a mystery to anthony lucas, who relied largely on a hunch to drill the famed 1901 spindletop gusher
there was almost no science at spindletop,'' says dave kingston, a retired standard oil of new jersey geologist. ``today, it's just the reverse. we want to know all we can (about a prospect) before we drill.''
using stunning advances in geology, geochemistry and other disciplines, oilmen now analyze a broad range of information in searching for unfound storehouses of earth's most crucial commodity
there's no way to relate today to what we had in the past,'' says houston oilman michel halbouty. ``the technology has changed every day of every year that the industry has been alive.''
central to nearly all the developments has been the increasing use of computers to sift, store and massage massive amounts of data
among other things, computers can generate three-dimensional views of prospective drill sites based on information from rock samples, previous drilling and other sources, creating hypothetical composite pictures of what lies below grassy, forested or desert surfaces
in the past, the same process has been done with pencil and paper,'' said richard d. bowden, spokesman for energy software inc. of midland. ``it's like comparing the wright brothers to the concorde _ it's the same kind of advance.''
advances in seismic technology have also aided the search for oil, says don bennett, divisional vice president of exploration and production technology division of texaco inc
by measuring the movement of seismic shock waves through the earth, scientists can derive clues as to whether the waves are traveling through rock, sand or, possibly, unfound oil formations
since 1968, when plate tectonics _ the theory that earth's surface is composed of massive shifting rock plates _ became widely accepted, dramatic advances in geology have been made
what plate tectonics does, instead of just hunt and peck here and there, you now have a unifying theory about how these plates were formed,'' said manik talwani, director of the geotechnology research institute in houston. ``it helps you very much in your guessing about which might be good oil provinces.''
in addition, developments in the complicated science of geochemistry have provided clues to locating oil through testing sample rocks in the laboratory, as have improvements in sensing equipment lowered into drill holes to conduct electrical and other analyses
patrick shannon, another retired standard oil of new jersey geologist, now runs his own consulting firm specializing in analyzing satellite photos of earth for telltale signs of oil and gas deposits
in addition to being able to see large structural features that could hint of oil and gas, different kinds of rock and minerals often respond differently to varying light and infrared frequencies, shannon says
the use of those (satellite photos) is among the most important new technologies that we've got in the business today,'' shannon said, adding that future satellites may provide even more sophisticated data
most experts agree oil and gas exploration remains a risky business fraught with the potential for failure, and new techniques only help to create a more comprehensive mosaic of information for decision-making
it's like putting together a jigsaw puzzle,'' burnett said. ``you want to get as many pieces as possible.''
one reason for burgeoning technology in oil exploration has been the huge increase in drilling costs, which have risen sharply over the past 20 years, halbouty says
what's more, most of the biggest deposits of oil and gas in the united states have already been found, making discoveries of smaller, more isolated remaining pockets more difficult, and more important, said mel friedman, spokesman for the department of geosciences at texas a&amp;m university
in 1901, lucas decided to drill the spindletop gusher on a small hill where he and others suspected oil might exist, but where a number of unsuccessful wells had been drilled
when the drillers hit a huge reserve of oil, a gusher of black gold shot hundreds of feet into the air, igniting the legendary texas oil boom
during the 1950s and 1960s, kingston and shannon roamed the globe as geologists for standard oil using what might now be considered rudimentary tools and techniques
kingston takes a somewhat skeptical view of many advances
the same guy who finds oil with a computer is the same guy who can find oil without the computer,'' kingston said. ``a geologist with his hammer and his eyes and his brain is far superior to anything else
today, there are about 150 kinds of maps and studies that can be run in a certain area to study the geology, but there are only 10 or 12 that are really necessary,'' kingston said. ``the rest are just window dressing.''
for kingston, technology can only aid human intuition, which remains the primary key to finding hidden treasure troves of oil and gas
an analogy would be reading a mystery novel with half the pages torn out, you have to guess about what is in there,'' kingston said
a group of shareholders of societe generale de belgique sa said wednesday it has formed an alliance that holds a majority stake in belgium's largest holding company and wants to keep its focus in belgium
the group, which includes representation from belgium, france and luxembourg, said it controlled 52 percent of societe generale stock
italian financier carlo de benedetti, the president of olivetti spa, whotrols 43 percent, wants to turn the company into that controls enterprises throughout europe
the shareholder alliance consists of several belgian and lu has said he conxembourg firms led by groupe ag, belgium's biggest insurer. the group's french members are compagnie financiere de suez, an investment firm, companie generale d'electricite and societe financiere et industrielle gaz et eaux
suez alone controls 27 percent; groupe ag and its allies, 16 percent; cge, 5 percent and gaz et eaux, 4 percent, the group said in a statement
on wednesday, societe generale stock closed at a new high of 6,100 francs, or $174.20, up 14 percent from tuesday's 5,350 francs, or $152.90
de benedetti has offered 4,000 francs, or $114.28, a share for an additional 15 percent stake in the company. his offer expires march 4
his rival alliance said its members had ``put their signatur38, arrived in boston tuesday with the e street band and an entourage of workers and headed to the arena. fans gathered outside hoping to catch a glimpse of springsteen, guitarist nils lofgren or saxophonist clarence clemons and hear the band rehearse
i tried to get tickets and it was impossible,'' said jess adzima, of sudbury. ``i took off this afternoon to see if springsteen was hanging around. when i heard the music, i said, `that's bruce.'''
springsteen last played at the centrum in september 1984
centrum marketing director kathleen m. heinz said 39,000 tickets have been sold for the shows on thursday, sunday and monday
aidan quinn, who stars in the broadway revival of ``a streetcar named desire,'' says he's not worried about filling the shoes _ or torn t-shirt _ of marlon brando
the 1947 production of tennessee williams' pulitzer prize-winning play was brando's first major theatrical role. the film that followed, also featuring brando as stanley kowalski, is ``etched into everyone's psyche and memory,'' quinn admitted in the march issue of details magazine
but that's a real cowardly reason not to do something,'' says quinn, who starred in the film ``desperately seeking susan,'' the made-for-tv movie ``an early frost,'' and the off-broadway production of sam shepard's ``a lie of the mind.''
the truth is it's a great piece, a great play and a great role.''
the play, now in previews, opens march 10
wearing a rumpled oversize tuxedo and shoes without laces, comedian steve martin jumped up and down like a game-show contestant when he received the hasty pudding club man of the year award
i won! i won!'' he said to the delight of the audience of nearly 200 at harvard university. when he reached the podium, martin deadpanned, ``there's a cash prize for this, right?''
he received a brass pudding pot, but no cash
the nation's oldest undergraduate theatrical organization gave its annual award tuesday to martin for ``his lasting and impressive contribution to the world of entertainment,'' said program co-producer andrea campbell
martin said receiving the award made up for his movie ``roxanne'' not being nominated for an oscar. ``yes it does, because it's such a prestigious award, and so few people have gotten one,'' he said
the hasty pudding club awarded lucille ball its woman of the year award last week
tammy faye bakker wants oscar-winner sally field to play her in a made-for-tv film about the saga of her and husband jim bakker's fall from grace as leaders of the ptl evangelical ministry, a network official says
nbc has hired the bakkers as consultants for its movie. cbs also plans a film about the couple
if tammy had her way, sally field would play her in the movie,'' said ken raskoff, director of motion pictures for television at nbc
both nbc's film, ``fall from grace,'' and the cbs movie ``god and greed: the jim and tammy fae bakker story,'' are in early stages of production. both networks say it will be three months before a first draft is ready
looks like we are going to have a `who's-going-to-get-on-the-air' thing,'' said sandy emry, production coordinator at cbs
jim bakker resigned from the ptl television ministry in march after word leaked of a 1980 sexual encounter with former church secretary jessica hahn
author ken kesey has donated a $33,395 bus to the university of oregon, with the hope of preventing accidents like the one that killed his son and another member of the school wrestling team four years ago
the problem with a van is that it's not as stable as school bus construction,'' said kesey, who gained fame two decades ago for his escapades on a very different kind of bus, whose journeys were chronicled in tom wolfe's ``the electric kool-aid acid test.'' kesey himself is best known for his novel, ``one flew over the cuckoo's nest.''
kesey's son, jed, 20, and fellow wrestler lorenzo west died when their van skidded out of control on a snow-covered road between pendleton and pullman, wash. two other wrestlers were seriously injured
kesey and his wife, faye, were among those who filed lawsuits in which settlements were reached last fall. the keseys used their settlement to purchase the custom-built bus, which is loaded with safety features
historian stephen ambrose, writing the second volume of his biography about richard m. nixon, says students today don't see anything so horrible about watergate
the new orleans historian recently wrapped up a three-week visit to whittier college, nixon's alma mater. ambrose, 52, brought in former nixon administration officials h.r. haldeman, robert finch and maurice stans to add to his lectures
i suppose i had assumed that just being at whittier, they (students) would have absorbed something about nixon. it turned out, precious little,'' he said. because students ``don't see anything so horrible about watergate'' there is a national resurgence of nixon's reputation
it's the damnedest thing, but it's quite true. the nixon revival is full-blown now and well under way,'' ambrose said
the stock market pushed ahead today, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 8.46 to 2,047.58 by 2 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 812 up, 606 down and 486 unchanged
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
coastal corp. was actively traded, down } at 29\. underwriters priced an offering of 10 million coastal shares at $29.50
stop &amp; shop rose 2\ to 41]. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
gainers among the blue chips included eastman kodak, up | at 41]; usx, up | at 32|; international business machines, up ~ at 116\, and american telephone &amp; telegraph, up [ at 29}
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .38 to 149.11. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .69 at 283.41
volume on the big board came to 137.32 million shares with two hours to go. index; no pickup</note>
share prices edged higher in thin trading wednesday, bringing an end to a strong two-day advance
dealers attributed the session's dullness to a lack of market-affecting news and uninspiring performances on wall street on tuesday and early wednesday
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index closed 2.2 points, or 0.1 percent, higher at 1,760.1
volume declined to a light 338.1 million shares from 474.1 million shares traded tuesday
dealers said business was slack as many investors waited for monday's data on britain's balance of payments for january. they also were waiting for thursday's announcement of fourth-quarter earnings from imperial chemical industries plc. the giant chemical company's earnings are viewed as an unofficial indicator of the state of british industry, dealers said
the stock market advanced slightly in erratic trading today, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.98 to 2,044.10 by 3 p.m. on wall street
gainers outnumbered losers by a little less than 8 to 7 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 790 up, 700 down and 450 unchanged
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
coastal corp. was actively traded, down ~ at 29[. underwriters priced an offering of 10 million coastal shares at $29.50
stop &amp; shop rose 2\ to 41]. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
gainers among the blue chips included eastman kodak, up ] at 41[; usx, up } at 32}; international business machines, up 1 at 116], and sears roebuck, up ] at 36]
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks rose .06 to 148.79. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .56 at 283.28
volume on the big board came to 160.44 million shares with an hour to go
general motors corp. said wednesday it boosted 1988 production plans by 175,000 cars and trucks and will recall 8,600 laid-off workers and reopen a temporarily closed assembly plant
the strengthening demand for gm vehicles reflects the ongoing product quality improvements resulting from plant modernization and employee involvement programs,'' gm president robert stempel said in a statement
this combined with very competitive retail incentive programs has increased the value of gm products,'' he said
gm will increase production by running some plants, particularly for trucks, on overtime; restoring second shifts at two u.s. plants and one in canada; and reopening its closed framingham, mass., assembly plant
at the three plants where gm had dropped the second shift, workers from both shifts were sharing jobs by alternating between two weeks on layoff and two weeks on the job, gm said
the framingham assembly plant, which gm closed abruptly nov. 30, will reopen may 9 on one shift with 2,000 of its 3,700 workers. the plant will build the oldsmobile cutlass cierra, but will not resume production of the chevrolet celebrity, gm spokeswoman kathy tanner said
gm will restore the second shift at its buick-oldsmobile-cadillac group lansing assembly plant a-system on april 11, returning 2,000 people to full-time work. the 4,350-worker plants builds the oldsmobile cutlass calais and buick skylark
the second shift at gm's 4,200-worker van nuys, calif., assembly plant will be restored march 14, bringing 1,900 employees back full time. the plant, which gm's only chevrolet camaro and pontiac firebird source, dropped the second shift last week
gm also will restore the second shift at its oshawa no. 1 plant in oshawa, ontario, bringing back 2,700 laid-off workers on march 21. the plant builds the oldsmobile cierra and pontiac 6000
meanwhile, gm said it would increase production at its cadillac plant in the detroit enclave of hamtramck by running its single shift on overtime, adding 4,700 cars between feb. 20 and june 1
cadillac general manager john grettenberger said the increased production was necessary because dealers need more of the restyled eldorado coupe and seville sedans, whose popularity has been boosted by availability of a new 4.5-liter v-8 engine
federated department stores inc.'s board of directors on thursday will consider a restructuring plan and an extended merger offer from toronto developer campeau corp., a spokesman said
however, jim sluzewski declined wednesday to disclose the site for the gathering, which he described as a regular monthly meeting
the cincinnati-based retailer, which operates the bloomingdale's department store chain, said the board will review campeau's extended $5.85 billion offer for a friendly merger
the directors also will review options for a restructuring to avoid a takeover, including selling its non-department store assets. federated said it has been negotiating with unidentified third parties that have shown an interest in acquiring the company or its non-department store divisions
federated has resisted campeau's attempts to acquire the company in either a friendly merger or a hostile takeover
on monday, campeau extended its offer to pay $66 per share for federated, which has 88.5 million outstanding shares, if the retailer agrees to a definitive, friendly merger by midnight friday
campeau said if no agreement is reached by the friday deadline, the offer reverts to a hostile, $61-per-share offer
federated has twice rejected campeau's $66-per-share offer, saying it didn't think the toronto-based corporation has the financing to complete such a deal
federated has about 650 stores nationwide, with sales exceeding $11 billion last year. it's non-department store assets include columbus-based gold circle stores, ralphs supermarkets based in los angeles, and specialty stores including the children's place in pine brook, n.j., filene's basement in boston, and mainstreet in chicago
grain and soybean futures prices closed mixed to higher wednesday in fairly light trading on the chicago board of trade
corn futures were the most consistent performers, showing strength throughout the trading session on rumors that the soviet union had purchased as much as 2 million bushels of u.s. corn overnight, said dale gustafson, an analyst in chicago for drexel burnham lambert inc
soybean prices lagged for most of the day but ended mixed on a late surge of buying led by c&amp;d commodities, a major player in soybean trading, analysts said
wheat futures ended slightly higher on talk of expected new export sales to european countries, gustafson said
gains in wheat prices were limited by an increase in supplies of wheat for near-term delivery, analysts said
at the close, wheat was 1{ cents to 2{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.18 a bushel; corn was \ cent to 2{ cents higher with march at $1.99 a bushel; oats were \ cent to } cents lower with march at $1.90 a bushel; soybeans were 2} cents lower to 3{ cents higher with march at $6.24{ a bushel
the stock market posted a slim gain in erratic trading today, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
oil prices headed lower wednesday after an early attempt to rally fizzled
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude oil, settled at $16.46 per 42-gallon barrel, down 14 cents from tuesday's close
among march contracts for refined products, wholesale heating oil settled at 46.40 cents a gallon, down 0.06 cent from tuesday, while wholesale unleaded gasoline closed 0.6 cent lower at 46.30 cents a gallon
linda simard, an analyst at the drexel burham lambert inc. securities firm, said some traders were expecting prices to rise at the start of the session in the wake of late tuesday's weekly report on weekly oil production and supplies
the report, issued by the washington-based american petroleum institute, a trade organization, showed a larger-than-expected drawdown of heating oil inventories during the week ending last friday, but also a larger-than-expected increase in unleaded gasoline supplies, she said
crude inventories were also slightly lower, according to the report
ms. simard said traders ``were looking to sell higher at the start, but as disappointment set in, the sellers took over.''
in the end, trading wound up being dominated by technical factors more than anything else, she added
united mine workers president richard trumka said wednesday he considers the union's failed merger with the oil, chemical and atomic workers union ``a closed deal'' that won't be reconsidered
ocaw's executive board on tuesday voted 6-2 to reject a merger that would have created the united mine, energy and chemical workers of america from the two powerful unions. trumka said the ocaw board had left open the possibility of reconsidering the merger, but the umw's board voted wednesday to rescind the approval it gave on sunday
i consider it a closed deal,'' trumka told a news conference. ``their board was willing to let it go to their constitutional convention without a recommendation. i flatly rejected that.''
ocaw spokesman rod rogers said the union's executive board was still involved wednesday in its regular meeting, and ocaw president joseph misbrener was not immediately available for comment. rogers said the issue is not necessarily dead
it's always possible there could be a resurrection of the idea,'' he said
there were compelling reasons why this merger was a good idea, and those reasons haven't gone away,'' rogers said. ``this particular merger proposal is dead, yes, but we could take action to re-initiate things.''
trumka said he was ready to move on, however
i'll come back at the next (umw) board meeting and say, `that didn't work; let's try something else,''' trumka said. ``we're going to pursue a policy of growth for our organization.''
trumka said the ocaw board rejected the merger agreement because it ``wanted assurances there would be no dues increase in 1990,'' when the first constitutional convention of the combined union would have taken place
there was no way possible i could guarantee that because delegates at that convention determine what will happen,'' trumka said
the umw president said he then convened a meeting of his union's board, which rescinded its earlier approval of the merger agreement, which contained no provisions for amendment
trumka said both unions would continue to work together, especially on negotiations with employers that the two unions have in common
while he plans to look for other ways to expand the umw's influence, trumka said, he does not consider it good policy ``to merge just for the sake of merging.''
dart group corp. will continue its billion-dollar hostile takeover bid for stop &amp; shop cos. inc., which is negotiating with several other potential buyers, a dart spokesman said wednesday
stop &amp; shop confirmed wednesday it had begun talks with several parties considering a buyout of the supermarket and discount store chain, raising the possibility it might find a ``white knight'' friendly suitor to thwart dart
sandy bouzoukis, a stop &amp; shop spokeswoman, declined to name the parties interested in the braintree-based company
dart spokesman stanley rubenstein said the landover, md.-based retailing concern would continue its hostile $37 a share, $1.03 billion tender offer launched last month. dart controls about 2.7 percent of stop &amp; shop's 27.9 million common shares outstanding
dart's position is unchanged. it is premature to respond to (stop &amp; shop) until we know the details of any alternative proposal,'' said rubenstein
stop &amp; shop rose $2.37{ to $41.50 a share wednesday on the new york stock exchange
boston businessman thomas lee reportedly is a possible suitor, but neither lee nor stop &amp; shop officials would confirm they were in negotiations
stop &amp; shop directors rejected dart's $37 a share offer earlier this month and filed a federal court suit to block the bid, claiming dart did not fully disclose details of past takeover attempts and had failed to register as an investment company with the securities and exchange commission
dart countersued, claiming stop &amp; shop illegally withheld corporate information
u.s. district judge rya zobel ruled tuesday that dart must file its claim in norfolk superior court in massachusetts, where eight separate shareholder suits challenging stop &amp; shop's anti-takeover measures are awaiting a hearing
dart has mounted several unsuccessful but profitable hostile takeover attempts since selling its washington-based drug store chain in 1985
the bid for stop &amp; shop was dart's first since it abandoned a $6 billion takeover proposal for minneapolis-based dayton hudson corp. following the oct. 19 stock market crash
dart, which owns crown books and trak auto parts stores nationwide, also has made unsuccessful but profitable attempts to gain control of safeway co. and supermarkets general
since 1986, stop &amp; shop has sold several unprofitable divisions, including medi mart drug stores and almys department stores, and laid off about 450 middle-level workers
the company operates 113 stop &amp; shop supermarkets and 169 bradlees discount department stores
honda motor co. ltd. posted a 38.1 percent rise in profits in the latest three-month period, even though operating income fell, the company said tuesday
net income rose to 23.68 billion japanese yen, or about $193 million, from 17.1 billion yen in a corresponding reporting period in 1986
honda is shifting to a new fiscal year, so results for the three months ended dec. 31, 1987, were compared with results for the period ended nov. 30, 1986. dollar equivalents were based on an exchange rate of 123 yen to the dollar prevailing at the end of 1987
revenue rose 20.5 percent to 789.5 billion yen, or about $6.42 billion, from 655.3 billion yen a year earlier
honda's income from operations fell 31.4 percent to 32.4 billion yen, or $263 million, in the quarter, mainly because of the falling value of the dollar, which decreases the value of u.s. sales when measured in yen
however, honda's net profit rose because of successful foreign-exchange trading and decreased income taxes, among other factors, the company said
the stock market made little progress in a churning session wednesday, struggling to resume its recent rally after a pause on tuesday
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, off 1.17 on tuesday, edged up .83 to 2,039.95
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 8 to 7 on the new york stock exchange, 825 up, 715 down and 449 unchanged
big board volume totaled 212.73 million shares, against 192.26 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index lost .19 to 148.54
analysts said confidence has slowly been recovering lately after the market's historic drop last fall
the economy has so far shown no signs of suffering any drastic harm from the crash, and interest rates have fallen since that time
but traders have been taking a gingerly approach, recalling how gains built up over many months were wiped out in a few short days in october
many wall streeters are watching to see whether the dow jones industrial average can surpass the 2,051.89 close it reached on jan. 7, which stands as its post-crash closing high
most of the broader market indicators have already surpassed their january best, betokening the recent superior performance of many smaller, secondary issues compared with the blue chips that make up the dow
navistar, by far the lowest-priced component of the industrial average, jumped } to 5{ for a gain of 15.8 percent. some wall street analysts have been recommending the stock lately as a participant in the recovery in the industrial sector of the u.s. economy
usg jumped 4| to 37 on news of a $42-a-share takeover proposal from a investment group known as desert partners l.p
coastal corp. was actively traded, down ~ at 29[. underwriters priced an offering of 10 million coastal shares at $29.50
stop &amp; shop rose 2] to 41{. the company, opposing a $37-a-share takeover bid by dart group, said it is talking with several other parties about a possible deal
gainers among the blue chips included eastman kodak, up | at 41]; usx, up ~ at 32~; international business machines, up } at 116[, and sears roebuck, up \ at 36\. but merck fell 2[ to 163\ and american telephone &amp; telegraph was down \ at 29]
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $0.08 billion, or 0.003 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 239.38 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials dropped .71 to 305.06, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down .59 at 264.43
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market gained 2.06 to 363.14. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 283.20, up .48
total crude oil runs to stills averaged 12,695,000 barrels daily during the week ended friday, feb. 19, the american petroleum institute reported wednesday. this compared with 12,739,000 barrels daily in the previous week and 12,199,000 barrels daily a year ago
crude runs east of california averaged 10,243,000 barrels daily compared with 10,330,000 the previous week and 9,749,000 a year ago
motor gasoline production for the latest week amounted to 6,760,000 barrels a day, compared with 6,641,000 barrels a day in the previous week and 6,406,000 a day a year ago
east of california motor gasoline production was 5,677,000 a day compared with 5,552,000 a day last week and 5,300,000 a day a year ago
motor gasoline stocks at the end of the latest week were 240,493,000 barrels, versus 236,560,000 a week earlier and 252,947,000 a year ago
east of california motor gasoline stocks totaled 207,918,000 barrels, compared with 203,396,000 in the previous week and 221,181,000 barrels last year
daily average gross crude oil and lease condensate production for the week ended friday was 8,182,000 barrels compared with 8,320,000 last year
crude oil stocks totaled 333,084,000 barrels at the close of last week, against 334,964,000 a week previous and 328,680,000 a year ago
east of california crude stocks amounted to 250,753,000 barrels, compared with 251,609,000 a week earlier
daily imports east of california for the week ended friday were crude oil, 3,913,000 barrels, residual fuel oil, 706,000, distillate fuel oil, 314,o00, and others 1,173,000, a total of 6,106,000 barrels
california imports were: crude oil 172,000 barrels, and products 72,000, a total of 244,000 barrels, for a grand total of 6,350,000
for the four weeks, daily imports east of california were crude oil 4,355,000 barrels, residual fuel oil 322,000, distillate fuel oil 130,000, and others 625,000, for a total of 5,432,000 barrels
for the four weeks, california daily imports averaged for crude oil 180,000 barrels, products 55,000, a total of 235,000 barrels, for a grand total of 5,667,000 barrels
the following table shows comparative daily production of the other principal refined products for the u.s. as a whole and east of california. also shown are the comparative stock totals for certain refined products




 weeks ended:
latest week            $1,129 prevs week             $1,257 year ago               $1,061$x
east of california:
latest week            $847 prevs week             $932 year ago               $760$x 

weeks ended:
latest week            $2,728    2,326 prevs week             $2,856    2,449 year ago               $2,557    2,197$x
east of california:
latest week            $952    566 prevs week             $1,044    649 year ago               $852    541$x 


weeks ended:
latest week            $36,377 prevs week             $36,844 year ago               $40,842$x
east of california= latest week            $30,196 prevs week             $30,451 year ago               $34,996$x 

weeks ended:
latest week            $112,636  46,487  95,476 prevs week             $117,942  45,813  94,389 year ago               $131,500  38,422  97,282$x
east of california
latest week            $103,027  36,836  72,440 prevs week             $107,892  36,938  71,113 year ago               $121,016  31,227  75,761$x
the federal trade commission asked a federal appeals court tuesday to stop the merger of two of the nation's largest manufacturers of glass containers while it appeals a lower court's refusal to halt the deal
the ftc asked the u.s. circuit court of appeals for a preliminary injunction to prevent owens-illinois inc., the nation's second-largest glass container manufacturer, from acquiring brockway inc. for $750 million during the appeal
the ftc, which obtained a provisional stay from the appellate court on friday, contended that u.s. district judge joyce hens green ``erred, both factually and legally, in holding that the merger is not likely to have anticompetitive effects.''
the ftc contends that the merger, which would create the nation's largest glass container manufacturer, would reduce competition and raise the price of bottles, jars and other containers the companies make for food, soft drinks and liquor
green, who last week denied the ftc's bid to stop the merger pending administrative proceedings within the agency, accepted the companies' argument that competition from plastic and paper packaging would keep down the prices of glass containers
but the ftc said she ``disregarded extensive testimony by customers accounting for more than $450 million in annual glass container purchases that they will not or cannot economically switch from glass containers to other package forms.''
the agency said green's opinion ``disregards, without explanation, long-established legal standards for assessing the potential anticompetitive effects of horizontal mergers, including the significance of market concentration and entry barriers, as well as extensive customer testimony that prices are likely to rise as a result of the merger.''
the ftc has stalled the merger since owens-illinois, based in toledo, ohio, made its tender offer last september to buy brockway stock for $60 a share. green had granted a temporary restraining order halting the merger while she reviewed the case, but she refused to grant a preliminary injunction
owens-illinois controls 22.7 percent of the market while brockway, based in jacksonville, fla., controls 15 percent of sales
litton industries inc. said wednesday its net earnings rose 19 percent in the second quarter, mainly because of improvements in its resource-exploration and industrial-automation units
the high-technology conglomerate netted $40.7 million, or $1.56 a share, for the three months ended jan. 31, up from $34.1 million, or $1.28 a share, a year earlier
revenue for the second quarter rose 19.6 percent, to $1.16 billion from $974.5 million
litton's profit also rose 19 percent in the half. the company earned $81.3 million, or $3.07 a share, up from $68.4 million, or $2.54 a share, a year earlier. revenue rose 15.2 percent, to $2.35 billion from $2.04 billion
litton's biggest improvement was in the resource-exploration and industrial-automation units of its industrial systems and services division, in part because of acquisitions. for the half, earnings for the division jumped 183 percent to $65.7 million and revenue rose 78.5 percent to $775.3 million. cited</head>
gold futures prices plunged to the lowest level in 11 months wednesday, possibly reflecting a change in attitude among investors who had been expecting a surge in inflation, analysts said
on other markets, grain and soybean futures settled mostly higher, livestock and meat futures were mixed; energy futures retreated; and stock-index futures declined
wednesday marked the second consecutive day of sharp declines in futures prices for gold and other precious metals, which had traded listlessly in narrow ranges for nearly a month
tuesday's drop in prices was widely attributed to federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's prediction that the 1988 u.s. inflation rate would average 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent, a rate lower than many market experts had projected
demand and prices for precious metals typically rise during inflationary periods because they tend to hold their value better than other investments
greenspan's forecast, along a general weakening of commodity prices recently, may have prompted a shift in attitude among investors who feared the worst after the october stock market collapse, said craig sloane, an analyst in new york for smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
it seems to me that the market is getting more encouraged, in terms of inflation, that things are not going to get worse,'' sloane said
he said the confidence greenspan displayed in his testimony tuesday before a house banking subcommittee ``seemed to enhance his credibility,'' which in turn may have given the markets more confidence
citibank analyst sharon ziemian said wednesday's selloff of gold futures appeared to spread from european markets to the u.s. markets, including new york's commodity exchange, the country's major market for precious metals futures
the selling was substantial enough that, with only a limited amount of buying, it pushed the market down dramatically,'' ms. ziemian said
on the commodity exchange, gold settled $9.90 to $13.90 lower with the contract for delivery in april at $434.10 a troy ounce, the contract's lowest price since march 20, 1987; silver was 10.5 cents to 13.4 cents lower with march at $6.195 a troy ounce
grain and soybean futures ended mostly higher in fairly light trading on the chicago board of trade
corn was the most consistent performer, showing strength throughout the session on rumors that the soviet union had purchased as much as 2 million metric tons of u.s. corn overnight, said dale gustafson, an analyst in chicago for drexel burnham lambert inc
the agriculture department announced after the close that the soviets had bought 350,000 metric tons of u.s. corn
soybeans lagged for the most of the day but ended mixed on a late surge of buying led by c&amp;d commodities, a major player in the soybean pit, analysts said
wheat ended slightly higher on talk of expected new export sales to european nations, gustafson said
wheat settled { cent to 2{ cents higher with march at $3.17 a bushel; corn was { cent to 2{ cents higher with march at $1.99 a bushel; oats were unchanged to { cent lower with march at $1.90\ a bushel; soybeans were 1 cent lower to 3} cents higher with march at $6.24} a bushel
cattle futures settled mostly higher while pork futures ended mixed on the chicago mercantile exchange
cattle futures were supported by higher cash values but limited by sluggish wholesale demand for beef, said charlie richardson, an analyst in denver for lind-waldock &amp; co
lower cash prices pressured pork, he said
live cattle settled .20 cent to .43 cent higher with april at 72.20 a pound; feeder cattle were .10 cent lower to .45 cent higher with march at 80.92 cents a pound; hogs were .62 cent lower to .45 cent higher with april at 44.12 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .12 cent lower to .47 cent higher with march at 52.27 cents a pound
oil prices slipped lower on the new york mercantile exchange on technical factors after an early attempt to rally fizzled, analysts said
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 3 cents to 14 cents lower with february at 15.76 a barrel; heating oil was .06 cent to .52 cent lower with march at 46.40 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .15 cent to .55 cent lower with march at 46.35 cents a gallon
stock-index futures retreated slightly on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .30 point lower at 265.20. the underlying spot index was off .58 point at 264.44
gold prices tumbled wednesday as traders appeared to take a more optimistic view of chances for continued low inflation
the dollar, meanwhile, turned in a narrowly mixed performance on the world's foreign-exchange markets
republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price for gold of $432.80 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, down $8.70 from tuesday's late level
analysts who follow the precious metals markets said recent declines in commodity prices have convinced many traders that inflation poses little immediate threat to the economy, diminishing gold's appeal as a hedge against rising prices
they expect inflation to be moderate to subdued and that gives them very little reason to own gold,'' said gary dorsch, an analyst for lns financial group inc. in chicago
he said some traders have been liquidating tangible assets such as gold in anticipation of investing the proceeds in the stock market, which has shown some strength over the past two weeks
but jeffrey a. nichols, president of american precious metals advisors inc. in new york, said the latest decline in gold prices simply extends a trend begun late in 1987, reflecting heavier supplies in a sluggish market
he said the soviet union has sold considerable amounts of gold and mining companies have become more aggressive about selling contracts for what they expect to mine
at the same time, investors have shown little interest in gold because of ``low inflation expectations, stable world equity markets, a strong u.s. bond market and rising confidence in the federal reserve board,'' nichols said
it is not that there has been a massive selloff. it is just that there is a lack of willingness to buy gold except at lower prices,'' he said
on new york's commodity exchange, gold for current delivery fell $9.90 a troy ounce to $431.90
in london, gold fell to $434.70 a troy ounce from $442.50 late tuesday. in zurich, switzerland, gold fell to $436 from $442 late tuesday
gold fell to $444.20 an ounce in hong kong from $446.80 late tuesday
silver bullion fell in london to $6.26 a troy ounce from $6.33 late tuesday. latewr on new york's comex, silver for current delivery fell 10 cents an ounce to $6.19
in the foreign-exchange markets, the dollar traded in a narrow range for most of the day, ending mixed against the world's major currencies
dealers said traders were anxiously awaiting the scheduled release on thursday of revised figures on the u.s. gross national product for the fourth quarter. they said the consensus was that the growth rate would be revised upward from earlier estimates
dorsch said the dollar drew some support from federal reserve chairman alan greenspan's remarks to a congressional panel that ``he was not in favor of driving the dollar lower to increase exports.''
but the dollar wound up lower in new york against the japanese, canadian, italian and british currencies, while it edged up against those of west germany, france and switzerland
in tokyo, the dollar rose to 128.75 japanese yen from 128.50 yen late tuesday. later in london, the dollar traded at 128.57 yen. the dollar slipped to 128.82 yen in new york from 129.00 yen late tuesday
the british pound fell to $1.7640 in london from $1.7655 late tuesday. later in new york, the pound edged up to $1.76355 from $1.76325 on tuesday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late rates tuesday, included: 1.69575 west german marks, up from 1.69475; 1.39535 swiss francs, up from 1.39325; 5.7340 french francs, up from 5.7330; 1,248.00 italian lire, down from 1,248.50; and 1.26505 canadian dollars, down from 1.26765
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late rates tuesday, included: 1.6925 west german marks, down from 1.6945; 1.3908 swiss francs, up from 1.3895; 5.7240 french francs, unchanged; 1.8990 dutch guilders, down from 1.9000; 1,246.25 italian lire, down from 1.246.60, and 1.2651 canadian dollars, down from 1.2712
greyhound corp. said wednesday it has reached an agreement in principle to purchase the household products business and assets of the 20 mule team division of u.s. borax &amp; chemical corp
the purchase price was not disclosed
among the products made by the los angeles-based company are borateam dry bleach, borax powdered hand soap and 20 mule team borax
the product line, which is sold in the united states and canada, has annual revenue of about $30 million, company officials said
the purchase was negotiated wednesday by dial corp., greyhound's consumer products group
dial, with sales of $866 million last year and net income of $41.4 million, makes such products as dial and tone hand soaps, purex laundry and household goods and armour star canned foods
u.s. borax &amp; chemical corp. is a subsidiary of rtz corp. plc of britain
greyhound, based in phoenix, is a diversified company with revenue last year of $2.5 billion. its principle operations are in consumer products, services, transportation, manufacturing and financial businesses. graf pvs, bgng: ``greenspan, in ...''</note>
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan on wednesday criticized what he said was administration pressure for lower interest rates, but president reagan denied knowledge of such an effort and voiced support for the fed chairman
in congressional testiony, greenspan had cautioned that further white house efforts to influence the central bank could boomerang. he referred in particular to a letter written by a treasury department official pleading for easier credit
asked at his wednesday night news conference about greenspan's complaint, and whether he still had confidence in greenspan, reagan replied: ``yes i do. and i'm going to have to find out what this is all about that you're talking about, because nothing of that kind had been directed to me.''
greenspan, who was appointed to the fed post by reagan last summer, issued his warning as the administration sought to dampen its dispute with the central bank
beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, said the administration currently is ``delighted with monetary policy.''
greenspan, in testimony before the senate banking committee, was highly critical of a letter sent by assistant treasury secretary michael darby to top fed policy-makers 10 days before they were to meet to set monetary growth targets for 1988
the fed tries to supply enough money to the economy to support sustained growth while guarding against over-doing money creation and thus re-igniting inflation. both darby and srinkel have complained that the money supply grew so sluggishly in 1987 that it raised concerns about a possible recession during this election year
the darby letter was brought up in questioning by sen. william proxmire, d-wis., who cited it as just one of numerous examples of administration pressure on the fed. while proxmire did not release the text of darby's letter, the senator said the clear implication was that the administration was pressuring the fed to ``ease up on the money.''
he said darby's letter to each member of the federal open market committee was the most overt effort he had ever seen on the part of the administration to influence fed decision-making
i think it is both deplorable and counterproductive for the reagan administration to pressure you as much as they have in recent months,'' proxmire said
greenspan said while the central bank was not being unduly influenced by the administration, he was worried about the perceptions in financial markets
the only thing that i hope does not happen is that the concern of our responding to political pressures gets so extraordinary that we will feel the necessity to do precisely the opposite,'' greenspan said
greenspan said, ``when i heard about dr. darby's letter i objected quite strongly. as best i can judge, he was not aware of the implications of doing this just prior to an fomc meeting.''
greenspan indicated he had received assurances that there would be no repeat of the darby letter
greenspan and the other four members of the federal reserve board were all appointed by president reagan, the first time one president has named all members of the board since franklin roosevelt. there is one vacancy
the normal fed term is 14 years, a tenure designed to insulate the board from political pressures and also make it harder for one president to name all the board members
proxmire said the current situation was raising concerns that the central bank would bend to administration pressure and boost money growth so much during this election year that the country would suffer another round of debilitating inflation in 1989
greenspan did not say which administration official he contacted concerning the darby letter, but it has been reported that treasury secretary james a. baker iii was instrumental in toning down criticism of the fed in the economic report of the president issued last week
sprinkel, in a separate appearance wednesday before the house budget committee, said that while he believed the fed had been too stingy in supplying money to the economy last year, things have improved in the past six weeks
since that time, we've been delighted with monetary policy,'' sprinkel said. ``they're dedicated to a policy of moderate expansion. ... they have the power to do it, and i'm confident they will do it.''
federal reserve chairman alan greenspan says the risk of a recession is as great as the risk of renewed inflation, but he agrees with the reagan administration that neither appears imminent
greenspan made his remarks tuesday during the fed's semi-annual congressional testimony on its conduct of monetary policy
greenspan also confirmed that the central bank had eased credit slightly a few weeks ago in an effort to keep the economic expansion alive
orders to u.s. factories for ``big ticket'' durable goods fell 2.8 percent in january, the biggest decline in a year, according to the commerce department
durable goods orders fell to a seasonally adjusted $112.23 billion last month, a drop of $3.28 billion from december, reflecting sharp drops in demand for aircraft and primary metals, the government said tuesday
the steep decline followed a december advance of 4.1 percent, which was the strongest rise since march
a massachusetts electric holding company has begun talks aimed at taking over ailing public service company of new hampshire, except for its 36 percent share of the stalled seabrook nuclear plant
public service, the lead seabrook owner, filed for federal bankruptcy protection last month
new england electric system, based in westborough, mass., said tuesday the potential takeover would let public service pay its share of seabrook preparation costs while its owners keep trying to get an operating license
black &amp; decker corp. has sweetened a hostile bid for american standard inc. a second time, raising its offer to $68 from $65 per share and promising court action to block the target's recapitalization plan
the latest offer from black &amp; decker on tuesday _ worth about $2.11 billion _ surprised some analysts who said the bidding was becoming inflated
texaco inc. has agreed to pay $1.25 billion to the government to settle claims it overcharged customers for oil during the 1973-81 period of price controls
the nation's third largest oil company said tuesday it would make a first installment of $400 million when the agreement was closed and pay the rest over the following 5{ years
the white plains, n.y.-based oil giant is the latest in a series of companies forced to pay billions to resolve charges they violated pricing restrictions on crude oil and refined products during the period of federal controls
a federal judge has ruled occidental chemical corp. is liable for the estimated $250 million cost of cleaning up the love canal landfill that became synonymous with environmental disaster
after nine years of deliberations, u.s. district judge john curtin said tuesday that occidental produced the wastes that created the disaster and stored them in a way that would eventually result in toxic leakage
occidental spokesman james green said the company was disappointed by the ruling but would not comment until its attorneys had studied the decision
grammy goose met granny goose in court on tuesday to decide an issue that has ruffled a lot of feathers
granny goose foods inc. has accused the grammy goose baby boutique of ``diluting'' the food company's name and logo. granny has asked for a preliminary injunction against grammy
granny goose, the nation's third largest potato chip manufacturer, is arguing the boutique in nearby petaluma has created confusion by using a similar name
the name and logo ``represent the most valuable asset my client owns,'' granny attorney kate spellman told sonoma county superior court judge lloyd von der mehden. ``where there is confusion, dilution has occurred.''
sandy gotelli, the petaluma grandmother who owns the baby shop, said she'll be forced out of business if the injunction is granted. she said she picked the name by combining her liking for geese with her granddaughter's nickname for her
ms. spellman told the court the company made a three-point offer to grammy goose: to help design a new sign, to help phase out printed paper goods and to help find a new name that retains part of the current name
we understand she is a small business and we would like to mitigate the harm to her,'' ms. spellman said
she acknowledged there had ``not been a great decrease in sales,'' but said the case had resulted in negative publicity for the corporation
the judge gave mrs. gotelli one week to respond in writing to the points made by ms. spellman. granny goose's attorneys then will have another five days to respond
system one direct access inc., a texas air corp. affiliate that markets a computer reservations system to travel agents, filed an antitrust lawsuit tuesday against united airlines, which runs a rival system
system one described in its complaint a pattern of actions undertaken by chicago-based united since 1984 to inhibit competition and unfairly preserve market dominance
the lawsuit, filed in a houston federal court, says that united's action also violated regulations adopted by the civil aeronautics board in 1984, which prohibit airlines that own a system one computer reservations system from directly or indirectly prohibiting travel agents from obtaining or using another system
the anticompetitive actions undertaken by united, according to the lawsuit, include rollover requirements, which extend the contract for a new five-year term every time the agent adds new equipment or services and punitive damages clauses based on future airline booking fees, which may amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars in the event an agent switches systems
the lawsuit also alleges that united airlines' contractural clauses prevent travel agents from using additional systems and the filings of lawsuits against individual travel agencies that select an alternative computer system vendor
matthew gonring, spokesman for united, said he was aware of the lawsuit but would not comment further
texas air is the parent company of eastern and continental airlines
united, through an affiliated company called covia corp, operates apollo, the second largest computerized reservation system in the country behind american sabre, affiliated with american airlines. system one is third
