the following are excerpts from the official vatican translation in english of pope john paul ii's easter sunday message, ``urbi et orbi'' (to the city and world), given in italian:
queen of heaven rejoice! behold, precisely today on this first day after the sabbath the women went to the tomb, where the body of your son had been laid, having been taken down from the cross, and they found the stone rolled away, and the tomb empty
from within the tomb they heard a voice: ``do not be amazed; you seek jesus of nazareth, who was crucified. he has risen, he is not here.''
rejoice, queen of heaven! rejoice, mother of chirst!
but go, tell his disciples and peter.''
then mary of magdala ran to tell the apostles: ``they have taken the lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they haven laid him.''
peter and john went at once to the place, and they found that it was as the women had said. he is not here. he is not here, in the place where they laid him, in the tomb. he is not here _ he has risen
rejoice, queen of heaven!
rejoice, queen of heaven. ... what the tongues of the first witnesses now proclaim had first been foretold by himself
destroy this temple, and in three days i will raise it up .. . he spoke of the temple of his body.'' his scourged, tortured crucified body; his head wounded by the thorns; his side pierced by the lance. he is not here. ... rejoice, queen of heaven!
rejoice, mary, rejoice, mother!
you bore his body in your virginal womb, you bore within you the god-man. and then you brought him forth on the night of bethlehem, you bore him in your arms as a child. you bore him into the temple on the day of his presentation. your eyes _ more than the eyes of anyone else _ saw the incarnate word. your ears heard him, from his very first words. your hands touched the word of life. rejoice, queen of heaven! ``he whom you bore has risen.''
you bore him, even more than in your arms, in your heart. particularly during those last hours, when you had to stand beneath the cross, at the feet of the divine condemned one. your heart was pierced by the sword of sorrow, in accordance with the words of the aged simeon. and you shared the sorrow as you associated yourself, with your maternal soul, in the sacrifice of your son
o mother! you consented to the immolation of the victim whom you had borne. you lovingly consented _ with that love which is planted in your heart. with that love which is stronger than death and stronger than sin, in the whole history of man on earth
and then, when he had breathed his last, and they had taken him down from the cross, he rested once more in your arms, as he has rested so many times before as a child ... and then, they laid him in the tomb. they took him from your maternal arms and gave him back to the earth; they closed the tomb with a stone ... and behold, now the stone has been rolled away, the tomb is empty. christ whom you bore is risen, hallelujah! rejoice, queen of heaven! this is the day of the church's easter joy we all share in your glory, o mother ... everyone, the whole church of your son, the whole church of the incarnate word
christ whom you bore is risen! pray for us! your who were present in the deepest possible way in the mystery of christ. behold, the whole church today looks to you, o mary. even though we do not see you among the people about whom the accounts of easter tell, we all look to you. we look to your heart. could any narrative record the moment of the resurrection of the son in the heart of his mother? yet we fix our gaze on you. the whole church shares in your easter joy the whole church knows that on this day that the lord has made you ``go before'' in a singular way along this path of pilgrimage of faith in paschal mystery. pray for us!
during this year which has been dedicated in a particular way to you, during this marian year, be present in a special way in the church, be present along all the paths of the people of god, paths upon which shines the light of christ. let this light never leave anyone, this light of the new life which is he himself, the risen one! king speech; picks up 3rd graf, `on monday ...'; adds 2 grafs with portland march; note `promise land' in 4th graf quote is cq.</note>
the legacy of the rev. martin luther king jr., assassinated 20 years ago monday, was remembered around the country sunday by blacks and whites continuing the fight for racial equality and social justice that king began
twenty years later, everything has changed and nothing has changed,'' joseph lowery, president of the southern christian leadership conference, a civil rights organization formed by king, said sunday night at a memorial service in memphis, tenn
america's poor are as bad off as ever, speakers told the 500 people attending the service at the mason temple where king gave his ``mountain top'' speech on the eve of his murder at the lorraine motel in memphis
i've been to the mountain top ... i've looked over, and i've seen the promise land,'' king said in the speech. ``i may not get there with you, but i want you to know tonight, that we as a people will get to the promised land.''
benjamin hooks, president of the national association for the advancement of colored people, said the address was one of the most emotional he had heard king deliver
it was a tremendous experience,'' hooks said before speaking to about 500 people attending the memphis service
hooks urged the audience to renew its commitment to king's ``poor people's campaign,'' which was under way at the time of his death
so dr. king, we haven't made it yet ... but we are determined from this day, we are going to march forward, and ain't nobody going to turn us around,'' he said
on monday in memphis, a memorial sponsored by the city is to begin with a ceremony at the lorraine, followed by the beginning of a southern christian leadership conference march through alabama, mississippi and georgia. that march is to conclude april 30 in atlanta
a simple wreath-laying ceremony will be held monday afternoon at king's tomb in atlanta at the martin luther king jr. center for nonviolent social change
king's widow, coretta scott king, has long favored an approach focusing on her late husband's life, not his death. last year, she came out in opposition to plans to make the lorraine motel a museum, and said she did not want such a project to bear his name
also in atlanta, the sclc planned to hold its ninth annual ``drum major for justice'' awards dinner monday night. the event takes its title from a phrase king used to describe how he wished to be remembered. this year's honorees include u.s. rep. michael espy of mississippi, singer dionne warwick and washington redskins quarterback doug williams
sharissa fox, 17 and a senior at greensboro dudley high school in north carolina, worries that her generation may not hear king's story often and powerfully enough
black people have made progress since king's assassination, but i don't think we have gone as far as he would have liked,'' she said. ``his message was to help other people as much as we can. but my generation is so hooked on themselves, they don't have time.''
in portland, ore., nearly 100 people on saturday joined in a 1.5-mile walk to mark king's assassination on april 4, 1968
when people gather together there is hope,'' said ron herndon, co-director of portland's black united front. ``the message is there still are those who will stand up against racism.'' with mabn held without bail; picks up 5th graf, `sheriff's capt...'. subs 11-12th grafs, bgng `hatchett said...' with 4 grafs to add further detail from sheriff's spokesman. picks up 13th graf, `the three ...'</note>
a man apparently angry over a land dispute involving his former in-laws opened fire on mourners gathering for an easter sunday funeral, killing three and wounding three others including his ex-wife, authorities said
the shooting occurred in the parking lot of the mountain home baptist church, where family and friends gathered for a funeral service for effie collins justice, 79. the service had been scheduled to begin at 3 p.m., officials said, and the shooting took place shortly before that
it was just a really horrible experience, nothing i could ever have imagined,'' said lester justice, a nephew of mrs. justice. like most of the mourners, justice was already inside the small, brick rural church when the shooting began but could hear the gunfire
michael leslie rainey, 41, was charged with three counts of first-degree murder and three counts of assault with a deadly weapon with intent to kill, according to a release from the henderson county sheriff's department
rainey was being held without bond sunday evening in the henderson county jail, awaiting an initial court appearance set for monday morning
sheriff's capt. tom hatchett said the dead were the parents of rainey's ex-wife, along with a 24-year-old man whose relationship to the family was not immediately determined
the three, wilford owensby, 61, of fletcher; his wife, ponnelle, 60; and scott bowles, 24, were all pronounced dead at the scene, the sheriff's department said. mrs. owensby was mrs. justice's daughter
the suspect's former wife, andrea rainey, 40, of kennesaw, ga., was taken to margaret pardee hospital in hendersonville where she was listed in good condition with bullet wounds in the neck, said hospital spokeswoman mary ann morris
mrs. rainey's sister, sheila johnston, 30, of fletcher, and her daughter, wendy johnston, 11, were both listed in critical but stable condition at memorial mission hospital in asheville, said nursing supervisor evelyn woody. mrs. johnston was wounded in the chest, while her daughter was wounded in the leg, the hospital said
rainey apparently confronted his former wife and her relatives in the parking lot, hatchett said
there seems to be some sort of domestic thing, over conflict over some land,'' he said. the suspect owned land near the church which is adjacent to property belonging to mrs. rainey's family, he said
witnesses said the suspect walked into the church to view the body of mrs. justice, and then walked outside. mourners in the church then heard gunshots
i understand they were having visitation when he came to the church. he apparently had weapons in a vehicle outside the church. he went outside and got them out of the trunk and then started shooting,'' hatchett said
hatchett said rainey left the shooting scene on foot after dropping the weapons in the parking lot. he was arrested without incident a short distance away. two weapons were found in the parking lot, a handgun and a shotgun, hatchett said
witnesses said mrs. rainey drove herself and her wounded sister and niece away from the church after the shooting, and her ford sedan was riddled with bullet holes. the three were in the car when the shooting broke out, hatchett said
the three reached the hendersonville city limits, a few miles away, before authorities transferred them from the blood-stained car to ambulances
the funeral was canceled. police were still interviewing witnesses at the church sunday evening
edneyville is an unincorporated town in a rural area in the western part of the state, about 20 miles southeast of asheville. saturday violence. pickup 2nd graf pvs, `county supervisor...'</note>
police chief daryl gates vowed saturday to deploy 1,000 officers on gang-ridden south-central streets to keep easter churchgoers safe after a drive-by shooting in which one man died and 12 others were wounded
gang violence erupted later in the day when two gang members were wounded by gunfire after a confrontation between rival groups in a downtown parking lot, said police lt. orley barton
the victims, both 21, were taken to los angeles county-usc medical center. a spokeswoman said one was in fair condition with a gunshot wound in the foot and the second, who was hit in the buttocks, was listed as serious
county supervisor kenneth hahn sent a telegram to gov. george deukmejian urging him to declare a state of emergency in los angeles and send in two companies of military police from the california national guard
the people of los angeles county are increasingly living in a state of fear. no one is safe,'' he wrote
the governor is very concerned about the escalation of gang violence in los angeles county,'' said deukmejian's press secretary, kevin brett
however, he would declare a state of emergency only after the city and county governments proclaim that such an emergency exists and that it exceeds the capabilities of local law enforcement officials, brett said
no one had been arrested in friday's shooting, but gates said police were investigating leads on two men seen shooting from a passing car. one of those wounded was a 4-year-old boy
the shootings came in the midst of a police crackdown on escalating gang violence, which only a day earlier prompted one los angeles county supervisor to call for help from the california national guard
if we were angry before, we are exceedingly angry now,'' gates said at a news conference where he called gang members ``rotten little cowards ... who shoot down 4-year-old kids.''
plans were under way to put 1,000 officers on south-central streets where 200 officers usually patrol, gates said, adding that 300 officers would be out saturday night
we have all this shooting going on on the holy weekend. people in south-central l.a. want to go to church tomorrow and we're going to make sure they're safe,'' gates said
he also called for night sessions at all courts in order to speed up trials and put criminals behind bars, special courts to handle gang and narcotic cases, and a south-central justice center
lt. charles massey said friday's shots were fired on turf claimed by five or six gangs, and that the shootings probably were intended as some type of retaliation. police believe a semi-automatic weapon was used
rodney bragg, 16, said he saw men in a cadillac stop and talk to a group of people
all of a sudden they just opened up,'' he said. ``there were about 20 shots, i guess. maybe more than that. you could hear them hitting the trees and the houses _ everything.''
the car sped off and then returned ``for another look'' before fleeing, bragg said
at least 25 rounds were fired, gates said
cmdr. william booth said 13 people were hit. only 11 were accounted for at local hospitals. authorities said two people may have sought medical attention on their own
seven anti-gang police sweeps through the city in the past month, including one through the southside thursday night, have resulted in 874 arrests and seizures of weapons, drugs, cash and cars
on thursday, county supervisor kenneth hahn asked gov. george deukmejian to call in the national guard to help quell gang violence
hahn cited 387 gang-related deaths within the county last year and said the gang-related death rate in the first three months of 1988 exceeds the rate for the same period last year
however, since the sweeps, the tally of gang-related homicides apparently has decreased, from 25 in march 1987 to 14 in march 1988, police said. his life</head>
a former british fighter pilot was reported sunday as saying austrian president kurt waldheim saved his life and those of other allied prisoners during world war ii by preventing them falling into the hands of nazi executioners
the sunday times said the pilot, bruce ogilvie, is the ``first and possibly the only british ex-serviceman to speak in defense of waldheim,'' who denies accusations of involvement in war crimes when he was serving with the german army
ogilvie, now 66, said he was in danger of being shot when he was found armed and in civilian clothes on the british-occupied greek island of leros in november 1943, the day after german paratroops invaded
he said he was taken to an airfield outside athens where he met waldheim, who introduced himself by name and ensured that ogilvie and others were sent to a prisoner-of-war camp instead of the nazi ss, who shot prisoners
ogilvie said waldheim took the prisoners' identity discs and gave them substitutes which had been taken from the bodies of allied servicemen killed in action. the discs enabled the prisoners to prove they were not commandos or spies
ogilvie said he mentioned waldheim's help to royal air officers who debriefed him after his release from a prison camp in may 1945
thousands of cyclists, joggers and sightseers turned out saturday and sunday to cross japan's majestic seto ohashi bridge, which straddles five small islands over an expanse of 7.6 miles in the seto inland sea
police bands performed and hundreds of balloons were set off as seto bridge authorities feted to mark the completion of the first physical linkup between the main island of honshu and shikoku island, located on the pacific side of southeastern japan
about 100,000 pedestrians, selected by lottery from around the country, formed a human link between shikoku and honshu on the bridge at noon sunday
on saturday, 3,000 people crossed the ohashi (literally great bridge) on bicycles, while an estimated 7,000-8,000 joggers joined in later the same day
the bridge, which cost $8.7 billion and took 10 years to build, will open to both rail and vehicle traffic after the official opening april 10
transportation officials acknowledge that while the railway portion of the bridge is not expected to recoup its construction costs, toll charges for the highway section of the bridge should help to keep operation costs near or above deficit levels
the seto ohashi bridge, consisting of six suspension bridges in the style of san francisco's golden gate bridge, will be formally connected to that californian symbol in a sister bridge ceremony scheduled for tuesday
three moderate overnight quakes shook the greek capital, frightening some residents out of their homes but causing no damage or injuries, officials said sunday
a spokesman for the athens seismological institute said the first temblor measured 4.2 on the richter scale at 11:06 p.m. saturday. it had its epicenter 12 miles east of athens, just outside the seaside resort town of loutsa
the second quake struck in the same area at 00:58 a.m. sunday and registered 4.6 on the richter scale
the third tremor, hitting 4.4 on the richter scale, took place at 06:35 a.m. sunday and had its its epicenter 47 miles west-northwest of athens
we had some minor panic and some people ran out of their homes and into the streets, but we had no damage,'' said a police spokesman in loutsa
the earthquakes, felt all over the capital, did not cause much panic, athens police said
we had alot of people call in to see what happened but we had no reports of serious panic,'' an athens police spokesman said
the richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. a magnitude 4 quake can cause moderate damage
the soviet union set off an underground nuclear test explosion early sunday in the republic of kazakhstan, the official tass news agency reported
the blast, the third nuclear test announced by the soviets this year, was ``carried out with a view to upgrading military technology,'' tass said
the explosion had a yield of 20 to 150 kilotons, tass said. the u.s. atom bomb dropped on hiroshima, japan, on aug. 6, 1945, had a yield of 20 kilotons, or the equivalent of 20,000 tons of tnt
the device was exploded at the soviet union's main nuclear testing range in semipalatinsk, in the central asian republic of kazakhstan
tass provided no further information on the blast
in january, an american scientific delegation visited the semipalatinsk range to gather information that may be used in verifying u.s.-soviet compliance with a future test ban
an exchange of visits to semipalatinsk and to the u.s. nuclear testing site in nevada is planned this month
the soviet government has been pressing for a pact prohibiting nuclear testing, but u.s. and soviet officials disagree on enforcement procedures. pole</head>
the army said an arab youth was electrocuted sunday when he tried to attach a palestinian flag to a utility pole. hospital officials said a second arab died of gunshot wounds suffered last week in a clash with israeli soldiers
the fatalities came hours before the scheduled arrival of secretary of state george p. shultz for a third round of talks with israeli leaders on his middle east peace initiative and while hundreds of christians celebrated easter in jerusalem
the deaths also occurred a day after israeli soldiers shot and killed six arab protesters in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, the highest one-day death toll in four months of unrest
the jerusalem post newspaper quoted military sources as saying the army has adopted a new policy of entering even remote arab villages to break up protests instead of ignoring demonstrators as long as they did not endanger lives or interfere with traffic on the main roads
the confrontations (over the weekend) were a result of our initiative,'' defense minister yitzhak rabin told israel radio
in jerusalem, about 1,000 pilgrims from around the world attended easter sunday services in the church of the holy sepulcher where most christians believe jesus was buried and rose from the dead
church officials said the number of worshipers dropped by half from last year, apparently because many pilgrims were scared away by the violence in the occupied territories
in the west bank town of tulkarem, 40 miles northwest of jerusalem, an army official said a 20-year-old arab youth died early sunday after being electrocuted when he tried to attach a red, white, black and green palestinian flag, outlawed by israel, to a utility pole
after receiving the shock, the youth fell from the pole and hit his head, said the official who, in keeping with army regulations, spoke on condition of anonymity. the youth was pronounced dead at tulkarem hospital
arab journalists identified the victim as 15-year-old mahmoud abdul rahim jarad and said he was shot to death by israeli soldiers
officials at tulkarem hospital could not immediately be reached for comment on the cause of death
at ramallah hospital, 10 miles north of jerusalem, a 40-year-old arab died sunday of wounds he suffered wednesday in a clash with israeli soldiers. during the clash, ali diab abu ali of the west bank village yatta, was shot in the neck and paralyzed, said a doctor who spoke on condition of anonymity
his death brought to 134 the number of arabs killed in four months of anti-israeli protests, according to u.n. figures. the youth from tulkarem was not included in the count because of conflicting reports on the circumstances of his death. one israeli soldier has died in the violence
shultz is scheduled to meet monday with rabin, prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres. israel radio quoted sources in egypt as saying shultz planned to present to israeli leaders an invitation to an international peace conference which is to launch direct bilateral negotiations between the parties to the conflict
shamir opposes key elements of the shultz plan, especially a proposed international conference. the jerusalem post quoted a shamir aide as saying ``if shultz doesn't present any new ideas in his talks with shamir ... , the prime minister will not budge.''
peres supports the shultz plan
pope john paul ii celebrated easter sunday mass in st. peter's basilica, then appealed for world peace and offered easter greetings in 52 languages to thousands of worshipers in rain-drenched st. peter's square
among the thousands of people who packed christendom's biggest church for the mass was u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, who was to leave later in the day for israel on a new middle east peace mission
the mass, usually held on the flower-decked travertine steps of st. peter's, was moved inside the church because of rain. but the pope later spoke from the church's central balcony as more than 100,000 people stood in the square below
in his traditional easter message ``urbi and orbi'' (to the city of rome and the world) following the mass, the pope asked the virgin mary to pray for peace, justice, human rights and religious freedom
departing from his written text and speaking emotionally in a strong, hoarse voice, the pontiff said, ``pray for peace in the world, for justice, pray for the rights of man, especially for religious freedom, for every man, for every christian and non-christian, pray for us.''
pray for the solidarity of all peoples of the world, the first world, second, third and fourth, all the world,'' he said. ``in yours and our easter joy, we carry again this weight of humanity, this weight of so many human hearts, our brothers, our sisters, and we repeat: pray for us.''
in a private audience on saturday, shultz had received the pope's blessing for his voyage
shultz's wife, helena, a roman catholic, was one of those taking communion from the pope
winter weather descended on rome this weekend, with a cold, steady rain drenching the capital sunday morning
it was decided at the last moment to move the service inside the basilica, where the pope celebrated mass from an altar under the ``baldacchino,'' the immense baroque canopy designed by bernini
the italian news agency ansa estimated that 150,000 romans, pilgrims and tourists _ most of them huddling under umbrellas _ stood outside in the square and its side streets and listened to the service broadcast on loud speakers by radio vatican
the crowd broke into loud cheers and chants of ``viva il papa'' (long live the pope) when john paul, keeping with tradition, appeared on the central balcony at noon to deliver his easter message and blessing
the message was directed to the virgin mary, for whom the pope has a special devotion and dedicated the current marian year
christ whom you bore is risen, alleluia,'' said the pope, wearing a white robe trimmed in gold and a tall, gold miter, or bishop's hat. ``queen of heaven, rejoice. this is the day of the church's easter joy. we all share in your glory, oh mother.''
behold the whole church today tooks to you, oh mary. even though we do not see you among the people about whom the accounts of easter tell, we all look to you ..
during this year, which has been dedicated in a particular way to you, during this marian year, be present in a special way in the church..''
then, following his improvised plea for world peace, the polyglot pope wished the world a happy easter in 52 languages. the longest greeting was in his native polish
iraq said its warplanes raided two oil refineries deep inside iran on sunday, but iran said the bombs landed in residential areas and killed at least five civilians and wounded 50 more
the attacks signaled the rekindling of the ``war of the cities'' after a break of 2{ days. hundreds of civilians have been killed or wounded in more than a month of missile and warplane raids on major population centers
the official iraqi news agency quoted a military communique as saying the strikes on the refineries near the cities of isfahan and tabriz were carried out at 2:40 p.m
that was about six hours after turkish prime minister turgut ozal left the iraqi capital. baghdad had ceased its attacks on iranian cities during his visit and announced it would not resume attacks for six hours after he left
iran's islamic republic news agency said the warplanes bombed residential quarters in tabriz, in northeastern iran, and the central city of isfahan
at least five civilians were killed and 50 wounded, said the news agency report. the iranian and iraqi dispatches were monitored in cyprus
the iranian agency claimed that anti-aircraft batteries shot down one of the warplanes at isfahan ``seconds after the attack'' on the city
it did not say where the plane fell nor disclose the fate of the pilot. iraq had no comment on the claim
two moscow factory managers were expelled from the communist party for embezzlement, on-the-job drinking parties and paying $1.6 million to two hockey players who masqueraded as machine operators, a soviet newspaper said sunday
the report in pravda, the official paper of the communist party, was taken to be a message to party members at all state industries
pravda also reported that party's control committee had disciplined two officials of the state ministry for aviation machine-building involved in the errant enterprise
the report said the managers of the salyut air transport machine-building enterprise engaged in embezzlement but it did not give a total figure for the losses suffered by the factory
still, the newspaper gave several examples of excesses that cost in the tens of thousands of dollars, indicating the violations were broad
factory director y.v. pugin and party committee chairman a.g. samarkin were expelled, and other senior party officials at the plant and the ministry were reprimanded, the newspaper said
under soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms aimed at improving economic performance, party members have come under close scrutiny
only about 8 percent of soviet adults gain entrance into the all-powerful party, and the control commission is charged with ensuring that communists set an appropriate example for other workers
stories about the abuse of authority and inattention to the cause of poor performance have become common as the party carries out internal reviews of its personnel
two new zealand climbers died and a third was injured after they plunged 500 feet down a mountainside while roped together, police said sunday
the two women and a man fell off mount cook as they were approaching the top of the copeland pass, police spokesman bill apes said
two alpine guides witnessed the accident from the copeland shelter, he said
one radioed for help while the other went to the scene, where the man died. one of the women suffered head injuries and was flown by helicopter to timaru hospital where she died on saturday night
the other woman was admitted to hospital with moderate injuries, apes said
an explosion apparently caused by a gas leak ripped through an apartment building in suburban ville d'avray on sunday, killing an 18-year-old woman and injuring 14 people, the fire department said
the woman was crushed to death by a falling chuck of concrete. one of the 14 injured was reported in serious condition
the explosion occurred at about 3 a.m. and devastated the second, third and fourth floors of the nine-story building
the other residents of the building were evacuated
salon-de-provence, france (ap) _ a spanish bus carrying 53 people sunday slammed into a small truck that stopped on a highway because of a flat tire. police said the drivers of both vehicles were killed
the truck's driver had stopped in the right line to repair the flat tire and one of its four occupants tried to alert traffic, police said
the spanish bus, traveling in the same direction, hit the truck from behind and killed its driver, 32-year-old bouhid abdellati. the driver of the bus, eduardo asensio arribas, 61, also was killed
the three other occupants of the truck suffered no injuries
twenty-six passengers on the bus were slightly injured and taken to local hospitals. they were identified as teen-agers from a religious school in saragosa. uplifted</head>
jesse jackson, accustomed to bringing an uplifting message to the downtrodden, found a warm reception among the already uplifted at this chic ski playground
looking to win delegates in mondays' colorado democratic caucuses, jackson dropped in on the sunny, snowy resort high in the rocky mountains on saturday afternoon
it was a visit that took the black civil rights leader and presidential candidate a long way from his usual audiences _ like the hispanics who surged to touch him in pueblo, and the striking meatpackers in greeley who cheered wildly to his denunciation of the rich and powerful earlier in the day
i was surprised he came here,'' said mary scheerer, a tanned and blond frequent visitor from minneapolis who strained to get jackson in the sights of her video camera as he arrived. ``i guess it's because the mayor invited him.''
jackson was greeted by the town's white, bearded mayor, bill stirling, a local real estate man who sported a jackson bumper sticker across his white cowboy hat. later, wearing a blue pin-stripe suit and bow tie, he danced and sang along with a recorded campaign song after introducing the candidate
people have said, `why aspen?' it's too glitzy, too lily white, too middle class,'' the mayor said, his last remark drawing laughter. ``well, we vote here too.''
arriving after a day of skiing was tom hayden, the california legislator and husband of actress jane fonda. he wasn't endorsing jackson, he said, but he had nice things to say about him
the gathering spilled out the door from the ornate room in the old jerome hotel, a recently restored three-story brick building that looks like it came straight out of the old west _ but updated for the ski crowd. to get to jackson's speech, people walked past guests frolicking in the hotel's outdoor hot tub and through a bar with a giant chandelier made of antlers
some who turned out were supporters, and some just seemed curious. many wore bright ski suits
one man dressed in cowboy shirt and hat, face red from skiing, said on his way in: ``we're here for both _ jesse and the fashion show.'' he said there really was a fashion show in town, but he might have been talking about the affluent, all-white crowd's wardrobe
others claimed to be real supporters. at the pitkin county airport, where the idle private jets of aspen's visitors wait in rows, andrea hanson was among the handful of greeters
i just think he's the best thing going,'' said hanson, clad in a black leather miniskirt. she described herself as an author of children's books
posters printed by local supporters invited people to see jackson. included was a notice that the reception beforehand was ``for substantial contributors only ($100 to $1,000).''
jackson spoke passionately, as usual, of the poor, but at the same time responded to his monied audience. the poor work, he said, and are all around, even in aspen
they changed the sheets in the hotel you slept in last night,'' he said
the upper class cannot remain upper if there is not a middle class,'' he told the substantial contributors
one man put a tough question to jackson: did he back raising taxes as high as 60 percent on upper incomes like his own? it would discourage the creation of jobs, he said
to tax you 60 percent would be as absurd as a tax cut,'' responded jackson, who hours earlier had denounced president reagan for ``reverse robin hood'' _ taking from the poor for the rich. jackson suggested the tax rates before president reagan's 1981 tax cut were reasonable
with the larger crowd, jackson didn't miss an opportunity to ask for contributions to his campaign
give like you live _ high,'' jackson said
jackson led in responsive chants as he does with other audiences _ evoking such shouts as ``vote'' and ``jesse.'' when they didn't get it right, he interrupted: ``let's stop and do it right, do it with rhythm and soul.''
a few feet to the side, hayden was talking politics and speculating on a mario cuomo-jesse jackson ticket
something very powerful is happening,'' hayden said. ``i don't know if he can win in november, but nobody else is having an effect like this.''
jackson seemed to enjoy his visit, too. the chanting done, jackson grinned and waved
okay, aspen,'' he said
a military exhibit at a popular south african festival includes a detailed demonstration on how to plant and detect land mines
the south african defense force exhibit is part of the grand rand show, a three-week festival that began wednesday on the outskirts of johannesburg
the large military display includes a section with a south african soldier explaining how land mines work and how the military detects them
visitors are allowed to handle the mine detector and wear the headset that gives off a beeping noise when a dummy mine is detected
if someone steps on the dummy mine, it gives off a harmless puff of green smoke. the soldier at the exhibit also explains the proper way to plant and disguise a land mine
guerrillas of the african national congress often employ land mines as part of their bombing and sabotage campaign to overthrow the white-led government
boldly going where few have gone before, actor william shatner touched hands and talked with koko the gorilla
shatner, also known as capt. james t. kirk of ``star trek'' fame, spent half an hour with the celebrated 16-year-old lowland gorilla at the gorilla foundation saturday. koko lives at the nonprofit organization's center and has been taught to understand 2,000 words of spoken english and use a vocabulary of 600 signs
koko and i talked,'' shatner said. ``we touched hands and we touched minds. feeling her powerful hand on the back of my neck was unlike any other experience i've known.''
koko also touched shatner on the face, making what dr. francine ``penny'' patterson, koko's trainer and the foundation president, interpreted as romantic overtures
koko has communicated to foundation officials that she ``want gorilla baby.'' the foundation has made arrangements to have her artificially inseminated
shatner was promoting a new program under which californians can donate money to help endangered species through a checkoff on their state tax forms
prince charles and princess diana have ``ordinary'' marital quarrels, but diana still loves her husband and is happy as a member of the royal family, her father, earl spencer, was quoted as saying sunday
in an interview with woman's own magazine, the earl was also quoted as saying diana, who has two sons, william, 5, and harry, 3, wants a larger family _ perhaps five children
charles and diana have their rows, what couple doesn't. but they are nothing out of the ordinary'' the 64-year-old aristocrat was quoted as saying
what makes it so different for them is that they're on show all the time. they might have had a disagreement, then they have to step out in front of the cameras and pretend that everything is going well and that's not easy.''
spencer was questioned about press reports that the marriage of charles, 39, and diana, 26, now in its seventh year, was in deep trouble
spencer said dismissed reports his daughter is bored and frustrated with her role
she's the fairy tale princess because she does a wonderful job.'' spencer was quoted as saying. ``she's very genuine, she's very beautiful and she's still very much in love with charles.''
actor-director spike lee didn't shy from a heated debate with fisk university students about his latest film, ``school daze.''
lee appeared at this black school thursday to promote the movie, which focuses on a black college and students' attitudes about fraternities
the fraternity members were upset about how fraternities were portrayed in the film. we had 90 minutes of heated dialogue. it was very healthy and just the kind of thing i like to see happen,'' he said
lee said the movie is about the need for ``more unity among black people.''
the viewers from the black underclass will see in the film what they have seen in real life _ being looked down upon and shunned by the middle class,'' said lee, who is black
his first movie, the surprise hit ``she's gotta have it,'' was made for $175,000 and has reaped about $8 million
restaurateur and mayoral candidate sonny bono says he regrets his outburst at a televised candidates' forum but refuses to apologize
the forum had been under way for more than an hour thursday night when bono arrived and said he couldn't participate because his pregnant wife was ill
bono, the former husband and singing partner of cher, demanded to know why moderator ed kibbey had not explained bono's absence
kibbey said neither he nor the forum's sponsor, the palm springs jaycees, were told why bono was absent. he asked the candidate to join the forum, but bono declined and said he would return to his wife
at one point, bono told kibbey, ``if anything happens to her, you're going to have to answer to me.''
the interruption prompted booing and shouts, and a walkout of 20 bono supporters
i regret getting that upset, but it's almost like being handcuffed. i couldn't get my explanation out,'' bono told a news conference friday
his wife, mary, was admitted to hospital wednesday with the flu and returned home friday
sylvester stallone, straddling his glistening harley-davidson motorcycle, has been thrilling coastal crowds near his home with frequent stops in beach parking lots to chat with youngsters
he enjoys intermingling with kids. he enjoys the camaraderie of it,'' stallone publicist paul bloch said saturday
last weekend, stallone and seven biker buddies, including actor ray sharkey, pulled off pacific coast highway and into the parking lot at zuma beach for a half-hour chat with beachgoers
stallone, who lives in malibu, has owned the harley chopper for seven years and rides the bike at least twice during the week and on weekends, bloch said
taysir al-zibri, a member of the political bureau of the pro-soviet democratic front for the liberation of palestine and of the palestine national council, was arrested in jordan, the front said sunday
the announcement said jordan gave no reason for al-zibri's arrest tuesday night
the front, led by nayef hawatmeh, is one of the palestinian guerrilla groups included in the palestine liberation organization run by yasser arafat
the palestine national council is the palestinian parliament-in-exile
paolo milano, a professor and prominent literary critic, has died after a long illness. he was 84
milano, who died of parkinson's disease saturday in rome, was described by the city's daily la repubblica on sunday as ``one of the most cosmopolitan voices of italian culture.''
born in rome in 1904, milano, a jew, fled the italian fascist regime in the late 1930s. after a brief period in paris, he settled in new york in 1940
he lived there for 15 years teaching comparative literature at queens college and at the new school of social research
he edited ``the portable dante,'' published in 1947, and wrote ``henry james _ the voluntary exile,'' which came out in 1948. he also contributed articles to such publications as politics, the partisan review and the nation
from 1957 to 1986, milan worked in rome as literary critic of the italian weekly magazine l'espresso
his funeral was scheduled for tuesday in the jewish cemetery of rome. survivors are his wife, rachel, of new york; a son andrew, of scarsdale, n.y.; and three grandchildren
three moderate earthquakes shook athenians awake saturday and sunday while another strong temblor rocked the western resort island of corfu
none of the quakes caused injuries or damage, authorities said
a spokesman for the athens seismological institute said a strong quake measuring 5.0 on the richter scale occurred at 11:56 a.m. sunday. its epicenter was 212 miles northwest of athens in the seabed off the island of corfu
the popular resort island has about 2,000 mostly british tourists visiting over the easter holiday, local police said
three other quakes registering 4.2, 4.6 and 4.4 on the richter scale rumbled through the greek capital between 11 p.m. saturday and 7 a.m. sunday
the four quakes are not geologically connected, we rule out the chance of a disastrous quake coming from any of the areas ... so people shouldn't panic,'' professor yiannis dracopoulos, greece's senior seismologist, told state-run television
the athens region has 3.5 million residents, a third of greece's population
the first two quakes had their epicenters 12.5 miles east of athens in the seabed off the coastal town of loutsa, while the third had its epicenter 47 miles northwest of the capital
an athens police spokesman said the three quakes were felt throughout the capital, but didn't cause any injuries or damage
we had a lot of people calling in to find out what was happening but nobody panicked,'' said a police spokesman who requested anonymity
the richter scale is a gauge of the energy released by an earthquake, as measured by the ground motion recorded on a seismograph. a magnitude 4 quake can cause moderate damage while a force 5 temblor can cause considerable damage
under police and army guard, pilgrims from around the world gathered at dawn for easter sunday services in the church marking the site where most christians believe jesus rose from the dead
about 1,000 worshipers _ half as many as last year _ attended services in the 12th century church of the holy sepulcher, church officials said
many pilgrims were scared away by four months of almost daily violence in the israeli-occupied territories that have left more than 130 palestinians and one israeli soldier dead. the greek orthodox church canceled three pre-easter processions scheduled for the weekend
security was low-key sunday at the crusader-built church, where about half a dozen uniformed police stood guard in the courtyard and at the entrance
but dozens of soldiers were stationed throughout the walled old city, some on rooftops and others patrolling the narrow cobblestone streets. an arab attacker stabbed an israeli policeman in the old city on friday
before we came, our friends were worried and said they would pray for us,'' said 71-year-old arnold rosenbrock, a lutheran from kankakee, ill
we've been fine, but someone was killed in bethlehem yesterday (saturday) a few hours before we visited,'' he added. ``there were boulders in the street, and it was tense.''
we were frightened before we came, but now that we are here, we feel it is safe,'' said philip jiamachello, 31, of houston, texas, who attended the services with his wife and young son. ``for me, this was a very moving experience.''
tourism ministry officials said they had no figures for the month of march, but acknowledged a 13 percent drop in tourism for the first week of the month as compared with a year ago. officials also expressed concern about possible cancellations in april and may
clouds of incense and organ music filled the church during the latin service held in front of the marble-enclosed tomb marking the site where jesus is believed to have been resurrected
the roman catholic patriarch of jerusalem, monsignor michel sabbah, the first palestinian to hold the post, presided over the service. last week, he called on worshipers to make special easter prayers for those caught up in the arab-israeli conflict
at the church entrance, visiting pilgrims kissed and pressed their foreheads to the rose-colored marble stone where followers are believed to have washed jesus' body before his burial
several worshipers dropped handkerchiefs to soak up some of the holy water that dampens the stone
others walked upstairs to the candle-lit table marking the site where jesus' cross is believed to have been buried
one feels very humble walking on the same soil where christ walked,'' said gale crisher, 48, of long island, n.y. ``my children couldn't believe i was coming to israel now, but i felt have very comfortable here.''
while the roman catholics were celebrating easter, orthodox denominations were marking their palm sunday, walking along the via dolorosa, or way of sorrow, where jesus, wearing a crown of thorns, was forced to carry the cross on which he died. orthodox christians celebrate easter this coming sunday
in the midst of the easter service, about two dozen chanting coptic priests and choir boys in long dark robes entered the church carrying palm leaves, some formed in the shape of a cross
easter also fell on the third day of the jewish holiday of passover, commemorating the deliverance of the ancient hebrews from slavery in egypt
palestinian shopkeepers opened stores around the church from morning until noon, the times permitted by the palestine liberation organization. the plo has ordered afternoon strikes in arab east jerusalem to protest the israeli occupation
but even merchants who remained open complained there was little business
i sold about $1,000 worth of items a day last year during holy week. this year, i'm lucky if it is $100,'' said mike mannix, a jerusalem-born palestinian and owner of a shop selling olive-wood crosses and icons
last easter my store was filled to the doorway and people were crowded on the streets outside,'' the 32-year-old mannix added. ``this year, there is no one.''
two years after a u.s. bombing raid shocked the nation, libyans are breathing a bit easier
moammar gadhafi, their leader and the target of the attack, is permitting some long-awaited, though small steps to fix the economy. he is also calling for greater personal liberty
and it's true, right, that reagan can't become president again?'' asked a libyan military man, confident that life is looking up for his countrymen
for the u.s. president, col. gadhafi was the ``mad dog of the middle east'' and a sponsor of terrorism, including 1985 attacks on airports in rome and vienna. to gadhafi, reagan was the ``israeli dog'' in the ``black house,'' the villain behind the april 15, 1986, bombing, which libyans say killed the colonel's baby daughter and 36 other people
the good-guy, bad-guy rhetoric drew attention from an economy badly needing direction, especially after falling oil prices flattened libya's plump cushion of petroleum income. the global theater also overshadowed the growing demands of libyan consumers
now gadhafi seems bent on ensuring his popularity by improving life for his more than 3.5 million countrymen in the north african nation
of course, motives are often difficult to judge in the case of the mercurial colonel who came to power in a 1969 coup and who is now simply called ``the leader'' by libyans
some observers think the 45-year-old gadhafi may have decided to reform his virulent anti-americanism, which sometimes made him an easy target of u.s. outrage. others think gadhafi may also have been affected by an amnesty international appeal in july to end an alleged policy of assassinating opposition figures
while slogans denouncing purported american aggression are still plastered on buildings, one diplomat says that there has been a quiet exchange of messages between the u.s. and libyan governments indicating a desire, if not to improve relations, at least to keep channels open
there are several signs gadhafi may also have decided to push for a more liberal economy
a tripoli newspaper last month reported that small businesses are now permitted to import items, such as automobile parts, previously allowed only for government-franchise holders, and sell them at a profit. diplomats were apparently told to improve distribution of consumer goods, and more private businesses were allowed to operate
insisting repeatedly that libyans must produce for themselves, gadhafi has tried to reduce dependence on imports, especially after libya's oil revenues dropped dramatically from a 1980 peak of $22 billion
by 1986, lower oil prices saw annual revenue plummet to less than $6 billion. prospects for slightly higher oil prices this year could put income at about $6.5 billion
on tripoli's shopping streets, business seems to have grown over the past year. freshly slaughtered fat chickens hang from doorways enticing customers. women _ some shrouded head-to-toe in white cotton, others in form-fitting, olive green military pants and jackets _ examine satin-striped fabric, while men try out imported calculators
it seems every other store window has cheap leather shoes, vinyl pocketbooks and suitcases
a diplomat reports that in the past year the government, which likes to boast of an extensive health care system, is allowing libyans to buy western currency and go abroad, ostensibly for medical treatment
one thing that hasn't changed in libya, though, is the ground rule of anonymity which covers conversations with diplomats, businessmen and the few libyans willing to give their reading on what's happening
gadhafi has been focusing as well on personal liberties
one afternoon last month, the masterful user of the media rode a bulldozer to knock down the gate of a tripoli prison. to the cheers of one of the largest rallies in the capital in years, according to a diplomat, gadhafi declared that the released inmates included some who had plotted to kill him
a week later, gadhafi called for abolishing the death penalty in a nation where hangings have been broadcast on state television
on march 28, gafhafi announced that all arrests should be backed by a court order
this is a very good thing,'' said a smiling libyan, relaxing in a lounge a few hours after the speech. ``now members of the revolutionary committees just come up and take people away without warning.''
the committees are gadhafi's watchdogs of revolutionary ideology
gadhafi also announced he is withdrawing troops from eastern libya as a goodwill gesture toward its eastern neighbor, egypt, with which it has been feuding for 15 years
communist rebels suffered a major setback with the recent arrest of their top leaders, but military officials and analysts say the insurgents are far from beaten
through their 19-year rebellion, the guerrillas have demonstrated remarkable resilience. despite harsh crackdowns, their influence has spread from the countryside to urban centers, attacks have stepped up and captured leaders have been replaced immediately
president corazon aquino, who has vowed to crush the insurgency before her term expires in 1992, hailed last tuesday's arrests of the new people's army commander and the communist party's no. 2 man as the beginning of the end
it clearly demonstrates that we have turned the tide and are winning the war against the communist insurgency,'' she said in a statement
but military officials and others say the president may have spoken too soon, although they acknowledge that the arrests were a big blow to the 25,000-strong guerrilla army
it will disturb some of their programs,'' brig. gen. rodolfo biazon, manila area commander, said of the arrests. ``but to say that this means the defeat of the communist movement may not entirely be correct because we are fighting an idea, and the idea is still there.''
francisco tatad, a columnist and former information minister under ousted president ferdinand marcos, noted the insurgents not only survived but expanded after the capture of party founder jose maria sison and former rebel commander bernabe buscayno in the mid-1970s
tatad said the rebels now enjoy broad support among workers, students, the clergy and other groups in society and that the government must improve its services ``to make the very idea of insurgency obsolete.''
still, the arrests of rebel commander romulo kintanar, secretary-general rafael baylosis and four other rebels marked a dramatic success for the government
they came as the military was on alert for rebel attacks marking last tuesday's 19th anniversary of the rebel force. instead it was the military which struck, raiding communist hideouts in the capital
the arrest of kintanar, 37, is especially significant. kintanar, a master guerrilla strategist, was widely believed to have organized assassination squads known as ``sparrow units,'' which brought the guerrilla conflict from the countryside to the cities
police say up to 4,000 sparrows are deployed in metropolitan manila, where they have killed more than 150 police, soldiers and government officials since january 1987
veteran journalist max soliven wrote in the philippine star that for the first time in years, the rebels are ``now sweating it out.'' but he warned against complacency
the rebels ``are so desperate at this juncture that they may unleash a series of furious attacks and ambushes, just to create the impression that the movement remains strong,'' soliven wrote
sen. rene saguisag, mrs. aquino's former spokesman, agreed it was too early to say whether the arrests have dealt a fatal blow to the insurgency
saguisag said one factor favoring the government is mrs. aquino's continued popularity. another, he said, was the ongoing attempt to hammer out a land reform act
he said since mrs. aquino took over from marcos on feb. 25, 1986, she has introduced broad social and economic reforms. saguisag acknowledged that substantial disaffection remains but ``it is nowhere like the disenchantment with marcos, which was across the board.''
even more than a debacle for the rebels, the arrests are seen as a morale booster for the underpaid, ill-equipped armed forces of the philippines. since mrs. aquino took office when a military-civilian uprising deposed marcos, the 160,000-member armed forces has been wracked by divisions that resulted in at least half a dozen coup attempts
defense secretary fidel v. ramos says those days are over. he said the arrests show the military is now a united, effective force
ramos spoke before the escape saturday of former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan, leader of a failed coup attempt in august. many filipinos saw the escape as a blow to the prestige and unity of the armed forces
the significance of tuesday's arrests may well depend on the accuracy of intelligence reports of a bitter power struggle within rebel ranks
according to military officials, the infighting is between those favoring violent struggle and others who want the movement to expand politically among the rural population
brig. gen. alexander aguirre, the capital's chief law enforcer, predicted that tuesday's arrests will deepen divisions among the rebels because each faction will blame the other for the setback
much also depends on how much foreign assistance flows to the rebels. military officials say the funds come from leftist groups in western europe, australia, new zealand and the united states
richard armitage, u.s. assistant defense secretary, told a congressional committee in washington this week that the soviets were sending money. soviet diplomats here deny the charge
miguel c. suarez is manila news editor for the associated press and has been reporting on events in the philippines since 1970
gen. manuel antonio noriega, the indicted strongman of panama, may be running out of time and options in his stubborn quest to remain in power
the man president reagan once called a ``tin-horn dictator'' so far has relied on brute force, threats and intimidation to maintain his grip on the nation
but despite another harsh crackdown on his opposition last week, many diplomatic and other observers feel noriega can count his remaining days on his fingers and toes
he really doesn't have anywhere to turn,'' said one western diplomat late last week. ``he is almost totally without meaningful support, either within the country or abroad.''
still, noriega has withstood four weeks of mounting economic pressure with such mulish defiance that another foreign diplomat, also speaking on condition of anonymity, was led to comment:
this guy's proving to be harder to get rid of than fleas on a dog. the problem is becoming one of whether you have to kill the dog before the fleas will leave.''
even elliott abrams, the state department official masterminding the u.s. effort to oust noriega, acknowledged last week that he and others in the reagan administration had misjudged the general's staying power
abrams, the assistant secretary of state for latin american affairs, said the miscalculation was based in part on the successful use of economic pressure to remove presidents ferdinand e. marcos from the philippines and jean-claude duvalier from haiti
the united states has cut off all economic and military aid to panama, withheld about $6.5 million a month in user fees from the panama canal, helped tie up more than $50 million in government funds on deposit in u.s. banks and eliminated some trade preferences
abrams suggested the time had come to consider even harsher economic sanctions, up to a total trade embargo. that's a bridge the administration so far has been unwilling to cross for fear of so badly damaging the country that a post-noriega government would be unable to pick up the pieces
we now realize that it is easier to remove civilian dictators than military ones,'' abrams said. ``in analogous circumstances, marcos and duvalier were gone already.''
some foreign diplomats in panama don't see the situation here as analogous to the philippines and haiti, regardless of any possible differences between civilian and military dictators
in the philippines, you had a cory aquino, who provided a rallying point,'' said one, referring to philippines president corazon aquino. ``there's nobody like that here. there also aren't many people here who appear willing to risk their lives in the struggle. in the philippines and haiti we saw desperate people acting desperately.''
the diplomats and two private economists, all of whom spoke on condition of anonymity, agreed there is little chance of u.s. military intervention, despite reagan's decision late last week to send an additional 1,300 soldiers to panama to help the 10,500 already here guard the panama canal and protect american civilians
indeed, only a day before reagan announced his decision to send the new troops, the panamanian government issued a communique saying it had no intention of provking an excuse for u.s. military action
the diplomats and economists also agreed unanimously that noriega's days are numbered by a rapidly souring economy that already has the general trapped in a fiscal maze with no outlet
panama went bankrupt last year, unable to make interest payments to any of the lenders to whom it owes $4.8 billion, one of the highest per capita debts in the world
then, early this year, noriega was indicted by two federal grand juries in florida that accused him of selling out his country to colombian drug traffickers in exchange for millions of dollars in bribes
after some weeks of apparent soul searching, panama's president, eric arturo delvalle, called for noriega's dismissal, only to have the effort backfire with his own ouster in a thinly disguised coup orchestrated by the general
three weeks ago, abrams' chief deputy, william walker, and a state department legal officer came to panama and offered noriega a deal: accept offered asylum in spain and the united states will not pursue you
the general refused
delvalle's ouster triggered a run on banks that forced their closure. the government, short of cash, could not pay its employees. some disgruntled officers tried but failed to overthrow noriega. and his civilian opposition heaped coals on the fire with a two-week general strike that began to crumble only late last week
even with the anticipated reopening of most industries and businesses this week, the government and its people are so short of money and so unlikely to get a big cash infusion that there is no hope of a return to ``normalcy'' anytime soon
what we're seeing here is a revolution in slow motion,'' said one diplomat. ``it may be taking longer than anyone expected, but it's happening.''
reid g. miller has been covering central america from san jose, costa rica, since january 1984. officers</head>
police patiently watched a stolen motorcycle for 17 days, 24 hours a day, in hopes of catching a burglar linked to nearly 200 break-ins, until one officer took a two-minute restroom break and the bike disappeared
two alachua county sheriff's investigators involved in the failed surveillance were placed on six months of probation
the so-called interstate 75 cat burglar, a cocky thief who police believe has occasionally helped himself to a snack while his victims slept soundly, has been linked to more than 180 break-ins in seven florida counties along i-75. he remains at large
alachua county investigators had their best shot at catching him in january, when a motorcycle stolen in citrus county during one of the cat burglar's sprees was found at a gainesville apartment complex, the gainesville sun reported saturday
teams of officers kept watch over the motorcycle from a motor home 125 yards away to see if the burglar would return to use it
but sgt. william ``bear'' bryan and investigator tony canchola said friday that a combination of incredible luck on the burglar's part and a poor line of sight from their vantage point combined to doom the surveillance
the $2,000 motorcycle was discovered parked at the apartment complex on jan. 9. one resident remembered seeing a man drive away on it on the same day the cat burglar struck a gainesville neighborhood, and it was later returned to the complex
bryan and canchola said the discovery of the motorcycle was the only real break in the i-75 cat burglar cases, which have frustrated authorities since november
so two deputies at a time kept vigil, with the aid of a television camera and night-vision scope
bryan and canchola even took the precaution of disabling the motorcycle's engine so it couldn't be started
on jan. 16, canchola was watching the tv monitor while bryan sat in the back of the motor home repairing other surveillance equipment, they said friday. canchola saw no one near the motorcycle, so he went to the bathroom for about two minutes. by the time both men got back to the monitor, the motorcycle was gone
we were so shocked that we were laughing,'' canchola said. ``we thought somebody had moved the motorcycle and was playing a joke on us.''
interviews with witnesses later revealed the cat burglar had snatched the motorcycle in a matter of seconds
the suspect drove up in a small pickup truck and parked just out of the investigators' line of sight. then, without trying to start the disabled motorcycle, he wheeled it to his truck and lifted it in the back
the cat burglar did not hit gainesville that night, when law-enforcement agencies were at full alert
the motorcycle was later found abandoned in port orange, south of daytona beach. alachua county sheriff's spokesman spencer mann said that city had several night burglaries at that time, but they have not been positively linked to the i-75 cat burglar
canchola and bryan wound up on probation and said friday they still feel bad about losing their best chance at collaring the burglar
if we'd have caught him, we'd have been heroes,'' bryan said
instead, ``we just got burned this time,'' canchola said
lebanon, long known as a supplier of hashish, has become one of the world's big heroin centers in the past few years as its economy and central government have collapsed, u.s. officials said
almost all the militias are involved in some way in the trafficking of drugs,'' one intelligence official said
several officials _ from the cia, the drug enforcement agency and the state department _ agreed to provide an overview of the drug situation in lebanon on the condition their names not be used
lebanon's role in the world's drug trade is discussed in the state department's march report on narcotics
lebanon is reportedly the world's major producer of hashish, as well as a key processing and transit point for heroin,'' the department said in its report, called ``international narcotics control strategy report.''
although lebanon has yet to approach places like colombia, pakistan and mexico in the volume of its drug trade, officials said the situation is worrisome because the united states has virtually no influence in the country, much of which is controlled by christian, druze and moslem factions
the united states has few statistics about lebanon's drug trade, but it reportedly is a more than $200 million-a-year business. the christians have long dominated the country's drug business, but other sects have moved into the business
syria, one of four countries under u.s. sanctions for failing to cooperate in the war on drugs, has peace-keeping troops in parts of lebanon. the other countries on the sanctions list are iran, panama and afghanistan
so chaotic is the situation in lebanon that yonah alexander, an expert on drugs and terrorism, described the country as ``turning back to the middle ages.'' alexander is at the center for strategic and international studies, a think tank
the central government ... has little control over the countryside where armed militia factions and syria hold sway,'' the state department said in its report
the department said that much of lebanon's drug activity occurs in the fertile bekaa valley, a region that is controlled by the syrian military and was once the country's breadbasket
syrian military officers ``profit from the trade and protect it,'' the report said
the hezbollah, a pro-iranian faction of shiite moslems thought to hold some of the american hostages in lebanon, also has bases and support in the bekaa. in 1986, dea agents were involved in a failed attempt to contact and pay the kidnappers in exchange for hostages
poppy cultivation has replaced the growing of fruits and vegetables in some of the bekaa's fields, and farmers find it easier to make money cultivating drugs and producing foodstuffs, officials say
we have seen over the last few years a shift from traditional agricultural products to ... more poppy,'' one department officer said. with decline of the lebanese pound, cultivating drugs has become a ``very lucrative, safe way of work,'' he said
growing drugs is less hassle for farmers, too. marketing is not a problem because the buyers often come to the source and pay cash, the official said
as a result of drug money, the bekaa has become a self-sufficient region within the tiny country, which is about the size of connecticut. ``the farmers are very independent,'' often setting up schools and buying big-ticket items like electric generating equipment, an american said
the bekaa has many of the country's heroin processing plants of which there are as many as 10. ``lebanon is not only a grower but also an importer of drugs,'' an american said. imported drugs come primarily from afghanistan and southeast asia
drugs are often shipped out of lebanon through ports controlled by various militias. the dea's interdiction program based in cyprus, about 60 miles off lebanon's coast, has successfully halted some trafficking
as a result, lebanese middlemen increasingly have relied on female couriers who leave the country overland through turkey or by plane with small amounts of drugs in body cavities or concealed in some fashion
drugs from lebanon usually end up in the united states, europe of egypt, officials say. but often couriers travel through africa before reaching their final destination, enforcement officials say
countries in west africa have large lebanese colonies. addis ababa, the ethiopia's capital, and nairobi, the kenya's capital, are favorite transit points for drug dealers from lebanon and elsewhere because of their good airport facilities, officials say
lebanon's burgeoning drug trade has led to more addicts inside the country, particularly among the militias and the young, college crowd. the bekaa farmers, however, seem to have little use for drug consumption
u.s. officials are not optimistic about making a dent in lebanon's drug trade anytime soon
a comprehensive eradication and interdiction program must await restoration of central government control,'' the state department's report said
official u.s. policy calls for national reconciliation in lebanon and removal of all foreign forces
but drugs contribute to the breakdown in central order by giving the militias and factions an outside source of income, making them more flexible and independent. the traditional way for the private militias to finance their operations is through local taxation
in the long run, this (drugs) contributes to the emerging partitioning of the country,'' one official said
the effort to push stock market crash legislation through congress before lawmakers become preoccupied with the summer political conventions has produced some strange bedfellows
nicholas brady, chairman of president reagan's task force on the crash, has teamed with two of the administration's sharpest critics: senate banking committee chairman william proxmire, d-wis., and rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., chairman of the house energy and commerce finance subcommittee
brady's republican credentials are impeccable. he is a former republican senator from new jersey, a member of vice president george bush's inner circle and a likely prospect for secretary of the treasury in a bush presidency
yet on the issue of reforming the nation's financial markets, he finds himself working closely with proxmire, whose ``golden fleece'' awards regularly skewer administration money-wasting, and markey, who made his name as a severe critic of the government's nuclear power bureaucracy and is now turning his attention to the regulation of the financial markets
arrayed against brady's proposals are three reagan appointees: federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan, securities and exchange commission chairman david ruder and commodity futures trading commission chairwoman wendy gramm
all three have praise for brady's research, but all three are vigorously opposing his proposals for changes in their agencies' jurisdiction
two months ago, under the glare of television lights in a senate hearing room, brady uttered his now well-known warning regarding the fragility of the stock market: ``we are looking down the barrel of a gun, and the gun is still loaded.''
since then, at every hearing the lanky wall street investment banker attends, he hears his words repeated by a democrat eager to prod a laissez faire reagan administration into action
brady would clearly like to see legislation providing more uniform regulation of the markets, but he is just as clearly uncomfortable at hearing his words used as a political club against the administration
after one hearing, where markey mixed lavish praise of brady with complaints of administration foot-dragging, brady joked to reporters: ``i didn't say anybody was going to pull the trigger.''
the administration has created a working group to resolve differences among the regulatory agencies. it is due to report to the president by mid-may
but both markey and proxmire have painted the creation of the group as a delaying tactic by an administration that doesn't want to offend entrenched interests and is prone to be skeptical of government regulation in the first place
brady says the working group isn't a bad idea, but nevertheless he has helped markey and proxmire write bills that will be finished before the administration is ready to make its recommendations
markey's bill is still being written, but proxmire introduced his on thursday. it would create an intermarket coordination committee and instruct the regulatory agencies to cooperate with it
opposition from the agencies as well as infighting among legislators representing competing interests make the bill's prospects appear dim
but because of brady's efforts, the sides are drawn less along party lines than some had expected
the day before proxmire introduced his bill, brady was on the floor of the senate drumming up support. as a result, five of the bill's seven co-sponsors are republicans
dave skidmore covers banking and financial issues in washington for the associated press
margie had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb
then another and another
now, bill and marge lange's rare quintuplet lambs are the star attraction in this small town in southeastern north dakota
it was like grand central station,'' mrs. lange said. ``the day after they were born we had 10 people call to see if they were all right. i've had people bring their kids from town to see the lambs.''
the ewe was perplexed when she first got up and saw all those babies,'' she said. ``she looked one way and then the other. it was unreal.''
lamb quints are a rare event, occuring about once in 600,000 deliveries, said bert moore, professor of animal and range science at north dakota state university
the four females and one male are all healthy and hungry, mrs. lange said. the five are being fed by the ewe and bottle-fed with lamb milk replacement by mrs. lange, who said she feels like a mother again
i was a nervous wreck the first two days, but i'm fine now,'' she said. ``saturday night i had to go somewhere, so i called a babysitter to take care of my lambs. i get up every four hours at night to feed them. but they're eating more and more hay and oats, so soon i'll just feed them once a night.''
fecundity is in the blood line. the sire and the ewe were both triplets, so there's no telling how large a litter the newborn lambs may eventually have, mrs. lange said
for corrina clark, long distance really was the next best thing to being there
clark, who was in bartholomew county courthouse, married alvin mcgowan, who was at an army base in kaiserslaughtern, west germany, over the telephone thursday, exactly one year after the couple met by chance in houston
the bride, a native of indianapolis, said she wanted their marriage certificate to show that the ceremony took place in indiana
i've done a lot of marriages before, but never one by phone,'' said county clerk naomi jackson, who performed the ceremony. ``my last thing was `kiss the bride' and i couldn't say that.''
the couple will exchange vows in person, and seal it with a kiss, when they repeat the ceremony in paris this fall
the trans-atlantic telephone call was offered to the couple as a gift from columbus attorney richard eynon's office. investigate</head>
the federal communications commission has begun investigating two more california dial-a-porn services, but the agency says it is running out of complaints it can act on
i keep beating the bushes for new, specific complaints, but we just don't have a lot of them,'' though the agency gets plenty of general complaints about dial-a-porn, said greg vogt, chief of the fcc's telephone enforcement division
for the fcc to investigate possible violations of a federal law prohibiting transmission of sexually explicit messages to children, the agency needs information such as a phone bill and a statement that someone under 18 has reached the service without using a credit card, an access code or a descrambler, he said
i know there are violations out there, and i would love for concerned citizens to help us by bringing them to our attention because there is no way we can locate them in any other way,'' he said
the fcc has jurisdiction over dial-a-porn when the calls cross state lines or are to, from or within the district of columbia. local calls are under the jurisdiction of the state
complaints about dial-a-porn services have prompted many states to require telephone companies to block access to 976 and 900 numbers for residential customers who request it. phone companies also have been responding to public pressure to disconnect or otherwise limit the availability of these services
the fcc sent letters last week to two california adult-message services advising them of ``apparent'' violations. they were given 30 days to respond
if violations are found, the fcc could levy fines of up to $50,000 per day for each day a violation occurred
the companies cited are ramrod enterprises inc. of redding, calif., and 2001 enterprises of reseda, calif. neither company was listed with telephone directory assistance and the fcc said it was unable to obtain phone numbers for the companies or their owners
the actions against both companies stemmed from the same complaint that generated an investigation, begun last dec. 7, of another california provider of sexual messages, intercambio inc. of san jose, calif
the complaint was from parents of a 16-year-old connecticut boy who had made more than 280 calls to dial-a-porn services. the family was not identified
the complaint says the boy lost ``all respect for women in general'' as a result of the dial-a-porn messages he heard and is now seeing a psychiatrist
the fcc requires dial-a-porn providers to use an access code available only to adults or prepay with a credit card before they listen to the sexually explicit messages. the fcc also allows providers to scramble the messages so they can be heard only by someone with a descrambling device
the complaint against intercambio and a separate one citing audio enterprises of mill valley, calif., are pending while the commission re-evaluates the companies' messages in light of a federal appeals court ruling in january that the agency can restrict access only to obscene messages, but not indecent ones
the commission defines indecency as ``language or material that depicts or describes ... sexual or excretory activities or organs.''
obscene material must appeal to the prurient interest, depict or describe sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and lack serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value
chinese army officers will trade in their mao suits for western-style jackets and ties this summer, the army newspaper said sunday
the liberation army daily said wang yingbo, one of the designers, described the new uniform as a western-style jacket nipped in at the waist, with a white shirt and black tie
wang said it follows the style used by most other armies in the world
army officers currently wear olive-green mao suits with red trim
china's military has been acquiring a new look in more ways than one. since 1980, it has trimmed its ranks by 25 percent, to 3 million soldiers, retired scores of aging officers, raised the education requirements for younger officers and increased its use of computers and high-tech weapons
it's a big-city motorist's nightmare: driving aimlessly for an hour or more seeking a legal parking space. many succumb to the temptation of stopping in front of a hydrant or in a ``no parking'' zone
then begins the gamble: will they get caught, and if so, do they pay up?
an associated press check of 13 major u.s. cities showed that they collect at least $380 million annually in parking fines, but many violators ignore the tickets and the backlog of unpaid fines totals more than $1.55 billion in new york and los angeles alone
the amounts the two cities do collect in a year would be enough to finance the budgets of many smaller cities; new york collected an all-time high of $177 million in 1987 and los angeles brought in nearly $59 million
some other large cities are good collectors, too: washington got $38 million last year; chicago, $24 million; san francisco, $28 million; philadelphia, $21.6 million
cities have two purposes in imposing parking fines,'' said john tepper marlin, vice president of the national civic league in new york. ``first, to keep the traffic flowing. second, to collect revenues.''
officials at new york's parking violations bureau don't forgive or forget; they refuse to write off about $1.4 billion in parking penalties dating back eight years. los angeles officials say their city is owed nearly $157 million in parking fines
last month, los angeles mayor tom bradley demonstrated how cities use fines to persuade drivers to improve their parking habits. he announced that fines for illegal parking during rush hours would be nearly doubled, from $28 to $53
bradley said the city expects to collect an additional $6 million in the next year from the higher fines, which are aimed at motorists who clog the right lanes of major streets. he proposed using much of the revenue for improvements, such as building left-hand turn pockets, that would ease congestion
in detroit, under a plan that took effect last week, 52,000 scofflaws with six or more unpaid parking tickets will have to pay their fines or lose their right to update, renew or replace their driver's licenses
payments of parking fines rose from $386,000 in december to $956,000 in january after mayor coleman young announced the plan. city officials estimate that some 60,000 drivers owe $24 million in unpaid parking fines
boston officials said a similar non-renewal system has helped improve its collection percentage of parking fines from 20 percent to between 65 and 75 percent
many cities also nab illegally parked cars with such measures as towing. indianapolis tows some 19,000 cars a year; any car with more than six tickets automatically goes on the towing list
we have a rather aggressive system,'' said william eubanks, who instituted a computerized tracking system 12 years ago when he took charge of city's traffic violations bureau
however, towing cars can backfire. about 15 percent of the cars impounded in grand rapids, mich., are never claimed by their owners
then there's the device known as the denver boot (it was first used there in 1955), which can be locked on the wheel of a scofflaw's parked car, immobilizing it until unpaid fines are cleared up
san antonio, texas, last week joined such cities as los angeles, philadelphia, chicago, washington and pittsburgh that use a boot
kirby thomas, a san antonio attorney, refused to believe his car should have been ``booted.'' the week before, he said, he had paid $63 for six delinquent tickets
however, a check of city records showed that he owned a second car with eight overdue tickets. thomas paid $89 in fines for his second car and $35 to remove the boot from the car he was driving
a month earlier, after a drop in the number of parking tickets issued by police was partly blamed for a city budget crisis, houston began to use the boot to corral cars whose owners had three or more unpaid tickets
on the first day the device was used, 70 drivers were ``booted'' and had to pay $100 just to have the device removed
cities also use the carrot-and-stick technique to encourage scofflaws to pay their fines
chicago collected $5 million last year in an amnesty period that allowed delinquents to pay tickets at half price. in st. paul, minn., where an estimated $2.5 million in parking tickets is owed, an amnesty program last year brought in about $140,000. and miami, owed a similar figure in tickets, offers an annual amnesty period in which it waives late fees for those who pay up
many cities do not know how much they collect or how much they are owed because of divided jurisdictions or because parking statistics are lumped in with other vehicular violations. policies</head>
the democratic presidential candidates want to increase pressure on south africa to force change in that nation, while george bush generally favors pursuing the reagan administration's policies, a survey says
the investor responsibility research center's survey said the democrats _ jesse jackson, michael dukakis and albert gore _ differ dramatically from bush, the likely gop nominee, on what u.s. policy should be toward south africa and the region
the center is a public policy group that tracks issues and investment in south africa, a country where blacks are denied social and political rights through a system known as apartheid
the country's racial segregation has attracted interest in united states, particularly among the black voters who have turned out in force for jackson
jackson's successes in the primaries ensure that the candidates' positions on south africa, mozambique and angola will be scrutinized in 1988
jackson, who is black, has long stressed support for the oppressed in south africa
the survey, which was based on the candidates' statements and a questionnaire, show that vice president bush for the most part endorses the policies the administration has pursued over the last seven years
former television evangelist pat robertson, bush's only rival for the gop nomination, is the sole candidate seeking to repeal the 1986 sanctions that congress slapped on white-ruled south africa. robertson, however, has done poorly in the primaries and is not expected to win the nomination
in contrast to the republicans, the democrats want the united states to pursue a tougher line against south africa
gore, a tennessee senator who portrays himself a moderate, is less extreme than jackson and dukakis, the massachusetts governor. the latter two agree on many points
here is a breakdown of the candidates' positions, according to the survey
jackson and dukakis want additional sanctions against pretoria if south africa does not end its state of emergency, release political prisoners, remove the ban on the african national congress _ the outlawed political organization based in lusaka, zambia _ and enter into negotiations to repeal the apartheid laws
the two also have spoken in favor of u.s. companies pulling out of south africa
gore is more equivocal about more sanctions, saying he would consider them if south africa shows ``no real and dramatic progress.'' he said companies should make their own decisions on disinvestment
bush would not recommend additional sanctions, but he wouldn't repeal those put in place in 1986. the house is considering a sanctions bill that amounts to a total embargo on south africa
bush suggests the ``use of diplomacy and negotiations for constructive change rather than impose additional sanctions.''
the democrats pledge to have routine dialogue with the anc. they also say pretoria should negotiate with the anc and other groups
bush says he would continue the reagan administration's periodic diplomatic contacts with the anc
dukakis and jackson want to stop u.s. aid to the anti-communist unita rebels headed by jonas savimbi, and, if elected, they would extend diplomatic recognition to the soviet-backed angolan government
gore says he is troubled with the aid to the rebels, but that they must be incorporated into a political settlement. he does not promise to recognize the angolan government
bush supports aid to the rebels as a way of blocking soviet encroachment in africa. he would not recognize luanda in an effort to compel the angolans to begin talks with unita and expel 40,000 cuban troops from the country
bush views the cuban troops as the most important obstacle to peace in the region. dukakis and jackson say that a south african pullout from namibia could lead to a cuban withdrawal. south africa maintains their troops in namibia to protect the country from the cubans in angola
bush and the democrats agree with the reagan administration's policy of backing the mozambique government instead of the renamo rebels, who are reportedly aided by south africa
the democrats favor restoration of economic aid to zimbabwe. aid was cut off in mid-1986 after zimbabwean officials insulted former president jimmy carter at a fourth of july party
pope john paul ii made an emotional plea for peace, justice and human rights sunday in an easter message from a rain-soaked balcony overlooking 100,000 people in st. peter's square
after a solemn mass inside st. peter's basilica, attended by u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, the pope wished the world a happy easter in 52 languages
the mass, usually held outdoors on the flower-decked steps of st. peter's, was moved inside christendom's largest church because of rain
john paul then appeared on the church's central balcony, unprotected from the steady drizzle, and addressed an estimated 100,000 people in the square and millions more following by television and radio around the world
at the end of his traditional easter message ``urbi and orbi'' (to the city of rome and the world), the pope departed from his written text and made a special plea to the virgin mary
pray for peace in the world, for justice, pray for the rights of man, especially for religious freedom, for every man, for every christian and non-christian, pray for us,'' john paul said, speaking in italian in a strong, emotional voice
pray for the solidarity of all peoples of the world, the first world, second, third and fourth, all the world,'' he continued. ``in yours and our easter joy, we carry again this weight of humanity, this weight of so many human hearts, our brothers, our sisters, and we repeat: pray for us.''
later, in another impromptu remark, the pope thanked those following on television and radio and urged them to ``pray to mary and with mary for all the people, all the families, all the people who suffer, especially for those countries where peace, justice and the means are lacking.''
earlier in his prepared message, the pope also addressed his words to mary, for whom he has a special devotion and dedicated the current marian year
christ whom you bore is risen, hallelujah,'' said the pope, wearing a white robe trimmed with gold and a tall, gold bishop's hat. ``queen of heaven, rejoice. this is the day of the church's easter joy. we all share in your glory, oh mother.''
after a warm, sun-drenched early spring, winter returned to rome this weekend, with a cold rain drenching the capital sunday morning and dampening the spirits of the hundreds of thousands of tourists visiting the capital for easter
it was decided at the last moment to move the easter sunday mass inside the basilica, where the pope celebrated the service from an altar under the ``baldacchino,'' the immense baroque canopy designed by bernini
shultz, an episcopalian, and his wife helena, a roman catholic, were in the front row of the packed church. mrs. shultz was among those taking communion from the pope
shultz left later in the day for israel on the first part of his new middle east peace shuttle. in a private audience at the vatican on saturday, the pope had given shultz his blessing for the mission
a choir sang byzantine verses in the ancient slavic language paleoslavonic, the first time they had been sung in rome at a papal ceremony since the ninth century
vatican officials said it was meant to show solidarity with christians celebrating the 1,000th anniversary of their faith in what is now the soviet union
the crowd in the square broke into loud cheers and chants of ``viva il papa'' (long live the pope) when john paul, keeping with tradition, appeared on the balcony at noon to deliver his easter message and blessing
afterwards, the polyglot pope offered brief easter greetings in 52 languages ranging from english to ukrainian to swahili
the longest and final greeting was in his native polish, addressed to ``all my fellow countrymen in my country and all around the world and to all those who in the midst of adversity and anxiety are trying to find a path.''
it's a grand wake for those who share the pain of rep. billy tauzin's dashed hopes for the governor's seat _ a cruise into the sunset to retire some of his $1.1 million campaign debt
the six-day outing leaving monday for the mexican resorts of cozumel and cancun is a smaller-scale version of former gov. edwin edwards' 1983 trip to paris and monte carlo
edwards retired a $4 million debt as backers almost tripped over each other to pay $10,000 for the ride. but tauzin said he will net only $250,000 from his trip aboard the canada star, which costs a mere $3,000 to $6,000 a head
it's a chance to be with my people, thank them personally and also do something nice for those who worked with us,'' the congressman said in a telephone interview from the tiny coastal town of chackbay last week
with some wealthy backers paying for tickets they won't use, tauzin said he is doling out their tickets to key people who worked in his 1987 campaign. in all, 250 people will set sail
tauzin also sent letters to lobbyists telling them they would have a captive audience of several congressmen, who were invited along free of charge. he said he approached the house and senate ethics committee about the trip and the cruise organizers ``will follow the (ethics) rules strictly.''
but tauzin said he wasn't sure how many would show up
wayne smith, a political consultant, said about 30 cabins had been sold to washington politicians and businessmen as of last week
the cruise, tauzin said, is no different from staging a cocktail party or dinner at a hotel to raise money to pay off campaign debts
it's a long, extended cocktail party,'' he said
tauzin, along with edwards, lost the governorship last fall to buddy roemer, who remains behind to deal with a debt no junket is likely to retire. the almost bankrupt state owes $2 billion
new marker posts being installed along the oregon trail no longer bear bronze medallions because they have become the targets of thieves who fancy them as attractive ornaments for their belts
the medallions were authorized by the wyoming historical society in the 1950s. thieves also have taken medallions from markers on the mormon trail and the pony express route
this has been happening all over the state because these trails run from border to border,'' said bill mortimer of the bureau of land management ``the longer we leave them out there, the more susceptible they are to vandalism.''
there are still a few marker posts with medallions, but mortimer said he doesn't know where they are
and if i did know, i probably wouldn't tell you,'' he said
the first black chancellor of the university of maryland-college park is resigning to become president of occidental college in california
john b. slaughter, 54, informed the board of regents on friday he is resigning as head of the nation's seventh largest public college campus to take the presidency at the small liberal arts college near los angeles on aug. 1
slaughter became chancellor in november 1982, after serving as head of the national science foundation. he sought to increase recruitment and retention of black students and faculty at the state's 38,000-student flagship campus, and succeeded in boosting black full-time enrollment from about 8 percent in 1983 to 12.5 percent last year
students' average sat scores jumped 50 points during his tenure and the enrollment of foreign students increased 88 percent, a university spokeswoman said
air sickness put a damper on the reunion between an 18-year-old amerasian and the parents she had not seen since she was 2 years old
truong thi thanh thuy, daughter of a little compton man who married a vietnamese wife while in southeast asia, was reunited with her parents friday at new york's kennedy airport
she appeared solemn and neither smiled nor cried, but her parents, bruce and truong mason, later learned that she had been airsick just before the plane landed. she cheered up by the time they reached new england, mason said
in 1972, thuy and her parents were separated when the masons left vietnam and thought thuy would be able to follow on the next flight. but red tape and the fall of saigon to the north vietnamese held up her departure
thuy had been living with her grandparents, uncle, aunt and two cousins, all of whom left vietnam with her
after investigators found four people shot to death at an athens farm and a 70-year-old woman missing last july, the sheriff said, ``you find me helen, and i'll probably tell you what happened.''
last week, investigators found bones in a marsh that they believe are those of the missing helen kunz
and now marathon county sheriff leroy schillinger says it will probably be some time before he can tell the public what happened
no arrests have been made based on the discovery, but taylor county chief deputy sheriff william breneman predicted there would be charges
i'm not sure exactly how soon, but they're coming,'' he said
miss kunz's son kenneth says he arrived home after a night of drinking on july 5 and found his uncle, two aunts and his brother dead, each shot with a .22-caliber weapon. his mother was missing
there was no reason for them to do this to my family,'' kenneth kunz said last week after the discovery of the remains believed to be his mother. ``i hope they find who done it.''
investigators ruled out robbery as a motive after they found about $1,000 in the home
neighbors knew little about the family that lived on a 108-acre farm in a wooden house off a dirt road in central wisconsin. the family rarely invited people into the cluttered house but did most of their business at the door, neighbors said. kenneth kunz, 55, lived in a trailer next to the house
the house had a wood stove and no indoor plumbing. but merchants said helen kunz had bought a videocassette recorder and microwave oven for the family
hardware store owner gale weiler said the woman also bought .22-caliber ammunition a few weeks before the killings and complained that her family watched ``dirty movies'' on the vcr. she said the ammunition was for her younger son, 30-year-old randy kunz, to shoot birds
you find me helen and i'll probably tell you what happened,'' schillinger said just after the killings
miss kunz, who never married, was described by people in town as the family matriarch who paid the bills and did laundry while randy waited in the car. randy also accompanied her to high school sports games
miss kunz's sisters, irene, 81, and marie, 72, were seen less frequently by neighbors, who remembered the women working in their garden and wearing old-fashioned clothes. their brother, clarence, 76, had been ill and had retired from farming
as investigators probed the family's past, questions of incest, which first arose during a 1930s rape trial, resurfaced and have yet to be solved
lawyers raised the possibility of incest during the trial of a 40-year- old neighbor whom helen kunz, then 15 and pregnant, had accused of attacking her. her mother denied the incest accusations and the neighbor was convicted in 1933 of statutory rape
kenneth kunz told the milwaukee sentinel in an interview after the killings that he thought clarence kunz was his father
authorities based their identification of the remains found last week on clothing _ ``some tattered, some scattered, some with'' skeletal remains _ found in the marsh about 16 miles north of the kunz farm, lt. elwood mason said
the bones and clothing were taken to the state crime laboratory in madison for forensic tests, expected to take several days
around six months after the killings, police questioned several people and held a 21-year-old man in jail over a weekend for interrogation. but they released him without charges and no one else was arrested
in mid-march, investigators gathered reporters from as far away as minneapolis and milwaukee and escorted them to a manure pit, where authorities dug for three days without finding any evidence
police said a detective found the remains last week on the basis of information from an informant whom they would not identify
mason and schillinger said there are more than one but fewer than a dozen suspects in the case, but would not say if the discovery of the remains eliminated any suspects or drew their focus to anyone in particular
i don't think it adds any new questions,'' said mason, who has been heading the investigation. ``we may have eliminated some. you don't know.''
thousands of roman catholics marched peacefully in northern ireland on sunday to commemorate the 1916 easter rising against british rule in what is now the republic of ireland
police abandoned a short-lived policy of staying away from funerals and other occasions organized by sympathizers of the outlawed irish republican army and mounted heavy patrols around the main march through the catholic ghettos of west belfast
armored land rovers, with officers riding shotgun, drove at the head and tail of the mile-long procession. about 5,000 people, waving irish tricolor flags, marched to the sound of pipe bands to the catholic milltown cemetery
police reported no incidents at the parades in belfast, londonderry, the second largest city, and 10 smaller centers across protestant-dominated northern ireland
british troops, with rifles cocked, also patrolled the west belfast route, lined by catholics wearing orange, green and white badges, the tricolor colors, embossed with a lily
the flower is the symbol of the 1916 uprising in dublin. the uprising led to independence six years later for the overwhelmingly catholic republic
britain, at the insistence of protestants in the north, retained control of the six northern counties, which now make up northern ireland
the easter sunday parades marked the start of the annual marching season in northern ireland where protestants and catholics separately commemorate key dates of their troubled history
protestant marches were due to begin monday
in milltown cemetery, where a protestant gunman killed three people in a march 16 attack on an unpoliced ira funeral, police ringed marchers as they thronged round a memorial to guerrillas killed in the ira's bomb-and-bullet campaign to end british rule
we have a message for the british government,'' said martin mcguinness, vice president of sinn fein, the ira's legal political wing
we will demoralize you. we will make your six counties into a millstone which will strangle you.''
police stared silently as the crowd burst into applause when mcguinness declared:
our strategy ... is to sap the political will of the british government and the british people to remain in ireland. the means are limited guerrilla warfare against the crown forces.''
the royal ulster constabulary ended its no-policing policy after an upsurge of sectarian violence last month culminated in the murder of two british soldiers who drove into an ira funeral march 19
sunday's march passed close to the spot where the two signals corpsmen, in plainclothes, were dragged from their car by the funeral mob, beaten and then shot by ira gunmen
the spate of killings, in which 12 people died, began march 6 when british commandos fatally shot three unarmed ira guerrillas who were on a bombing mission in the british colony of gibraltar
a total of 2,638 people have been killed since sectarian violence erupted in 1969
mcguinness denied published reports that the ira is considering abandoning violence
the ira position has been on the record for years,'' he told reporters. ``they have stated there will be no more cease-fires.'' save money</head>
liberals and conservatives, often at loggerheads on social programs, are in rare agreement on expanding eight children's programs, citing independent research that shows the programs work well and save the government money
a report released this weekend by the house select committee on children, youth and families cites specific costs and benefits of each program as determined by independent research and analysis
the findings have convinced liberals and conservatives that they can be both compassionate and cost-conscious, said rep. dan coates, r-ind., the senior republican on the committee
we're working toward a consensus here,'' coates said. ``i've seen a decided change in attitude ... on the republican side about how we should approach the process of spending.''
whereas there was wholesale ``spare-no-program'' cutting in the early years of the reagan presidency, coates said, members are more discriminating now and willing to spend money on programs that work
absent these standards, you don't get new money,'' said rep. george miller, d-calif., chairman of the children's committee and a member of the house budget committee
miller said the house budget resolution provides several hundred million dollars in increases above inflation for the eight education, health, nutrition and employment programs
the report released this weekend is an update of a 1985 report and contains 25 additional studies that reinforce the original findings
this update gives more credence to the initial effort. it can serve as a very important guideline to the new administration,'' coates said
the report discusses research findings by universities, government agencies and other sources in the areas of medicaid; supplemental nutrition for pregnant women, infants and children (wic); youth employment; preschool education; compensatory education; handicapped education; prenatal care; and immunizations
miller said the report and the update were prompted by the skeptical ``prove-it'' reaction encountered by advocates when they argued that short-term investments would produce long-term savings
he said the initial compilation was instrumental in persuading lawmakers to stop cutting those programs and led to increased spending on them in subsequent years
the key is to back it up with research,'' coates said
the largest child-program increases in the house budget resolution _ a non-binding spending blueprint _ include $210 million for the compensatory education program for children at academic risk and $170 million for handicapped education. other substantial hikes would go to the wic program ($150 million) and head start ($77 million)
among the newer findings cited in the report:
_national math and reading rankings of students in the compensatory education program increased in every grade except 12th
_it costs only $500 to provide a year of compensatory education to a student at risk of academic failure while it costs more than $3,000 for a student to repeat a grade
_a pregnant woman not participating in wic increased her chances of having a low-birthweight, high-risk baby by 60 percent in one north carolina county
_for every $1 spent on wic in missouri, about 49 cents was saved
_the incidence of nutritional anemia virtually disappeared at an inner city health center from 1971 to 1984; the researcher said 95 percent enrollment in wic probably was the reason
_for every dollar spent on childhood immunization, the government saves $10 in medical costs
for 10 months paroled rapist-mutilator lawrence singleton has lived a hermitlike existence in a trailer at the state prison, the only place authorities could find for him after he was driven out of town after town
on april 25, his parole _ and his stay at san quentin _ will come to an end. singleton will be able to walk away a free man, under no obligation to tell officials where he will settle
the 60-year-old ex-convict bears little resemblance to the burly, hard-drinking ex-sailor convicted of raping and sodomizing 15-year-old hitchhiker mary vincent in 1978 and chopping off her forearms with an ax
today, he lives on a small social security grant and spends his days tending the yard around his trailer in a remote corner of the 1,000-acre prison grounds
although not formally under guard, he observes a 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew and is watched by at least one parole officer when he leaves the grounds for weekly visits to a psychologist, officials said
when he wants to go shopping, he asks us because he has no transportation,'' said ronald chun, regional parole administrator for the department of corrections. ``technically, we have him under surveillance. he can walk around on his own, but for all practical purposes we are escorting him.''
if it weren't for the press calls, we wouldn't know he was out there,'' said prison spokesman dave langerman. ``out of sight is out of mind. anyone out on the streets has more to fear from the unknown _ the guy with the tattoo next to them in the supermarket _ than from this poor little burned-out guy under escort.''
singleton does not grant interviews, but has had occasional visitors, including ex-wife mary collins, a retired nurse who offered him a home but was refused by parole authorities, said michael van winkle, a corrections spokesman
singleton served nine years, 11 months of a 14-year, four-month sentence in the california men's colony at san luis obispo, receiving an early release for good behavior and through a work-credit program, chun said
the early release infuriated residents of a half-dozen small communities where authorities tried to place singleton last spring. in rodeo, about 25 miles northeast of san francisco, a mob of 500 people forced officers to move singleton under armed guard from a hotel room
finally, in june, gov. george deukmejian ordered singleton placed at san quentin for the duration of his one-year parole
once his parole ends, singleton is under no obligation to tell officials whether he will settle in florida, near relatives, or elsewhere, chun said
i hope he goes to florida. the victim and her parents will feel much better knowing he is gone,'' said nancy fahden, a contra costa county supervisor who fought singleton's release to her county
vincent, who now has a child, declined to be interviewed but said last year, before singleton was paroled, that she still fears her attacker
as a condition of his parole, singleton takes a drug that would make him extremely ill from any amount of alcohol, even if splashed on in an aftershave lotion, langerman said
he is completely, absolutely defused as a threat to society,'' the spokesman said. ``if he takes a drink, he will fall down retching, so you don't have to worry about him going on a bender and going out looking for a hitchhiker.''
but once singleton's parole ends, he is not required to continue the drug, called disulfiram, chun said
yes, there is a concern. he claims he doesn't really need it. he doesn't lose that much control, according to him,'' chun said. singleton maintains, as he did at his trial, that he is innocent and was mistaken for another man
i think, if anything, he's worse now,'' said donald stahl, the stanislaus county prosecutor at singleton's trial
he has not taken responsibility,'' stahl said. ``he lives in a bizarre fantasy land and acquits himself each day. he doesn't accept his guilt and resolve never to do it again.''
a 10-year-old fifth grader is asking new yorkers for quarters to help him become a doctor and find a cure for the diabetes that killed his grandmother and is sapping the health of his grandfather
tony brack sent $10 and this handwritten letter to the new york daily news:
dear sir,
can you please print this for me. i hope this $10 will help the cost for 1 or 2 days in your newspaper
help
i am 10 years old and want to go to college when i grow up. my grandma died 3 weeks ago from diabetes at 56 years young. i want to find a cure for diabetes as my other grandpa has it to. please send a 25 (cents) and it will grow in the bank until then. thank you
tony brack
box 191
oxford, iowa 52322''
the $10 was not enough to cover the cost of a new york daily news advertisement, but tony got his picture and a story about his plea on page two of sunday's daily news
tony was extraordinarily close to his grandmother, joyce brack, said his mother, dianna brack
since both his parents work, tony went to his grandmother's house, about four blocks from home, every day after school
the elder mrs. brack, 56, had undergone the amputation of one leg in january and her eyesight was failing, but she seemed to be doing well under the circumstances, the family said
she died feb. 1, just hours after having dinner with tony's family
a couple of weeks later, tony decided something must be done about diabetes and that he could be the one to do it
the idea of making a public request for funds came from the syndicated newspaper column of bob greene, who wrote about a college student who gathered thousands of dollars by asking for one penny from every person who read greene's column
he's very serious about becoming a doctor and doing something about diabetes,'' his mother said. ``he's a nice, sensitive kid who thinks about people other than himself.''
tony told the daily news: ``i want to go to the university of iowa and train to be a doctor. then i can help stop these bad things happening.''
a senior iranian official said sunday that iran would retaliate for iraq's renewed attacks on iranian cities by launching new ground offensives
iran also revealed that a month of iraqi air and missile attacks on iranian cities has left 1,145 people dead and another 4,000 wounded
deputy foreign minister mohammad javad larijani said any suggestion that the ``war of the cities'' could change the military balance is ``a joke.''
they sent more than 100 missiles into tehran and that could not change anything,'' he added. by iraqi count, 105 missiles have been fired into the iranian capital
larijani said an iraqi raid on the northeastern city of tabriz 330 miles northwest of tehran killed at least 10 civilians and wounded 15 others on sunday
iran's official news media earlier had reported the warplane raid, as well as another air attack on the central city of isfahan
the raids followed a 2{-day lull in iraqi attacks on iranian cities during a visit to baghdad by turkish prime minister turgut ozal. iran also had largely ceased its attacks on iraqi cities
asked whether iran would retaliate for the new raids, larijani said: ``we will have plenty of surprises for them,'' but made it plain that these would come chiefly in the battlefield through ``punitive offensives.''
these offensives will stop them definitely, and they will pay a high price,'' he told a news conference attended by the associated press
iran periodically allows western reporters to travel to tehran
he also said iran has ``anything that is needed'' to prevent the iraqis from using chemical weapons against iranian cities. he did not elaborate
for just over a month iraq has been pounding the iranian capital with al hussein missiles, which it says were made in iraq
western analysts say they are soviet-made scud-bs with boosters to give them extra range to travel the 290 miles to tehran
larijani, who is a deputy foreign minister for economic and international relations, is to meet on wednesday with u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar as part of international efforts to end the 7{-year-old war
he said iran would continue these discussions in a ``cooperative mood'' but reiterated iran's demand for a condemnation of iraq as the aggressor in the war
we are insisting that baghdad be held accountable for ... a long list of criminal actions,'' he said. ``we are going to ask for every bit of our rights.''
in an earlier meeting with western reporters, kamal kharrazi, director-general of iran's war information headquarters, said said iran's val-fajr-10 offensive in mountainous northeastern iraq had achieved its objectives and ended after winning control of about 390 square miles of iraqi territory
a western diplomatic source said he understood that the iraqis had began a counteroffensive with the aim of recapturing the town of halabja
iraqi reportedly attacked halabja with chemical weapons after iran took it in march
a visit to the halabja area for western newsmen, which had been scheduled for monday, was put off without explanation. no new date was given
iran claims 5,000 kurds were killed and another 5,000 injured in the chemical attacks march 16-17. iraq has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons, but also has stressed it is ready to use any weapons at its disposal to defend iraqi soil
president reagan and his wife nancy spent a quiet easter sunday at their secluded ranch in the santa ynez mountains
with with warm temperatures and cloudless skies, reagan attended to chores at rancho del cielo, the first couple's 688-acre property about 30 miles from this seaside resort city
reagan, according to the white house press office, was chopping wood and clearing brush, and then he and the first lady planned a quiet dinner
in contrast to easter sunday a year ago, the reagans did not venture from the ranch to attend worship services, nor was there any gathering of relatives at the ranch this time around
the press office said that in addition to working on the ranch grounds, reagan took care of routine paperwork
the president and his wife will travel to coto de caza in orange county, calif., monday to attend a reception and luncheon for the reagan library foundation
the reagans arrived in california on friday and will vacation until april 10, when they return to the white house. details of post report. picks up 18th graf, `in peshawar .. .'</note>
anti-communist afghan rebel leaders say the united states has stopped supplying stinger anti-aircraft missiles to the guerrillas in apparent anticipation of a settlement of the afghan civil war
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, arriving sunday in kabul to confer with afghan government leaders, said the united states and pakistan were blocking talks in geneva aimed at ending the eight-year war
mohamad nabi mohamadi, leader of the harekat islami, one of the seven guerrilla groups fighting communist forces in afghanistan, said the rebels have not been receiving the shoulder-launched missiles for the last four or five months
we are extremely worried,'' nabi mohamadi told the associated press in a weekend interview at his headquarters in the pakistani border city of peshawar
we don't trust the russians. we are afraid because they are deceitful and sly,'' he said, referring to soviet claims that they want to withdraw their estimated 115,000 troops from afghanistan
however, two other guerrilla leaders said the supply of stingers had not stopped
the official soviet tass news agency said in a commentary that peace could be brought to afghanistan without u.s. agreement on a plan to settle the war
the commentary indicates that the kremlin may be willing to sign a settlement in geneva without american assurances that it will stop shipping weapons to afghan rebels
the united states has said it will halt military aid to the rebels only when the soviets stop aiding the communist government in kabul
soviet officials contend that economic and military assistance to the afghanistan government is a bilateral matter outside the scope of the geneva peace talks
shevardnadze told tass that his discussions with afghan president najib would center on the problems delaying an end to the war
unfortunately, serious difficulties have developed at these talks because of the non-constructive position taken by pakistan and the united states,'' the 60-year-old foreign minister said, according to tass
in geneva, the u.n. talks recessed thursday for the easter holiday and were to resume monday. pakistan represents the rebels in the talks
soviet officials had placed high hopes on getting a peace agreement out of the current round of negotiations that began march 2. but the talks have stalled over the question of foreign military assistance to the two sides
soviet troops entered afghanistan in december 1979 to help the communist government battle the insurgents. western analysts say at least 10,000 soviet soldiers have been killed in afghanistan and more than 20,000 wounded
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev offered in february to begin the pullout on may 15 if the settlement plan was signed by march 15. that informal deadline was surpassed when new issues arose at the geneva talks
the washington post reported last week that the u.s. government intended to stop supplying the rebels with stingers, which are said to have dramatically improved the guerrilla's air defenses since they first acquired the deadly missiles in late 1986
the newspaper, quoting unidentified diplomatic sources, said reagan administration was nervous about leaving a large number of the missiles in the hands of afghan factions that cannot be controlled after u.s. ties are cut. some of the missiles have made their way to iran
in peshawar, nabi mohamadi said he assumed the united states stopped the missile shipment because of the possible soviet withdrawal. he said he believed the supplies would resume if the soviets failed to leave afghanistan
but sebghatollah mojadeddi, head of the afghan national liberation front, which is considered moderate, said no halt had been confirmed
the united states has promised that it will not leave us alone and as long as the russians help the kabul government, they will continue helping us,'' mojaddedi said in an interview
ahmad gilani, leader of the national islamic front of afghanistan, said, ``i know that they have not halted the stingers.''
ahmad shah, whom the guerrillas have chosen to head a rebel interim government in afghanistan if the soviets leave, said the halt in the stingers would not deter the guerrillas from battling the communists
we never asked for stingers,'' he said. ``this was their decision. when we didn't have the stingers, we (still) were fighting and shooting down enemy planes.''
yunis khalis, leader of the hezbi islami rebel group, declined to confirm that the supply of stingers had been halted. but he charged the americans were helping the rebels only to serve their own interests
we never stretched our hands out to america for military help,'' khalis said
khalis said that even without u.s. aid the rebels ``will continue their battle.''
a soviet customs inspector became suspicious of an african couple because of their roundabout travel route and found $10 million worth of heroin packed inside their suitcases, a newspaper said sunday
police arrested the couple, from cotonou, benin, after the incident at moscow's sheremetyevo airport, komsomolskaya pravda reported
the newspaper did not say when the alleged smuggling attempt occurred or whether the pair had been formally charged
it said more than 32 pounds of heroin was found in five suitcases carried by the couple. komsomolskaya pravda said the drugs would have a black market value of about $10 million
customs inspector vyacheslav chugunov was credited by the newspaper with discovering the narcotics
chugunov told the newspaper he became suspicious of the couple when he noticed they were passing through moscow on a trip home from new delhi, which he said was far from the shortest or simplest route
in recent years, there have been several cases of foreigners arrested for attempting to smuggle drugs through sheremetyevo airport. they generally believe that arrival from moscow attracts less attention from customs agents at their final destination
after high-stepping past allegations of cruelty and abuse for over three decades, the tennessee walking horse industry may be stopped in its tracks by a federal court ruling, officials say
based on the decision of a washington district judge, the u.s. department of agriculture banned the stacked shoes and limited the weight of leg chains used to give the show horses their flamboyant stride
the move has crippled the walking horse industry, said mack motes, president of the walking horse trainers association, which plans to help fight the court decision
we're trying to save our breed,'' motes said
several shows in alabama and tennessee have been canceled since the regulations were announced two weeks ago, and things look grim for the tennessee walking horse national celebration. the annual 10-day show, scheduled for late this summer in shelbyville, typically attracts more than 2,000 horses from across the country and is considered the world series of the breed
i don't think the celebration could go this year,'' said frederick harper, an animal scientist with the university of tennessee agricultural extension service
u.s. district judge oliver gasch ordered the new regulations in a suit filed by the american horse protection association against the agriculture department
the rules forbid the use of bracelet-like chains weighing more than 6 ounces and padded shoes for racking and walking horses. chains of up to 10 ounces and stacked shoes 4 inches high had been allowed
the special shoes and chains are needed to keep the walking horse industry on its feet, proponents say
a horse on stacked shoes ``gives a better show .... that old horse really gets into it,'' said reese smith jr., spokesman of friends of the show horse
but animal protection activists say chains can cause soreness and swelling of the leg and that padded shoes, which cover the horses' hooves, help hide sores. they also can hide objects that are placed between the horses' hooves and the shoes to cause the animals pain, said russ gaspar, general counsel for the american horse protection association
many in the industry say they are being penalized for abuses long since corrected, including the use of chemical irritants in the 1960s
irritants placed above the hoof combined with chains to make horses lift their feet up and out in a flamboyant gait called the ``big lick,'' but they also gave the animals raw sores
their widespread use helped push congress to pass the horse protection act of 1970, which banned irritants and other soring practices and prompted the industry to form an elaborate inspection system for each show
motes said the industry isn't causing sores now and added that 98 percent of horses inspected over the past five years have passed
nevertheless, the judge ruled that horse protection group had raised doubts about the accuracy of show inspections in the suit
usda spokeswoman nancy robinson said the department on friday asked gasch whether the industry could keep using the devices while the department sets final rules, which could take two months or more
smith, whose organization has raised over $400,000 and hired lawyers to fight the court decision, said industry groups do not know yet exactly how they will fight the decision, but they expect to challenge it in court
harper estimates the state's economy would lose about $140 million in one year if walking horse shows were wiped out. there are about 500 shows in the state each year, mostly to benefit charities, he said
the walking horse is the only show horse that really attracts people, they're exciting,'' smith said. ``we have a special horse. and we're treated special _ especially bad.''
a diesel oil spill disappeared sunday from the ohio river as mysteriously as it had appeared, a u.s. coast guard spokesman said
we can't find a trace of it,'' said lt. eric mosher, who was part of a team that conducted a land search along a 50-mile stretch of the river from louisville to madison, ind., where the slick was spotted saturday
mosher said the oil seen the previous day was light and tends to evaporate
the search team checked out banks on both sides of the river and ``nothing was found. we still don't know where the slick originated,'' mosher said
barges, towboats and holding tanks had been checked but provided no clues, he said
jerry ford, a spokesman for the louisville water co., said powdered activated carbon was added to the treatment process as a precaution but that no problems were expected with the water supply
madison draws its water from underground streams and was not affected
sgt. carroll henneke of the indiana department of natural resources said, ``we've had no fish kill and haven't observed loss of any marine life.''
madison police alerted the coast guard to the spill about 7 a.m. saturday after receiving a report of a strong diesel smell in the river friday evening
initially, there were reports that the spill extended upstream from madison, but mosher said workers at markland lock and dam about 20 miles upstream from madison and at mcalpine lock and dam in louisville were unable to see or smell it
michael dukakis says he will criticize fellow democratic hopeful jesse jackson on occasion, but refrained from doing so on sunday. he also said no one knows whether jackson is could win against vice president george bush
dukakis argued that the voters are not interested in fellow democrat albert gore jr.'s criticisms of himself and jackson, and rejected suggestions that criticism of jackson would help indicate what his own values are
why is that a test of one's presidential qualities?'' he asked reporters outside of st. constantine church here
i disagree with jesse jackson...and i have expressed those disagreements and will in the future. but i don't think the american people have the slightest interest in what al gore thinks of him or of me,'' dukakis added
gore, a tennessee senator, criticized jackson sharply last week on foreign policy and experience. dukakis hesitated to do the same, but said there are several areas in which he and jackson have policy disagreements
the massachusetts governor visited three churches on easter sunday, before picking up his campaigning for votes in tuesday's wisconsin primary
he dropped in on services at an all-black church and served fish and fries at a sunday supper. he also attended services at annuciation greek orthodox church, which was celebrating palm sunday under his church's calendar. then dukakis flew to a farm in northern wisconsin before wrapping up his day in madison
the democratic hopeful was pressed on his judgment of jackson's electability, a matter of concern to many democratic leaders. the two men are locked in a tight race in wisconsin
asked if either he or jackson could beat bush, he answered: ``yes, but i think i have best chance of doing so...i think george bush is beatable. i'd like to be able to run against him.''
then dukakis was asked if he disagrees with democrats who say jackson is unelectable in november
i don't think there is any way of telling, based on what we have seen over the past year...there are no sure things,'' dukakis said
asked about the subject again later, he said, ``i make no predictions.''
i do think i'm the strongest candidate against bush. i think i can take the fight to him. i think i can build a very broad coalition with people... who want somebody who has the skill and the ability and the experience to do this job, who has balanced budgets...who has a record. that's my strength in this race
in the last analysis, what we want is a victory,'' he added
dukakis is leading in the latest polls in wisconsin, but he said that is meaningless
i don't pay attention to polls. there were all kinds of polls in michigan that said i was ahead. it's on tuesday that the people of this state will decide who will be the strongest nominee and best president,'' he said
jackson beat dukakis 2-1 in the michigan caucuses on march 26 after dukakis was leading in the polls there
dukakis said he was going to continue to emphasize his positive message and avoid attacks on other candidates unless he is first attacked. he said that approach is working for both him and jackson
i think it is significant that the two of us who are positive and hopeful and optimistic about this country are also leading in this race,'' dukakis said
dukakis mentioned three disagreements with jackson: middle east policy, oil import fees and how to provide health insurance for all americans
secretary of state george p. shultz, launching a fresh u.s. peace venture, told israel sunday night to act on his plan for negotiations for palestinian self-rule
negotiations work,'' he said in a strong arrival statement. ``the time to act on it is now.''
shultz said the palestinians must be included in the talks and negotiations must be based on a 1967 united nations resolution that calls on israel to give up territory in exchange for arab recognition
shultz acknowledged that the plan he presented last month to arab and israeli leaders on a swing through the region was difficult for everyone
but he said that ``the balance in our approach is evident'' and that picking on objectionable parts ``is to take a road labeled delay and frustration.''
his message was intended for israel's prime minister yitzhak shamir, who on a trip to washington in mid-march condemned shultz's call for an international peace conference
shultz, quoting from ecclesiastes, said there is ``a time of war and time of peace.''
he said: ``this is the time and the season to move decisively towards peace.''
the conference would be held this month as a way of launching negotiations on may 1 to provide some self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs on the west bank and in gaza
but shamir objected that it could provide an active and meddlesome role for the soviet union, who usually back arab positions and broke diplomatic relations with israel 21 years ago
on a tour of the troubled west bank, shamir again took a stiff stand sunday. he said he expected no breakthrough in his talks with shultz that begin monday
he again dismissed the conference proposal, saying shultz should explain to him why direct talks are not possible without such a multi-party meeting
israel would deal in the negotiations with a joint jordanian-palestinian delegation to work out a three-year interim arrangement for the occupied areas. meanwhile, negotiations on the overall settlement of the arab-israeli conflict would begin in december
foreign minister shimon peres, who favors the approach, greeted shultz and his wife enthusiastically at the ben gurion international airport near tel aviv
adressing them as ``george and helena,'' peres invited them to join in this passover season in prayers for peace
we shall pray, knowing there is no easy way to peace. the obstacles are so many and the light so dim,'' peres said. but he said, ``it is our duty to provide a green light.''
peres said israel was still looking for palestinians to agree to enter the process
stones are not messages and messages do not need the threat of stones,'' he said, referring to the four months of anti-israeli protests which have claimed the lives of 136 palestinians and one israeli soldier
mark spreyer doesn't mind when people say his job is for the birds. even his business cards read: ``mark spreyer, the naturalist nobody likes, defending the species nobody wants. starlings my speciality.''
spreyer never meant to become an advocate for one of the nation's least-liked birds, but the 31-year-old ornithologist for the chicago academy of sciences thinks they're getting a bad rap as messy invaders who take over other birds' turf
he recently delivered a lecture titled ``in defense of starlings'' before the national wildlife rehabilitators association in denver, and he has also spoken on the birds' behalf in new york and orlando, fla
he even has one for a pet. rod starling shares spreyer's suburban barrington apartment, has learned to talk and has been known to fly to the telephone when it rings and get the receiver off the hook
some of spreyer's enthusiasm has caught on, according to a local veterinarian, peregrine wolff, interviewed by the chicago sun-times recently after encountering spreyer's pet
my opinion of starlings was not very high before i met this bird,'' said ms. wolff, who said rod imitated spreyer's telephone bell and answering-machine beep, and then in a hitchcockian twist, said clearly, ``this is mark spreyer.''
starlings are related to talking myna birds, and spreyer said sunday their talent as mimics helped them wing their way into his heart. ``i'm embarrassed to admit it now, but eight years ago, i used to consider them as owl food,'' said spreyer
spreyer became better acquainted with starlings two years ago while preparing for a lecture on urban wildlife, which includes other european imports such as house sparrows and pigeons
people are trained to think all introduced things are bad and all native things are good,'' spreyer said sunday. ``i've come to realize that we have to deal with the environment as it is today.''
starlings, which often gather in large, noisy flocks, have gotten an undeservedly bad reputation as mess-makers and nuisances, while their good points are overlooked, he said
the black songbirds use a completely different food source than other birds, he said
while most birds have strong squeezing muscles in their beaks to enable them to crack nuts, for example, starlings have mighty muscles for prying things open, adapting them perfectly for digging up cutworms and other pests
groundskeepers at some golf courses welcome starlings, which reduce the need for pesticides, spreyer said
there are plenty of other birds that make a mess,'' and the starling's reputation for displacing native birds with aggressive nesting habits is overblown, he said
some critics remain unconvinced, including ron ogden, illinois director of animal-damage control for the u.s. department of agriculture
they've gotten a bad rap because they're bad birds,'' he told the sun-times. ``i can't believe anybody would be talking up starlings after all the damage they've caused. ... i know mark, i like him, but he doesn't have to deal with them every day like i do. they give me fits.''
ogden said crews have been pruning trees around the old state capitol in springfield to evict non-native starlings whose droppings made a ``teetotal mess.''
democrat jesse jackson preached easter sermons to huge white, black and hispanic crowds sunday, invoking the memory of martin luther king jr. and declaring, ``hope has been unleashed.''
there is a sense of hope and renewal in the air,'' jackson told a largely hispanic catholic congregation where hundreds stood outside. ``not an easter of eggs and rabbits and ruffled dresses, but an easter of authentic hope and renewal _ shaking of shackles.''
jackson repeatedly referred to the crucifixion of jesus christ and compared his death to that of king, the civil rights leader slain 20 years ago monday in memphis
dr. king and jesus ... government set the climates for their killings,'' he said. ``... dr. king got in trouble with our government for ending apartheid.''
he compared the crucifixion as well to the suffering of the poor, and used the symbolism of easter and the resurrection in describing the end of president reagan's administration
the real easter is going on,'' jackson said. ``... we survived seven years of midnight.''
jackson was campaigning a second day in colorado, where democrats express a choice for president in statewide caucuses monday night that will apportion 45 delegates
as jackson was met with large, enthusiastic crowds, his campaign manager, california assembly speaker willie brown, said in a tv interview that the jackson forces are ready for the closer scrutiny that comes with a candidate's emergence as a frontrunner
what jesse jackson has done during the course of the last four or five months ... people have not paid close attention to him, have not asked him whole lots of questions _ he's been in a position where he is really prepared his answers. he's prepared himself to respond to any questions put to him,'' brown said on the abc-tv ``this week with david brinkley'' program
jackson is smart. he has observed, and he is ready to be looked at really closely, far more closely than he has been looked at in the past.''
brown also said that ``there is a new jackson,'' who has shown `'phenomenal growth'' since his 1984 campaign
jackson on sunday spoke at denver's predominantly white first baptist church, where a joint service was held with the predominantly black shorter african methodist episcopal church. some 1,500 people crowded the church and watched on television from the basement, and at least as many stood outside in the warm sun, listening on loudspeakers
he then went to our lady of guadalupe catholic church in a predominantly hispanic, working class neighborhood. the church was jammed and hundreds lined up for a block - a half-dozen deep - to catch a glimpse of the candidate
denver mayor federico pena sat with jackson at the catholic church
why are so many people here today?'' jackson asked the congregation. ``because hope has been let loose.''
jackson was met with similarly large and enthusiastic crowds saturday in three other colorado cities, including the affluent ski resort aspen
i sense, as i travel around the nation, something is going on,'' he said at first baptist church. ``there are several thousand people outdoors. something is going on. ... from aspen to alabama, something is going on.''
sitting in the front row was gary hart, the former colorado senator who dropped out of the presidential race, accompanied by his wife lee and daughter andrea
neither hart nor pena has endorsed jackson. reading one of the old testament lessons at the first church was the state democratic party chairman buie seawell, who is backing michael dukakis against jackson for the democratic presidential nomination
jackson delivered sermons heavy with biblical references, but blended with it political references to himself and criticism of president reagan. the congregations responded with shouts and applause
one of his standard political lines got applause at the catholic church
i would rather have roosevelt in a wheelchair than reagan on a horse,'' he said
rep. samuel stratton says he's endorsing gov. mario cuomo for president, despite cuomo's insistence that he's not a candidate
the only really outstanding candidate that's going to help the democratic party is mario cuomo and the sooner he recognizes that, and the democratic party recognizes that, we're headed for victory,'' the veteran albany-area congressman said
stratton said in a weekend radio interview he would back the bid of former westchester county congressman richard ottinger, who's urging voters in new york's april 19 democratic primary to vote for an uncommitted slate with the hope cuomo will change his mind
he said he knows a ``fantastic number of people in the albany area who want to see him as a presidential candidate.''
with his entry into the race we would have a very exciting finish,'' said stratton
he said he had little hope for the democratic party if no one else emerges besides frontrunners michael dukakis and jesse jackson
if that's all it's going to be, we might as well throw the race,'' he said
wisconsin's republican members of congress say vice president george bush will fare exceptionally well in november's general election simply because the democrats feel he is the weakest candidate
he will do better than people expect. he will be stronger and more tenacious,'' said rep. steve gunderson, who shifted his support from sen. bob dole, of kansas, to bush after dole dropped out of the gop race
rep. toby roth, who has not endorsed anyone in wisconsin's presidential primary tuesday, agreed with gunderson that the democrats' perception of bush will be advantageous
remember 1980. all the democrats were saying they hoped the republicans would nominate ronald reagan _ he'd be the easiest to beat,'' roth said. ``so we nominated reagan and the democrats didn't even come within striking distance.''
roth said the continuation of a sound economy, low interest rates and lack of american involvement in ``shooting war'' would help bush win the general election
rep. thomas petri said bush's ability to differentiate himself from reagan policy and speak out ``more clearly on domestic issues so he can use the election as a mandate for policy change'' will be the key to a bush victory
times have changed and so the emphasis and the issues must change. he must differentiate himself from reagan,'' said petri, who endorsed bush's candidacy nearly a year ago
cardinal miguel obando y bravo prayed sunday during the easter mass for a definitive truce in the 6{-year-old civil war and a ``passage from war to life.''
the roman catholic prelate also announced, after speaking with representatives of the government and rebels, that peace talks scheduled to open wednesday in managua had been postponed until april 12
a 60-day cease-fire signed march 23 went into effect friday and the defense ministry said sunday there were no reports of violations
the rebels' nicaraguan resistance alliance on saturday insisted the meeting set for wednesday be postponed for a week, saying technical talks to work out the mechanics for the cease-fire had net been resolved
obando y bravo, who is an observer at the peace negotiations, told the nearly 300 people who attended mass at the small las sierritas church that the one-week delay of the talks is ``sad for our people.''
he told the worshipers the new round of peace talks had been delayed because the rebels, known as contras, said the sandinista government had not complied with the plan signed by both sides at meetings last month in the border outpost of sapoa
but the cardinal said he is satisfied with the progress in the negotiations and ``i have a lot of hope on this easter sunday.''
enough of death, a step toward life,'' he said as members of the congregation applauded and cheered
military officers from the government and nicaraguan resistance met march 28-29 in sapoa and agreed to set up five zones in which the contra combatants would gather as part of the truce
they did not, however, establish in detail the zones or security measure for the rebels
contra leader adolfo calero said saturday night in a telephone interview from miami: ``we are living up to the accord. however the reason we asked for a delay in the talks is that the zones have yet to be established and there are many details.''
the rebels also said the sandinistas had not freed all the prisoners requested by the contras when the government released 100 political prisoners march 29. the cease-fire plan calls for the gradual release of 3,300 political prisoners
in another complaint, the contras said the government had violated the provision of the plan that provides for unrestricted freedom of expression by withholding newsprint to the opposition newspaper la prensa. newsprint, like other imported items, is in short supply
la prensa, in its march 26 edition, said it would not publish during holy week
pro-government newspapers also haven't published papers since wednesday because of the holidays
horacio ruiz, a la prensa editor, said sunday the paper would publish monday with stockpiled paper
government offices and most businesses and restaurants have been closed since wednesday afternoon
deputy foreign minister victor hugo tinoco, in a friday-dated letter to contra leader aristides sanchez, said it was ``extremely important to follow the outline of the cease-fire plan,'' referring to the talks that had been scheduled for wednesday
tinoco blamed the contras for the lack of progress during the technical meetings, saying the rebel delegation arrived late on the first day and insisted on ending the talks promptly at 5 p.m. on the second day
the two sides planned to hold another round of technical negotiations starting tuesday at sapoa, 90 miles south of the capital on the border with costa rica
under the truce plan, contra combatants are to move into designated zones during the first two weeks of april. there would be a second release of political prisoners after it was verified the rebels were in the zones

here is a list of the political stories that have moved for this cycle:

undated _ the presidential candidates took their politicking to easter church services on sunday as they battled for victory in this week's campaign double feature _ the colorado caucuses and wisconsin primary
am-political rdp. a0729

aspen, colo. _ jesse jackson, accustomed to bringing an uplifting message to the downtrodden, found a warm reception among the already uplifted at this chic ski playground
am-jackson in aspen. a0671

mytilene, greece _ michael dukakis' cousins in greece like to tell how his father ran away from his home on the turkish mainland to a merchant uncle who lived on the greek island of mytilene, after being forbidden to leave for america
am-dukakis-greek roots. a0700. also moved in advance

denver, colo. _ democrat jesse jackson preached easter sermons to huge white, black and hispanic crowds sunday, invoking the memory of martin luther king jr. and declaring, ``hope has been unleashed.''
am-jackson. a0742

milwaukee _ michael dukakis says he will criticize fellow democratic hopeful jesse jackson on occasion, but refrained from doing so on sunday. he also said no one knows whether jackson is could win against vice president george bush
am-dukakis. a0733

denver _ republican presidential candidate pat robertson said sunday he has a divine mandate to run for president and will not stop until he is in the white house
am-robertson. a0737

washington _ the democratic presidential candidates want to increase pressure on south africa to force change in that nation, while george bush generally favors pursuing the reagan administration's policies, a survey says
am-politics-south africa. a0695
am-politics-quotes, a0744
am-us-deleg-sum, a0716
am-us-dem-deleg-reg. a0719, a0720
am-us-dem-deleg-state-by-state. a0717, a0718
am-political briefs, a0746:
_ new york congressman urging cuomo to run for president
_ wisconsin delegation predicts bush will do better than expected
voters on tuesday will choose a fresh face to occupy the mayor's office in a closely contested race that marks the end of incumbent mayor henry maier's reign of nearly three decades
maier has held his office since 1960, longer than any other big-city mayor in the country. the 70-year-old maier cited his age as reason for not running for another term
the two contenders vying for his job are state sen. john norquist, 38, and former acting gov. martin schreiber, 48. the race is non-partisan; both contenders have run for other offices in the past as democrats
when the campaign began, polls put norquist well behind. but his support grew, and he finished 4 percentage points behind schreiber in the february primary. recent polls put the race a dead heat
during maier's tenure, the city enjoyed a downtown renaissance but suffered from lingering racial divisions, and his performance received mixed reviews from the two candidates
the good thing about him is that he's strong and he makes decisions and deep down inside he cares deeply about the city,'' norquist said. ``(but) he had trouble dealing with his enemies, dealing with his critics. i think henry would take criticism too much as a personal criticism.''
schreiber, meanwhile, said maier ``has established an excellent foundation on which we can build.''
both candidates praised the downtown revitalization, but they noted more attention should go toward the inner-city neighborhoods, which hold the potentially key black vote. about one-fourth of the city's 600,000 residents are black
schreiber won the endorsement of a black convention organized by the third-place finisher in the mayoral primary, lee holloway. norquist boycotted the event, objecting to a $20 admission fee charged by holloway to help retire his campaign debt
but norquist may be able to draw on support from key members of the black community, including alderman michael mcgee and state sen. gary george
the biggest single economic problem that we have is the high black unemployment rate,'' norquist said. the federal bureau of labor statistics reported in 1985 that black unemployment in the milwaukee metropolitan area was about 28 percent
the race between schreiber and norquist has centered as much on their personalities as it has on the issues, where the two candidates often sound similar
schreiber cultivated an image of being a likable candidate who, as mayor, would bring together different factions to address the city's problems and promote harmony
but he is criticized for trying to please too many people and making promises on issues without having all the facts
for example, schreiber won the endorsement of the primary's fourth-place finisher, donna horowitz richards, when he announced support of her proposed development programs for neighborhoods
but he then was unable to answer certain questions about the plan, and afterward he backed off his position, saying he would promise to study the ideas
i am not a hotshot and i don't have all the answers,'' schreiber said. ``all of my strengths and all of my successes have been brought about by getting people around the table and talking about an issue and then developing a plan.''
norquist portrayed himself as a take-charge candidate who offers detailed programs. but he has been criticized for being too strident, which schreiber insists proves his opponent's ``instability.''
while norquist says he has tried to tone down emotions, he adds: ``a mayor ought to be able to get angry, especially when it's something that affects the city.''
schreiber was elected lieutenant governor 1970 after eight years in the state senate. he became acting governor in 1977 when gov. patrick lucey resigned to become ambassador to mexico. but the following year, schreiber lost the general election for a full term as governor to his republican challenger
norquist, at 6-foot-7 nearly a foot taller than schreiber, served in the state assembly from 1974 to 1982, when he was elected to the senate. iran</head> iraq denouncing u.n. pick up 4th pvs: the latest ... and edits to tighten</note>
iraqi troops killed 400 kurdish civilians who had been injured in a chemical-bomb attack and were trying to reach a hospital, a kurdish guerrilla leader said sunday
the report could not be independently confirmed. neither iraq nor iran, which backs the iraqi kurdish separatists, had immediate comment
iraq, meanwhile, said its warplanes raided two iranian refineries sunday but iran said the bombs hit residential areas, killing 10 civilians and wounding 50
in tehran, a senior official told reporters iran would respond to the renewed attacks on his nation's cities with ground offensives
kurdish guerrilla leader jalal talabani said the 400 civilians from the mountainous qara dagh district were wounded in an iraqi chemical raid
talabani, leader of the patriotic union of kurdistan, said the wounded were traveling to a hospital in the northeastern city of sulaymaniyah when they were taken prisoner by iraqi soldiers and killed on saturday
talabani is in london and made the accusation in a telephoned statement
kurdish separatists have been fighting the iraqi government for decades for an independent homeland
qara dagh is 20 miles west of lake darbandikhan, where iran claims iraqi chemical bombings march 16-17 killed 5,000 civilians and injured many more. a senior iraqi official on sunday repeated the claim that u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar is biased toward iran
akram al-witri, chief of the legal department at the foreign ministry, told a news conference, ``we have been patient but now we are fed up with perez de cuellar and other top u.n. officials who are appeasing iran for their self interest.''
last week iraqi foreign minister tariq aziz expressed ``bitterness and disappointment at the biased and ill-balanced nature'' of recent statements by perez de cuellar on the alleged use of chemical weapons by iraq
al-witri accused perez de cuellar of neglecting the fate of iraqi prisoners of war. ``our 45,000 pows in iran are subject to all kinds of physical and psychological torture and other methods of maltreatment and it is time'' that the united nations and international red cross investigate, he said
it was the first time iraq has said iran is holding 45,000 war prisoners
also sunday, an iranian military spokesman for the first time listed an overall casualty toll in just over a month of iraqi air and missile attacks on iranian cities _ 1,145 dead and 4,000 wounded. iraq has said hundreds of its civilians have been killed in similar raids
the latest attacks, which were among 140 warplane combat missions reported by the iraqi news agency during the day, signaled a rekindling of the ``war of the cities'' after a 2{-day break
iraq anounced its forces sank six iranian gunboats during the night as they attempted to approach an offshore oil platform in the northern persian gulf. iran denied the claim
the official iraqi news agency quoted a military communique as saying the strikes on iran's refineries near the cities of isfahan and tabriz were carried out at 2:40 p.m
that was about six hours after turkish prime minister turgut ozal left the iraqi capital. baghdad had ceased its attacks on iranian cities during ozal's visit and had announced it would not resume attacks for six hours after ozal left
in tehran, kamal kharrazi, head of the war information headquarters, told reporters that 10 people were killed in tabriz. iran's official islamic republic news agency (irna) said another 50 were wounded
the iranian agency said anti-aircraft batteries shot down one of the warplanes at isfahan ``seconds after the attack'' on the city
it said the pilot, talal ibrahim, no rank given, was taken prisoner by iranian forces. an iraqi military communique said an iraqi plane ``crashed inside enemy territory.''
asked whether iran would retaliate for sunday's raids, iranian deputy foreign minister mohammad javad larijani told reporters in tehran:
we will have plenty of surprises for them,'' but they would be mainly on the battlefield through ``punitive offensives.''
these offensives will stop them definitely, and they will pay a high price,'' he said
turkish sources said ozal, who arrived in ankara later sunday, had proposed that iran and iraq call a cease-fire in the ``war of the cities,'' which began feb. 29
ozal said in a departure statement that turkey is trying to help the united nations end the 7{-year-old war between iran and iraq
irna quoted a spokesman for the war information headquarters as denying iraq's claims that it trounced iran and its kurdish separatist allies in fighting last week in mountainous northeastern iraq
iraq said saturday that its forces killed thousands of iranians and overran kurdish guerrilla bases, scoring a major victory and recapturing tracts of iraqi soil
the iranian spokesman said iran was ``in full control'' of all the towns and strategic heights captured during an offensive that began in mid-march
a senior chinese envoy, meanwhile, arrived in saudi arabia carrying a message from president li xiannian to king fahd dealing with the iran-iraq war, the official saudi press agency reported
it said chinese vice foreign minister qi huaiyuan handed the written message to saudi foreign minister prince saud al-faisal. the contents were not disclosed
last month saudi arabia confirmed it was buying chinese intermediate-range missiles. according to u.s. state department officials, the deal involved css-2 missiles with a range of 1,850 miles. civilians</head>
iraqi troops seized 400 civilians who had been wounded by chemical weapons and were en route to a hospital, then massacred them at a military camp, a kurdish guerrilla leader said sunday
jalal talabani said the civilians from iraq's qara dagh district were wounded in a recent iraqi chemical-bomb attack. the predominantly kurdish district is in a mountainous border region that has been the scene of fierce fighting
talabani, leader of the patriotic union of kurdistan, said the wounded were traveling to a hospital in the northeastern city of sulaymaniyah when they were taken prisoner by iraqi soldiers
they were forced to go to to the nearby tanjero military camp where they were all killed on saturday, he said
talabani, who is in london and made the accusation in a telephoned statement, said he did not know what weapons were used to kill the prisoners
the report could not be independently confirmed. neither iraq nor iran, which backs the iraqi kurdish separatists, had an immediate comment
talabani also said there were no iranian troops in the qara dagh region, and it was controlled by kurdish separatists
qara dagh is about 20 miles west of lake darbandikhan, where iranian revolutionary guards have seized iraqi territory in an offensive that began in mid-march
kurdish separatists have repeatedly claimed the iraqi government is waging a campaign of genocide against the kurds
iraq, at war with iran since september 1980, has come under international criticism for using chemical weapons in the fighting
iran claims iraqi chemical bombings march 16-17 in the lake darbandikhan area killed 5,000 civilians and injured many more
the united nations has said it will send a team of experts to investigate the reported use of chemical weapons, outlawed under a 1925 geneva agreement
a pet pig named chop chop has become the animal kingdom's surfing champion, doing a porcine version of a ``hang ten'' as he rode through the waves with his owner and garnering a perfect score
a dozen surfers paired up with dogs, geese and even fish in an aquarium saturday at the ``wet pet'' exhibition at the rell sunn menehune surfing championships. riding tandem on longboards, human and pet surfers competed before a crowd of 2,000 at makaha beach on oahu
professional surfer and lifeguard brian keaulana, 26, and 3-month-old chop chop came in first with their perfect score
it was a great ride,'' keaulana said. ``i slapped the pig in the behind and it went to the nose
he did kind of a hang ten, but pigs have cloven hoofs, so i guess it was more like a hang four,'' keaulana said. ``he liked it a lot. he was jumping around and going crazy.''
the ``wet pet'' exhibition is part of the rell sunn menehune, a surfing competition for children 15 and under
keaulana doubts he and chop chop will return to defend their title in 1989
he'll probably be 300 pounds next year,'' keaulana said. ``it'll be tough to get him on the board.''
keaulana won a trophy and chop chop won a reprieve from becoming the main course at a luau
i guess we can't eat him, now that he's famous,'' keaulana said. electrocution; pick up 2nd graf pvs: u.s. secretary ... sub 17th graf pvs to correct spelling of pole; pick up 18th graf pvs: the army ...</note>
an arab was electrocuted sunday when israeli soldiers forced him to climb a utility poll to remove a palestinian flag in the west bank in one of three deaths in the occupied territories, the army said
it reported another arab was electrocuted while trying to attach a palestinian flag to a power line in tulkarem, also in the west bank. arab reporters said the man was shot by israeli soldiers
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz, arriving on a new mideast peace shuttle, told israel to act on his plan for negotiations for palestinian self-rule
defense minister yitzhak rabin announced a new army policy to go on the offensive and teach rioting arabs a lesson
sunday's deaths brought to 136 the number of arabs who have died in four months of protests against israeli occupation of the west bank and gaza strip, according to u.n. figures. one israeli soldier has been killed
the months of rioting cast a pall on christian celebrations of easter
about 1,000 worshipers, half of last year's number, attended services in the 12th century church of the holy sepulcher, marking the site where christians believe jesus rose from the dead after being crucified
shultz said the palestinians must be included in peace talks and negotiations must be based on a 1967 united nations resolution that calls on israel to give up territory in exchange for arab recognition
for everything there is a season ... a time to love and a time to hate; a time for war and a time for peace,'' he said. ``this is the time and the season to move decisively towards peace.''
his remarks appeared aimed primarily at prime minister yitzhak shamir, who told reporters during a visit to a west bank settlement sunday that shultz had yet to convince him of the need for an international peace conference
the american peace proposal calls for an international conference on the middle east. under the proposal israel would give land to the palestinians in exchange for peace
shultz's third middle east shuttle since october began after a sharp escalation of bloodshed in the past week in which 20 arabs were killed and scores more shot by israeli soldiers
visiting the site in gaza city where soldiers shot three arabs to death on saturday, rabin explained a new tactic the army was using to take the initiative away from the arab demonstrators
in the majority of the incidents,'' rabin said about the recent bloodshed, ``the confrontations were the result of our initiative, part of an effort to ensure a calming of the situation and to suppress the violence.''
army spokesmen said soldiers would no longer ignore, as they had in the past, demonstrations in remote villages or other locations that did not interfere with traffic or endanger lives
officials at ramallah hospital said a 40-year-old ali diab abu ali died sunday of a neck wound suffered during land day protests march 30 in the west bank village yatta
the army said khalil jaber hamzawy, 18, was electrocuted when soldiers ordered him to climb a utility pole and remove a flag in the askar refugee camp near nablus
the army also said a 20-year-old arab man was electrocuted while trying to attach an outlawed palestinian flag to a power line in the west bank town of tulkarem. arab journalists said soldiers shot the youth
the united nations did not include the tulkarem death in its toll
sheik saad eddin alami, the 77-year-old mufti, or moslem leader, of jerusalem, said he suffered heart problems after an israeli policeman struck him friday as he sought permission to allow tv cameramen into the al aqsa mosque area
police spokesman alex lapidot described alami's claims as ``a big lie from start to end.''
in a leaflet last week, underground leaders called for a general strike in the occupied west bank and gaza strip on monday to protest the shultz visit. they demanded that palestinians avoid meeting shultz during his visit
speaking to reporters in the israeli military settlement of ginat, shamir predicted arranging peace talks would be a lengthy process
i'm skeptical about all the prophecies that the talks will have some kind of result, a breakthrough,'' said shamir, who called for shultz to concentrate on the substance of a settlement and not the logistics of starting negotiations
the soviet union detonated an underground nuclear blast sunday in the republic of kazakhstan, the third such test announced by the soviets this year, the official tass news agency reported
it said the blast had a yield of 20 to 150 kilotons. the u.s. atom bomb dropped on hiroshima, japan, on aug. 6, 1945, had a yield of 20 kilotons, or the equivalent of 20,000 tons of tnt
no details of the test blast were given by tass other than that it was ``carried out with a view to upgrading military technology.''
the device was exploded at 5:35 a.m. moscow time at the soviet union's main nuclear testing range in semipalatinsk, in the central asian republic of kazakhstan, according to tass
in january, an american scientific delegation visited the semipalatinsk range to gather information that may be used in verifying u.s.-soviet compliance with a future test ban
an exchange of visits to semipalatinsk and to the u.s. nuclear testing site in nevada is planned this month
the soviet government has been pressing for a pact prohibiting nuclear testing, but u.s. and soviet officials disagree on verification procedures. picking up at the 3rd graf pvs, `at st. brigid's...'.</note>
police watched over easter sunday services in the city's impoverished south-central neighborhoods, attempting to reassure churchgoers shocked by a good friday street gang shooting that ranked among the city's worst
the decent people in the community have a right to see us around every once in a while,'' said sgt. jack davenport, adding that his officers were ordered to make their presence known near churches
i'm pleased,'' said osmond lindo, pastor of vermont square united methodist church, when he heard two officers had parked out front and looked in briefly on his service. ``we need to let the thugs in our city know they cannot dominate our city.''
most people leaving the service said they hadn't noticed the officers but many in the largely minority neighborhood said the offical concern about continuing gang violence was long overdue
this stuff is going on every day,'' said ron mcknight, 58, whose son rodney, 19, was recovering from seven bullet wounds suffered in the shooting
any day is a good friday when people can walk the streets, sit on their porch,'' said mcknight, adding his son, like most of those wounded, wasn't associated with gangs
at st. brigid's roman catholic church near the scene of the shootings, the rev. eli bauwens welcomed the police interest, but urged worshipers to seek solace in god. he held up the example of jesus' disciples, who spread the message of christianity despite fear of death at the hands of unbelievers
the police deployment followed an overnight sweep by a task force of more than 300 officers seeking to intimidate gang members and forestall retaliation for the friday night shooting, which killed one man and injured 12 other people, one of them a 4-year-old boy
the killers, who gunned down rival gang members and innocent bystanders alike from a passing car, remained at large sunday
police who participated in the overnight sweep arrested 175 people for investigation of a variety of alleged offenses and interrogated 619 people, about 500 of them believed to be gang members, said detective tony celli
the stepped-up police presence around churches sunday was accomplished without extra manpower, though police chief daryl gates on saturday reiterated an oft-repeated promise to declare war on the gangs, blamed for nearly 400 killings in los angeles county last year
officers were ordered to show the flag around services as much as possible in the course of their regular duties
gates said saturday he would redeploy his force to boost the number of officers on south-central streets from 200 to 1,000. he didn't say when the redeployment, to be accomplished by putting officers on overtime, would begin
police said the good friday shootings may have been the city's worst in terms of the number of total casualties. in 1984, five people were killed and five others injured in a gang shooting at a party outside a home
for residents of the gang-plagued area, ``drive-by'' shootings such as friday's are chillingly commonplace
this is nothing new for any of us,'' said bauwens at st. brigid, who heard the gunshots from his room in the rectory
everybody here lives in a certain amount of fear,'' bauwens said. ``i must have done half a dozen funerals in the past year or two for teen-agers, all boys, who are victims of gangs.''
most of the wounded were not associated with gangs, but were standing and talking on a sidewalk in an area claimed as drug-sales territory by five or six gangs, police said
the 4-year-old who was wounded, dashawn holly, was reported in fair condition sunday at county-usc medical center. sermon was read by hinckley, sted by benson himself; picks up 7th graf pvs, `of all...'.</note>
mormon church leaders praised jesus christ as the resurrected son of god to close the faith's 158th annual general conference sunday with an easter theme reaffirming fundamental church doctrine
the gathering closed with a sermon written by president ezra taft benson telling listeners to demonstrate their love for god by obeying his laws
i pray that we will be obedient to god, learn his will and do it, and above all, that we will keep the first and great commandment _ to love the lord with all our heart, soul, mind and strength,'' said the sermon, which was read by gordon b. hinckley, a counselor in the church's ruling first presidency
benson's sermon said mormons should consider whether they are adhering to the church's principles, such as participating in missionary work, daily scripture reading, and building family unity with weekly activities
it also stressed the longstanding admonition that church members prepare for possible emergencies by keeping on hand enough food, clothing and other essential supplies to last one year
a church official said the 88-year-old benson asked hinckley to read the sermon for him because he was tired
earlier, hinckley delivered his own homily saying christ submitted to crucifixion to make the resurrection of all men and women possible through his own death. mormon doctrine holds that mankind will be resurrected in perfect, immortal physical bodies before the final judgment
of all the victories of human history, none is so great, none so universal in its effect, none so everlasting in its consequences, as the victory of the crucified lord who came forth in the resurrection that first easter morning,'' hinckley said
joseph b. wirthlin, a member of the twelve, a group of clergy that assist the first presidency, urged mormons to follow christ by emulating his honesty, which he said includes paying employees a fair wage, filing accurate tax returns and not padding expense accounts
the leaders spoke as part of a series of 12 sermons capping the two-day conference, in which speakers stressed the church's basic beliefs about christ's resurrection
critics have accused mormons of exalting joseph smith, who believers say found the church in 1820 after god and jesus appeared to him, to a level equal to or surpassing jesus. but the speakers gave no indication that their remarks were in response to such criticism
the conference, attended by more than 6,000 church members, also was told saturday that the church attracted a record 227,284 converts during 1987, bringing total membership to 6.5 million
vietnam is scheduled to make its largest release of what are believed to be remains of u.s. military personnel missing in action in the vietnam war that ended with a communist victory in 1975
a u.s. military team is to receive the 27 sets of remains on wednesday at hanoi's noi bai airport and fly them to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu for analysis
it would be the fourth turnover since retired gen. john w. vessey, acting as president reagan's special emissary, reached an agreement in hanoi, the vietnamese capital, last august that ended months of deadlocked negotiatons on the issue
positive identifications of the 27 sets of remains would mean substantial progress because hanoi has returned only 152 confirmed sets since the war
the two nations often have quarreled over accounting for the 1,767 americans who remain listed as missing in action in vietnam
the largest previous transfer of remains was on aug. 14, 1985. it involved 26 sets, and at least 24 have been identified as american remains
a u.s. official closely involved in the issue said recently that while progress since the vessey agreement had not been as rapid as washington had hoped, hanoi has been much more responsive to u.s. requests to investigate reports involving mias
the vietnamese have been discussing the issue with an increasing number of congressmen and other american visitors, many of whom return to urge increased official contacts with hanoi
in march, the vietnamese met with john leboutillier, a former congressman who now heads a private lobbying group that insists there are still americans being held prisoners in vietnam
the mia issue also is on the agendas of u.s. sens. larry pressler, r-s.d., and g.v. sonny montgomery, d-mo., who are separately visiting hanoi this week
the u.s. official said the vietnamese have indicated they did not believe washington was implementing humanitarian provisions of the vessey agreement. he said the vietnamese complained that the united states has only sent exploratory medical teams and encouraged private u.s. agencies to aid vietnam's disabled war veterans and other humanitarian cases
they're not making a secret that they prefer direct government-to-government aid,'' said the official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity
the united states and vietnam do not have diplomatic relations
afghan president najib on sunday declared the first day of general elections a national holiday, the government's radio station reported
the elections, scheduled to begin tuesday, come at a time when negotiations are under way in switzerland on the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet military personnel in afghanistan
as proposed by the election commission, the 5th of april will be a national holiday on the occasion of the elections for the national assembly,'' radio kabul quoted najib as saying in a decree
one-fourth of the 62 senate and 229 house of deputies seats are to be set aside for rebel candidates, even if they do not participate. the elections are to run until april 14
most members of the election commission organizing the balloting are from the marxist government
the guerrillas have refused any power-sharing with the communists and have vowed to fight until they overthrow the government
radio kabul's broadcast of najib's statement was monitored in islamabad
leftists in the armed foreces seized power in a coup in april 1978. soviet troops intervened in december 1979 to help the faltering government battle the guerrillas
the united states, soviet union, afghanistan and pakistan have been involved for months in u.n.-sponsored efforts to bring about a withdrawal of the soviet troops and a peaceful settlement in the war
talks in geneva recessed for the easter holiday and are to resume monday
a company that advertised that it could help businesses secure loans is facing an fbi investigation and lawsuits from unhappy ex-clients who paid high fees but never received financing, according to a report published sunday
the boston sunday globe reported that since its founding in 1986, first boston charter corp. has collected between $2 million and $50 million from clients seeking loans. but dozens of clients interviewed by the newspaper reported that they didn't get any loans and were unable to recover their fees
three ex-clients have sued fbc in u.s. district court in boston, and a federal grand jury in las vegas has indicted the executives of several companies with which fbc works. an fbi spokesman said the agency has launched an investigation of first boston charter and several of the companies it deals with
the company is unrelated to the new york-based securities firm, first boston corp
fbc president marc w. anderson refused to be interviewed, the globe said. his associate, paul j. gilbert, also refused comment and referred questions to william m. codinha, the boston lawyer representing the company
codinha told the globe that after consulting his clients, he decided it was ``not in their interest'' to talk
according to the globe, fbc works with numerous other companies in arranging loans and loan guarantees. the various companies involved claim to be independent of each other, the globe said, but in fact are linked in some way
george h. jones jr., 56, of allentown, pa., told the globe he went to fbc when he and a partner were looking for a $500,000 loan to set up a charter bus company and saw a newspaper advertisement for fbc
he told the globe that fbc officials told him that fbc did not make loans, but would get him a loan guarantee _ a promise that money he borrowed would be repaid even if the bus company failed. fbc also told him that a second company would issue the guarantee
jones said that while the second company did not make the actual loan, it would direct him to a third company that would come up with the money
jones told the newspaper that fbc executives warned him that there would be risks in the deal
however, jones said, by the beginning of 1987, he had paid fbc a $20,000 fee, a $3,500 fee to a company called first fidelity finance for a ``character and credit investigation'' and was making $1,000 monthly fee payments to another company in on the deal, euro-shares, based in spain
last august, jones said, he lost his bus company and he eventually had to sell his car and put his house on the market because of indebtedness
edward showalter, an ohio manufacturer who sought a $1 million loan through a series of companies that involved fbc's anderson to produce a line of clothing featuring cartoon characters, told the newspaper a story similar to jones'. showalter paid several companies fees totaling $42,500 but never received the $1 million loan he was seeking, according to the globe
in a suit filed here, businessman richard p. johnson of stuart, fla., contends he and a client of his paid fees totaling $70,000 to fbc for help in securing $35 million in loans, but never received any financing
one of several european companies to which fbc clients are referred, euro-kredit, n.a., is owned by alan copeland, who is under indictment in las vegas for fraud. copeland's real name is bruce cooper and he is a convicted bank robber and con man, the newspaper reported
five other people were also indicted last fall _ two copeland colleagues and three executives of other companies affiliated with first boston, the newspaper said. the various companies are accused of working together to defraud clients, splitting the large fees but failing to provide loans
the newspaper said first boston charter claimed to have growing numbers of satisified customers, but declined to name any of them
according to the globe, records in ohio and california show that anderson changed his name shortly before arriving in boston to set up first boston charter in mid-1986. before the change, his name was william marc knasel, the globe said
at least three people were wounded sunday in a shooting at a funeral at a church, hospital officials said
details of the shooting at mountain home baptist church were sketchy and the number of victims was not immediately known. the shooting occurred shortly before 3 p.m., when the funeral of effie collins justice was scheduled
andrea rainey, 40, was taken to margaret pardee hospital in hendersonville where she began undergoing surgery at 5:30 p.m. for a bullet wound, officials said
wendy johnston, 11, was in good condition and was being transported to memorial mission hospital in asheville, along with her mother, shelia johnston, 30. mrs. johnston was in critical condition and the extent of her injuries was not known
a 3-year-old boy visiting his grandfather's grave with his parents was fatally crushed when a tombstone fell on him, police said
christopher rigsby was pronounced dead on arrival at union memorial hospital on saturday after suffering severe head injuries, a police spokesman said
relatives were hammering a small wooden cross into the grandfather's grave as an easter decoration saturday morning when the headstone of an adjacent grave fell forward on top of christopher, crushing him, police said
joseph r. swift, the cemetery manager, said he called police after he was informed of the incident and then walked out of his office to see julia rigsby, 26, sitting in the back of a car holding her unconscious son in her lap
she wouldn't let anyone near the boy until an ambulance came,'' swift said
the granite headstone, which was about 3 feet tall by 2 feet wide, fell away from its foot-high base, swift said. the marker had been attached to the base with an epoxy seal
the boy's grandmother, roberta malantrucolo, told police she had stopped the boy from climbing on some tombstones earlier, swift said
the shipbuilders' union at the bath iron works has rejected a proposed three-year contract that both the company and union had hoped would usher in a new era of labor peace
however, saturday's vote did not signal authorization for a strike. the 5,500-member union and the company are expected to stick with the existing contract that expires aug. 14 and re-enter negotiations sometime this summer
biw had invited its unions to open contract talks early, in hopes of improving its competitiveness. it lost four of five navy cruiser contracts in february to rival ingalls shipbuilding of mississippi
the proposed contract, which offered three annual 2.5 percent wage increases and the phase-out of a two-tier pay system that gives less to new employees, was rejected by a margin of roughly 3 to 2, said ray ladd, president of local 6 of the industrial union of marine and shipbuilding workers of america
about 2,500 of the union's approximately 5,500 members participated in the voting
i feel it should have gone through, because i don't feel they're going to offer any more in august,'' ladd said
duane d. fitzgerald, biw's executive vice president, issued a statement saying management officials were ``disappointed with the result but believe the process was constructive and informative.''
we do not regret having made the effort,'' fitzgerald said
ladd blamed the rejection in part on members' desire for bigger pay hikes and a swifter end to the two-tier wage system. he said he understood rank-and-file sentiments but added, ``the company hasn't got any money. they opened the books and proved it.''
under the current contract, newer employees have been paid about $3 less an hour than veteran workers. the rejected company proposal would have phased out the two-tier system in april 1990
the proposed 2.5 percent wage increase would have amounted to 29 cents an hour more for first-class mechanics in the first two years of the contract and 30 cents an hour more the final year
members of local 7, a much smaller union representing 393 clerical and technical workers, overwhelmingly approved a new three-year contract a week ago
the shipyard, maine's largest private employer, reached its highest peacetime employment level last month, reporting 8,900 workers on its payroll
police and troops moved to tighten security along india's frontier with pakistan sunday and three more deaths were blamed on sikh extremists in northern punjab state that borders pakistan
prime minister rajiv gandhi on friday ordered increased border security to try to stem the delivery of weapons to the sikh separatists in punjab. india contends sikh militants are receiving arms smuggled from pakistan
sikh extremists killed at least 120 people in the week ending saturday, the highest one-week toll since separatists began a guerrilla war for their own homeland in 1982. many of the victims were hindus, but moderate sikhs also have been slain by the militants
patrols were stepped up along the indo-pakistan border in northern kashmir state, united news of india reported. punjab is south of kashmir and east of pakistan
police and paramilitary unit commanders are scheduled to meet monday in the sikh holy city of amritsar to discuss increased security in punjab
several indian newspapers reported sunday that the government was considering the construction of fences along parts of the indo-pakistan border as well as increased patrols
united news of india said two people, who it did not identify, were shot to death in gurdaspur district in separate attacks late saturday and sunday. a village leader was killed in amritsar district saturday night, the news agency said. he was identified as nirmal singh, a sikh
the latest killings raised to at least 648 the number of deaths blamed on sikh extremists in punjab this year. in 1987, about 1,000 people were slain in violence related to the separatists' campaign
punjab gov. s.s. ray on sunday visited three villages where 28 people were shot to death by sikh militants last week. he pledged government assistance to the survivors
eighteen of the victims were hindus living in a hamlet near the village of pangota, 24 miles north of amritsar
sikhs, whose religion is an offshoot of hinduism and islam, make up only 2 percent of india's 800 million population, but they are a majority in punjab
more than five months after jessica mcclure's dramatic rescue from a narrow well gripped the nation, the child and her family continue to grapple with the ups and downs of their celebrity status
the texas rangers expect their opening-day game monday to be packed as jessica tosses out the first ball of the season at arlington stadium
that was hardly the mcclures' only offer
later, i got a call from the houston astros,'' said former state sen. pete snelson of midland, the family's publicist. he said he turned down the astros' request for jessica because the family didn't have time for their tuesday opener
last week, jessica and her mother, reba ``cissy'' mcclure, traveled to lancaster in north central texas to help fund-raising efforts for a 5-year-old boy who faces heart and lung transplants
but not all the attention leveled at the family has been flattering
the mcclures bought a new three-bedroom tract house in the modest suburb of greenwood. mrs. mcclure, who turned 19 last week, stays home with jessica while her 18-year-old husband works at a new job selling sporting goods at a local store
but when oprah winfrey brought her television talk show to midland and sent a limousine to pick up the mcclures, rumors spread that the couple was living in a large home in an exclusive neighborhood
that's when the rumors started flying,'' said m.l. blevins, accountant for the mcclures. he dismissed the talk, estimating the value of the mcclures' new home at between $30,000 and $40,000
snelson said the mcclures' lifestyle has remained relatively spartan, despite large sums of money placed into a trust fund and forwarded in other donations
but the family's fame remains strong and the notoriety hasn't been all bad for a town that had been hit hard by the slump in oil and gas prices
i got a letter the other day _ a registered letter _ addressed to `jessica's mayor,''' said carroll thomas, midland mayor
thomas recently formed a committee to choose the best movie deal about the well rescue and break an impasse between two associations of rescuers pursuing separate agreements
initially, he said, the rescue ``did a lot to take our minds off the oil business problems. it gave us a chance to think about the fact that there are things just as important (as), if not more important than, money.'' with jackson comment; inserts 2 grafs after 28th graf pvs, under questioning, with later comment from kirk spokeswoman</note>
the presidential candidates took their politicking to easter church services on sunday as they battled for victory in this week's campaign double feature _ the colorado caucuses and wisconsin primary
republican pat robertson, whose candidacy is all but derailed by vice president george bush's march to the nomination, said he has a mandate from god and won't stop until he is president of the united states
saying he would run again in 1992, robertson told about 3,000 people at denver's happy church that ``i am not going to quit ... that is his plan for me and for this nation.''
but with bush's nomination virtually assured, the 1988 focus is now on the democrats
sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who has staked hopes of reviving his trailing campaign with a good showing in wisconsin on tuesday, picked up the endorsement this weekend of the milwaukee journal
the newspaper cited gore's ``impressive record'' in arms control, military reform and environmental protection, cand called him ``one of congress' best informed members on the future of science and technology.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who shares frontrunner status with jesse jackson, was asked by reporters outside a milwaukee church if he shared the view of some democrats that jackson is not electable because he his black and too liberal
i don't think there is any way of knowing,'' dukakis said
democratic party chairman paul kirk also sidestepped that question sunday when interviewed on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley'' program
we haven't nominated anyone yet,'' he said. ``the democratic party will do its best to nominate, i hope, the most electable candidate in order to win in november.''
jackson on sunday showed no concern about reports of consternation among democrats over his recent momentum
speaking to overflow crowds at two denver churches, he continued to hammer home the themes that have brought a burgeoning response to his campaign
at the first baptist church, where 1,500 people jammed inside and at least as many listened to him on loudspeakers outside, jackson said:
i sense as i travel around the nation something is going on. there are several thousand people outdoors _ something is going on
from aspen to alabama _ something is going on ... hope has been unleased.''
later, in a predominantly hispanic neighborhood, people lined the street for a block to see jackson arrive at our lady of guadalupe catholic church
jackson's success in the primaries and caucuses _ including a victory over dukakis in the virgin islands on saturday _ has created a sticky issue for democrats bent on picking a nominee who can secure the white house
his campaign chairman, california assembly speaker willie brown said sunday that the margin of jackson's successes has surprised even him. but he said that even if jackson gets the most delegates by the end of the primary season, that doesn't mean he should get the nomination
you can have a plurality of the delegates and still not be able to reach the 2,082 required to secure the nomination,'' brown said on ``this week with david brinkley.''
i only believe he's entitled to the nomination if we succeed in producing the appropriate number of delgates that george mcgovern got, that fritz mondale got, or that jimmy carter got,'' brown said
but brown also raised the possibility of the jackson forces instigating a rules fight at the convention this summer if the delegate race does not play out as they think it fairly should
jackson himself downplayed the possibility it would come to that
we're certainly going to stand for fairness, but i hope it won't come to a fight. i think that most demcrats are going to stand for that which is fair and that which is right,'' he said as he campaigned in colorado
it appears unlikely any democrat will have enough delegates in hand to secure the nomination at the end of the primary season in june. the nomination thus will lie in the hands of the so-called super delegates, who are automatically delegates by virtue of their position as party leaders or elected officials
dukakis so far has won 653.5 delegates to jackson's 646.5 and gore's 381.8, according to the associated press tally
democratic leader kirk on sunday appeared to moderate his suggestion that his party should rally behind whoever is the frontrunner at the end of the primary season
kirk said that a candidate who emerges with the most delegates, but shy of the needed 2,082, should not automatically get the party's nod
that's not what the rules say. the rules say that the person who attains a majority of delegates will be the party's nominee,'' he said
he said that when he earlier had talked about getting party leaders together to solidify support for a frontrunner, he meant that if anyone gained ``a very very substantial plurality of delegates and someone has the nomination within virtually within his grasp, that the party ought to sit down'' and talk about getting behind that person
under questioning, he refused to say what would consistute a substantial plurality
spokeswoman julie anbender later said kirk's views on the matter have not changed
kirk has not altered his position about rallying behind the clear-cut frontrunner. he continues to believe that at the end of the process, one of our candidates will clearly emerge from the pack and kirk will at that point encourage the party to rally behind its inevitable nominee,'' she said
brown noted that the jackson campaign is actively seeking out support among the superdelegates and the uncommitted delegates, particularly members of congress who represent districts where jackson has run strongly
as if the jackson forces would, as they did at the 1984 convention, challenge any rules on how delegates are selected should jackson fail to bring many uncommitted delegates on board, brown said
i think if the rules need to be challenged we will do so.''
jackson previously has said he has no plans to raise rules challenges at the summer convention in atlanta. but he has also said he expects the party to treat him fairly
a panamanian military vehicle on sunday tried to stop the car of u.s. ambassador arthur davis, the u.s. embassy reported and it called the ``serious.''
terence kneebone, an embassy spokesman, said davis was leaving the residence of the vatican's ambassador in a chauffeur-driven car when a military ``vehicle began following immediately, picking them up right outside the gate
it followed them down balboa avenue, then tried to stop them with lights and sirens. the ambassador's driver, in accordance with instructions, did not stop. the ambassador was driven to his residence, and the other vehicle followed all the way.''
we consider this serious,'' kneebone added. he said that would be the embassy's only characterization of the incident and referred further questions to the state department in washington
kneebone said davis had gone to call on the papal nuncio, monsignor jose sebastian laboa, to pay his respects on easter sunday. the spokesman noted that the papal ambassador is the dean of the diplomatic corps in panama
the distance between laboa's residence and the american ambassador's house is about two miles, and the route followed by davis' car took him along oceanfront balboa avenue
sunday's edition of the daily newspaper la republica, which is run by the military, carried a front-page picture of davis with a caption that said he did not venture from his residence unless he was ``armed to the teeth.''
the brief article accused the ambassador of ``exaggerating'' any possible threat to his personal security and said davis suffered from either ``a persecution complex'' or ``guilty conscience.''
the incident came only three days after the panamanian government said the defense forces, commanded by gen. manuel antonio noriega, would not do anything to provoke an excuse for a u.s. invasion. the united states has demanded that noriega, under federal indictment in florida on drug-trafficking charges, resign
in its statement the government said, ``aware of the overwhelming power threatening it, the republic of panama ... will not provide the foundation for fabrication of a charge of aggression that could pretent to justify the launching of acts of war.''
the last act of gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial begins monday with attorneys' final arguments, wrapping up a historical drama involving charges of obstruction of justice and misuse of state funds
if the arizona senate votes against him, mecham would become the seventh u.s. governor removed from office by impeachment. the vote could come as early as monday
it would take a two-thirds vote or 20 of the senators to convict mecham, who has only been in office a little more than a year. the body then could take a second vote and bar him from holding state office again
if he is acquitted, mecham would still face a recall election may 17. he also faces a criminal trial on felony charges associated with alleged concealment of a $350,000 campaign loan. that charge was included in the articles of impeachment but was thrown out by senators last week in a surprise vote
the first impeachment charge alleges that mecham, 63, obstructed justice by impeding an attorney general's investigation of an alleged death threat on a grand jury witness by one of mecham's staff members. the witness, a former mecham aide, had agreed to testify about mecham's campaign finances
in the second charge, he is accused of illegally lending public funds _ $80,000 from a protocol fund _ to his auto dealership
an underlying question is whether either of the charges, if sustained, constitutes ``high crimes, malfeasance and misdeameanors,'' the requirement for removing an elected official
the prosecution, in a trial memorandum, urged senators to convict mecham
the criminal acts and the acts of abuse of power, breach of public trust, neglect of duty and obstruction of justice demand that gov. mecham be removed from office,'' they said
defense lawyers said they would respond with written arguments monday. but after five weeks of testimony, the respective positions are clear
prosecutors say the first-term republican governor instructed the state's top lawman, ralph milstead, not to cooperate with an attorney general's investigation of the alleged death threat
mecham, who says he was politically ``at war'' with the attorney general, concedes he may have said something like that but insists he acted out of ignorance of the facts. mecham claims no one told him details of the alleged threat
a key issue is the credibility of several witnesses, the key ones being mecham and milstead
the second charge involves money. mecham says money raised by his inaugural committee to pay off his campaign debts always remained private money even after a law prevented its use for its original purpose. the prosecution says it became public money when it was placed in a protocol fund to pay for gifts to visiting dignitaries and events enhancing the image of arizona
undisputed is the fact that mecham loaned $80,000 from the fund to his car dealership, did not record the deed of trust and paid it back three months later with interest when another campaign finance scandal erupted over the $350,000 loan
prosecutors will say that mecham's loan was unethical and illegal. defense lawyers will say it was legal and for the good of the state. mecham has contended his only motive was to increase the fund by paying higher interest than it was getting at a bank, disputing the prosecution's contention that the dealership was in financial difficulty and needed the money
arguments were expected to take about two hours, with each side speaking a half hour on each charge
the procedure of the senators voting on each charge separately could be lengthy, whether it starts monday or tuesday. unlike jurors in a court trial, the 30 senators each get 15 minutes to explain their votes. graf pvs: ``during this lenten...</note>
a panamanian military vehicle tried to stop the chauffeur-driven limousine of u.s. ambassador arthur davis on sunday but the diplomat continued on to his residence, the u.s. embassy reported
it called the incident ``serious.''
the effort to stop the ambassador came after panamanians rich and poor attended church services observing a somber easter in the crisis over the refusal of gen. manuel antonio noriega to resign
noriega commands the 15,000-member defense forces and as the military strongman is the power behind the civilian government. he is under indictment by a federal grand jury in florida, and has rejected u.s. demands that he resign
terence kneebone, a u.s. embassy spokesman, said davis had visited the vatican ambassador and was leaving in his car when a military ``vehicle began following immediately, picking them up right outside the gate
it followed them down balboa avenue, then tried to stop them with lights and sirens. the ambassador's driver, in accordance with instructions, did not stop. the ambassador was driven to his residence, and the other vehicle followed all the way.''
we consider this serious,'' kneebone added. he said that would be the embassy's only characterization of the incident and referred any further questions to the state department in washington
kneebone said davis had gone to call on the papal nuncio, monsignor jose sebastian laboa, to pay his respects on easter sunday. the spokesman noted that the papal ambassador is the dean of the diplomatic corps in panama
the distance between laboa's residence and the american ambassador's home is about two miles
sunday's edition of the military-run newspaper la republica carried a front-page picture of davis with a caption that said he did not venture from his residence unless he was ``armed to the teeth.''
a brief article accused the ambassador of ``exaggerating'' any possible threat to his personal security and said he suffered from either ``a persecution complex'' or ``guilty conscience.''
the incident came only three days after the panamanian government said the defense forces would not do anything to provoke an excuse for a u.s. invasion
aware of the overwhelming power threatening it, the republic of panama ... will not provide the foundation for fabrication of a charge of aggression that could pretend to justify the launching of acts of war,'' the government said
the united states has more than 10,000 military personnel in panama under the panamanian-based u.s. southern command. the reagan administration said friday it would sent 1,300 additional soldiers and marines to panama this week to reinforce security for americans and u.s.facilities in the country
in a televised mass, monsignor marcos a. mcgrath, the roman catholic archbishop of panama city, said, ``this sunday of the resurrection of 1988 is particularly dramatic for us.''
during this lenten season, we have suffered strong divisions, tensions among the panamanian people,'' he said. ``we have suffered many privations
in these final days of holy week, half of panama has been fasting because it has no food, and the other half has been fasting in sympathy with them.''
the country's economy has foundered since march 4 when noriega closed banks to prevent a run on cash made scarce by u.s. sanctions. the economic chaos was aggravated by a two-week-old general strike that closed down an estimated 90 percent of the country's business and industry
protesters have taken to the streets, and noriega's troops have responded with force
the strike eased late last week, with some groceries and pharmacies opening, reportedly under government pressure. opposition leaders have not formally called off the strike and were to meet sunday and monday to discuss whether to continue it
at a mass at cristo rey church, the rev. xavier villanueva, an outspoken noriega foe, urged catholics to support a recent call by panama's nine bishops for the general's resignation
the congregation broke into applause and many waved white handkerchiefs, which have become a symbol of dissent in panama's crisis
in his easter homily, mcgrath spoke of the nation's ``social decomposition.'' he referred to ``the reality of disintegrating homes, the reality of a people increasingly losing confidence in their leaders, the reality of a community misinformed by the partisanizing and falsifying of the news.''
the crisis, which had been building for months, erupted in late february when then-president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire noriega, who had been indicted in the united states on drug-trafficking charges. delvalle's move backfired when noriega dismissed him
the quest for votes in tuesday's wisconsin primary took democratic presidential candidate paul simon to the bunny trail at a local park sunday
the illinois senator was surrounded by young and old as he appeared at wingra park during the traditional easter egg hunt. one little boy presented simon with a colored egg
simon, shown in the latest polls to be trailing far behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and jesse jackson in the wisconsin race, urged the youngsters to tell their parents to vote, and told voting-age onlookers to be sure to cast ballots on tuesday
he said his experience and his proposals for helping the poor and providing long-term health care separate him from other democratic candidates
i share (jackson's) passion for the less fortunate,'' simon said. ``i offer not only passion, but the experience to do something about it.''
as for dukakis, simon said, ``we need something more than a good manager...i have the experience with national issues that, frankly, mike doesn't have.''
simon said the nation has suffered because of the lack of experience on the part of another former governor: president reagan
the people ought to ask the basic question, `who would make the best president?' and vote on it,'' he said. power outages in michigan; no injuries. picks up 6th graf, `hail as ...'</note>
thunderstorms developed sunday in the midwest and lower ohio valley, spawning at least three tornadoes and pounding parts of indiana with large hail, and wet weather extended over much of the eastern third of the nation
another storm system spread rain across the pacific northwest with snow in the mountains
thunderstorms broke out in parts of northern illinois, indiana and michigan and moved into western ohio during the afternoon
a tornado touched down near waldron, mich., just north of the ohio border, and several barns and other buildings were reported down, the weather service said. later, two tornadoes touched down in clayton and near wixom in southeastern michigan, destroying a barn and damaging a garage. no injuries were reported
elsewhere in michigan, one-inch hail fell at texas corners in kalamazoo county and wind gusted to 59 mph, accompanied by heavy rain, in ottawa county
the storm knocked out power to about 6,000 consumers power co. customers sunday, with jackson the hardest-hit area. detroit edison co. also reported scattered outages
hail as big as golf balls fell near lafayette and walkerton, ind., with hail 1.5 inches in diameter at rockville, ind. one-inch hail was reported at portage, ind., 30 miles southeast of downtown chicago, accompanied by wind gusting to 40 mph
thunderstorms also extended into western kentucky and northwestern tennessee with heavy rain, gusty wind and hail
outside the thunderstorm area, rain was were scattered from southern wisconsin into northern lower michigan and from the eastern great lakes into the tennessee valley
showers and thunderstorms continued to move along the central gulf coast and became scattered across parts of georgia and the carolinas
but the rain abated in southeastern louisiana, where some new orleans suburbs were hit saturday by tornado damage and flooding caused by 8 inches of rain in 12 hours. most streets were dry but the red cross said about 70 evacuees remained in a shelter sunday
elsewhere, showers and a few thunderstorms were scattered across the pacific northwest. the showers were scattered along coastal areas of washington and oregon into northern california, as well as across the idaho panhandle. snow showers were reported at higher elevations of the cascades
on the leading edge of that weather system, strong gusty wind blew across parts of montana, reaching 55 mph at livingston and 48 mph at cut bank
the temperature at dickinson, n.d., rose to a record high of 72 degrees
temperatures around the nation at 3 p.m. edt ranged from 36 degrees at duluth, minn., to 91 at cotulla, texas. the low for the day was 17 degrees at gunnison, colo
for monday, showers and a few thunderstorms were forecast from the eastern great lakes into northern and central new england, with scattered showers from the northern great lakes region through the upper ohio valley and middle atlantic coast. showers and scattered thunderstorms also were forecast from the central gulf coast into the southern atlantic region. scattered showers were forecast from the pacific northwest into the northern rockies, with snow showers in northwestern montana
highs in the 40s were predicted across northeastern washington into northwestern montana; in the 50s from the northern third of the pacific coast inland to the rockies, and in the northern great lakes and much of maine; in the 80s from the desert southwest to parts of central kansas, the southern plains and lower mississippi valley into florida; in the low 90s across southwestern arizona and much of western texas; and in the 60s or 70s across most of the rest of the nation. saturday.</note>
a gunman early sunday killed four people and seriously wounded a young woman, but two children found with them inside a mobile home were unhurt, authorities said
a man whose truck fit the description of one seen fleeing the scene was held for questioning, but he hadn't been booked in connection with the crimes by late sunday afternoon, riverside county sheriff's investigators said
brett alexander hale, 28, was hiding in brush when captured in colton, 10 miles from the shooting scene, after passers-by called authorities to report a man acting suspiciously, sheriff's lt. jan duke said
the killings were believed to be the work of a single gunman, ms. duke said, but she refused to elaborate
we're not far enough into it to have any motive,'' she said
two children, who appeared to be about 2 and 5 years old, were found unharmed at the home, duke said
a woman identified as elizabeth kimmett, 18, was found seriously wounded at the home but was expected to live, ms. duke said. the name of the hospital was withheld as a security precaution
the bodies of two men and two women were found in the mobile home, which neighbors said was occupied by a couple in their 20s and their two young children. investigators had not identified any of the four dead people by sunday afternoon
officers found the bodies about 5:50 a.m. sunday after a caller, believed to be ms. kimmett, reported an assault in progress, ms. duke said
the mobile home sits behind a larger house on a dusty street in a semirural area 50 miles east of los angeles. a sign outside identified the property as lorrue kennels, and neighbors said the couple groomed and boarded dogs
a town marshal who said he'd been kidnapped by burglars faked his highly publicized disappearance last week, a mississippi highway patrol investigator said
there was an attempted burglary at a local convenience store, but marshal gary stokes _ the town's only full-time policeman _ fabricated the tale of his abduction, state patrol investigator larry rickels said saturday
rickels said he had not uncovered a motive for the phony abduction
stokes could not be reached for comment sunday because his telephone was busy. his stepmother, mary stokes, said she was surprised by the investigator's finding, but didn't feel residents would be angry at her stepson because most were just glad he had returned unharmed
stokes, 35, disappeared about 12:55 a.m. thursday after calling for back-up units while investigating an attempted burglary in this northeastern mississippi town of 860 residents
police arriving at the store found his car with the engine still running, the lights on and his radio microphone hanging outside the door. his revolver and billfold were found nearby
stokes reappeared friday morning after claiming to have escaped from his captors
i knew i was done for anyway and i had nothing to lose,'' stokes said at the time. ``when they let me out of the trunk, i hit the ground running and i didn't look back.''
he told reporters that he was ``still nervous and kind of shook up. they had said several times they were going to kill me, and i believed them.''
rickels, however, said stokes apparently spent the night in the woods or an abandoned house in union county before turning up friday
in addition, the attempted burglary actually occurred thursday afternoon, much earlier than the alleged abduction, rickels said
stokes' pistol had been fired, but somewhere other than near his squad car, rickels said. stokes claimed the gun went off in a struggle with his captors
lawmen used tracking dogs in the rain as they searched for stokes in rural areas surrounding blue mountain on thursday and well into the night
rickels said he will discuss his findings with the district attorney. picks up in 3rd graf, `marugg died ...' subs 5th graf from end, `she recalled ...,' to insert that police asked inventor in early 1950s to come up with device.</note>
there was a time when the only boots associated with this city were cowboy and ski boots, but that changed more than 30 years ago when police asked an inventor to make a device that would immobilize a parked car
in his small pattern-making shop in west denver, frank p. marugg designed a 12-pound, jawlike clamp that was first used by the denver police department in 1955
marugg died 15 years ago, but his denver boot continues to torment parking violators and scofflaws. many u.s. cities use the original denver boot or a variation, and it also has been used in japan, israel and england
denver city and county officials were enthusiastic about the boot from the start. some 200 denver boots are used in the metro area ``and we're ordering more,'' said sgt. chuck espinoza, chief of the boot detail for the denver county sheriff's department
the county employs four full-time booters who seek out cars registered to motorists who haven't paid fines. once a car is located, it takes about 19 seconds to fasten one of the 12-pound boots over the front wheel, said espinoza
the jaw-like clamp covers the hubcap, making it impossible to remove the tire; trying to drive with the boot can severely damage a tire. the denver boot is made of an aluminum alloy with a breaking strength of 32,000 pounds per square inch
espinoza said the boots _ which are clamped on cars about 40 or 50 times a day in denver _ add $1.5 million each year to the city and county's general fund. motorist can get ``de-booted'' only by paying all fines
marugg's daughter grace berg, who has taken over the manufacturing and marketing of her father's most famous invention, said last week, ``they've been unable to improve on it.''
berg, 62, runs the company out of her suburban home. a foundry pours the metal parts and a mechanic assembles them
she recalled how the denver police asked her father in the early 1950s for a device to eliminate the need to tow
they were running out of space in the city garages, and it also relieved the problem of inventorying each car that was towed in,'' she said
berg said she sells between 50 and 100 boots a year and charges $275 apiece. denver gets a special rate, she said, because it buys so many
it's not a fast-moving object _ they usually last a long time,'' said berg
berg said she also sells many boots to parking garage owners in new york city, and a few to owners of expensive cars who want to protect them from thieves. with houston protest, california ceremonies; picks up 10th graf pvs, `new york ...'</note>
giggling hordes of children raced to find easter eggs sunday, a day that drew millions of americans to church services, and for some it was a day to welcome spring with a day in the park or a strut down the avenue
and there were some who devoted the day to helping others, like 80-year-old virginia quinn, who went to an early mass so she could drive her rounds delivering hot meals to 22 shut-ins for the meals on wheels program in lawrenceville, n.j
the volunteers are the backbone of the organization. that becomes apparent on holidays,'' said program director carol baker
easter egg hunts are getting bigger and bigger
organizers of one program at wheeler historic farm park at salt lake city estimated that twice as many children would show up as participated last year, so they stocked up on 3,000 bags of candy and peanuts, and hid about 4,500 colored eggs. however, about 5,000 children lined up for the candy
and then there was the egg hunt. ``when we cut them loose and they ran out there, you couldn't see the hayfield for all the people,'' said joe anderson, an officer in the union lions club
in texas, officials hid more than 10,000 easter eggs on the dallas arboretum grounds
across the state in austin, city park officials used bullhorns to urge the crowd to hold back until the go-ahead signal, but nearly 2,000 children stampeded in search of easter eggs, candy and prizes in waterloo park during the 10th annual easter eggstravaganza
in houston, between 75 and 200 gay rights supporters attended services at the second baptist church to protest the exclusion of a french horn player with aids and tuberculosis who had been scheduled to perform at the service
president reagan and his wife, nancy, spent a quiet easter at their secluded ranch in the santa ynez mountains outside santa barbara. they did not attend church, and there was no gathering of relatives
elsewhere in california, motorcyclists participated in san jose's annual ``blessing of the bikes'' and the rev. cecil williams of san francisco's glide memorial united methodist church symbolically attacked the burgeoning cocaine trade with a cross, which he jabbed through a white papier-mache sphere
and about 12,000 people awoke before dawn to attend the 68th traditional easter sunrise service at the hollywood bowl
new york city's fifth avenue was closed to traffic in midtown manhattan for the annual easter parade of people displaying their holiday finery and bonnets
about 2,000 people braved cloudy weather for philadelphia's easter promenade, strolling up and down walnut street near fashionable rittenhouse square while several bands took turns serenading the crowd
i'm having a great time. the kids have been really great,'' said lynn folkman, dressed as an easter bunny to hand out coconut cream eggs to children. she said six city employees volunteered to hit the bunny trail for the day
judges pinned ribbons on anyone wearing appealing outfits or hats. the people with ribbons were invited to a final judging on the square
at a less festive site, a group of inmates sentenced to life in new jersey's rahway state prison threw a small party in a room set aside in the visiting area for other inmates' children, said joseph papciak, an associate member of the group and its executive secretary
five or six members who don't get visitors entertained the children with easter eggs and things like that,'' said papciak, 37, who has served 14 years of a 25-year sentence for armed robbery
archbishop torkom manoogian, primate of the armenian church of america, released a white dove in new york city in honor of st. grigoris of karabagh, who brought christianity to armenia. the archbishop also said a prayer for armenians in the soviet union trying to reunite their homeland
roman catholic homosexuals chanting ``shame! shame!'' to protest their exclusion from the church greeted cardinal john j. o'connor when he emerged from st. patrick's cathedral in new york city after his easter homily
eighteen people objecting to the cardinal's stance on homosexuality were arrested and charged with disorderly conduct when they ignored orders to move from in front of the church
after the mass, o'connor told reporters that anyone willing to accord with the church's teachings was welcome. ``many of the people who were demonstrating today tell me the church should change its teachings. the church isn't going to change its teachings,'' he said
in chicago, homeless demonstrators attended easter services at a church whose pastor is chairman of the chicago housing authority's board
the things that christ died for are very much in existence today,'' said carolyn milligan, a spokeswoman for the chicago-gary area union for the homeless, an advocacy group for the area's estimated 25,000 homeless people
the rev. b. herbert martin, chairman of the authority's board and pastor of the non-denominational progressive community church, welcomed the homeless to his service. in january, he chained himself to the front of the local offices of the federal department of housing and urban development out of what he said was frustration with federal unresponsiveness to the needs of low-income tenants
a majority of democrats and voters leaning toward the party say jesse jackson should get the democratic nomination if he leads in delegates at the time of the convention, according to a newsweek poll released sunday
sixty-six percent of those polled said that if jackson had more delegates and more of the popular vote than the other democratic candidates _ but not enough to win the democratic nomination outright _ the party's other candidates should rally behind him
a total of 20 percent said the other candidates should not rally behind him, the poll said
seventy-two percent of the respondents said there is no one other than the current candidates whom they would prefer to see running for the presidency. only 8 percent favored new york gov. mario cuomo getting into the race, and sens. bill bradley and sam nunn had the support of 1 percent each
despite the hefty majority saying jackson should get the nomination if he has the most delegates, his negative ratings remain high, and gov. michael dukakis runs stronger against vice president george bush than he does
jackson got a favorable rating from 53 percent of those polled, with 38 percent saying they had an unfavorable opinion of him. in a newsweek poll conducted in april 1987, 51 percent said their opinion of jackson was favorable; 41 percent said they viewed him unfavorably
thirteen percent of the respondents in sunday's survey described their opinion of jackson as ``very favorable'' and 40 percent said their view of him was ``mostly favorable.'' twenty-four percent said their opinion of him was ``mostly unfavorable,'' with 14 percent saying it was ``very unfavorable.''
a survey of registered democratic and republican voters showed bush leading dukakis 49 percent to 44 percent; bush was favored over jackson 58 percent to 32 percent, according to newsweek
in the poll, jackson got high marks for honesty, his stand on social issues and leadership ability
seventy-two percent said they feel he is ``honest and sincere''; 60 percent said he's a ``champion of social justice''; and 56 percent said he ``would be a strong and forceful leader.''
at the other end of the spectrum, 25 percent said he ``creates bad feelings between blacks and jews'' and 34 percent said he ``can manage the federal government.''
fifty-seven percent said that if jackson were the vice-presidential nominee, they would be neither more nor less likely to vote democratic in the upcoming election
the gallup organization interviewed 757 registered voters, including 366 democrats or leaning democrats by telephone march 30 and 31
the margin of error for questions directed at democrats and democratic leaners was 6 percentage points. for questions directed at democrats and republicans, the margin of error was 4 percentage points. nine other detained soldiers fled, other detail; no pickup</note>
troops raided the seaside vacation house of opposition sen. juan ponce enrile on sunday but failed to find the leader of an august coup attempt who fled his prison ship, the military said
a manila paper, meanwhile, reported that nine other officers believed to be involved in past coup attempts had fled a detention center on saturday. the report could not be confirmed
the raid on enrile's house in batangas province, southwest of manila, was part of as nationwide search for former lt. col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan, leader of the aug. 28 coup attempt that nearly toppled the aquino government, said military officials
honasan, 39, escaped from a prison ship before dawn saturday with 14 elite navy personnel who were supposed to be guarding him. he had been confined there since his arrest dec. 9 for the attempted coup that left at least 53 people dead and hundreds wounded
president corazon aquino, who had refused to grant amnesty to honasan, warned soldiers and civilians not to aid the charismatic former colonel, who is popular among many in the 160,000-member armed forces
honasan served as chief of security at the defense ministry when enrile was defense chief. enrile told reporters sunday he had not heard from honasan since the escape
i'm beginning to sense that they treat me as an enemy,'' said enrile, who was fired in november 1986, after an alleged coup attempt by his followers. ``why don't they say it openly and publicly?''
chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered a nationwide alert in the wake of honasan's escape and warned that leftist and rightist extremists may try to exploit the confusion created by the former colonel's dramatic flight
trucks blocked all entrances to military garrisons in the capital, and troops refused to allow reporters and other civilians to enter the compounds
police set up checkpoints on the outskirts of manila and placed homes of honasan's friends and associates under surveillance. extra troops were deployed around the presidential palace
de villa also ordered troops on alert in central and southern philippine islands in case disgruntled officers and politicians try to exploit the volatile situation in manila and stage attacks against government installations
the philippine daily inquirer reported monday that nine other soldiers held in connection with coup attempts last august and in january 1987 had fled the detention center at manila's villamor air base early saturday. the report could not be immediately confirmed
the newspaper quoted an unidentified air force officer as confirming the escape. the newspaper said the villamor incident strengthened speculation that honasan's escape was part of a broad conspiracy within the armed forces
manila newspapers also reported leaflets were circulating in military camps calling for the overthrow of the government. the leaflets allegedly were from honasan's reform the armed forces movement, the papers said
meanwhile, investigators said honasan and the others apparently fled the prison ship aboard rubber dinghies and came ashore near the folk arts center, a few hundred meters from the headquarters of the philippine navy
they then boarded seven cars which had been waiting for them, investigators said
the philippine daily globe reported monday that honasan left behind a note when he fled the ship saying he was escaping because ``the struggle for a better afp (armed forces of the philippines) must go on.''
honasan played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986, civilian-military uprising that toppled president ferdinand marcos and brought mrs. aquino to power. but he later accused mrs. aquino of weak and inept leadership in the face of the communist insurgency
lawyers may be close to a settlement that will compensate millions of people who bought kodak instant cameras but now can't get film, according to a published report
the chicago tribune, in its monday editions, said a settlement in cook county circuit court is expected in the next few weeks
serious negotiations are under way,'' william j. campbell jr., an attorney for eastman kodak co., told the tribune. he refused to comment further
a class-action lawsuit was brought against kodak more than two years ago on behalf of consumers who purchased instant cameras from 1976 through 1985, but who haven't been able to get film for the last three years because polaroid corp. sued kodak for patent infringement
william harte, attorney for the plaintiffs, said 16.5 million people bought the cameras, and about 4 million of those have been identified
the patent infringement suit brought by polaroid in federal court in boston led to a permanent injunction on sept. 13, 1985, that barred kodak from continuing to sell the instant cameras and film
harte's lawsuit, filed in circuit court on jan. 21, 1986, accuses kodak of failing to tell consumers that film might become unavailable. polaroid sued kodak shortly after it began marketing the instant camera in 1976
cook county circuit judge thomas rakowski had barred kodak from negotiating individual settlements with individual plaintiffs
about 300 maoist guerrillas raided a mountain town, driving the police into hiding, burning several government buildings and killing a police captive, the interior ministry reported sunday
it said 15 policemen stationed in panao, 200 miles northeast of lima, fled as the rebels attacked at dusk saturday, but one officer was captured and shot to death. the ministry communique said it was believed the other policemen were in hiding in the surrounding forests and reinforcements had been sent to the area
the raid was one of the largest carried out by the shining path guerrillas since they began their insurgency eight years ago
according to the communique, the rebels held the town for about two hours, burning government buildings and then escaping
police in huancayo, a strategic andes city 130 miles east of lima, told the associated press that the guerrillas used explosives to destroy railroad tracks on the outskirts of panao, cutting rail traffic with lima for 24 hours. ...' to insert date of birth.</note>
margie had a little lamb, little lamb, little lamb
then another and another
now, bill and marge lange's rare quintuplet lambs are the star attraction in this small town in southeastern north dakota
it was like grand central station,'' mrs. lange said. ``the day after they were born we had 10 people call to see if they were all right. i've had people bring their kids from town to see the lambs.''
the ewe was perplexed when she first got up and saw all those babies,'' she said. ``she looked one way and then the other. it was unreal.''
lamb quints are a rare event, occuring about once in 600,000 deliveries, said bert moore, professor of animal and range science at north dakota state university
the four females and one male, born march 24, are all healthy and hungry, mrs. lange said. the five are being fed by the ewe and bottle-fed with lamb milk replacement by mrs. lange, who said she feels like a mother again
i was a nervous wreck the first two days, but i'm fine now,'' she said. ``saturday night i had to go somewhere, so i called a babysitter to take care of my lambs. i get up every four hours at night to feed them. but they're eating more and more hay and oats, so soon i'll just feed them once a night.''
fecundity is in the bloodline. the sire and the ewe were both triplets, so there's no telling how large a litter the newborn lambs may eventually have, mrs. lange said
u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci ended a three-day visit to morocco sunday after meetings with king hassan ii and other officials
carlucci, who then departed on a flight to india, called his meetings ``very satisfying.''
my talks with his majesty the king did not deal with details such as the economy or military assistance, but rather on strategic questions and on the general lines of our bilateral relations,'' he told a news conference
carlucci said he didn't discuss with hassan the 1982 agreement that allows u.s. forces to use moroccan bases in case of threats to the interests of both countries. the pact expires in two months
our ambassador recently made proposals on this subject, proposals which concern notably an increase in the number of maneuvers and military exercises,'' the defense secretary said
he added the moroccan government is still studying the proposals
carlucci is scheduled to visit india and pakistan, then return to north africa for a stop in tunisia and fly back to washington on saturday
defense minister yitzhak rabin on sunday denied a published report that israel agreed to sell advanced missile technology to china
the sunday times of london reported that five israeli military specialists secretly went to china in november and struck a deal to supply china with missile warheads and armor-piercing devices developed by israel
it said there were indications israel has been helping china develop a combat fighter plane using technology derived from israel's canceled lavi jet fighter
the report that we assist china to develop ground-to-ground missiles is simply nonsense,'' rabin told israel radio. ``there is no basis to the report as it was published today.''
rabin also denied israel was helping china develop a warplane with lavi technology
development of the lavi, financed mainly by the united states, was canceled last year after washington complained about delays and rising costs
israel and china do not have diplomatic relations. news digest: undated _ political rdp; aspen, colo. _ jackson in aspen; mytilene, greece _ dukakis-greek roots; undated _ r is for ritalin i; tripoli, libya _ libya-gadhafi; panama city, panama _ panama-noriega; chicago _ for the birds; undated _ cities-parking fines; jerusalem _ israel-unrest; san quentin, calif. _ larry singleton; wausau, wis. _ family slain; manila, philippines _ philippines-communists. ^by the associated press</note>
christians worldwide looked beyond global strife on easter sunday, braving unrest in the holy land and praying in england for an end to northern ireland's religious bloodshed
in his traditional easter address in vatican city, pope john paul ii told 100,000 people in st. peter's square and a broadcast audience of millions to remember people around the world who suffer from injustice and war
pray for peace in the world, for justice, pray for the rights of man, especially for religious freedom,'' he said
under police and army guard, pilgrims from around the world gathered at dawn for easter sunday services in the church marking the site where most christians believe jesus rose from the dead
about 1,000 worshipers _ half as many as last year _ attended services in the 12th century church of the holy sepulcher, church officials said
many pilgrims were scared away by four months of almost daily violence in the israeli-occupied territories that have left more than 130 palestinians and one israeli soldier dead. the greek orthodox church canceled three pre-easter processions scheduled for the weekend
india could surpass china as the world's most populous nation in the not too distant future, the census bureau says
china has long been the world's most heavily populated nation, currently containing one in five of the earth's people
but, ``the time is now forseeable when india will take over the number one spot, reflecting a population growth rate that is nearly twice as high as china's,'' the bureau reported sunday
police watched over easter sunday services in the city's impoverished south-central neighborhoods, attempting to reassure churchgoers shocked by a good friday street gang shooting that ranked among the city's worst
the decent people in the community have a right to see us around every once in a while,'' said sgt. jack davenport, adding that his officers were ordered to make their presence known near churches
i'm pleased,'' said osmond lindo, pastor of vermont square united methodist church, when he heard two officers had parked out front and looked in briefly on his service. ``we need to let the thugs in our city know they cannot dominate our city.''
iraqi troops killed 400 kurdish civilians who had been injured in a chemical-bomb attack and were trying to reach a hospital, a kurdish guerrilla leader said sunday
the report could not be independently confirmed. neither iraq nor iran, which backs the iraqi kurdish separatists, had immediate comment
iraq, meanwhile, said its warplanes raided two iranian refineries sunday but iran said the bombs hit residential areas, killing 10 civilians and wounding 50
lebanon, long known as a supplier of hashish, has become one of the world's big heroin centers in the past few years as its economy and central government have collapsed, u.s. officials said
almost all the militias are involved in some way in the trafficking of drugs,'' one intelligence official said
several officials _ from the cia, the drug enforcement agency and the state department _ agreed to provide an overview of the drug situation in lebanon on the condition their names not be used
federally supported mental health services have suffered crippling cuts in staff and dollars during the reagan administration, and the programs should be restored to pre-1981 levels or higher, a bipartisan house committee says in a report released sunday
the report, issued by the government operations committee, says the government is spending billions of dollars a year on mental health services that often are fragmented, inappropriate, ineffective or desperately lacking
the committee also accused the office of management and budget of dictating a staff cut of 88 percent at one mental health division and says the budget-writing agency must not be allowed to set staffing levels
having hooked area markets and restaurants with her pitch for locally-grown fish, marilyn doane has netted the first profits from the trout-farming business she began three years ago
a venture that started with 1,000 fingerlings now operates on a bigger scale: 42,000 fish, 17 ponds and some 35 commercial customers in the grand rapids area
doane's country lane fisheries also has begun showing a little profit for the former carpenter
it turned around in january; i made $6,'' doane said
before starting her fishery, the 38-year-old doane knew little about the fish-farming business
she was a trained secretary, who along with her husband roger built and operated a mobile home park while also operating their own heavy construction equipment. they sold the park in 1981 and moved to alaska _ flying in a restored 1947 fabric-covered airplane _ and on returning bought a 30-acre topsoil farm in belmont, just north of grand rapids
the couple rented out a house to a biologist and an ichthyologist, who said their farmland was just right for raising trout, a fish that likes cool water year-round
the observations spawned the idea for a trout farm
marilyn doane took an intensive, two-week course in cold-water fish hatching at the national fisheries academy in traverse city and gave up her carpentry job to go into the business
she started with 1,000 fingerlings and in a couple of years built a business that now sells about 3,000 fish a month, overcoming obstacles such as a 1986 dam break that flooded her ponds and cost her 6,000 fish
the business supplies 35 commercial customers, including 20 d&amp;w supermarkets in the grand rapids area, restaurants, country clubs and fish stores. doane is putting in more ponds and building an addition to her house for more efficient fish processing
its potential is almost beyond what i can imagine,'' doane said
her biggest sales point is that the fish are locally grown
the hot button in the food business is locally raised products,'' said john astma, d&amp;w's meat manager who promotes the fish with signs like ``marilyn's trout _ grown in belmont'' at the chain's fish counters
astma convinced d&amp;w executives to carry doane's trout in their stores by bringing the chain's president and vice president of marketing to the farm for a picnic. it cinched the deal
you just have to be there to understand what's going on,'' astma said
goodyear tire &amp; rubber co. is working with south korean officials to select a korean site for a planned automated plant that will produce automobile and light truck tires for asian markets
goodyear could not estimate the cost of the plant, plans for which were announced friday, said company spokesman hank ruppel
goodyear now ships u.s.-made tires to auto producers in japan and korea. but ruppel said the new foreign plant would not affect u.s. production because the asian market was expanding
goodyear, the world's largest tire manufacturer, has 88 plants in 27 nations, including seven in the pacific rim. goodyear's sales last year were $9.9 billion
the planned korean plant, which should be completed in spring 1991, will produce more than 3 million steel-belted radial tires annually
we need this factory to supply the expanding export requirement of goodyear's current business in asian markets other than south korea,'' said philip spanninger, goodyear director of technology and venture management. ``our sales to the japanese auto industry are growing rapidly.''
the company will export 75 percent of the tires made at the south korean plant to asian countries, primarily japan, and 25 percent would be for exported korean-built cars
ruppel said talks with south korean officials began about three years ago and the company applied last fall for permission to build the plant
he said the korean plant would be smaller than any of the company's u.s. facilities and its technology would be on par with that of some u.s. plants
campeau corp. has won its 2-month-old battle for federated department stores inc., but r.h. macy &amp; co. inc., campeau's rival for the nation's fifth largest retailer, will end up with two of federated's divisions
campeau will acquire federated for $73.50 a share, or a total of $6.58 billion, campeau and federated said in a statement friday
macy came away from the fight with the i. magnin chain and the bullock's and bullock's-wilshire operation, for which it would pay $1.1 billion
a supreme court justice stepped out of a legal dispute over the merger of the photofinishing operations of eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc. _ one he had entered a day before
justice byron r. white on friday vacated an emergency order he had issued thursday on the request of phototron corp., ruling that the request apparently was made too late
white had set aside a federal appeals court decision that cleared the way for the merger despite a pending antitrust challenge by phototron
the economy continued to grow in march on the strength of exporters, although at a slower pace than the previous month, the nation's purchasing managers said in a survey
the national association of purchasing management said sunday that its economic growth index fell to 53.3 percent last month from 54.9 percent in february, the lowest since a reading of 54.7 percent in april 1987
a reading above 50 percent indicates the economy generally is expanding. march was the 20th consecutive month above the break-even mark
washington _ (ap) _ the nation's unemployment rate fell to a new decade-low 5.6 percent in march even though there were 306,000 fewer americans at work than a month earlier, the government said
the drop from february's 5.7 percent rate was credited entirely to a 455,000 decrease in the number of people in the labor force _ those either holding jobs or seeking work _ raising inflationary alarms among some economists
it indicates that wages are not high enough to coax second earners out of the home any more,'' roger brinner, an analyst for data resources inc., an economic consulting firm in lexington, mass, said friday
construction spending fell for a third consecutive month in february, a 0.3 percent decline which reflected weakness in the housing sector, the government said
the commerce department reported friday that construction spending declined to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $391.5 billion in february following a 2.8 percent drop in january. in addition, the department revised the december figure to show a small decline of $100 million instead of a 0.4 percent increase
the reagan administration threatened a presidential veto of the newly minted congressional trade compromise unless major changes are made when lawmakers come back from their spring break
the administration said friday the president's hands would be tied unreasonably by provisions in the legislation calling for import curbs to retaliate for trade agreement violations
the united states announced that beginning july 1 it will eliminate duty-free imports on products worth $1.1 billion in 1987, shipped here from 140 third world countries
a u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity friday, said the decision would add $50 million to $100 million a year to the tariffs collected by the united states. it also will provide additional business to some u.s. producers by discouraging imports
american corporations that owe taxes to panama will be allowed the u.s. foreign tax credit if payments are made to the government of ousted president eric arturo delvalle, the internal revenue service said
the announcement, which was made on friday, was aimed at discouraging u.s. businesses from sending tax payments to the panamanian government controlled by military strongman manuel antonio noriega, which washington does not recognize
some large u.s.-based multinational firms recently made quarterly tax payments just in time to give that government a desperately needed infusion of cash
the chicago, missouri &amp; western railway co. filed for federal bankruptcy-court protection, citing a burdensome debt despite recent improvement in operations
but venango river corp., the cm&amp;w's chicago-based holding company, said friday there would be no disruption of service while the railroad awaits court appointment of a trustee to oversee operations and determine the company's best course
the government sued the nation's second largest meatpacker on a claim that it cheated tens of thousands of workers out of millions of dollars in overtime pay at 10 packinghouses in kansas, iowa, nebraska, minnesota and idaho
in a suit filed friday in kansas city, kan., the labor department accused ibp corp. of ``repeatedly and willfully'' violating laws requiring employers to pay hourly workers one and one-half times the normal wage for work beyond 40 hours a week
a national consumer group has lent support to an agriculture department plan for requiring the identification of hogs so that illegally high traces of drugs in their meat can be traced back to the farm
ellen haas, executive director of public voice for food and health policy, said in comments filed with usda this week that the proposal is in the best interests of consumers
improved methods to control and monitor dangerous chemical residues in the swine supply are sorely needed, and this measure will help meet this demand,'' she said
the dollar fell in domestic trading friday after steadying in europe as traders quit early to get a head start on the easter-passover holiday weekend
stock, bond and commodity markets were closed
the economy continued growing in march on the strength of export activity, although at a slower pace than in the previous month, according to a survey by the nation's purchasing managers
the national association of purchasing management said sunday that its economic growth index fell to 53.3 percent last month from 54.9 percent in february, the lowest since a reading of 54.7 percent in april 1987
a reading above 50 percent indicates the economy generally is expanding; a reading below that indicates it generally is declining. march was the 20th consecutive month above the break-even mark
the economy completed the first quarter with moderate, if not substantial, growth,'' robert j. bretz, chairman of the group's business survey committee, said in a statement
the healthy increase in new orders, particularly export orders, along with the anticipated slowing of price increases, signals continued improvement in the economy in the second quarter.''
march represented the 15th consecutive month of growth in new orders, according to the survey. thirty-two percent of the purchasing mangers polled reported higher levels of new orders, compared with 31 percent in february and 35 percent in january
of those whose companies export, 41 percent said their export orders were higher in march, while 3 percent said they were lower. that was up from 33 percent in february and 39 percent in january
the monthly report is based on a survey of more than 250 industrial purchasing managers who belong to the national organization
among other findings of the survey:
_production growth slowed from february, although it was at a level still considered very healthy. members who reported stronger production outweighed those reporting weaker, 32 percent to 8 percent
_deliveries from vendors slowed for the 18th consecutive month, a reflection of the slowdown in deliveries. twenty-three percent said they had slower deliveries, compared with 5 percent reporting faster
_inventories declined sharply after growing modestly in the past two months. twenty-three percent said they had lower inventories, vs. 10 percent who had higher
_fifty-five percent reported higher prices, compared with 64 percent in february, indicating a decline in inflation. three percent reported lower prices, up from 1 percent in february
_employment grew for an eighth straight month, although the results could be viewed as a slight decline considering normal seasonal increases expected in march
_prices rose for a wide variety of raw materials and fell for only a few, including fuel oil, natural gas, diesel fuel and chlorine
_products in short supply included aluminum, steel and other metals and a variety of chemicals. federated</head>
campeau corp. gained a major new presence in u.s. shopping malls by winning an agreement to acquire federated department stores inc., but will lose some of federated's diversity in the process
to help finance its $73.50 a share, $6.58 billion buyout of federated, toronto-based campeau said it would sell several other federated chains and one of its own holdings
but campeau initially will keep federated's ``crown jewel'' retailers _ bloomingdale's, rich's, lazarus, goldsmith's, burdines, and abraham &amp; straus _ that are seen as giving it a key foothold in u.s. malls
the combined federated-campeau will be the nation's fourth-largest retailer with annual sales of about $15 billion, trailing only sears, roebuck &amp; co., k mart corp. and wal-mart stores inc
analysts say a key campeau goal in the bitter, two-month battle against r.h. macy &amp; co. for control of cincinnati-based federated, which ended with friday's merger agreement, was to acquire real estate, especially in major malls
stores such as the federated crown jewels are regarded as ``anchors,'' the one or two major stores generally placed in a mall to attract shoppers
such heavyweights as bloomingdale's and lazarus, in addition to its present jordan marsh operations, give campeau instant entree to some malls while increasing its negotiating strength with developers of new malls
if you are an anchor tenant, you may get 10 to 20 per cent of a (shopping) center for free,'' said one industry analyst with a canadian firm, who asked not to be identified. ``if you were in a position to commit two or three choice anchors _ as campeau would be able to do _ you might get 30 to 40 per cent.''
the analyst noted robert campeau, chairman of campeau corp., built the company as a real estate and mall developer, and speculated campeau now could ``make a shopping center just by agreeing to locate the anchors.''
to acquire such benefits, campeau agreed to sell to macy the i. magnin i. magnin, bullock's and bullock's-wilshire operations of federated for $1.1 billion
campeau had agreed earlier in the takeover fight to sell its brooks brothers clothing chain _ which it acquired in its 1986 takeover of allied stores corp. _ to britain's marks &amp; spencer plc for $720 million
campeau also had agreed to sell federated's texas-based foley's and boston-based filene's department stores to may department stores co
furthermore, campeau has said already it would sell federated's filene's basement stores in response to antitrust concerns among several northeastern states, has plans to sell federated's supermarket and specialty store chains and widely is expected to sell other department store chains
the pattern mirrors the path campeau took after acquiring allied for $3.6 billion, when he sold most of the company's store operations to help pay off the debt incurred to make the deal
although the divestments stemming from the federated deal will enable campeau to make the transaction, some analysts say the sales will eliminate some of the variety that made federated such an attractive company at the outset
campeau's victory is a great one, but he's giving up a lot for it,'' said walter f. loeb, a retail industry analyst with the investment firm morgan stanley &amp; co
he's going to end up with just the core department stores and end federated's long tradition of diversity,'' loeb said
loeb and other analysts have said that by eliminating that diversity the campeau-federated coupling continued the recent trend toward ``sameness'' among the nation's big retailers
some industry watchers believe that under campeau, federated will consolidate operations such as purchasing and marketing that are now carried out separately by the federated units
that could dampen innovation created by having more retailers buying and experimenting with new merchandise, which fosters new styles and trends
