the leader of the august coup attempt that almost toppled the government of president corazon aquino escaped saturday from his prison ship in manila bay, the military announced
a statement said col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan fled at about 2:30 a.m. saturday (1:30 p.m. est friday) aboard two rubber boats along with 13 other people, including some of his guards
chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered a massive search for the 39-year-old honasan and alerted subordinate commands nationwide to be on the lookout for him
the charismatic former colonel had been detained on the navy ship since his arrest last december in a manila suburb
col. oscar florendo, chief military spokesman, said a reserve lieutenant who was frustrated over his inability to obtain a regular commission had aided in the getaway
florendo said the boats used in the escape had been sent to increase security after the military learned of a plot to free honasan
de villa immediately relieved the commander of the vessel, the rps andres bonifacio, and ordered his arrest, florendo said in a radio address. he appealed to the public to provide information to help recapture honasan
honasan, former chief of security at the defense ministry, played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986, mutiny which triggered the popular uprising that toppled president ferdinand marcos
but honasan became disillusioned with marcos' successor, president corazon aquino, accusing her of ``weak and inept'' leadership that fortified the 18-year-old communist insurgency
on aug. 28, honasan led a force of 2,000 men who attacked the presidential palace and seized several media and military installations in the capital before they were driven off by pro-aquino forces
the coup attempt left 53 people dead and wounded hundreds, and mrs. aquino said it was aimed at killing her and her family
honasan's effort was the most serious of several major plots to unseat mrs. aquino's government
military sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the former colonel was so popular that he had become the ``dominant figure'' aboard the ship which was supposed to be his prison
it is with sadness that the afp (armed forces of the philippines) makes public the unfortunate escape from custody of ex-col. gregorio honasan from his detention,'' florendo said in a statement. ``during a normal inspection of the ship, it was discovered that subject detainee together with his guards headed by lt. j.g. gerardo mojica and 12 enlisted personnel were found missing
initial investigation revealed that honasan was apparently assisted and joined by his guards led by lt j.g. mojica ... it is believed that bribery was a factor that led to the betrayal of their oath and sworn duty.''
florendo said de villa had alerted the military to take precautions to ensure that communist rebels did not take advantage of the confusion to launch ``terroristic actions.''
the spokesman said troops were being deployed around manila to search for honasan
florendo said the military received information a week ago that honasan would try to escape and it sent rubber boats to guard the ship
he said the military expected outsiders to try to storm the vessel but ``instead it came from the inside.''
honasan was security chief of the defense ministry when opposition sen. juan ponce enrile was minister of national defense. enrile was fired in november 1986 after the government said it thwarted a coup attempt by his followers
honasan remained in hiding for months after the august coup. brig. gen. ramon montano, commander of the national capital regional defense command, said weeks before the arrest that honasan was being protected by undisclosed civilian and military figures
stock prices rallied after two days of consecutive declines in tokyo saturday, boosted by favorable prospects for the new trading week, traders said
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues, which lost 156.04 points friday, gained 177.90 points, or 0.68 percent to end the week at 26,282.12
participants appeared optimistic about the market situation next week, although many of them sidestepped trading in the absence of direction, said an official of a major securities firm in tokyo, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
he attributed the lackluster trading to the easter weekend holiday observed in other asian markets
share prices were mixed with the volume of trade in the first section totaling 520 million shares during saturday's half-day session
popular issues were major chemical, steel and metal. automobiles and machineries also rose. department store, some construction and foostuff shares lost ground, traders said
the tokyo foreign stock exchange market is closed on saturdays. update with report on shultz' proposal to kidnap noriega, other measures. picks up 9th graf pvs bgng: pentagon officials ...</note>
the united states is sending about 1,300 additional military personnel to panama to improve security for american bases as well as u.s. civilians living there, the pentagon said friday
the move was being taken ``in view of the growing unrest and tension'' in panama, and should not be read as an indication of ``some kind of military action on the part of the united states,'' the pentagon said
however, cbs news reported friday night that the reagan administration was ``considering a plan to overthrow'' panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega, although the network said no decision has been made and the pentagon opposes such a proposal
there are already more than 10,000 u.s. troops in panama
while many of the troops to be dispatched are military police and other security specialists, army helicopter units also are being deployed to the troubled central american country, the pentagon said. the deployment will begin next week, the pentagon said
the move comes just one week after the defense department completed a buildup that had already doubled the number of security personnel guarding military bases in panama. it also comes four days after panamanian troops marched on a panama city hotel, confiscating the tapes of four u.s. television networks and briefly detaining several american journalists
cbs news reported friday night that the reagan administration was considering a proposal, advanced by the state department earlier this week, ``to overthrow noriega by triggering a new political crisis'' which would require the dispatching of two infantry brigades, or 8,000 combat troops, into panama
no decision has been made, the network said, noting that such a plan is opposed by secretary of defense frank carlucci and adm. william crowe, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff
the los angeles times reported in saturday editions that secretary of state george p. shultz and assistant secretary of state elliott abrams proposed a series of actions, including kidnapping noriega to bring him to the united states for trial, landing more than 3,000 troops in panama in a show of force and using the cia to organize a military coup
the newspaper reported that the proposals had been advanced at high-level meetings, and that the kidnapping plan, which startled other officials, had been shelved as unworkable. but the idea of fomenting a coup remained under consideration, the times said. the cia has prepared a draft presidential authorization for limited covert action against noriega, the newspaper reported
pentagon officials who demanded anonymity told the associated press late friday that the decision to send the additional troops came after a lengthy _ and vociferous _ debate within the administration
the sources confirmed that the state department had urged the president to send an even larger contingent of troops to panama, but that carlucci had counseled greater caution
the sources refused to say whether the state department wanted extra troops in panama to mount a military operation directly against noriega, or rather thought there was more of a threat to americans in the country
state department spokesman rudy boone said there was no comment on the cbs report. ``we have nothing on that,'' he said. white house spokesman ben jarratt also said he had no information on the report
the pentagon denied any plans to send more troops into panama. it described the upcoming troop movement as part of a continuing effort ``to enhance our security posture there.''
the instability of the current situation in panama; the heavy-handed tactics of noriega in dealing with the situation, and the potential for increased threats to u.s. citizens and interests in panama make this deployment essential at this time to ensure the continued safety of u.s. personnel and facilities.''
the defense department's prepared statement did not elaborate on who or what would be protected. but a ranking pentagon official said the troops ``will not be restricted to providing security at our bases.''
they will be able to go where they are needed to protect americans,'' said the official, who requested anonymity
this action is consistent with the panama canal treaty and is a reasonable and prudent effort to further safeguard the canal and u.s. lives, property and interests in the area,'' the pentagon's statement said
the pentagon said the buildup would be gradual, with the first contingent of troops leaving the united states next tuesday
this augmentation of u.s. southern command's security forces ... is expected to be completed by friday, april 8, 1988. further deployments will depend on circustances,'' the statement said
the units being sent to panama include an army battalion of military police; a reinforced company of marines; three air force air base ground defense units; two additional guard dog squads and an army aviation task force, the pentagon said
the aviation unit will include seven ah-1 cobra helicopter gunships along with 15 uh-60 blackhawk transports and four oh-58 kiowa observation copters, the pentagon said
the aircraft are to provide rapid transportation and highly mobile protection for the security forces if necessary,'' the pentagon said
the u.s. southern command, which has its headquarters in panama, had about 600 security personnel among the 10,000 servicemen assigned to it before the united states stepped up its campaign early last month to oust noriega
over a 10-day period that ended on march 24, the pentagon dispatched another 670 security personnel to panama for the stated purpose of protecting military facilities
besides the servicemen assigned to the southern command, there are about 13,000 military dependents in panama along with another 1,300 u.s. employees of the panama canal commission and their 2,600 dependents
the pentagon said friday that crowe, the joint chiefs chairman, had recommended additional security personnel be dispatched to panama ``in view of the growing unrest and tension.''
carlucci and president reagan subsequently agreed and the order was given, the pentagon said, adding the deployments should not be read as portending ``some kind of military action on the part of the united states.''
it is simply a prudent move to enhance security,'' the pentagon said
the defense department said the army mps would be drawn from fort meade, md., and fort bragg, n.c., while the army helicopter unit would come from the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif
the marine company will be dispatched from camp lejeune, n.c. the pentagon said it was not prepared friday to say where the air force ground defense units would deploy from
production companies responsible for such programs as johnny carson's ``tonight show'' have opened direct talks with the striking scriptwriters' union rather than wait for their own union to end the walkout
several dozen production units formally notified the writers guild they want to bargain, guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said friday
among those are carson productions and the academy of motion picture arts and sciences, which hopes to gain a few days of help from the scriptwriters before the oscar awards ceremony is broadcast april 11
the guild's 9,000 film and tv scriptwriters went on strike against the alliance of motion picture and television producers on march 7, seeking higher residuals and greater creative control
some of the companies seeking a contract include members of the alliance, rhoden said
we are compelled by law to bargain with them if they notify us that they want to,'' she said. ``these are companies which represent some projects that need to move forward immediately, or they could lose it.''
alliance spokesman herb steinberg said the talks were potentially embarrassing for the writers. ``it will result in some writers working, while others are still on the bricks,'' he said
steinberg and rhoden said that both sides are far apart and that there is no immediate prospect of returning to the bargaining table
meanwhile, representatives of the striking radio and tv commercial actors belonging to the screen actors guild and american federation of television and radio artists prepared to talk with negotiators representing advertisers
the two sides will meet under the auspices of a federal mediator in new york on april 6
the actors went on strike march 21 seeking more compensation from commercials shown on cable television and rejecting a management bid to eliminate a cost-of-living clause from their contract
salvage crews used three giant cranes to hoist a 114-foot sailing ship from the murky waters of boston harbor in a delicate operation some feared could destroy the historic square rigger
the 80-year-old barkentine regina maris was successfully refloated on the second attempt friday, 11 weeks after it sank at dockside in 30 feet of water
the knot left everybody's stomach'' as the ship came up, said david kenny, field superintendent of cashman co., which raised the ship
an early morning effort to lift the three-masted ship with cables around its hull was halted out of concern that one of the cables could damage it
with a ship this age and it being a wooden ship, we were concerned that if it wasn't lifted uniformly ... we would pull one of the lifting cables through the ship, so it was important that we lifted it evenly,'' said jim frye, managing director of the vessel's owners, marina bay of quincy. ``it was a little dramatic, to say the least.''
debris cluttered the deck and hung from the rigging, but the regina maris was free of visible damage
the $50,000 operation to refloat the ship took six weeks of planning, frye said
while in dry dock, the regina maris will be examined to try to determine what made it sink, he said. the ship sank jan. 15 in subfreezing temperatures
the danish-built former cargo vessel also has been used as a training and research ship. the owners plan to turn the vessel into a floating restaurant, said frye
here are the winning weekly state lottery numbers picked so far this week:
play 4: 7919
wednesday megabucks: 01; 06; 15; 17; 29; 33
pick 6 lotto: 03; 05; 15; 20; 24; 37. bonus: 04317
wednesday lotto 48 game: 04; 08; 18; 33; 38; 45. supplementary 41
big 4 lottery: 8263
grand lot game: 0-8-3; 5-2-9-5; 2-0-2-0-2; 9-4-7-8-6-9. ^by bryna brennan</byline>
a group of contra rebels, armed and uniformed, huddled in front of a wooden shack in an isolated mountain village. nearby, sandinista troops meandered down winding dirt roads
warily, they greeted the 60-day cease-fire that began friday
we are waiting,'' said a rebel leader known as comandante ernesto. ``we want a truce. this cease-fire is the first step toward peace.''
ernesto chatted with a group of contras at the edge of a small hamlet nestled in nuevo segovia province along the winding coco river, which farther north serves as the border with honduras
several children in tattered rags chased each other. the rich smell of coffee brewing on a wooden fire wafted in the damp morning air
we want to work, to live in peace,'' ernesto said
his bodyguards, armed with rifles and grenades and wearing u.s.-made camouflage uniforms, appeared jittery, a bit nervous
the unexpected cease-fire agreement was reached march 23 at the end of a three-day meeting between sandinista and contra leaders. it seeks to end more than six years of war
the heaviest fighting has been around here in la vigia, about 120 miles northeast of managua, and in other parts of the mountainous north
the agreement came as a surprise,'' said ernesto, 24. ``we heard about it by radio.''
the warring factions put a truce into place on march 21, the first day of the talks. but there were several violations reported by dissident contras oppposed to the cease-fire
ernesto repeated comments from other rebels that they will not lay down their arms
never,'' the rebel leader said. ``that's all we have.''
the agreement does not mention the laying down of arms. it calls on the rebels to move into still-to-be determined zones during the next two weeks. talks between the leaders are to continue until june 1 in an attempt to forge a lasting peace
ernesto said he joined the contras six years ago, fleeing from his home in san rafael de norte, about 100 miles north of managua
it was because of the lies the sandinistas told,'' he said. ``we still don't believe them, but we want democracy.''
about a mile down the road and throughout the countryside, heavily armed sandinista troops roamed. one soldier, toting a soviet grenade launcher, said the area had been quiet for the past few days
several troop trucks rambled along the bumpy, rock-strewn roads. atop several knolls, 122mm cannons and anti-aircraft guns rested at makeshift posts in the north
along the winding pan american highway, scores of villagers walked in easter processions friday, praying for peace
we have to have peace,'' said an elderly woman. ``we just want to live and work in peace.''
a defense ministry spokesman in managua said there were no reports of truce violations
banks, government offices, stores and most restaurants are closed until monday for the long easter weekend. managua's three newspapers stopped publishing over easter and many nicaraguans took off for pacific coast beaches
with most offices closed for good friday in predominantly roman catholic nicaragua, there was no comment from the government on president reagan's signing into law of a $48 million, non-lethal aid package for the contras
it will probably be two or more weeks before the rebels begin receiving supplies under the new legislation
u.s. aid to the contras ran out feb. 29 after reagan failed to secure additional military aid from congress
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said in washington friday, ``there certainly is an urgent need among the (rebels) for medical supplies, food, clothing, the basic commodities of life. this bill is very welcome in that regard.''
under the march 23 accord signed by the government and the contras, the sandinistas will grant freedom of expression and amnesty to political prisoners and will allow contra leaders a role in the political process
for their part, the contras will go to the cease-fire zones and accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization, such as the international red cross
in the colosseum, where tradition says ancient romans threw christian martyrs to the lions, pope john paul ii symbolically retraced jesus' walk to his crucifixion. the pope carried a black wooden cross
heading a torchlight procession in friday night's ceremony, the polish-born pontiff wore a white skullcap and gold-trimmed cape over a white cassock
vatican radio and italian state-run television carried the event live and people gathered by the tens of thousands to watch the via crucis, the way of the cross ritual that ends the saddest day of the roman catholic year
television said the spectacle was beamed to 27 countries on five continents
john paul pressed the cross, which weighed but one pound, to his forehead as he marked the 14 stations of the cross representing the physical suffering and mockery jesus endured on his way to death
the stations include the three times jesus fell under the weight of the cross, the placing of the crown of thorns and whipping by jailers
the pope began the walk inside the colosseum, climbed the cobblestone steps and ended at the roman forum, the ancient meeting place of the leaders of rome
thousands read from prayer booklets illuminated by candlelight as the procession took place
the pontiff earlier in the day heard confessions from 11 pilgrims and tourists in st. peter's basilica, a good friday tradition he began during his first easter week as pope in 1979
set your clock ahead an hour before retiring tonight
most of the nation returns to daylight time at 2 a.m. sunday, gaining an hour of evening light for cookouts and recreation
daylight time will remain in effect until oct. 30 this year, when that hour of lost sleep will be returned
an agriculture department plan to require the identification of hogs so that illegally high traces of drugs in their meat can be traced back to the farm has the support of a national consumer group
ellen haas, executive director of the washington-based public voice for food and health policy, said in comments filed with the department this week that the proposal is in the best interest of consumers
improved methods to control and monitor dangerous chemical residues in the swine supply are sorely needed, and this measure will help meet this demand,'' she said
the proposal was announced a month ago as part of a program to strengthen usda's inspection and monitoring of pork for illegally high traces of drugs, particularly sulfamethazine used to treat or prevent swine disease. the drug also has been used as a feed additive for many years in low doses to boost weight gains
a stricter monitoring program already has been put into effect, and the identification proposal is said by usda officials to be on a fast track for approval
the proposed rule would require all swine in interstate commerce to be individually identified by a tag or other approved means, and producers would have to maintain appropriate identification records on each animal for two years
ms. haas cited usda records for 1987 showing that levels of sulfonamides as a group _ which include sulfamethazine _ exceeded food and drug administration maximum levels in 4 percent of the total samples
but in certain states, the problem was dramatically worse: in north carolina, the violation rate was 10.2 percent; in alabama, 8 percent; and in georgia, 7.8 percent,'' she said
according to department figures cited by haas, violation percentage rates for sulfonamide residues in pork tested in 1987 included these states of origin:
illinois, 4.8; indiana, 6.7; iowa, 2.2; michigan, 3.9; minnesota, 2.1; nebraska, 6.7; ohio, 7.5; and wisconsin, 3.3
virginia, none; and all others (not specified), 2
alabama, 8; florida, none; georgia, 7.8; kentucky, 6.3; mississippi, 2.9; north carolina, 10.2; south carolina, none; and tennessee, 6.9
south dakota, 2.4; and all others (not specified), none
kansas, none; missouri, 4.4; oklahoma, none; texas, none; and all others (not specified), none

washington (ap) _ agriculture secretary richard e. lyng has set the 1988 honey price support at an average of 59.1 cents per pound, down 6 percent from last year's level
actual honey support prices will vary between about 48 cents to 62 cents per pound, depending on the color or class of honey offered by producers, lyng said friday. the price supports will be carried out through loans on honey stored on or off the farm
under the 1985 farm law, honey supports are being gradually reduced. last year's average loan rate was 63 cents per pound and the 1986 rate was 64 cents
lyng also said the 1988 program will retain the ``marketing loan'' provision to help reduce inventories held as surplus by the department's commodity credit corp
in earlier years, producers could redeem their honey only by paying off the full amount of the ccc loan, plus interest. they had the option of not repaying the loan at all, allowing ccc to assume ownership of the honey which had been offered as collateral
consequently, because of large supplies and low market prices, ccc inventories of forfeited honey increased rapidly
but since the 1985 law, a honey producer can take out a loan and then repay it at the prevailing market rate. in effect, this allows the beekeeper to sell honey to the government at a specified price and then buy it back at a lower price
currently, producers who obtained price support loans averaging 63 cents per pound for 1987 honey can pay off the loans at 34 to 40 cents per pound, depending on quality
lyng said the lower buy-back rates ``will be established at levels that will minimize loan forfeitures, reduce honey stocks and storage costs, and maintain the competitiveness of domestic honey in u.s. and export markets.''

washington (ap) _ cigarette use per adult expected to decline again this year after a 2 percent drop in 1987, says the agriculture department
domestic cigarette consumption is likely to decline this year because of further price hikes, continued antismoking activity, and increased restrictions on where people can smoke,'' the department's economic research service said friday
consumption averaged 3,201 cigarettes per adult last year, down from 3,274 in 1986, according to the preliminary figures. that was the lowest since world war ii. the peak was 4,345 cigarettes per adult in 1963
officials caution that the figures measure the average ``disappearance'' of cigarettes among those 18 years and older, including smokers and non-smokers alike. it is used to show changes from one year to another and does not indicate actual use among the smoking population
the reagan administration, expressing concern about the safety of americans in panama, has decided to dispatch another 1,300 military personnel to the troubled central american nation
among the units being ordered south is an army aviation task force that includes helicopter gunships
the pentagon announced the decision to increase the number of troops in panama late friday evening ``in view of the growing unrest and tension'' in that country. the deployments are to begin tuesday and be completed by april 8
the move was recommended by adm. william crowe, the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, and approved by defense secretary frank c. carlucci and president reagan, the pentagon said
administration officials who demanded anonymity said the state department had wanted to send even more troops to panama, but that carlucci had counseled caution
the los angeles times reported in today's editions that secretaru of state george shultz and his assistant, elliott abrams, had proposed a series of stronger actions, including kidnapping panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega to bring him to the united states for trial, landing more than 3,000 troops in panama in a show of force, and using the cia to organize a military coup
the newspaper reported that the proposals had been advanced at high-level meetings, and that the kidnapping plan, which startled other officials, had been shelved as unworkable
but the idea of fomenting a coup remained under consideration, the times said. the cia has prepared a draft presidential authorization for limited covert action against noriega, the newspaper reported
cbs news also reported friday night that the administration was ``considering a plan to overthrow'' noriega suggested by the state department earlier this week. the plan would require the dispatching of two infantry brigades, or 8,000 combat troops, into panama, the network said
the sources who spoke to the associated press refused to say whether the state department wanted extra troops in panama to mount a military operation to topple noriega, or rather thought there was more of a threat to americans in the country than defense officials. a state department spokesman had no comment on the cbs report
there are already more than 10,000 u.s. troops in panama
the instability of the current situation in panama; the heavy-handed tactics of noriega in dealing with the situation, and the potential for increased threats to u.s. citizens and interests in panama make this deployment essential at this time to ensure the continued safety of u.s. personnel and facilities,'' the pentagon said in a statement
the deployment should not be read as portending ``some kind of military action on the part of the united states,'' the pentagon added
the decision to send the extra troops comes just one week after the defense department completed a buildup that had already doubled the number of security personnel guarding military bases in panama. it also comes four days after panamanian troops marched on a panama city hotel, confiscating the tapes of four u.s. television networks and briefly detaining several american journalists
the defense department's prepared statement did not elaborate on who or what would be protected. but a ranking pentagon official said the troops ``will not be restricted to providing security at our bases.''
they will be able to go where they are needed to protect americans,'' said the official, who requested anonymity
this action is consistent with the panama canal treaty and is a reasonable and prudent effort to further safeguard the canal and u.s. lives, property and interests in the area,'' the pentagon's statement said
the units being sent to panama include an army battalion of military police; a reinforced company of marines; three air force air base ground defense units; two additional guard dog squads and an army aviation task force, the pentagon said
the aviation unit will include seven ah-1 cobra helicopter gunships along with 15 uh-60 blackhawk transports and four oh-58 kiowa observation copters, the pentagon said
the aircraft are to provide rapid transportation and highly mobile protection for the security forces if necessary,'' the pentagon said
the u.s. southern command, which has its headquarters in panama, had about 600 security personnel among the 10,000 servicemen assigned to it before the united states stepped up its campaign last month to oust noriega
over a 10-day period that ended on march 24, the pentagon dispatched another 670 security personnel to panama for the stated purpose of protecting military facilities
besides the servicemen assigned to the southern command, there are about 13,000 military dependents in panama along with another 1,300 u.s. employees of the panama canal commission and their 2,600 dependents
the defense department said the army mps would be drawn from fort meade, md., and fort bragg, n.c., while the army helicopter unit would come from the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif
the marine company will be dispatched from camp lejeune, n.c. the pentagon said it was not prepared friday to say where the air force ground defense units would deploy from. for pms papers, are asked to use the following story.</note>
on march 25, the associated press carried an incorrect report from a spokeswoman for the joffrey ballet company on the cause of death of robert joffrey, director of the company
joffrey, 57, died march 25 at new york university hospital
pennie curry, a spokeswoman for the company, initially said that joffrey suffered from a liver ailment caused by medication he was taking for asthma and a muscle condition
he died of liver, kidney and respiratory failure, period. asthma medication had nothing to do with it,'' said terrie locicero, a spokeswoman for the hospital
the hospital rarely makes such an announcement on the cause of a patient's death, she said, but did so in this case because the erroneous link between asthma medication and joffrey's death ``frightened a lot of people.''
rima corben, press representative for the joffrey ballet, said a corrected statement on the cause of death was issued after joffrey's death. the ap did not carry that correction
joffrey, a lifelong asthmatic, had taken up dancing as a child after a doctor recommended it as a way to improve his health
independent counsel james c. mckay has not found sufficient evidence to indict attorney general edwin meese iii but could issue a sharply critical report about meese's conduct, according to a source familiar with the case
mckay announced friday that he would not seek indictments of meese in connection with the attorney general's efforts to help promoters of a proposed middle east oil pipeline or his investments in telephone company stock ``based on the evidence developed to date.''
if a final decision is made not to bring charges in a month or so, mckay said he will issue a report ``covering all the matters which have been under investigation.''
mckay's staff is debating whether the report would state that he had probable cause to bring charges but dropped the case because it did not meet the justice department standard for probability of conviction, said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity
any report would detail what evidence mckay had gathered during the 11-month probe and point out what the investigation had not been able to learn, the source said
meese, meanwhile, hailed the prosecutor's announcement, saying he was ``gratified by the action and the statement,'' adding that he had no plans to resign despite pressure from congress following the departure this week of two top justice department officials
it is certainly my intent to carry on my duties as long as the president wants me to,'' meese told reporters
a u.s. news &amp; world report poll released friday said 55 percent of those questioned said meese should resign, while 21 percent said he should stay in office. those identifying themselves as conservatives or republicans also favored meese's resignation by wide margins, the magazine said
the nationwide telephone poll of 1,004 adults, conducted by the roper organization on wednesday and thursday, has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points
meese, in an interview friday on abc-tv's ``20@20'' program, said he did not feel he was hurting the president, but that if he thought he was, he would resign. he said much of the clamor for his resignation was coming from a ``lynch mob'' that included the press
mckay emphasized that the investigation would continue for at least another month ``as to these and other matters'' to determine if criminal charges are warranted
the grand jury is expected to question meese, his wife, ursula, and u.s. circuit judge douglas h. ginsburg, who was head of the justice department's antitrust division during the breakup of the american telephone &amp; telegraph co
meese's ownership of $14,000 worth of stock in regional bell system companies at a time he formulated department policy on the at&amp;t divestiture raised conflict-of-interest issues
the washington post reported today that the justice department's internal watchdog agency, the office of professional responsibility, was preparing to reopen its investigation of meese. the post said said files on the investigation into meese's dealings with wallach were moved to the opm offices friday
mckay said his decision to issue friday's announcement was made ``without outside consultation'' but acknowledged that meese's lawyers had requested a public statement ``quite recently.'' a source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said meese's lawyers argued that mckay should tell the public because ``we know it and you know it.''
mckay declined to say if his investigation had been hampered because he couldn't force the grand jury testimony of san francisco lawyer e. robert wallach, meese's former financial adviser franklyn chinn, and dr. kent london, a business associate of wallach and chinn
all four are under indictment in new york city in connection with their efforts to help wedtech corp. get government contracts. in december, mckay announced there was insufficient evidence to prosecute meese for his efforts to help wedtech corp. get lucrative defense contracts
the refusals of mr. wallach and mr. chinn and mr. london are based upon the fact that they said they would invoke their fifth amendment privilege,'' mckay said
if mckay dismisses the grand jury without bringing charges, he could retain his appointment or seek reappointment if new evidence surfaces later on, the source said
the pipeline probe involved whether meese conspired with swiss businessman bruce rappaport, wallach and others to violate the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with a plan to pay the israeli government and that nation's labor party to protect the proposed pipeline from military attack
wallach, who was legal counsel to rappaport, wrote a memo to meese saying that $700 million from the pipeline, which was never built, would be paid to the labor party of then-israeli prime minister shimon peres. meese claimed he did not read that part of the memo and peres says he was never offered money. rappaport also denies there was such a plan
the attorney general's meeting with four executives of regional bell telephone companies at a time he owned $14,000 worth of baby bell stock was also a focus of mckay's investigation. the companies persuaded the justice department to drop its opposition to the baby bells expanding into new business areas
mckay's announcement capped a week that began with the resignations of two of his top aides, deputy attorney general arnold i. burns and assistant attorney general william weld
meese declined to discuss why his two aides left, saying his discussions with them were confidential. but he acknowledged ``some basic differences'' with the two ``as to the effect that recent events had on the department ... in part they were the fact that there was an independent counsel investigation.''
meese received other good news on friday when solicitor general charles fried announced he would not leave office, as he was reported considering. ``i have concluded that i while i am able to lead i should continue to do so,'' fried said
a tour bus driver rounded up homeless people in san francisco and took them to nevada casinos, from which he collected money by passing them off as gamblers on a junket, police said friday
nevada casinos routinely pay tour bus operators to bring in gamblers
the driver, gilbert gonzado, had duped the two dozen street people into thinking they were getting a free vacation, police said. the alleged victims said they slept on the bus for seven days and had no money to buy food
gonzado was arrested at cactus kate's casino near jean before dawn friday after the manager became suspicious of the passengers who were being touted as legitimate gamblers, said las vegas metro police
police said gonzado had asked for $400 to bring the people to the casino. earlier, he apparently obtained money from clubs in lake tahoe and reno, police said
police said the driver was held on charges of obtaining money under false pretenses
the street people were picked up at cactus kate's in police vans and taken to las vegas, 35 miles away, where they were put in a downtown shelter. police said the people would have to find their own way back to san francisco. update with comments from owner of yanke; picks up 11th graf pvs bgng, `in our'</note>
the navy has continued to award contracts for specially fabricated weapons containers to a small idaho company despite clear findings of shoddy workmanship and delivery delays, the service's inspector general has concluded
the performance of the yanke container cop. has been so poor that the navy should immediately ``initiate debarment proceedings'' to block the boise, idaho, company from receiving additional contracts, added rear adm. m.e. chang in an audit report
moreover, the navy needs to determine why its buying agents continued to use yanke container and why the service failed to take advantage of ``numerous opportunities to default the contractor or demand consideration (penalty payments) ...,'' the report states
yanke container corp. contracts indicate a clear inability to perform to contract with regard to delivery and product quality,'' the navy auditors found. ``this inability has been repeatedly demonstrated in contracts since 1982.''
yanke handled nine of the 19 contracts it received since 1982 by delivering ``312 defective new containers, resulting in over $118,000 in additional cost to the navy,'' the auditors wrote. ``seven contracts were extended and five were delivered delinquent to contract.''
the 11-page audit report, which has yet to be released publicly, summarizes the results of an investigation requested last december by assistant navy secretary everett pyatt. the report was released by the project on military procurement, a washington-based group that helps whistle-blowers
yanke owner richard fish denied the accusations. ``generally, most of that is untrue. we intend to have our day in court on this.''
fish said in boise, idaho, that he had not seen the report, and accused the navy of investigating his company ``behind our back. we have not been notified.''
many of the things mentioned here are untrue,'' fish said, declining to elaborate
we are still looking at the facts,'' said lt. janet mescus, a navy spokeswoman
debarment is an option, but no decisions have been made. we normally try to work with small businesses to overcome problems as much as we can.''
fish said he asked sen. steve symms, r-idaho, to intercede
the idaho republican wrote to the navy, saying that yanke had heard a competitor was challenging its continued eligibility for navy contracts and wanted to know if that were true
in our correspondence, we were asking the navy to advise us and to advise yanke just what their concerns were,'' said phil reberger, symms' chief of staff
the purpose of the inquiry from the senator was to ask what was the story here and when does yanke get to respond (to these allegations)? yanke has not had an opportunity to address any of these concerns, and we certainly haven't had an opportunity to evaluate the matter.''
according to the audit report, the navy has awarded yanke 19 contracts since 1982 worth $12.25 million to fabricate aluminum, fiberglass or steel boxes used to ship explosive armaments like the sparrow, harm, harpoon and standard missiles and the mk-46 torpedo
prime minister margaret thatcher has angrily criticized a planned investigation by amnesty international into the killing of three unarmed irish republican army guerrillas by british commandos in gibraltar
amnesty shrugged off her comments, saying it gets the same response when it lists human rights violations in south africa, the soviet union and chile
i hope amnesty has some concern for the more than 2,000 people murdered by the ira since 1969,'' mrs. thatcher told the house of commons thursday, to cheers from rank-and-file legislators of her conservative party
conservative lawmaker john carlisle fumed, ``these are interfering do-gooders ... it (the amnesty probe) will be deeply resented by the british people.''
in belfast, northern ireland, paddy mcgrory, the lawyer for the families of the three guerrillas killed _ mairead farrell, 31, danny mccann, 30, and sean savage, 23 _ said the relatives welcomed amnesty's concern
the london-based human rights organization, winner of the 1977 nobel peace prize, announced thursday it is investigating whether the march 6 shooting of the woman and two men was an ``extrajudicial killing'' and called on the british government to provide a ``full and public account.''
amnesty said the circumstances suggested the three were ``deliberately targeted'' and killed without challenge or attempt at arrest. it said one was shot repeatedly while lying ``helpless and incapacitated on the ground.''
in the house of commons, mrs. thatcher agreed with conservative legislator ian gow, who said the ``three terrorists, mercifully now dead'' belonged to a terrorist organization which breached ``all decent standards relating to human rights.''
the guerrillas were shot in front of witnesses in gibraltar, a british colony on the southern tip of spain
british and spanish authorities said the three planned to detonate a bomb during a changing of the guard ceremony and that the attack would have killed more than 100 people
spanish police recovered an explosives cache in a car linked to the guerrillas
the ira acknowledged the three were in gibraltar on ``active service.''
the british government said after the shooting that the three were challenged by commandos and made moves as if they were reaching for arms or bomb detonators
mrs. thatcher said thursday an inquest in june was the ``proper occasion for the matters in question to be examined.''
the killings set off new violence which killed nine people in northern ireland, where the mainly roman catholic ira is fighting to end british rule. it wants to unite the province, which has a protestant majority, with the catholic republic of ireland under a leftist administration
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on actual delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules. the first column shows the total number of delegates for each candidate; subsequent columns show the delegates gained or lost during the last 30 days
              total  changes
                  friday      7days   30days dukakis      653.55     +1       +105     +588  jackson      643.55     +1       +123     +616  uncommitted  468.6      -16      +114     +216  gore         381.8      +14      +19      +364  simon        169.5       0       -2       +134  others         0         0       -154     -47
needed to nominate 2,082
total delegate votes 4,163
chosen thus far 2,317
yet to be chosen 1,846
              total  changes
                  friday      7days   30days bush            841      0       +53      +756  uncommitted     232      0       +160     +222  robertson        17      0        0       +9    others            0      0       -178     -95
needed to nominate 1,139
total delegate votes 2,277
chosen thus far 1,090
yet to be chosen 1,187
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel is the most visible target of u.s. diplomacy in the middle east, but the key to success or failure just as easily could be king hussein of jordan
the u.s. plan for mideast peace talks poses dilemmas for both leaders. shamir's problems draw most of the attention. but hussein is facing some tough decisions, too
first of all, he has to decide whether to agree to negotiate with israel, and in a framework that gives no direct role to the palestine liberation organization
hussein has come close several times, but backed off
he lost the west bank by joining egypt and syria in the 1967 six-day war with israel. now he is trying to decide whether he should enter negotiations without a guarantee he can get most or all of it back
or should he defer to the plo, which claims the land and which all arab countries including jordan have recognized as the only legitimate representative of the palestinian people who make up about 96 percent of the west bank's population?
former secretary of state henry a. kissinger, writing in ``years of upheaval,'' described hussein in 1967 as ``caught between the passions of his arab brethren and his own realism, for which he paid the price of several radical attempts on his life.''
kissinger went on: ``he was trapped in the paradox that he was the arab leader most ready to make peace, yet of all the territories it had conquered, israel was most reluctant to relinquish the jordanian portion, which it most intimately connected with its own tradition.''
israel, as it turned out in 1979, was willing to relinquish sinai. this willingness, combined with the daring initiative of the late egyptian president anwar sadat, produced a peace treaty with the largest arab country
hussein will not know, until and unless he holds the talks, whether jordan will recover any or all of the west bank
the u.s. plan calls for palestinians participating in a joint delegation with jordan. the palestinians would need the blessing of the plo. but yasser arafat's organization would be shut out
modifying the 1978 camp david agreement, shultz would establish self-rule but not statehood for the palestinians for three years. hussein is faced with a decision on whether that kind of arrangement is practical for jordan
negotiations on an overall settlement of the arab-israeli conflict would begin in december
shultz will make another attempt next week to get the two sides together. arriving in jerusalem sunday night from rome, he will launch a five-day diplomatic shuttle that will take him to israel, jordan, syria, saudi arabia and egypt. he has met here with two members of the palestine national council, the legislative arm of the plo, and would welcome more meetings with palestinians in the area
the focus has been on shamir and not hussein for several reasons
on his last trip, shultz spent more time with the israeli prime minister and in jerusalem than he did with hussein or in jordan
dealings with israel tend to be more open. the vigorous israeli press is quick to smoke out a proposal or to speculate about u.s. diplomacy
shultz deals with hussein more quietly, and often through the secretive veteran u.s. diplomat philip c. habib
shamir is voluble in denouncing various provisions of the shultz plan, particularly a mideast peace conference. his well-publicized visit here two weeks ago coincided with the deadline shultz had set for arab and israeli responses
the timing gave shamir's objections much more attention than the absence of a positive response from hussein
shultz's last visit to the middle east was keyed to israel. he made jerusalem his headquarters, returning every night after diplomatic forays to jordan and syria
on this trip, though, shultz will spend about as much time in jordan as in israel
a few years ago, after the plo backed away from a tentative agreement with hussein on negotiating with israel, the king in frustration gave up and accused the united states of being hopelessly one-sided in israel's favor
frustrated at other times with congressional vetoes of projected u.s. arms sales to jordan, the king has hinted he would look to the soviet union for help. but he usually cools down and maintains strong ties with washington
u.s. officials pushing the shultz plan acknowledge it poses problems for all the participants. but they also insist it is fair and balanced. they especially hope shamir _ and hussein _ next week will say yes
barry schweid has covered u.s. diplomacy in the middle east the past 15 years
the white house, which has had at least 30 coats of paint slathered on it since it was first whitewashed in 1797, is getting a facelift for its 200th birthday
scaffolding went up along the north wall and part of the south wall of the president's home this week as workers began the job of removing paint preparatory to repainting
the elaborate sandstone carvings on the window pediments, balustrade and roofline cornice of the building also will be repaired in time for the bicentennial in 1992
the white house has been the home and office of every president since john adams, but the cornerstone was laid oct. 13, 1792, in the administration of george washington
five years later the building was first painted white
until 1980, the building was regularly painted every five years. because of persistent paint failure, the white house and national park service asked the national bureau of standards in 1976 to make a study and recommend corrective action
scientists recommended in 1980 that the 30 or more layers of paint be removed. they said this would improve the building's appearance and make it easier to maintain
the national park service says records show that the building became a white house for the first time when laborers working on its newly laid walls used whitewash as a sealer
the original walls were damaged when the white house was burned by the british during the war of 1812. during reconstruction from 1815 to 1817, portions of the walls were replaced
the interior of the white house was renovated from 1948 to 1952, during the truman administration, but the new project is the largest exterior refurbishing since it was reconstructed
repair of the sandstone carvings is being overseen by vincent palumbo, master carver for the national cathedral in washington. some of the stones will be replaced with stone removed from the capitol during a recent renovation
william seale, in his authoritative book, ``the president's house,'' writes that the sandstone, quarried from nearby aquia creek in virginia, ``was shaped to magnificence'' by the hands of the scots carvers who worked on it
the ionic capitals on the colossal pilasters are carved in high relief with rich scrolls surmounted by acanthus leaves,'' seale says. ``from the center of each cap bursts a cabbage rose in stone, great in size and fanciful in conception beyond the flowers usually found on column capitals.''
roses also appear again as an ornamental feature in a carved swag over the northern door of the residence. chains and fish-scale designs decorate the windowsills
seale, who wrote his book after completion of a previous project in which the north portico was repainted, said the intricate designs had long been obscured by paint
stripped bare, the pale stone with its smooth surfaces and rich carving attests to the skill of those who dressed it,'' he said
the current project involves the exterior north walls and part of the south walls
they will be kept bare until the spring of 1989 to allow the porous sandstone to dry so the paint will adhere to the walls better when they are repainted
the paint is being removed by brushing chemicals on the walls and then flushing them with a stream of water
the work is being done by ramco technologies of harford, conn., under a $384,200 contract
ask roger timm who will get his vote in tuesday's wisconsin primary, and his answer sums up the confusing possibilities: ``i'm looking at jackson _ or bush.''
in this state with a reputation for political independence and a primary system to match, jackson's strategy is to stitch together a coalition of blue-collar workers, farmers and college town residents. there are indications he is having some success
jesse jackson touches you where your heart is on economic issues,'' said gary heiser, a wausau real estate agent and marathon county board member
to win, farmers and workers, rural and urban, black and white, must come together,'' jackson told about 700 people gathered in the parking lot of the labor temple in wausau
as in michigan a week ago, jackson is drawing big, enthusiastic crowds from the housing projects in milwaukee to almost all-white cudahy, sheboygan and wausau
at the university of wisconsin at oshkosh on thursday, jackson drew 5,000 to a nighttime rally. and campaign staffers said he has strong support in madison, where the big state university campus is located
but while heiser is certain jackson will do well in wausau, he isn't sure he can carry it against massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
kevin keeffe, marathon county democratic chairman in wausau, said jackson ``will do well among these guys'' _ that is, blue-collar workers locked in a wage giveback dispute with a big manufacturing company
however, ``dukakis has a very good organization in town,'' keeffe said, mentioning the american federation of state, county and municipal workers, which backs the massachusetts governor
one of the complications _ pointed out by roger timm's bush-or-jackson comment _ is that wisconsin has an open primary. republicans can vote in the democratic primary and vice versa. since george bush has the republican race all but wrapped up, gop voters might be tempted to weigh in with a democratic ballot on tuesday
jackson does generate the enthusiasm. linda pribanich, a wausau activist, was literally jumping up and down as she cheered him
i would like to think he could win here. this is as white as it gets in this country,'' she said of the wausau area
wisconsin has a small black population _ less than 4 percent. but jackson campaign staffers say that doesn't worry them, pointing to jackson's improving showing in white areas in the michigan caucuses on march 26 and in connecticut last week
we're going to do well in wisconsin, because we are expanding our base,'' said campaign manager gerald austin. ``we got 22 percent of the white vote in connecticut.''
in wisconsin, blue-collar workers are a major jackson target
when i put on my worker's hat, i am not jesting. it is my regular hat,'' jackson said in oshkosh
i'm a working person person,'' he told the wausau crowd
at stop after stop, jackson delivers the same message of ``jobs, peace and freedom.''
we do not need star wars in outer space, we need jobs for workers in cudahy,'' he told 1,000 people there
the little people are really hurting,'' added adele iwaskiewicz as she watched jackson emerge from a neighbor's home in cudahy where he had spent the night
mrs. iwaskiewicz said she wouldn't have any problem voting for michael dukakis if he's the nominee. she voted republican in 1984
timm, a milwaukee policemen, also said he voted for reagan in 1984, but he is attracted to jackson's message
i like his pro-labor stands. he's talking about the working people,'' said timm, who is a neighbor of mrs. iwaskiewicz
in appealing to blue-collar workers, jackson is tapping a sense of obligation from his work on the behalf of striking workers in this state and others tossed out of their jobs in years past
jackson has a television ad featuring his talk to workers in kenosha, where chrysler closed a plant after promising to keep it open for several years
he returned to cudahy on wednesday to talk to workers who went out on strike in january 1987 at the patrick cudahy meatpacking plant
local union president mark rosenberg said of jackson: ``he's going to do something about the system and make it work.''
on thursday, jackson picked up the endorsement of richard congdon, a waukesha lawyer who headed richard gephardt's campaign in the state
congdon said he backs jackson because they have ``overlapping constituencies'' of workers and farmers
asked if jackson is electable, congdon said: ``if he's not electable, why does he keep winning elections?''
then there is the view of chris black, an industrial engineer who was holding his 2-year-old son at the wausau rally. black said he is undecided although he likes jackson's message
asked which other candidates he would consider, he answered: ``pat paulsen,'' the comedian known for his mock campaigns for president
the democratic presidential contenders are training their fire on the reagan administration, taking particular aim at attorney general edwin meese iii. meanwhile, the white house says president reagan may hit the campaign trail on george bush's behalf
the democrats headed into the final few days of skirmishing left before monday's democratic caucuses in colorado, with 45 delegates at stake, and the wisconsin primary the following day, with 81 delegates up for grabs
three of the democrats _ albert gore jr., jesse jackson and michael dukakis _ said meese must go
we cannot tolerate a situation where the nation's chief law enforcement officer is constantly operating under a cloud of suspicion,'' gore told supporters at a fund-raising event thursday night in coconut grove, fla
the tennessee senator pointed to the resignations of two top justice department officials this week, which department sources said were aimed at protesting meese's refusal to step down amid mounting legal difficulties
president reagan and vice president bush say, `oh, it's no big deal. there are resignations all the time,''' said gore. ``what insensitivity! what contempt for the american people!''
dukakis also said meese should step down, saying the justice department was ``in turmoil.''
i would hope at long last the attorney general would resign _ it's long overdue _ and the president would appoint somebody as attorney general we could be proud of,'' the massachusetts governor said at a news conference thursday night in milwaukee
jackson, too, said meese ought to quit, because he cannot carry out his duties
it is not a question of guilt or innocence. he simply cannot fulfill the requirements of the job,'' jackson told a rally in sheboygan, wis. ``ed meese deserves due process. we deserve an attorney general.''
although meese drew much of their wrath, the democrats were taking some digs at one another as well
gore, trailing the two democratic leaders, has been criticizing jackson all week on experience and electability. on thursday, he slapped at dukakis for failing to follow suit
mike dukakis is afraid to say a single word about jesse jackson,'' said gore. a day earlier, the tennessee senator described dukakis' reluctance to spell out his differences with jackson as ``ludicrous.''
dukakis, for his part, said differences with jackson would ``come out over time,'' and aimed his attacks at the white house instead
this administration has walked away from the american dream,'' he said in a milwaukee speech thursday night. ``they've walked away from the basic contract that says if you work hard and pay your taxes and live within the law, you have a right to a good job, and the right to a life where you don't have to go to bed every night worried about whether that job will still be there in the morning.''
meanwhile, white house spokesman marlin fitzwater raised the possibility that reagan soon would abandon his official neutrality in the republican race prior to the party's convention aug. 15-18 in new orleans
i simply want to open the door to this new prospect,'' fitzwater told reporters. bush's main rival, sen. bob dole of kansas, dropped out of the race monday
former television evangelist pat robertson remains in the race, but concedes he has almost no hope of winning the nomination. bush leads robertson in delegates by a huge margin _ 841 to 17, according to the latest ap count. to nominate, 1,139 are needed
pat robertson is still a candidate, in a declared sense, but he, too recognizes the realities of the situation,'' fitzwater said
the white house spokesman said no bush campaign events featuring the president had been scheduled, and none was expected in the near future. but he said the 77-year-old reagan is ``ready at the drop of a hat to get out there on the road.''
gore, meanwhile, celebrated his 40th birthday on thursday, and expressed hopes the milestone would stave off questions about whether he's too young to be president
forty makes all the difference,'' he said. ``you know, jack benny was perpetually 39. i've been doing a kind of reverse jack benny.... i've been trying to turn 40.''
gore, without a win to his name since super tuesday, has been searching for a northern victory. but polls suggest jackson and dukakis are fighting it out for the lead in wisconsin, with gore trailing
gore also is well behind the two leaders in the delegate race. the latest ap delegate count puts dukakis at 652.55; jackson at 642.55 and 484.6 delegates in the uncommitted column. gore had 367.8 and illinois sen. paul simon lags with 169.5. a candidate needs 2,082 democratic delegates to be nominated
simon, making what could be a last stand in wisconsin, campaigned in madison, calling himself ``an underdog who fights for underdogs.''
like his democratic opponents, simon had harsh words for the reagan administration. he said bush is riding reagan's coattails, but won't take responsibility for the negatives such as cutting certain programs
evidently the pilot was going one way and the co-pilot was going the other,'' simon said
jackson, meanwhile, won some praise from former president jimmy carter
i think jesse jackson has run as near a perfect campaign as i have ever seen in this country,'' said carter, who himself was a dark-horse candidate in 1976. carter has not formally endorsed any of the democrats. researchers say</head>
a study at the university of california in san francisco suggests that the aids virus gets tougher, meaner and faster-acting as patients with the immune deficiency disease get sicker, according to a report published today
dr. jay a. levy, professor of medicine at ucsf, said he and a group of researchers isolated the human immunodeficiency virus from four patients over a four-year period and discovered that the virus, which causes aids, seems to go through an evolution that makes it stronger while the patient gets weaker
it's surprising,'' levy said in an interview. ``the virus doesn't just stay the same, but actually changes its biologic features. it looks like the same virus, but it's probably evolving within the individual.''
levy said the study used randomly selected patients who tested positive for the hiv virus associated with aids, but had not yet developed the disease. as the study progressed, three of the four subjects developed aids and two of these died. the fourth patient remains without aids symptoms
in the three who developed aids, levy said the hiv viruses isolated from their blood samples became more and more virulent as their symptoms intensified. virulence was tested by exposing the isolated virus to cells in test tubes
levy said that when the subjects were experiencing the most severe aids symptoms, the hiv from their blood was able to multiply more readily, infect host cells more easily and would attack a greater variety of cells
the virulence did not change, however, in the virus isolated periodically from the patient who remained free of aids symptoms, he said
levy said it is obvious that the virus must be able to reproduce, or replicate, in order to evolve this increasing virulence. as a result, he said, if researchers can stop the virus from replicating, then it could be kept harmless, even though it continued to live within the patient
you wouldn't get rid of the virus. ... they are kept for the lifetime of the individual,'' said levy. ``they would just never become strong enough to cause disease.''
the ucsf researchers now are searching for the hiv genes responsible for increasing its virulence and its ability to replicate. if this gene can be isolated, said levy, ``then we can actually target some approach (such as a drug) of getting at the virus and arresting its replication.''
working with levy in the research were cecilia cheng-mayer, deborah seto and dr. masatoshi tateno
a report on the study was published today in science, the journal of the american association for the advancement of science
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, destroys lymphocytes, a key cell in the body's defenses against disease. without this defense, patients develop infections or rare cancers that usually prove fatal
the aids virus is spread through sexual contact or through the exchange of body fluids. it is most common among homosexual and bisexual men, and among drug users who have shared injection needles
since 1981, the centers for disease control report a total of 57,575 aids cases in the united states. of these, 32,190 have died. nobody is known to have been cured of aids
other developments in aids research include:
_researchers at johns hopkins university in baltimore report they have found that a protein essential for the replication of the hiv virus has a novel chemistry that may suggest a new approach to an aids drug
alan d. frankel said he and his colleagues have discovered that molecules of an hiv protein called tat are bound together by metal atoms. this, he said, opens the possibility of attacking the hiv virus by somehow blocking the binding of the metal atoms
the research, which also is reported in science, was conducted at johns hopkins by frankel, david s. bredt and carl o. pabo
_the cdc, in a reversal of earlier recommendations, said thursday that children infected with the aids virus should receive vaccinations against measles. previously, the cdc had recommended against vaccination because the children's immune systems might be too weak to tolerate the live-virus measles vaccine
now, however, ``it's felt that the benefit of getting the vaccine outweighs the risk,'' said dr. lauri markowitz, a cdc measles specialist
_in an effort to encourage voluntary aids testing, the health care financing administration is proposing changes in the record-keeping requirements of the nation's medical laboratories
under the proposed rules, published thursday in the federal register, laboratories that come under federal jurisdiction would no longer be required to maintain the names of most people tested for aids
athletes who take steroids to build up their muscles may trigger mental problems ranging from deep depression to impulsive buying sprees and outbursts of violent rage, doctors conclude in a new study
the medical hazards of anabolic steroids have been widely publicized, but the researchers said the psychiatric side effects are probably even worse
this is a phenomenon that is probably common and gone unrecognized for a long time,'' said dr. harrison g. pope jr., the study's director. ``there is a far higher incidence of psychiatric symptoms attributable to anabolic steroids than any of us previously thought.''
pope, himself a body builder, found that a substantial minority of athletes who take steroids suffer delusions, hallucinations, manic episodes and other temporary mental illness. such symptoms occurred in one-third of the users he and a colleague interviewed
one of these steroid users said he bought an old car and deliberately drove it into a tree at 40 mph while a friend videotaped him. another became enraged when a driver in front of him accidentally left his turn signal flashing. at the next stop light, he leaped from his car and smashed the driver's windshield
another young man bought a $17,000 sports car while taking steroids. when he stopped taking the drug, he realized that he could not afford the payments, so he sold the car. a year later, while taking more steroids, he impulsively bought a $20,000 sports car
one user had the grandiose delusion that he could pick up a car and tip it over. others became paranoid, believing that friends stole from them, or became euphoric, convinced that nothing in the world could hurt them
those of us that have dealt clinically with anabolic steroid use in athletes know these symptoms well,'' said dr. robery voy, director of sports medical for the u.s. olympic committee
dr. herbert haupt of missouri baptist hospital in st. louis said he has seen similar problems. ``they become violent and aggressive individuals,'' he said. ``they take on jekyll and hyde personalities.''
pope said other research he has conducted suggests that hundreds of thousands american men have illicitly used steroids, which retard the tendency of muscles to break down
pope, a psychiatrist at mclean hospital in belmont, mass., conducted the latest study with dr. david l. katz of harvard medical school. it was published in the april issue of the american journal of psychiatry
they interviewed 41 bodybuilders and football players who had used anabolic steroids. they found that nine of them displayed full-blown symptoms of mania or depression, while five others had less severe signs of mental problems. in most cases, the users had the symptoms only while taking steroids
the doctors found that many of the athletes routinely took doses of steroids that were 10 to 100 times greater than those reported in medical studies. some practiced so-called stacking, taking several different forms of steroids at once. these included pills, injections and veterinary hormones
steroids can cause a variety of physical side effects, including liver damage, sterility and testicular atrophy. in women, they can also cause facial hair and deepening of the voice
a new report in a beirut newspaper has fed speculation in paris that france freed a terrorist suspect as part of a deal with iran to secure the release of three french hostages held in lebanon
premier jacques chirac denied any connection, saying the release of mohamed mouhajer on march 24 was purely up to the judge
the release ... is linked neither closely nor remotely, neither directly nor indirectly, to the problem of french or foreign hostages in lebanon,'' chirac said in a radio interview thursday
the leftist paper as-safir said thursday ``secret negotiations'' were under way to free three frenchmen _ diplomats marcel fontaine and marcel carton and journalist jean-paul kauffmann _ being held by pro-iranian shiite moslems
the beirut newspaper said an iranian clergyman and a lebanese businessman were involved in negotiations in the ivory coast. it said president amin gemayel of lebanon was told of the negotiations ``aimed at obtaining the release of three french hostages.''
interior minister charles pasqua was in the ivory coast this week, but broke off his african tour monday to return to paris. he said he was needed in the campaign now under way for the april 24 presidential elections
an investigating magistrate cited insufficient evidence in freeing mouhajer, a lebanese arrested a year ago during the investigation into bombings in 1986 that left 13 people dead and 250 injured
several newspapers immediately linked the move to the hostages
in washington, state department spokesman charles e. redman said thursday, ``we want all the hostages released, but we oppose making deals. making concessions to terrorists only encourages more terrorism.''
he noted that france and other participants in a 1987 summit involving the seven major industrialized deomcracies ``committed themselves to the principle of making no concessions to terrorists or their sponsors.''
nineteen other foreigners are missing in lebanon, including a frenchman whose killing was announced by his captors in 1986, though no body was found. those held include nine americans, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent of the associated press, is the longest held. he was kidnapped on march 16, 1985
fontaine, carton and kauffmann also were abducted in 1985
in geneva, foreign minister ali akbar velayati of iran told a news conference thursday that negotiations had been going on between france and iran for 1{ years now on improving relations. he said the french also asked iranian help in the hostage situation
about 200,000 teamster drivers and warehouse workers will begin voting in two weeks on a new three-year nationwide freight contract with the nation's major trucking companies
after two months of negotiations and several hours before the midnight expiration of their old contract, the union and the industry's collective bargaining arm reached tentative agreement on a new accord thursday
terms of the pact were not disclosed. but teamsters president jackie presser said it ``addresses the economic needs of our members and advances their legitimate claims for job security.''
under the expiring contract with trucking management inc., the base rate for drivers who had been on a carrier's payroll for three or more years was $14.71 an hour. including fringe and pension benefits, the industry had calculated its total labor costs at $23 an hour
dissidents in the union said negotiators reportedly had agreed earlier to keep hourly wage increases within a range of around 30 cents a year with annual benefit improvements amounting to about another 20 cents an hour
but they emphasized that they had no firm knowledge if that is what occurred
i really don't know what's in it,'' said ken paff, an organizer for the small dissident teamsters for a democratic union faction. ``they're keeping it real quiet.''
chip roth, a teamsters spokesman, said the union will not announce the terms of the tentative contract until april 7, when negotiators are to present it to local presidents at a meeting in chicago
ballots for the ratification vote will be mailed to teamster freight members in about two weeks, roth said
the union's schedule calls for counting the ballots and announcing the results in mid-may. under the teamsters' constitution, rejecting a tentative contract requires a two-thirds majority
going into the negotiations, teamster officials were under pressure from two directions after giving up automatic cost-of-living adjustments and allowing lower wage rates for new hires and part-time ``casual'' workers in the 1985 contract
some large carriers are enjoying fairly healthy profits following a shakeout of the industry from deregulation in 1980 despite competitive pressures to undercut one another's freight rates. however, a large number of smaller unionized companies are having financial troubles
at least 78 teamster-organized carriers have declared bankruptcy, been swallowed up in mergers or acquisitions or have gone out of business in the past eight years, according to union figures
union officials acknowledged their members employed by the larger carriers were most interested in wage and benefit gains, while those working for smaller companies wanted more emphasis put on job security in the bargaining
the teamsters also fared poorly under deregulation, losing 120,000 members between 1979 and 1985 to new non-union companies, many of them subsidiaries of unionized carriers party to the master freight agreement. but the union appears to have stabilized its trucking membership the past two years
negotiations were difficult because the industry is in financial chaos,'' presser said in a statement thursday, encouraging support for ratification
arthur bunte jr., the chief management negotiator in the bargaining, indicated that turmoil is likely to continue
in the outcome of these talks, we do not feel we were successful in convincing the union of the harsh competitive realities facing our members in the marketplace,'' bunte said
but there was little evidence of rancor between the two sides in the two months of negotiations, held both here and in arizona, where presser spends most of his time while recovering from cancer treatments
neither side ever mentioned the possibility of a strike. the last time there was a labor disruption over a nationwide trucking contract was in 1979, when the teamsters struck selected carriers for 10 days. easter</head>
the government said it ordered its soldiers not to give washington a pretext for armed intervention and it failed to meet another payroll for civil servants, dampening easter celebrations
thousands of people lined up for meals provided by charity, casualties of the 5-week-old campaign to try to force the ouster of panama's de facto leader, defense forces chief gen. manuel antonio noriega
the office of acting president manuel solis palma issued a communique thursday alleging the united states was looking for an incident that could justify military intervention
it cited a letter from solis to javier perez de cuellar, the u.n. secretary-general, that said recent u.s. military movements in panama and its territorial waters constituted a security threat
the defense forces of panama have orders to refrain from using lethal or destructive weapons at any time against the armed forces of the united states or against u.s. civilians or against property or installations of citizens or the government of the united states,'' the communique says
solis was apparently referring to the passage of the u.s. helicopter carrier okinawa through the panama canal this week and military exercises being conducted by troops stationed at the u.s. southern command in panama
aware of the overwhelming power threatening it, the republic of panama ... will not provide the foundation for fabrication of a charge of aggression that could pretend to justify the launching of acts of war,'' solis said. ``under no circumstances will panama allow itself to be provoked nor will it lend itself to the fabrication of an incident.''
it mentions the u.s. invasion of grenada in 1983, which the reagan administration said was necessary to protect u.s. students there
on monday night, police and soldiers arrested and beat several foreign journalists, including americans, during a raid on a panama city hotel. the next day, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater condemned the incident
it has always been a principle that we will protect american citizens as best we can. and while we have said that we don't plan to go in (to panama) militarily, it is also important to note that there are limits,'' he said
the government shut down on thursday for the easter weekend without paying most of its 130,000 public employees for the second time in a month
it failed to meet the $33 million payroll despite the collection this week of $19 million in quarterly tax revenues. about $5.5 million was said to be taxes and fees from u.s. companies doing business in panama
in washington, the senate voted 92-1 for a resolution urging president reagan to cut off the flow of money from u.s. corporations to the regime of noriega, who is under u.s. indictment on charges of trafficking in colombian cocaine
most panamanians are short of cash and food as a result of an 11-day-old general strike and the cash crisis, which was caused in part by a u.s. freeze on millions of dollars of panamanian assets in american banks
the sanctions were imposed after the noriega-orchestrated ouster feb. 26 of president eric arturo delvalle in retaliation for delvalle's attempt to fire noriega
banks have been closed since march 3
with most businesses and industries observing the general strike, the largest congregations of people were found in the food lines of welfare agencies
the rev. laurino duran, head of a roman catholic church relief society, said his organization was feeding 9,000 families a day
the number is growing daily,'' the priest said, adding that the effort is costing $600,000 a month, which the church receives in donated cash and food
leaders of the national civic crusade were meeting to plan new strategies in their frustrated effort to oust noriega
we'll be talking over the weekend, discussing where we go from here,'' said roberto aleman, an attorney and director of the crusade, a coalition of about 200 professional, business, labor, political and other groups
toni morrison struggled through 200 years of history to write a small story that would deeply touch those who read her spellbinding novel, ``beloved,'' winner of this year's pulitzer prize for fiction
i was only aware of how difficult it was to do and how fearful it was for me because it required living there all those years,'' morrison said in an interview thursday. ``about the fourth, fifth, sixth or seventh revisions i began to see the authority and maybe the surrender. and when the language arrived i felt this very deep pleasure and a feeling that i could serve both characters well.''
the book, which quickly climbed best-seller lists when it was published last year by alfred a. knopf inc., is based on a true account of an escaped slave named margaret garner who decided to kill her child rather than see her returned to bondage
it was a chilling choice faced by many during the horrors of slavery; some africans chose suicide during the crossing on slave ships, while others killed children or wives before leaving the continent
in rich, riveting language, morrison tells the tale of sethe, who escapes from kentucky and struggles to survive in post-civil war ohio in a house haunted by her dead baby
i had made myself a promise that i would not hunt for a story,'' morrison said. ``i wanted the book to find me. i was also weary of taking on a writing project just because i was a writer; i wanted it to be something that was driven.''
morrison, 57, who grew up in lorain, ohio, had heard the garner story, and found herself curious and puzzled by the woman
it seemed to me that was ... worth a text,'' she said. ``i got very frustrated while writing, and each time i felt i couldn't write it. and then i felt that if i couldn't do it justice, then it would be like the slave owners had won.''
however, the author of ``song of solomon,'' which won the national book critics circle award for 1977, ``tar baby'' and the play ``dreaming emmett,'' said ``beloved'' is the best writing she's done
she's reluctant, though, to call it the great american novel
i shied away from giving myself labels like great,'' the author said. ``but it certainly is an american novel because i think american literature is coherent and american history is coherent only when black history is in it. so it becomes american in that sense because it completes something.''
morrison, a graduate of howard and cornell universities and a former editor at random house, lives near nyack, n.y., in the hudson river valley, and teaches at the state university of new york at albany
morrison, who had written her other books while still an editor, left her job at random in 1983 to work on ``beloved.''
the quality of the work improved enormously,'' she said. ``i had time _ not just writing time, but novel time. novels don't emerge in the chronological time of human beings; you have to give it its own time
that's six years between the last one in 1981 and this one. three of those years was writing and revising and at least a year and a half was spent thinking, clarifying things.''
morrison felt ``kind of a redemption'' on winning the pulitzer because of the controversy and literary politics surrounding the prize
after ``beloved'' did not win either the national book award or the national book critics circle award, 48 prominent black writers and critics signed a statement deploring the celebrated writer's lack of recognition
there was the feeling the pulitzer fiction committee might succumb to pressure and give morrison the award, which saddened her because she wanted ``beloved'' judged for its own literary value, not because its author is black
joy is uppermost because i really was thinking dark and difficult thoughts about what was available to this book in terms of recognition,'' she said. ``i never had any doubt that it was worth first-rate consideration and recognition, but i did not believe that that alone _ that its sheer merit was going to be the sole criterion
my second feeling is my respect for the difficulties the committee chose to ignore _ the outside matters of speculation and gossip.''
for the first time, the wide-open spaces of the american west contain more people than the densely-packed northeast, and the rapid western growth will continue, the census bureau says
the bureau predicts that between now and the year 2000 more than half of all national population growth will occur in just three states _ california, florida and texas
the study adds that texas is on the verge of crowding past new york as the nation's second most populous state. the projections call for texas to surpass new york by 1995
the empire state now leads texas 17.7 million to 17.2 million. but by 1995, texas is expected to have just over 19 million people, with new york at only 17.9 million
that transition is symbolic of the slippage in the northeast, which has become the nation's least populated region, falling behind the west for the first time
bureau demographer signe wetrogen explained that the projections are based on assumptions about trends in births, deaths, immigration and movement within the country
the northeast has been declining in its share of the u.s. population, with less growth than other areas, she said
it is the one region with the highest share of population in the older ages, and has low birth rates,'' she explained
population shifts to the south and west in recent years have drawn away many people in the prime ages of 18 to 24, she said
so the (northeast) region is left with more older people, and it's left without anybody to have more kids,'' she said
but because it is smaller in area than other parts of the country, the northeastern states remain the most densely packed. new jersey leads the nation with more than 1,000 people per square mile
tables included with the report show that between 1987 and 1988 the west region increased from 49.6 million people to 50.5 million. at the same the northeast edged up only from 50.1 million to 50.3 million
the 1988 estimates list the south with 85.1 million people, followed by the midwest with 59.6 million
while it was the center of early american development, the northeast hasn't been the most populous region since 1820, when the south edged ahead. it remained second until 1880, when it fell to third behind the midwest
by 1990 the projections call for the south to have 87.3 million people, followed by the midwest, 59.8 million; west, 52.3 million and northeast, 50.6. million. by the year 2000 the counts are expected to be south, 96.9 million; midwest, 59.6 million; west, 59.4 million, northeast, 51.8 million
by 2010, the report adds, the west could surpass the midwest and be the second most populous region
the projections show california remaining the most heavily populated state, growing from 28 million people today to 29.1 million in 1990 and 33.5 million in 2000
florida is expected to remain the fourth largest, though by the year 2010 it may be closing in on new york also
by the year 2000, illinois will have replaced pennsylvania in fifth place and georgia will move into 10th, displacing north carolina, the report says
the u.s. is expected to grow from 243.3 million people in 1987 to 267.7 million in 2000, an increase of 24.4 million
in that period, california is expected to add 6 million, florida 3.5 million and texas 3.3 million. the three-state total of 12.8 million people represents 52 percent of the projected national increase
predicted to lose population in this decade are the district of columbia and four states; pennsylvania, ohio, iowa and west virginia
in the 1990s population losses are expected in those states and nine others: indiana, illinois, michigan, wisconsin, north dakota, nebraska, kentucky, montana and wyoming. on the other hand, things are expected to turn around in the district of columbia, with growth resuming in the '90s
senate banking committee chairman william proxmire, berating the reagan administration for inaction, is proposing legislation to unify regulation of the nation's financial markets in the wake of the october stock crash
proxmire, d-wis., has an influential ally in former new jersey sen. nicholas brady, who headed a presidential task force that called for more coordination of the markets
but, even before the bill was introduced on thursday, three top federal regulators said they opposed it and one of its co-sponsors, sen. donald riegle, d-mich., said he had reservations
the bill creates an intermarket coordination committee composed of the chairmen of the federal reserve, securities and exchange commission and the commodity futures trading commission
the new panel is required to harmonize margin requirements across the futures and stock markets, coordinate ``circuit breaker mechanisms'' such as trading halts and establish a contingency plan for market emergencies such as last oct. 19 when the dow jones industrial average fell a record 508 points
the chairman of the federal reserve would head the three-member panel and a majority vote would be required for action. the bill directs the regulatory agencies to ``implement actions so determined by the committee.''
fed chairman alan greenspan, sec chairman david s. ruder and cftc chairwoman wendy gramm all said they would oppose creation of a panel with power over their agencies
greenspan said the new panel could create legal problems if, for instance, it overruled the federal reserve on a matter determined by other law to be within the fed's jurisdiction
after listening to greenspan, riegle, chairman of the securities subcommittee, said he was concerned about the bill's implications and was reconsidering his support
ken mclean, staff director of the banking committee, said the bill would not give the panel as much power as greenspan feared because there is no enforcement mechanism should one of the agencies decide to defy it
it's sort of halfway between a debating society and a superagency,'' he said
in proposing the legislation, proxmire expressed frustration with the pace of the reagan administration's efforts at market reform and with the regulators' unwillingness to recommend legislation without first airing proposals through a working group set up earlier this month by the white house and headed by treasury undersecretary george gould
the president ordered the working group to report on its progress by mid-may, but proxmire said, ``it is difficult not to conclude that the administration is attempting to run out the clock on these issues.''
it would appear that the white house is ignoring its own presidential commission report and wants no legislation whatsoever,'' proxmire said, referring to the brady task force, which issued its report in january
noting that both greenspan and ruder had said they would make proposals for legislation by march 4, proxmire said, ``the federal reserve and the sec have compromised their independence by reneging on their pledge.''
in the house, rep. edward markey, d-mass., chairman of the energy and commerce subcommittee on finance, has expressed similar frustration and is also working with brady to draft a bill
sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., along with sens. alan dixon, d-ill., and phil gramm, r-texas, are backing a cautious approach
we seem more hell-bent on changing things and patting ourselves on the back than waiting to see what the ramifications are,'' d'amato complained
democratic presidential contender albert gore jr. called for the resignation or firing of attorney general edwin meese iii, saying: ``it is time to remove the cloud over the department of justice.''
gore, at a fundraiser here, used his criticism of meese for an indirect attack at george bush, the nearly certain republican presidential nominee
how long will it take this administration to understand the importance of integrity in government?'' the tennessee senator asked a crowd of about 100 supporters at the posh grove isle resort. ``we cannot tolerate a situation where the nation's chief law enforcement officer is constantly testifying as a suspect before grand juries, constantly operating under a cloud of suspicion.''
gore noted the resignations of two top justice department officials this week, a move that department sources said was aimed at pointing up the problems meese is causing by staying on
president reagan and vice president bush say ``oh, it's no big deal. there are resignations all the time,''' said gore. ``what insensitivity! what contempt for the american people!''
the tennessee senator was heading to wisconsin today for campaigning in advance of tuesday's primary
i think we are going to exceed expectations in wisconsin,'' he said, but wouldn't predict where he would finish
about $108,000 was raised at thursday's event, said mitchell berger, a fort lauderdale attorney and co-chairperson
gore told the crowd that despite a lack of success since super tuesday, his candidacy is in a good position to gain momentum with a win in a large northern state like pennsylvania or new york
during the fund-raiser, gore told reporters he is not singling jesse jackson out for unfair criticism
i am treating each of the candidates equally. i have strong differences of opinion with jesse jackson and i have strong differences of opinion with mike dukakis, and neither one of them has a single day of experience in the national government. i think that's relevant in the choice faced by the voters,'' he said
gore, who turned 40 on thursday, said it was a relief for him
all those people who thought 39 was too young to run for president, i've solved their problem,'' he said with a smile
with political strength following population, new 1990 census projections give california, texas and florida a rosy outlook
california would jump to 50 members of the house, a gain of five, according to an analysis by the library of congress
david c. huckabee of the library's congressional research service recalculated the house distribution based on the new census bureau projections of populations in 1990. the estimates were released thursday
huckabee cautioned, however, that his calculation is based on estimates, and a very small change in population can shift a house seat from one state to another
in 1970, for example, a difference of fewer than 300 people gave oklahoma rather than connecticut an additional house seat, he said
with house seats limited to 435, every gain by one state means a loss for another
in addition to california, huckabee calculated that texas would gain four new seats in the house and florida would gain three
adding two seats would be arizona and georgia, while north carolina and virginia would each pick up one
on the other hand, new york and pennsylvania would each drop three seats, he calculated. losing two apiece would be illinois, michigan and ohio. expected to lose one would be iowa, kansas, massachusetts, montana, west virginia and wisconsin
huckabee's figures differ slightly from those of william o'hare at the private population reference bureau, who used a different set of 1990 estimates
election data services, a private consulting firm, also issued somewhat different reapportionment estimates earlier this year, based on 1987 census estimates
land prices skyrocketed in japan last year, with the choicest piece of commercial real estate selling for more than $6.7 billion per acre, the government reported today
japanese newspapers bemoaned the record price jump in tokyo, where residential real estate land rose 68.9 percent last year, nearly twice the previous high of 35.9 percent in 1973 and almost triple the increase in 1986 of 23.8 percent
if the (japanese) people work diligently all their lives and find that they are unable to even purchase a house of their choice, then we can expect them to question the signficance of economic development,'' the nationally circulated daily asahi shimbun said in an editorial today
it called on the government to convert more public land into housing sites and on industry to build residential complexes near workplaces
the national land agency released the 1987 statistics thursday, the last day of japan's fiscal year. the agency said land prices soared abnormally due to speculative buying, money surpluses and lowered interest rates
the land agency said the highest land price was 34 million yen per square meter, registered in the chiyoda ward in central tokyo's main marunouchi business district. at the exchange rate of one dollar to 125 yen, that price translates to $272,000 dollars per square meter or $6.72 billion per acre
simon geller, who owned and operated wvca-fm by himself for 24 years from his home in this coastal community, has sold the station
geller, 68, said thursday he has signed a contract with an unidentified buyer for the station he has owned since 1964. he declined to disclose details, saying only that a report of a $1 million price was ``reasonably correct.''
geller made local headlines in 1985, when he won an 11-year battle against a group of new england radio station owners that wanted to take over his frequency
the federal communications commission ruled in his favor, despite arguments by the group that the station's concentration of classical music violated fcc requirements for news and public affairs programming
boris karlov will return to the soviet union a little wiser about the world's woes, a little more certain that there are no simple answers to the issues that separate the superpowers
karlov is among 1,500 students taking part in the national model united nations session, an annual forum for students to dabble in diplomacy, play a little poltics and tackle the same dilemmas that confront the real u.n
in a nifty bit of role reversal, however, karlov is playing the part of the u.s. ambassador
it is not easy to represent other views,'' he said, ``but it is extremely important to help us understand each other; to help us understand how the united states thinks, for the united states to understand how the soviets view the world.''
he wasn't the only student thrust into an unfamiliar role
one of the most outspoken delegates this year has been betsy snider of west virginia's bluefield state college, who was the delegate from the palestine liberation organization's observer mission
snider, who described her politics as ``republican,'' said that ``at one time i felt that the united states was always right, but when i started (attending model u.n. sessions) i started to have pro-arab sympathies.''
the model u.n. was set up in the same structure of the real u.n. the security council groped for a solution to the war between iran and iraq. meanwhile, delegates to the general assembly launched scathing denunciations of israel's occupation of palestine
the students _ from the united states, soviet union, west germany, canada and japan _ were asked to assume roles that challenged their national perspectives
by the end of the week, you come to accept your role,'' said brian hayden, an american acting as secretary-general this year
one of the better learning experiences is coming up against the united states in a debate. i remember thinking, `are we (the united states) really that difficult to work with?'''
the students are required to follow the national policies of the countries they represent, so they soon learn the limits of the united nations system: bloc voting, lack of enforcement power, vetoes by the permanent members of the security council _ the united states, soviet union, china, britain and france
what we simulate is frustration,'' said thomas becker of westport, conn., who is playing the undersecretary-general for economic and social affairs. ``students come away exhilarated by the experience but with understanding of the restraints and frustrations under which delegates must operate.''
the national model united nations conference dates back to 1923, when its predecessor organization simulated the league of nations. it changed its name in 1946 after the founding of the united nations
the organization is organized by a non-profit committee affiliated with the u.n. department of public information, and funded by fees paid by students attending the sessions
but don't expect any simple answer to the world's ills this week. the real u.n. doesn't operate that way, and neither does its student model
there is room for creativity, and exciting things happen in caucuses, but if there were a breakthough it would probably mean the students hadn't done their homework,'' said becker
former presidential aide lyn nofziger is still worth more than $2.8 million despite his pleas of financial hardship and should be imprisoned for illegally lobbying the white house, a prosecutor says
independent counsel james c. mckay said nofziger deserves imprisonment for flouting and belittling the ethics in government act
nofziger also should be fined because he was ``unjustly enriched'' by lobbying then-presidential counselor edwin meese iii and other white house aides on behalf of wedtech corp. and two other clients, mckay said in a sentencing memo filed thursday in u.s. district court
the former white house political director is scheduled to be sentenced next friday by u.s. district judge thomas flannery
mckay, noting a probation office report that nofziger's ``current net worth exceeds $2.8 million,'' rejected the defendant's argument that the ``public humiliation and serious financial reversals'' resulting from his indictment and trial should spare him further punishment
nofziger has said his legal bills total $1 million and friends have started a defense fund to help pay his lawyers
mckay said ``virtually all'' of nofziger's wealth was accumulated after he left the white house
it cannot fairly be concluded that defendant nofziger's reduced financial situation supplants the justifications for judicial punishment for his offenses,'' the prosecutor said
mckay noted that nofziger's lobbying of meese, now attorney general, on behalf of wedtech helped the bronx, n.y. company win a $32 million army no-bid contract
the transfer to defendant nofziger of many thousands of dollars worth of welbilt stock would not have occurred if that contract had not been awarded to welbilt,'' mckay said, referring to wedtech by its previous name, welbilt electronic die corp
nofziger and his partner, mark a. bragg, eventually sold their wedtech stock for more than $600,000, according to court records
nofziger's remarks after his conviction showed ``a total lack of remorse or contrition,'' mckay said
minutes after he was convicted on feb. 11, nofziger told reporters his crime was like ``running a stop sign.''
he called the ethics statute ``a lousy law.''
that intransigent attitude is a consideration arguing in favor of a sentence that includes a period of incarceration,'' said mckay, who did not specify the length of the prison term he sought
nofziger could be sentenced to up to two years and fined as much as $10,000 for each of three felony convictions for lobbying former colleagues within a year of leaving president reagan's staff in early 1982
defense attorney e. lawrence barcella said for mckay to ``request jail time for a 63-year-old man with a spotless record of public service who did not intend to violate the law is ridiculous, unnecessary and totally lacking in compassion.''
but mckay argued in his brief that nofziger ignored advice about complying with the ethics in government act from lawyers he retained when he left reagan's staff in early 1982
the prosecutor recalled an episode during which nofziger uttered a profanity when advised by one of his lawyers not to make any white house contacts without first consulting his attorneys
the incident was described at a bench conference during the trial by associate independent counsel merrick garland out of hearing of the jury and spectators, according to the transcript
when nofziger attorney martin l. artiano gave the advice, nofziger uttered the profanity and said ``these are my friends and i am going back to them if i want to,'' garland told the judge
lyn doesn't recall having such a conversation,'' barcella said. artiano only recalled such an incident after ``a lot of prompting'' during ``repeated interviews with the independent counsel and numerous sessions with the grand jury,'' the defense lawyer said
even artiano said lyn was joking when he said it and thereafter lyn came and asked for their advice about ethics in government act matters,'' barcella said
medical students should be taught to avoid performing unnecessary coronary bypass surgery, says the author of a study that found unneeded operations may be more common than thought in the united states
the study, published today in the british medical journal lancet, also found british doctors may perform coronary bypass surgeries too infrequently, said dr. robert h. brook, a rand corp. researcher and internist-geriatrician at the university of california, los angeles
brook said the findings suggest the united states could cut health care costs without having to ration needed cardiac care, while britain already is rationing such care
brook and american and british colleagues conducted their study by organizing two panels of doctors, one with nine u.s. physicians and the other with nine from britain. each panel then rated the ``appropriateness,'' or necessity, of two procedures for a series of hypothetical heart patients
one procedure was coronary bypass, in which doctors try to prevent heart attacks and heart pain by surgically attaching new blood vessels to the heart to replace clogged arteries. the second procedure was coronary angiography, in which doctors search for blockages in coronary arteries by injecting dye into them and then x-raying them
the panels' review of hypothetical patients produced criteria for determining when bypass surgery and angiography are necessary or unnecessary. the researchers defined a procedure as appropriate if its benefit to health exceeeded its risks by a sufficiently wide margin. cost was not a factor
the researchers then applied those criteria to 386 coronary bypass operations performed on real medicare patients in washington state. the british doctors' criteria deemed 35 percent of the operations were unnecessary, while the u.s. doctors' criteria deemed only 13 percent unnecessary
more than 200,000 americans undergo coronary bypass surgery each year, and some american studies suggest at least 25,000 of them, or about 13 percent, are unnecessary, the journal of the american medical association reported last year
unnecessary bypass operations could be reduced if ``guidelines such as the ones we developed are promulgated and become an integral part of education in medical school,'' brook said thursday
brook and his co-authors also found that britain's 1985 rate of 210 coronary bypass operations per million residents was only half what it should have been if british doctors followed the british panel's criteria
the criteria developed by the british and u.s. doctors also were applied to 1,677 coronary angiographies performed on medicare patients throughout the united states and 376 performed on medicare patients in washington state
under the british criteria, 42 percent of the angiographies performed nationally and 60 percent in washington state were deemed unnecessary, while under the u.s. criteria, only 17 percent of those performed nationally and 27 percent of those in washington state were considered unnecessary
about 680,000 coronary angiographies are performed annually in the united states, according to the american heart association
the study said british doctors apparently require more scientific evidence before determining if bypass surgery or angiography is necessary
brook said if american doctors followed their british colleagues in emphasizing greater use of medicine and less bypass surgery to treat blocked coronary arteries, u.s. health care costs could be reduced without having to ration funds to provide bypass surgery and angiography
on the other hand, ``the findings imply effective care already is being rationed'' in britain, he said, adding that if further study confirms the results, britain should seriously consider making bypass surgery and angiography more widely available
brook's co-authors were dr. j.r. hampton, a cardiologist at britain's university hospital nottingham; jacqueline kosecoff, a private consultant to rand; rand economist r.e. park; and drs. mark chassin and constance winslow, both of whom work at rand and ucla
toni morrison's novel ``beloved'' sparked the biggest literary controversy of the year, but the panelists who nominated it for the pulitzer prize said they felt no pressure to choose it over other works
none,'' said michael gartner, editor of the ames (iowa) daily tribune. ``for us, it was just a case of sitting down and reading three books and deciding which one was the best. ... `beloved' was clearly the superior book.''
the controversy surrounding ``beloved'' erupted after the novel, a powerful story of a former slave who kills her daughter rather than see her returned to bondage, failed to win the national book award and the national book critics circle award
larry heinemann won the national book award for ``paco's story'' and philip roth won the national book critics circle award for ``the counterlife.''
in january, 48 black writers and critics signed a letter denouncing the fact that ms. morrison, who is black, ``has yet to receive the national recognition that her five major works of fiction entirely deserve.''
with the biggest prize of all, the pulitzer, still to come, the letter generated debate about the role _ and propriety _ of lobbying in the selection of literary awards
but the jurors who nominated ``beloved'' as one of three pulitzer finalists in fiction said they had made their decision weeks before the letter was published, and that they chose it in an atmosphere free of pressure
i want her to realize this wasn't the result of any pressure,'' said the chairman of the three-member jury, rutgers university professor julian moynahan. ``i think her book is one of the greatest american novels i've ever read in my life.''
the jury was required to submit three choices to the pulitzer board without stating a preference. moynahan was far from non-partisan as he spoke about it in retrospect
if she hadn't gotten it, i think i would have cut my throat,'' he said thursday after the prizes, chosen by the 17-member board, were announced
the other two nominated novels were ``persian nights'' by diane johnson and ``that night'' by alice mcdermott
they're all three wonderful books,'' said another juror, los angeles times book critic richard eder
eder spoke passionately about ``beloved,'' calling it ``an incredible evocation ... of the incredible degradation that slavery meant to the bodies and souls of slaves. ... i don't think it's been better done.''
one pulitzer board member, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the board's decision about ``beloved'' was unanimous. he declined to talk about the discussion that led to the choice
one of the writers who signed the protest letter, john edgar wideman, said the board's decision encouraged him. ``i'd only be happier if i won it,'' he said
what was said about toni morrison (by black writers and critics) was something symptomatic about the reception about black literature in general,'' wideman said
wideman said the late james baldwin was an even better example of a black writer being ignored
that certainly does not get redressed by one award or one person's triumph,'' wideman said. ``it's a good sign. but let's cross our fingers and hope it represents a trend, a symptom of a larger understanding and appreciation of the work of black people in all fields.'' administration</head>
nasa says two areas in mississippi and one near cape canaveral in florida are prime candidates for a $1 billion plant to build the next generation of space shuttle rocket boosters, but that plans are being held up by the white house
two officials of the national aeronautics and space agency indicated to congress on thursday that a requirement for the site might be that it be accessible by rail and water. that would eliminate the morton thiokol inc. plant in utah, the sole source for current booster rockets
adm. richard truly, head of the shuttle program for nasa, and j.r. thompson, director of the marshall space flight center in alabama, testified they expect to decide on a site before june when requests are issued for proposals to build and operate the plant
they had been expected to present a comprehensive plant acquisition plan to the space science subcommittee of the house committee on science and technology. but they said the plan was being held up by the white house's office of management and budget
the march 30 deadline was spelled out in legislation last year that was signed by the president. the delay caused rep. bill nelson, d-fla., the subcommittee chairman, to say that nasa was ``being hamstrung by the administration, specifically by omb.''
he called it ``another example of an administration that's got such a mixed-up policy, a lack of direction, that it is going several different ways and not holding itself accountable by congress.''
but omb, through a spokeswoman who said she didn't want to be named, said that a technical report of the kind submitted by nasa normally takes five days for review and that it had been received only two days earlier. ``they knew that,'' she said. ``we are taking the full five days.''
the facility will cost $200 million to $300 million to build and $1 billion to get into production, truly said
thompson said a number of sites had been looked at, mostly around the gulf coast and some in florida. he said the cape canaveral area, bay st. louis, miss., and yellow creek, in mississippi near the alabama-tennessee border ``would be among the three more attractive'' places
thompson said five firms have expressed an interest in making the advanced solid rocket motors, which are planned for flights beginning in mid-1993 that need the extra lifting power the new boosters will have. morton thiokol will continue to make the current boosters, which gradually will be phased out by mid-1997
thompson said four of the firms, united technologies, atlantic research, aerojet and hercules, are interested in operating a government-owned plant, while morton thiokol wants to upgrade its facilities in utah
a new facility, in our opinion, is needed,'' truly said. ``it needs to include more automation, cleaner facilities.''
the two officials would not commit themselves to whether the nasa plan rules out a contractor-owned, contractor-operated facility as is the case with morton thiokol
but thompson said, ``we just do not want to get ourselves tied to one contractor for the long haul.''
the government of president roh tae-woo formally apologized today for the bloody suppression of a 1980 rebellion in the southern city of kwangju and proposed financial compensation for the victims
the announcement by the 5-week-old government departed sharply from how the previous administration of chun doo-hwan handled the civilian uprising _ calling those involved ``rioters.''
the government ``offers its sincere apology not only to the victims of the turmoil but also all residents of kwangju and the general public,'' culture and information minister chung han-mo told a news conference
he said the administration ``thinks the kwangju turmoil can be considered a part of the democratization efforts of the students and citizens'' in the provincial capital 200 miles south of seoul
many citizens in kwangju and other critics of the former president blame chun for harshly suppressing the nine-day armed uprising. by official count, 191 people were killed and more than 800 wounded. dissident sources claim the casualty figure was much higher
the excessive lengths to which the government allegedly went to crush the uprising emerged as a major issue during the election campaign that ended in roh's election in december
chung said that ``to promote national reconciliation,'' the government decided ``the wounds of the tragic kwangju turmoil of may 1980 must be healed as quickly as possible.''
roh, who succeeded chun feb. 25, pledged during the campaign that he would restore the honor of kwangju citizens by making a formal apology and offering compensation
chung said proposed measures include financial support and employment for the bereaved families and wounded victims, erection of a memorial monument and conversion of the mangwol-dong cemetery in kwangju, where many of the victims are buried, into a park
to effectively carry out the measures, chung said a national commission chaired by the prime minister and a municipal commission led by the kwangju mayor will be formed
he said the government ``appeals to all concerned parties _ the surviving victims, the citizens of kwangju and the general korean public _ to understand and forgive each other and put the pain of the turmoil behind them so that everyone can join hands to achieve grand national harmony.''
the governing democratic justice party welcomed the government announcement as ``proper measures for democratization and national reconciliation.''
but the main opposition reunification democratic party charged the government was attempting to evade the main issue of what really happened during the kwangju uprising
the political opposition, joined by families of the victims, have demanded that an objective investigation be carried out and that those responsible be punished
government officials, however, maintain an investigation would aggravate the situation in kwangju, site of violent riots during last year's campaign
the conciliatory announcement, following the arrest thursday of chun's younger brother on corruption charges, is seen by some observers here as a move by roh to distance himself from the authoritarian chun at a time when the government party is gearing up for the national assembly elections at the end of april
roh, a former general and schoolmate of chun, helped the former president gain power in 1980
a plan to give illegal aliens an additional seven months to apply for amnesty has won committee backing, and a key supporter says the plan has a good chance of passage in the house
after the house judiciary committee voted 22-12 thursday to extend the current may 4 deadline to nov. 30, rep. charles schumer, d-n.y., said the margin ``bodes well for passage in the house.''
the legalization plan applies to aliens who came to the united states illegally but have lived in the united states continuously since before jan. 1, 1982
schumer said he was encouraged by support in committee from three republicans, including ranking gop member hamilton fish of new york and dan lungren of california, who was instrumental in passage of the landmark 1986 immigration law that established the amnesty program
rep. michael dewine of ohio was the third republican to support the extension, while rep. harley staggers, d-w.va., was the only democrat to oppose it. the remainder of the vote was along party lines
the margin was higher than expected,'' schumer said. ``while we have a long way to go, i'm more optimistic than ever it will reach the president's desk.''
schumer said he expected the bill to reach the house floor soon after next week's congressional recess. the legislation still faces heavy opposition in both the house and the senate _ where it could be subjected to a filibuster. in addition, the reagan administration opposes the bill
legalization was a cornerstone of the landmark law signed in november 1986 to slow massive illegal immigration. the program was included as a balance to the legislation's enforcement provision: financial penalties against employers who knowingly hire undocumented workers
alan c. nelson, commissioner of the immigration and naturalization service, said this week that even talk of an extension was ``a major threat to the program'' because aliens would become confused and delay their applications
but the majority of committee members, while praising the ins' current attempt to publicize legalization and the may 4 deadline, contended the media campaign began too late to reach all those who might apply
ins figures show that through march 29, some 1.1 million applications have been received under the general amnesty program. more than 300,000 have been received from a special program for agricultural workers
the agricultural program already has a nov. 30 deadline
of applications that have reached the decision stage, only 12,700 have been rejected, a rate of 2 percent. another 782,000 have been approved and the remainder are in the pipeline, the ins says
applicants receive a temporary work permit when they apply for legalization, and therefore can stay in the country while awaiting a decision. if the applicant gains temporary residency, he or she is then on the road toward permanent residency and citizenship
ins figures show the number of applicants has been increasing as the may 4 deadline approaches. for instance, 16,800 people applied the week ending jan. 22, while there were 30,620 applicants in the week ending march 11. the total was 36,830 for the week ending march 18
the leading committee opponent of the extension, rep. patrick l. swindall, r-ga., told colleagues that the amnesty program was barely approved by the house in 1986
now we're going back and changing that delicate balance,'' he said. ``now we are coming through the back door and extending it. it leaves the door wide open to come back again.''
rep. romano l. mazzoli, d-ky., chief sponsor of the new deadline, said the ``one-shot'' extension would continue to be ``self-sustaining,'' paid for by fees charged to applicants
he pointed out that some of the ins legalization offices would stay open until nov. 30 anyway to receive applications for the agricultural program, which was established for 18 months
a passenger bus ran off a highway and plummeted more than 160 feet into a river outside this central mexico town, killing at least 14 people and seriously injuring 26, authorities said
rescuers searched into the night for survivors of the thursday afternoon crash, but feared the death toll would rise, said wenceslao garcia martinez, a mexican red cross spokesman
the bus, belonging to the zanacatepec y ramales line, split in half when it plunged into the rio paraje el salto, garcia martinez said in a telephone interview, adding that the cause of the crash was not immediately known
the bus had just departed valle de bravo, about 70 miles west of mexico city, for the mexico state capital of toluca. the trip had originated in ixtapa del oro
red cross and other emergency personnel were taking the injured to hospitals and emergency clinics in toluca, ixtapan and valle de bravo
hospital officials said they could provide no information about the condition of the victims and the names of the dead and injured were not immediately available
the nikkei stock average closed at 26,104.22 points, down 156.04 points, on the tokyo stock exchange friday. campaign</head>
treasury secretary james a. baker iii may resign his post this summer to oversee vice president george bush's general-election campaign, administration and bush campaign sources are hinting
but the officials, who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, said that such a move is unlikely to occur before the august 15-18 republican convention in new orleans and could depend on the condition of the u.s. economy
meanwhile, president reagan may actively campaign for bush even before the gop convention, according to presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater
fitzwater told reporters on thursday that the president is reconsidering his original vow to remain neutral until after the convention now that bush's only remaining opposition is a token challenge from former television evangelist pat robertson
we could see the president involved in some political activities before the nominating convention _ activities that are directly associated with the nominee,'' fitzwater said
the withdrawal this week of distant rival sen. bob dole gave bush a virtual lock on the gop nomination
bush strategists are now focusing their attention on the fall elections, and baker may play an important role in that campaign
if baker does come aboard, it won't be until around the time of the convention, even though bush is now certain to be the party's nominee, said administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity
there long has been talk that the treasury secretary, who managed bush's 1980 presidential bid and was senior advisor to the 1980 reagan-bush campaign, might step aside to help run his longtime friend's campaign
peter teeley, a bush campaign spokesman, said a discussion of what role baker might play in the bush campaign, if any, was only speculative at this time
but, teeley added, ``jim is very close to the vice president and has been for a quarter of a century. there's no secret what their relationship has been.''
in the past, baker has discouraged talk of an early resignation, saying he was happy with his job as treasury secretary, one he has held since 1985
however, on thursday a treasury spokesman, who refused to be identified by name, would only say that there was no truth to reports that baker would quit by aug. 1
baker intends to go ahead with plans to participate in the seven-nation economic summit in toronto in late june, administration officials said
baker, who has built an international reputation in his current post, is an experienced political tactician. the former houston attorney served as reagan's chief of staff for four years before becoming treasury secretary and in 1976 was chairman of president ford's re-election effort
baker's role in the bush campaign, and the timing involved in such a move, could depend on how the economy performs over the next few months
a deterioration in the economy could persuade baker to stay on as treasury secretary to oversee policies designed to head off an election-year recession, some administration sources involved in economic policy-making suggest
however, recent economic data have shown an economy rebounding strongly from last october's stock market plunge
baker could probably have any job in a bush presidency that he wanted, and there have been rumors for some time that he would like to be secretary of state
bush on wednesday told reporters he intended to ``have a new cabinet'' if elected. the answer responded specifically to a query on embattled attorney general edwin meese iii but might also be taken as a signal that there would be a new treasury secretary in a bush presidency
bush, back in town for several days following a three-day swing through wisconsin, met with reagan for their regular weekly working luncheon. fitzwater said he did not know if campaign plans were discussed
the president's spokesman said a decision on any presidential campaign activity by reagan in bush's behalf before the convention ``has not been finally made, although ... the vice president is very close to having the nomination.''
pat robertson is still a candidate, in a declared sense, but he too recognizes the realities of the situation,'' fitzwater said
bush is continuing with plans for campaign appearances in states that have upcoming primaries and that will also be important in the general election _ including new york, new jersey, ohio and pennsylvania
he also is planning fund-raising trips late next week to texas and florida, states where he has already won primaries
a group of 21 senators is writing secretary of state george shultz asking him to refrain from meeting with members of the palestine liberation organization during his upcoming trip to the middle east
the bipartisan group, including presidential hopeful albert gore jr., d-tenn., still was collecting signatures on the petition and planned to send the letter today. a similar letter was planned by house members
shultz left washington on thursday for rome, and will continue sunday to the middle east to lobby for acceptance of a u.s. plan for arab-israeli peace talks
the senators slammed shultz's meeting last saturday in washington with two american university professors who are members of the palestine national council, the plo's parliamentary arm
defending the meeting, shultz said he wanted to hear the views of edward said and ibrahim abu lughod about palestinian representation in mideast talks. he denied his meeting violated u.s. law, which forbids negotiating with the plo, saying that not all members of the council are also members of the plo
we see no distinction between the plo and the pnc,'' the senators wrote. ``we believe your action sets a dangerous precedent.''
congress passed a law in 1985 banning talks with the plo until that organization recognizes israel's right to exist and renounces acts of terror. the law was based on u.s. assurances to israel in 1975 that the united states would not deal with the plo
if u.s. agreements are breached now, how can we expect the government of israel to accept future u.s. assurances concerning an international peace conference?'' the letter said
shultz has proposed giving israel written assurances that an international conference would only serve as an advisory forum for direct israeli-arab talks and would not have the power to impose solutions
the senators who signed the letter were: christopher bond, r-mo.; quentin burdick, d-n.d.; alfonse d'amato, r-n.y.; alan dixon, d-ill.; dennis deconcini, d-ariz.; gore; bob graham, d-fla.; charles grassley, r-iowa; john heinz, r-penn.; gordon humphrey, r-n.h.; daniel inouye, d-hawaii; david karnes, r-neb.; bob kasten, r-wis.; frank lautenberg, d-n.j.; howard metzenbaum, d-ohio; john melcher, d-mont.; larry pressler, r-s.d.; jay rockefeller, d-w.va.; william roth, r-del.; richard shelby, d-ala.; and pete wilson, r-calif. pickup.</note>
stock prices fell moderately friday and the dollar lost ground against the japanese yen in tokyo trading
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues fell 156.04 points, or 0.59 percent, to close the day at 26,104.22 points
the dollar closed friday at 124.10 yen, down 0.40 yen from yesterday`s close of 124.50 yen
nothing is happening here,'' said a dealer at a major u.s. securities firm, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``it's the easter holiday and people are not doing anything.''
the dealer said the dollar rebounded slightly following moderate intervention by the bank of japan to prop up the sagging currency. the bank does not publicly comment on its market activities
a trader at a major commercial bank in tokyo said local market participants are anticipating a weak dollar in the new 1988 fiscal year which began friday. major stock markets around the world are closed friday
the united states says it will pursue a formal trade complaint against japan after a four-year agreement covering japanese import quotas on beef, oranges and orange juice expired and talks produced no new accord
i am deeply disappointed that the japanese did not come forward with their proposal to liberalize trade on beef and citrus,'' u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said after three days of talks here with takashi sato, japanese minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries
thursday was the last day of the agreement. as a result of the failure, the united states will challenge the quotas as illegal under international trading rules, opening the way to possible trade penalties or other sanctions against japan, yeutter said
the united states has requested an emergency meeting of the general agreement on tariffs and trade council next friday in geneva, where it will request ``an independent gatt panel to be formed to review our complaint,'' yeutter said
sato told reporters he and his delegation explained the difficulties of liberalizing beef and citrus imports and ``tried to obtain the understanding of the u.s. side for a more realistic position but our efforts were not successful.''
talks on the issue will continue but no time or place was set, japanese spokesman toshiyuki takano said, and sato plans to leave saturday for japan
under the 1984 quota agreement, japan agreed to admit 141,000 tons of american beef that year, rising to 177,000 tons this year, and to a 1,100-ton annual increase in the 1984 quota on u.s. orange imports of 82,000 tons
the quotas are demanded by citrus and beef farmers who are influential in japan's governing liberal-democratic party. u.s. officials argue that japanese consumers would benefit greatly from cheaper u.s. oranges and meat and that the domestic producers should adjust to imports just as several u.s. industries have had to cope with japanese competition
yeutter said he is confident the japanese quotas will be found in violation of international trading rules because an earlier gatt panel recently ruled japanese quotas on 12 processed foods were gatt-illegal. japan at first ignored the ruling but it was announced during prime minister noboru takeshita's january visit to washington that the country would abide by the decision
officials of takeshita's governing liberal-democratic party said recently japan could not agree to further liberalization of beef and citrus imports because it would threaten producers' livelihood
although japan is the largest purchaser of u.s. farm products, the united states has been arguing that the country's remaining import barriers cost japanese consumers unreasonably high prices, with beefsteak four times the u.s. price and citrus fruit at least double the american cost. move</head>
the owners of eastern airlines are trying to dismantle the financially troubled passenger carrier in an effort to break its unions, the union representing 13,000 eastern workers alleges in a federal lawsuit
the international association of machinists and aerospace workers, afl-cio, filed the lawsuit in u.s. district court here thursday. the 81-page complaint alleges that frank lorenzo's texas air corp. was trying to undermine the union's legal right to represent eastern employees by transferring the airline's assets to other subsidiaries of the parent
the complaint charged that the transfer of some eastern air routes, planes and airport gate rights to other subsidiaries such as continental was part of a scheme to weaken the iam's power to represent eastern employees
such transactions violated the terms of a 1984 agreement that the old eastern airlines management made with the iam under which union members received 20 percent of the company's stock in return for wage concessions, the union said
texas air took over eastern in 1986, but the union contends that the airline's new owner is bound by the collective bargaining agreement that set up the stock ownership plan
the lawsuit also charges a campaign of harassment of iam members as well as ``widespread and blatant'' violations of the labor contract
eastern spokeswoman karen ceremsak said the company would not comment on the lawsuit until officials had a chance to read the complaint
the union last month obtained a contempt citation against eastern for taking steps to sell its northeast shuttle operation to another subsidiary of texas air
the new lawsuit was assigned to u.s. district judge john h. pratt, who last month ruled that the attempt to transfer the shuttle operations flouted an earlier injunction he had issued directing eastern to maintain the working conditions of its unionized employees
the iam and eastern are negotiating changes in the union contract before federal mediators
the company was also ordered this week by another judge here not to lease its planes to an independent cargo carrier to train non-union pilots in the event eastern's unionized pilots honor a possible iam strike this spring
a lot of people will be sleeping late sunday, but not out of a desire for extra rest
it's the day that daylight-saving time returns, meaning that clocks should be shifted an hour forward
the change occurs at 2 a.m. sunday, meaning most people probably will want to set their clocks ahead one hour before retiring saturday night
although known as ``daylight-saving time,'' the annual change doesn't really save any daylight, or time
it simply moves an hour of light from morning to evening by delaying the timing of both sunrise and sunset by an hour
that means that some children wind up waiting for school buses in the dark, for example, in exchange for more time after school to play ball or join the family in backyard cookouts
the idea has been attributed to various people, including benjamin franklin, but it was william willett of england who launched the eventually successful campaign for the idea in 1907
more time for evening recreation, less need for costly artificial lights and a possible reduction of evening crime were cited as major advantages
it was the potential for energy savings that prompted first use of daylight-saving time, in germany in 1916. other countries followed during world war i, returning to standard time afterward and resuming daylight time during world war ii
it was simple confusion that finally led to the adoption of the u.s. uniform time system in 1966. previously, the tradition of allowing local communities to decide for or against daylight time had resulted in a crazy-quilt pattern of time differences
today, daylight time is in effect in all areas of the country except arizona, puerto rico, the virgin islands, american samoa and the part of indiana in the eastern time zone
surveys have found that daylight time is generally more popular in urban areas, where the afternoon and evening leisure time is appreciated
rural areas seem to be the focus of opposition, largely because of the loss of morning light for travel to work and school and adjusting to the change in dealing with livestock, since animals don't observe differences in clocks
residents of a northwestern english town, suckered by an april fools' day gag, deluged local officials with telephone complaints after a newspaper reported they would be made to buy their own streetlight bulbs
in other teasers, a wildlife park in southeastern england said it had launched a campaign to stop fish drowning and a left-wing weekly said labor party leaders had been advised to take assertiveness training
the national circulation newspaper today reported in its april fools' editions that the rail tunnel under construction between britain and france will open next week, a remarkable five years ahead of schedule
a four-page pull-out supplement in the paper bore the headline: ``chunnel opens 5 years early _ exclusive leak on britain's dig to tunnel glory.''
in northwest england the wirral globe's friday edition, issued on thursday before the long easter holiday weekend, said the borough council was planning to make residents buy their own lightbulbs for streetlamps as part of a cost-cutting campaign
the spoof front-page story prompted a flood of calls from worried residents, and a lot of time was wasted calming them, said the council's secretary, john goodacre
in retaliation, the council canceled its advertising with the weekly freesheet, which is delivered to 140,000 homes in the area. the amount of lost advertising revenue was not disclosed
globe editor martin hovden said: ``if we have upset anyone and caused distress obviously i apologize. but we have had at least an equal number of calls from people saying they enjoyed it.''
he said the paper had been running april fools' day gags for 10 years
other cost-cutting measures listed in the globe's spoof report included a ``snatch squad'' to force its way into homes to recover unreturned books from the council's lending library and the closure of local schools mondays and fridays
the national circulation newspaper the independent, normally serious-minded, reported: ``an elusive creature which is new to british mammal records was photographed last week for the first time, our rural affairs correspondent writes.''
the creature has been provisionally nicknamed the bogart by a small group of conservationists, who have formed a society for its preservation,'' it said
the paper printed a photograph of a man with a long pole approaching a creature with a badger's head and a fox's tail against a backdrop of snowy peaks in the cumbrian hills of northwest england
the date, april 1, appeared directly above
the left-wing weekly magazine new statesmen purported to have a leaked memorandum from peter mandelson, labor's director of communications, to charles clarke, a member of the staff of party leader neil kinnock
the spoof had mandelson saying labor should seek a more abrasive image and push its trade and industry spokesman brian gould out of the public spotlight because he was seen as ``soft and cuddly.''
gould, who masterminded labor's sophisticated campaign strategy in last year's general election, is anything but soft
the story said labor should call in a psychologist who had advised soccer teams how to brush up their image and an anthropologist to give key party members assertiveness training
mandelson, in a real-life comment, dismissed the gag as ``light-hearted, clever and amusing _ if a little too clever by half.''
in southeast england, alan breeze, curator of the brambles wildlife park in kent, insisted his rescue campaign to stop fish drowning is an absolutely serious conservation measure to boost the toad population
he said breeding toads will try to mate with almost anything and will often cling to the backs of expensive fish like imported koi carp from japan in ornamental ponds
he said large fish with up to six toads clinging on were known to become exhausted, sink to the bottom of the pond and ``drown.''
he didn't explain how fish can drown but he said the cure was to use a feather to tickle the backs of the clinging toads, which are an endangered species in some parts of the country, to make them release their amorous grip
breeze said he was experiencing difficulty getting people to take the campaign seriously. impeachment trial</head>
a failed effort to reinstate the most serious of three impeachment charges against gov. evan mecham has set the stage for a senate vote next week on whether he should be removed from office
senate democrats on thursday refused to go along with a move by republicans to revive the charge that the first-term gop governor concealed a $350,000 campaign loan _ a decision one senator called ``political roulette.''
if there are not the votes to convict, and governor mecham is back on the ninth floor (the governor's office) on wednesday ... they have dealt themselves a losing hand,'' said sen. tony west, a democrat and mecham critic
the senate has heard five weeks of evidence on the remaining two charges: that mecham tried to thwart investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official and misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
the article of impeachment was dismissed wednesday in a 16-12 vote supported by all 11 democratic senators and five staunch gop supporters of mecham. some of his sharpest critics have been state republican leaders
the senate, in recess for the easter weekend, is to hear closing arguments monday, then vote on the charges later that day or tuesday
although many senators said they had not decided how to vote, gop sen. bill delong said he thought most had made up their minds
there's more than just the guilt or innocence on the charges,'' delong said. he said he expected senators would also be asked to act in the best interests of the state
sen. greg lunn, also a republican, said dismissing the third charge increased the chance of mecham being acquitted because the charge involving the $350,000 loan ``was the most damning.''
the charge was considered the most damaging partly because mecham signed a letter promising the loan would remain confidential
democrats argued that a senate trial on the charge could damage mecham's right to a fair trial in criminal court on similar charges april 21. they also worried that hearing the charge would extend the senate trial past the may 17 date of mecham's recall election
if the senate votes to convict mecham on either article, he would be automatically removed from office. senators also could vote on whether to bar him from holding any future office
an acquittal would immediately return the governor to the office he gave up feb. 5 when he was impeached by the house. secretary of state rose mofford, a democrat, has been acting governor since then
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict
mecham, 63, is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona
a political outsider who took office in january 1987, mecham has insisted that he is innocent of all wrongdoing and that he is being persecuted by the state gop establishment and the media
mecham sparked controversy by canceling a martin luther king holiday for state workers, and has made comments that angered blacks, homosexuals, women, jews and japanese
police used water cannons and clubs to scatter scores of dissidents protesting lack of progress in the investigation of the killing three years ago of three communist activists
reporters and witnesses saw at least 30 protesters being detained during the demonstration thursday
the protesters gathered at a plaza across the street from the government palace in downtown santiago, carrying signs and chanting anti-government slogans. the group included the widows of the three slain communists
jose manuel parada, santiago natino and manuel guerrero were abducted on march 29, 1985. their bodies were found with their throats slit two days later near the santiago airport
four months later, a civilian judge indicted 12 members of the national police, including two colonels, in the kidnappings but not in the killings. the charges eventually were dropped by the supreme court and the case remains open
twenty gunmen attacked an indian reserve in an amazon jungle area claimed by wealthy landowners, killing at least three indians, wounding 20 and leaving 15 missing, the national indian foundation reported
the official report thursday was disputed by the national indigenous council, an indian rights group associated with brazil's national catholic bishop's conference, which set the number of dead at 12, including some children, and 21 injured
the foundation said the attack took place monday on the tikuna indian reserve in benjamin constant, a town 3,700 miles northwest of rio de janeiro near the border with colombia
foundation president romero juca told reporters thursday that the federal police had been called in to investigate the attack
the shootings appeared linked to a dispute between the foundation and landowners for control of the region, which is rich in mineral deposits and timber
according to juca, the foundation marked off 298,870 acres as tikuna territory in 1984, but white landowners have not accepted the compensation paid by the government and stayed in the area
the national indigenous council said about 20,000 tikuna indians live in and around benjamin constant
there are about 220,000 indians in brazil, most of whom live in the amazon jungle
winners of the 1988 pulitzer prizes were:
journalism:
public service _ the charlotte observer
general news reporting _ the alabama journal, montgomery, ala., and lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune
investigative reporting _ dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski, chicago tribune
explanatory journalism _ daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart, the wall street journal
specialized reporting _ walt bogdanich, the wall street journal
national reporting _ tim weiner, the philadelphia inquirer
international reporting _ thomas l. friedman, the new york times
feature writing _ jacqui banaszynski, the st. paul pioneer press-dispatch
commentary _ dave barry, the miami herald
criticism _ tom shales, the washington post
editorial writing _ jane healy, the orlando sentinel
editorial cartooning _ doug marlette, the atlanta constitution and the charlotte observer
spot news photography _ scott shaw, the odessa (texas) american
feature photography _ michel ducille, the miami herald
arts:
fiction _ ``beloved,'' by toni morrison
drama _ ``driving miss daisy,'' by alfred uhry
history _ ``the launching of modern american science 1846-1876,'' by robert v. bruce
biography _ ``look homeward: a life of thomas wolfe,'' by david herbert donald
poetry _ ``partial accounts: new and selected poems,'' by william meredith
general non-fiction _ ``the making of the atomic bomb,'' by richard rhodes
music _ ``12 new etudes for piano,'' by william bolcom
a former new york congressman says the uncommitted delegate slate he's part of for the state's april 19 democratic presidential primary hopes ``to persuade the (national) convention to go for mario cuomo.''
we think he would be, by far, the strongest, most inspiring candidate that we could put up,'' democrat richard ottinger said of the new york governor during an interview thursday with wvox and wrtn radio stations
the uncommitted slate of delegates was put together by a group of upstate new york elected democratic county clerks, many of whom hoped cuomo would join the race
albert gore sr. says he almost got the democratic vice presidential nomination more than three decades ago _ and he hopes his son won't settle for the no. 2 spot because it is ``dead-end street.''
gore, 80, said he would not recommend that his son, tennessee sen. albert gore jr., flirt with the vice presidency even if he fails to become the democratic presidential nominee
it's a dead-end street,'' the elder gore, who recalled unsuccessfully seeking the 1956 vice presidential nomination, told the wausau daily herald in an interview wednesday
and i have serious doubts that ... the other contestants for the presidency can win, and who would want to be second on the losing ticket?''
the elder gore also had doubts about the vice presidential job for his son even if the democrats win because it would be ``a do-nothing position.''
married voters tend to vote for republicans in presidential elections, a study by an ohio state university political science professor concludes
the research by herbert weisberg showed that 10 percent to 15 percent more married people than unmarried ones favor republicans, partly because republicans in recent years have emphasized family issues
the republicans have been holding the edge in the marriage gap for some time,'' weisberg said. ``the question will be whether either party finds a way to exploit it.''
married people are in the majority and are more likely to vote than unmarried people because more people vote once they have a bigger stake in the community, weisberg said
former president jimmy carter has praise for the campaign style of jesse jackson, but he isn't saying which candidate he hopes will win the democratic presidential race
carter, speaking thursday with reporters following a conference on south africa, was asked what he thought about jackson's recent strides in the race
i think jesse jackson has run as near a perfect campaign as i have ever seen in this country,'' said carter. he declined to take further questions about politics
former transportation secretary elizabeth dole says the south's super tuesday primaries were won on the ``slick advertising'' of vice president george bush
her husband, sen. bob dole, fell behind in the republican presidential nomination race during those primaries
mrs. dole, in colorado springs to speak at the el paso county lincoln day dinner, told reporters that so many states held primaries on march 8 the candidates were unable to get their messages to voters
the super tuesday idea was not at all a good one,'' she said. ``i don't think we'll ever see that concept again.''
clerks in 17 new jersey counties who claimed an overcrowded slate for the state's june 7 primary would force them to spend $4.1 million for additional voting machines won court approval to change the ballot's design
in my 21 years as county clerk, this is my greatest accomplishment,'' union county clerk walter g. halpin said of the ruling thursday. ``i'm saving my county half a million dollars alone.''
the ruling by superior court judge burrell ives humphreys means that a voter casting a ballot for a candidate seeking the republican nomination for president will select simultaneously those convention delegates pledged to the candidate
sen. max baucus, d-mont., is endorsing massachusetts gov. michael dukakis to be the democratic presidential nominee, citing dukakis' stands on the economy
our nation needs leaders who are committed to rebuilding our economy,'' baucus said thursday. ``creating good, lasting jobs for americans is the key to our future. i believe michael dukakis is best qualified to achieve this goal.''
rep. bill richardson, d-n.m., is endorsing democrat michael dukakis for president, saying he hopes to help the massachusetts governor with a large number of hispanic voters
what is significant here is that there is a perception that minorities in this country are going toward one candidate,'' richardson said thursday, referring to minority support for jesse jackson
the charlotte observer's dogged coverage of the ptl financial scandal, scorned by jim and tammy bakker and many readers, earned the pulitzer prize for public service, journalism's highest honor
in the arts, toni morrison's novel of a former slave, ``beloved,'' won the pulitzer for fiction, a category closely watched after the book failed to win two other prestigious awards for which it was nominated
alfred uhry's first non-musical play, ``driving miss daisy,'' won the drama prize and richard rhodes was awarded the non-fiction prize for his book, ``the making of the atomic bomb.''
the charlotte observer, the wall street journal and the miami herald each won two awards
the knight-ridder newspaper group won six in all, with the observer's two, the herald's two and one each for the philadelphia inquirer and the st. paul pioneer press dispatch. a total of 21 pulitzers were awarded thursday for achievement in the arts and journalism
the observer revealed misuse of funds by the ptl ministry ``through persistent coverage conducted in the face of a massive campaign by ptl to discredit the newspaper,'' the pulitzer board said
the observer's managing editor mark ethridge iii said the real reward was winning over readers who had denounced the newspaper's efforts
the thing that gratifies us the most of all about ptl are the folks who have written us and said, `two years ago, i wrote you and said you all were going to hell. ... now, i want to say i'm wrong and keep up the reporting,''' ethridge said
the paper won the public service award in 1981 for its coverage of ``brown lung'' among textile workers
the miami herald's michel ducille won the feature photography prize for photographs of the decay and rehabilitation of a housing project inundated by the drug crack. he also won a prize for spot news photography two years ago
the herald's humor columnist, dave barry, won the prize for commentary for his ``consistently effective use of humor as a device for presenting fresh insights into serious concerns.''
it's fun to win a pulitzer, everybody should do it,'' barry said
the wall street journal's two prizes came in explanatory journalism and specialized reporting
the paper's daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart won for stories about an investment banker charged with insider trading and about the day after the october stock market crash. walt bogdanich won the specialized reporting prize for a series on faulty testing by medical laboratories
winners generally sounded giddy
several people in the newsroom just took a champagne bath,'' said jacqui banaszynski of the st. paul pioneer press dispatch, who won the prize in feature writing for her series on an aids victim in a farm community
there was a lot of dancing and yelling and singing when the announcement came over the wire _ but that's not unusual for the journal newsroom,'' said jim tharpe, managing editor of the alabama journal in montgomery, which won in general news for its investigation of the state's unusually high infant mortality rate
the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune also won in general news for stories that showed flaws in the massachusetts prison furlough system
tom shales of the washington post won the criticism award for his writings on television
ms. morrison acknowledged the controversy surrounding her book after it failed to win the national book award and the national book critics circle award last fall. in january, 48 black writers and critics signed an open letter deploring the lack of national recognition of her book
but the chairman of the pulitzer fiction jury, rutgers university professor julian moynahan, said jurors made their recommendations six weeks before the letter was published and felt no pressure to recommend ms. morrison's book
i am glad that the merits of the book were allowed to surface and be the only consideration of the pulitzer prize committee,'' morrison said
other awards in journalism:
_ national reporting, to tim weiner of the inquirer for a series on a secret pentagon budget used to sponsor defense research and an arms buildup. he was part of a kansas city times and kansas city star team that won a pulitzer in 1982 for general news reporting
_ investigative reporting, to the chicago tribune's dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski for stories on ``the self-interest and waste that plagued chicago's city council.''
_ international reporting, to thomas l. friedman of the new york times for what the pulitzer board termed ``balanced and informed coverage of israel.'' _ editorial writing, to jane healy of the orlando sentinel for editorials that protested overdevelopment of florida's orange county
_ editorial cartooning, to doug marlette of the atlanta constitution and the charlotte observer
_ spot news photography, to scott shaw of the odessa (texas) american for his pictures of little jessica mcclure being rescued from the well into which she had fallen
other arts awards included:
_ history, ``the launching of modern american science 1846-1876,'' by robert v. bruce
_ biography, ``look homeward: a life of thomas wolfe,'' by david herbert donald
_ poetry, ``partial accounts: new and selected poems,'' by william meredith
_ music, ``12 etudes for piano,'' by william bolcom
winners are selected by the pulitzer board, which is guided by, but not obligated to restrict itself to, a series of finalists submitted by nominating juries in the various categories
except for the award for public service, which brings with it a gold medal, pulitzers carry a cash prize of $3,000. the winners are announced by the president of columbia university, which administers the competition
federal health officials say children infected with the virus that causes aids should receive measles vaccine, since their risk of severe measles is worse than their risk of complications from the vaccine
the immunization practices advisory committee of the u.s. centers for disease control said thursday that children infected with the virus that causes aids should receive the common measles-mumps-rubella vaccine, whether or not they show signs of the devastating symptoms of aids itself
previously, the committee had recommended that children showing aids symptoms should not be vaccinated, because their immune systems might be too severely harmed to tolerate the live-virus measles vaccine
the new cdc recommendation, consistent with recommendations by the world health organization, is an ``approach to protect the hiv-infected child,'' the atlanta-based agency said in its weekly report
complication from measles vaccine in children infected with hiv _ human immunodeficiency virus, the virus that causes aids _ ``hasn't happened,'' said dr. lauri markowitz, a cdc measles specialist
however, she noted, ``we have had several cases of measles in these children, and it's felt that the benefit of getting the vaccine outweighs the risk.''
in 1986 and '87, at least six cases of measles occurred in children infected with aids virus, the cdc reported; two of those children died, in the first u.s. measles deaths reported to cdc since 1985. the other four measles cases were severe
none of the six measles cases was believed linked to measles vaccine. only one of the six children had received measles vaccine, and that was five years before he became ill
it is hoped measles vaccinations will be effective in hiv-infected children, although new studies seem to show that those children, with their weakened immune systems, may not respond to the vaccine as well as healthy children, ms. markowitz said
the cdc has reported 913 cases of aids itself in children under 13. researchers believe that more are infected with the virus that causes aids, but have not yet developed the disease _ and may never
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, cripples the boy's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide spectrum of infections and cancers. the cdc has recorded 57,024 aids cases of the disease since 1981
thumbnail sketches of the 1988 pulitzer prize winners in journalism:
dean baquet, william gaines and ann marie lipinski of the chicago tribune, winners for investigative reporting
baquet, 31, joined the tribune's metropolitan staff as an investigative reporter in december 1984 and was promoted to associate metro editor-chief investigative reporter in 1987. he also worked for the times-picayunem _ the states-item from 1978 to 1984. he attended columbia university
gaines, 54, won a pulitzer prize for investigative reporting in 1976 for his work exposing conditions at two chicago hospitals. he joined the tribune in 1963 after working in radio and television stations in michigan and indiana. he also was a correspondent for the chicago daily news, did news documentaries for the u.s. army in germany and did public relations. he graduated from butler university
lipinski, 32, joined the tribune staff as a summer intern in 1978 after being a summer intern the year before at the miami herald; she stayed at the tribune as a reporter in the features department. she has won the detroit press club award and the 1981 illinois associated press editors association award for public service reporting. she attended the university of michigan
daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart of the wall street journal, winners for explanatory journalism
hertzberg, 42, began his career with the buffalo (n.y.) evening news in 1968 and moved to newsday in 1971. he joined the journal in 1977 and in 1987 was named deputy news editor. also in 1987, he won a gerald loeb deadline-writing award with james b. stewart for coverage of the ivan boesky insider-trading scandal. he received a bachelor's degree from the university of chicago
stewart, 36, who received a bachelor's degree from depauw university and a law degree from harvard, was a lawyer and executive editor of american lawyer magazine before joining the journal in 1983, where he is a special writer. he is the author of ``the partners'' and ``the prosecutors.''
walt bogdanich of the wall street journal, winner for specialized reporting
bogdanich, 37, a reporter, received his bachelor's degree from the university of wisconsin and a master's in journalism from ohio state university. he was a reporter and then managing editor at the compass in hammond, ind. he also reported for the dayton (ohio) daily news, the cleveland (ohio) press and the plain dealer (cleveland, ohio). he joined the journal as an investigative reporter in 1984. he also has won a george polk award and an overseas press club award
tim weiner of the philadelphia inquirer, winner for national reporting
weiner's work for the kansas city times was part of the package that garnered a general news reporting pulitzer in 1982 for the times and the kansas city star. he joined the inquirer in 1982. he also has worked for the associated press, the soho news and fairchild news service. weiner, 31, graduated from columbia college in 1978 and from columbia university's graduate school of journalism in 1979
thomas l. friedman of the new york times, winner for international reporting
friedman, the times' bureau chief in jerusalem, won a pulitzer prize for international reporting in 1983 for his coverage of the israeli invasion of lebanon the year before. friedman, 34, joined the times in 1981 as a business reporter and was named bureau chief in beirut in 1982. before the times, friedman worked for united press international. he graduated summa cum laude from brandeis university in 1975 and was elected to phi beta kappa. he received a master's degree from oxford university in 1978
jacqui banaszynski, of the st. paul pioneer press dispatch, winner for feature writing
banaszynski, 35, is a special projects reporter and feature writer for the newspaper and was a finalist for the 1986 pulitzer prize in foreign reporting. she joined the paper in 1984 after stints with the pulaski news, the janesville (wis.) gazette; the duluth news-tribune & herald; the eugene (ore.) register-guard and the minneapolis star and tribune. she won the minnesota press club's 1986 gene o'brien award for excellence in journalism. she graduated magna cum laude in 1974 from marquette university
dave barry of the miami herald, winner for commentary
barry, 40, a syndicated columnist for the herald since 1983, won the american society of newspaper editors distinguished writing award for commentary in 1986. he was a reporter and editor at the daily local news of west chester, pa., and was a reporter for the associated press. in 1980, he began a nationally syndicated humor column. barry is a graduate of haverford college
tom shales of the washington post, winner for criticism
shales, 44, the chief television critic and television editor of the post, joined the newspaper in 1972 as a writer in the style section. before that, he was entertainment editor of the (washington) d.c. examiner. he has written two books, ``the american film heritage'' and ``on the air!'' he graduated from american university
jane healy of the orlando sentinel, winner for editorial writing
healy, 38, associate editor of the sentinel, was a pulitzer finalist in 1985 for editorial writing. healy, who has been at the sentinel since 1973, has won the sigma delta chi southeast first place award for editorial writing in 1985 and 1986 and the florida society of newspaper editors first place award for editorial writing in 1986. she graduated from the university of maryland
doug marlette of the atlanta constitution and the charlotte observer, winner for editorial cartooning
marlette, 37, joined the constitution in march 1987 after 15 years as editorial cartoonist for the observer. marlette, who has been drawing newspaper cartoons since he was 16, also draws the ``kudzu'' comic strip. he has won the 1986 fischetti award, and has received national headliner, robert f. kennedy and sigma delta chi awards
scott shaw of the odessa (texas) american, winner for spot news photography
shaw, 24, has been a staff photographer at the odessa american since 1986 after working at the paragould (ark.) daily press, the southern illinoisan (carbondale, ill.) and the commercial news in danville, ill. he has a journalism degree from southern illinois university
michel ducille of the miami herald, winner for feature photography
ducille, 32, won a pulitzer for spot news photography in 1986 and won a photojournalism award for his photo essay on the drug crack from the national association of black journalists in 1987. he graduated from indiana university
the pulitzer prize for public service was awarded to the charlotte observer and the pulitzer for general news reporting went to the staffs of the alabama journal and the lawrence (mass.) eagle-tribune. the winners were announced thursday
thumbnail sketches of the 1988 pulitzer prize winners in the arts:
toni morrison, winner in fiction for ``beloved.'' morrison, 57, was born in lorain, ohio, attended howard university and cornell university and lives in rockland county, n.y. an editor at random house, she is the author of four other novels, ``the bluest eye,'' ``sula,'' ``song of solomon,'' which won the 1978 national book critics circle award, and ``tar baby.'' she wrote a play, ``dreaming emmett,'' produced in 1986
alfred uhry, winner in drama for ``driving miss daisy.'' uhry, 51, a native of atlanta, worked previously in the musical theater, writing lyrics for ``here's where i belong'' and lyrics and book for ``the robber bridegroom,'' both collaborations with robert waldman. he and waldman had worked for frank loesser's publishing company as a ``score team,'' and uhry worked for the goodspeed opera house in connecticut restoring early musicals to their original states. ``driving miss daisy'' is the first play he wrote alone
robert v. bruce, winner in history for ``the launching of modern american science 1846-1876.'' bruce, 64, lives in madbury, n.h., and is professor emeritus at boston university, where he has taught since 1955 and still teaches each fall. he is author of three other books: ``lincoln and the tools of war,'' ``1877: year of violence,'' and ``bell: alexander graham bell and the conquest of solitude.''
david herbert donald, winner in biography for ``look homeward: a life of thomas wolfe.'' donald, 67, won the pulitzer prize for biography in 1961 for ``charles sumner and the coming of the civil war.'' educated at millsaps college in jackson, miss., and at the university of illinois, donald has taught at columbia university in new york, oxford, princeton university and johns hopkins, where he founded the institute of southern history. he lives in lincoln, mass
william meredith, winner in poetry for ``partial accounts: new and selected poems.'' meredith, 69, a professor at connecticut college in new london, has published six volumes of poetry. he has been a chancellor of the academy of american poets since 1964 and from 1978 through 1980 was the consultant in poetry to the library of congress. a graduate of princeton, he has also taught there and at the university of hawaii, middlebury college and carnegie-mellon university
richard rhodes, winner in general non-fiction for ``the making of the atomic bomb.'' the 50-year-old rhodes was born in kansas city, kan., and educated at yale university. he has worked as editor at harper's and playboy and is the author of ``the inland ground,'' ``looking for america,'' ``the last safari,'' and ``sons of earth,'' among other books. he has been a guggenheim fellow, a national endowment for the arts fellow and a ford foundation fellow
william bolcom, winner in music for ``12 new etudes for piano.'' bolcom, 49, was born in seattle and now lives in ann arbor, mich., where he is professor of composition at the university of michigan. he attended the university of washington, mills college and stanford university. a solo and concert pianist, his music ranges from ragtime to the theater and from chamber to symphonic works
the pulitzers in arts and journalism were announced thursday
here is a list of non-winning finalists for the 1988 pulitzer prizes. under the rules, pulitzer juries in each category make three recommendations without listing them in order of preference. the pulitzer board, which awards the prizes, can choose a winner from outside the recommendations
arts:
biography _ ``hemingway,'' by kenneth s. lynn; ``george santayana: a biography,'' by john mccormick
drama _ ``boys' life,'' by howard korder; ``talk radio,'' by eric bogosian
fiction _ ``persian nights,'' by diane johnson; ``that night,'' by alice mcdermott
general non-fiction _ ``setting limits: medical goals in an aging society,'' by daniel callahan; ``chaos: making a new science,'' by james gleick
history _ ``the fall of the house of labor,'' by david montgomery; ``the care of strangers: the rise of america's hospital system,'' by charles e. rosenberg
music _ ``concerto for string quartet and orchestra,'' by gunther schuller
poetry _ ``good woman: poems and a memoir 1969-1980'' and ``next: new poems,'' by lucille clifton; ``flesh and blood,'' by c.k. williams
journalism:
commentary _ ira berkow of the new york times for sports commentary; molly ivins of the dallas times herald for columns on social and political issues; and michael kinsley of united features syndicate for political columns
criticism _ michael skube of the news and observer, raleigh, n.c., for book reviews; and allan temko, san francisco chronicle, for architecture criticism
editorial cartooning _ david fitzsimmons of the arizona daily star and don wright of the miami news
editorial writing _ bernard l. stein of the riverdale press, bronx, n.y., for editorials on a variety of issues; and joe dolman of the atlanta journal and constitution for editorials on the rights of jailed cuban refugees
explanatory journalism _ tim weiner of the philadelphia inquirer for his series on a secret pentagon budget; and athelia knight of the washington post for her story on a year in the life of an urban high school
feature photography _ george widman of the associated press for his photo of a homeless man in philadelphia; and barbara j. ries of usa today for a photo taken at the vietnam veterans memorial in washington
feature writing _ lynne duke of the miami herald for her story about a housing project overrun by crack; and john dorschner of the miami herald for stories about a neighborhood feud, police tensions and holocaust survivors
general news reporting _ the atlanta journal and constitution staff for coverage of an 11-day riot by cuban inmates; the charlotte (n.c.) observer staff for misuse of ptl ministry funds; and sam stanton of the arizona republic for his reporting on gov. evan mecham's first year in office
international reporting _ larry olmstead of the detroit free press for reports from south africa about the african national congress; and randall richard of the providence (r.i.) journal-bulletin for his series on americans adopting latin american children
investigative reporting _ larry copeland and tracy thompson of the atlanta journal and constitution for reporting on racial injustice in georgia's toombs judicial circuit; and carlton smith and tomas guillen of the seattle times for their reports on the investigation of the green river murders
national reporting _ the atlanta journal and constitution staff for its series on segregation in schools; george anthan of the des moines (iowa) register for stories about contaminated poultry; and mike masterson, chuck cook and mark trahant of the arizona republic for articles on mismanagement in federal indian programs
public service _ the alabama journal for its investigation of the state's infant-mortality rate; and the courier-journal of louisville, ky., for reporting on vote-buying and influence-peddling in state elections
specialized reporting _ natalie fobes of the seattle times for stories and photos on the pacific salmon's struggle to survive man-made hazards; and the lexington (ky.) herald-leader staff for its report on the rise and fall of a horse-breeding farm
spot news photography _ paul vathis of the associated press for photos of a pennsylvania official who shot himself at a news conference; and carol guzy and brian smith of the miami herald for photos of the turmoil in haiti
residents of this quiet town, where ``everybody knows everybody,'' were stunned and scared after a young woman said a group of men raped her repeatedly while onlookers ignored her pleas
it's something horrible,'' said jesse castanon, owner of the j.c. windmill restaurant on state highway 44, the main road through this south texas county seat about 70 miles west of corpus christi
i don't know how to explain it to you because all of the people are shocked because this never happened here,'' castanon said. he said he knew most of the 11 men arrested in the case
four men were arrested and three surrendered to police thursday, said duval county assistant district attorney rodolfo gutierrez. four others were arrested wednesday. the suspects, 21 to 29 years old, were charged with rape, kidnapping or rape and kidnapping. bonds were set at $20,000 to $50,000
some of them we've brought in have admitted it. some are not talking,'' said ricardo carrillo, another assistant district attorney
there may be more arrests, and the texas rangers will help local authorities in the investigation, according to jerry galvan, an investigator with the district attorney's office
san diego, with a population of about 5,200 people, sits in rolling hills covered with mesquite trees. ranching, oil and uranium mining are major industries in the area, but the biggest employer is the county. like many small south texas towns, the dominant buildings are the courthouse and the roman catholic church
you expect something like this to happen in corpus (christi) or san antonio or dallas, but not in san diego,'' said a woman, who asked not to be identified because ``everybody knows everybody.''
the 19-year-old victim told authorities she was walking home saturday night after visiting a relative when four men forced her into a car and took her to a ranch north of town
she said the four and several others repeatedly raped her for several hours in the back seat of a car while as many as 30 people attending an illegal cockfight either ignored her pleas or joined the attack
some were holding her by the legs and by the arms, and some were covering her eyes and mouth,'' carrillo said
the mother of two said several of the men took her to another remote location and raped her again before releasing her
gutierrez said the woman knew some of her attackers and that others were identified by witnesses, including a 12-year-old boy
the 12-year-old said (the victim) was screaming and crying and told them to take her home,'' gutierrez told the corpus christi caller-times. ``they were just watching ... and she kept calling for help.''
the woman was treated at a corpus christi hospital and released earlier this week
carrillo said the woman's husband, who spent all night looking for her after she disappeared, persuaded her to file charges monday
gutierrez said that people who stood by and did nothing may not have been legally responsible for what happened, but said they were morally obliged to help the woman
schoolteacher johnny salinas said he wasn't surprised that onlookers did nothing to help
these people feel a kinship with each other,'' he told the caller-times. ``i would have tried to stop it, but then again you might be afraid to try because you'd get beat up.''
a 77-year-old woman told the newspaper she was appalled that no one came forward to help
poor girl, no one deserves anything like this,'' said esperanza ibanez. ``what kind of barbarians would have done this to her?''
the price tag for last month's deployment of more than 3,100 american troops to honduras is likely to be somewhere between $5 million and $10 million, the pentagon says
spokesman dan howard gave the estimate thursday but said final figures won't be available for 30 to 60 days
howard said the last soldiers from the 82nd airborne division had returned home to fort bragg, n.c., thursday morning and that some ``logistical support people'' would be returning today
soldiers from the 82nd airborne and the 7th light infantry division at fort ord, calif., were airlifted on march 17 and 18 after nicaraguan troops crossed into honduras to mount an attack on u.s.-backed contra guerrillas. drug</head>
hospitals won't be getting bigger medicare payments to help offset the costs to treat heart attack victims with the expensive new anti-clotting drug called tpa
the decision was made public thursday in a letter from medicare chief william l. roper to the american hospital association
there is a question as to whether the circumstances involving tpa are so unique as to justify some special accommodation,'' roper wrote. ``we have concluded that they are not.''
hospitals have been pressing the health care financing administration to take into account the high cost of tpa _ which runs about $2,000 a dose _ in paying for the treatment of heart attack victims
medicare pays hospitals a flat, predetermined amount for treatment of various illnesses rather than reimbursing hospitals for itemized expenses used on a particular patient
the remains of 27 americans missing since the end of the vietnam war will be turned over to u.s. official in hanoi next week and then flown to an army identification laboratory in hawaii, the pentagon says
the planned return of american remains is largest repatriation by the vietnamese government since the end of the war. previously, the largest turnover of remains was 26 on aug. 14, 1985
u.s. officials in hanoi will receive the remains on wednesday. then they will be moved to the army's central identification laboratory in honolulu, hawaii, for identification, pentagon spokesman dan howard said thursday
there are currently 2,404 americans still listed as missing in indochina as a result of the vietnam war, of whom 1,767 are listed as missing in either north or south vietnam. up to now, the remains of 152 americans have been repatriated to the united states and subsequently identified by the laboratory
a racial discrimination complaint filed by more than 100 black agriculture department employees alleges bias in promotions and merit awards and claims top agency officials ignored earlier complaints
the complaint, filed thursday with the department's equal employment officer, involved grievances in the foreign agricultural service, said john franke jr., assistant agriculture secretary for administration
the complaint, signed by a large majority of the foreign service's fulltime black professional and clerical staff, charged top department officials with ignoring earlier complaints regarding placement of whites over blacks in coveted positions. the employees said blacks continue to be denied career advancement, choice overseas assignments and to be underrepresented in merit awards
usda's foreign service promotes agricultural exports through trade development programs and sales
iran launched a missile attack today on kirkuk, iraq's northern oil capital, and said 75 people have been killed and more than 100 wounded in new iraqi chemical bomb attacks on kurdish villages
iran's official islamic republic news agency said iraqi warplanes dropped bombs containing mustard and nerve gases in the qara dagh region of northeastern iraq during the six days that ended saturday
it quoted iranian-backed kurdish guerrilla sources as saying the villages of susiyan, doukan, balakha, jafaran and oliyan were hit
there was no independent confirmation and no comment by baghdad, which has been fighting a brutal mountain war against the kurdish guerrillas, who seek an independent homeland
qara dagh is 15 miles west of the front in a two-week-old iranian offensive into the kurdistan mountains, where iran claims iraqi warplanes dropped cyanide and mustard gas bombs march 16-17 on three kurdish towns ``liberated'' in the push. iran claims 5,000 civilians were killed and 5,000 injured
western correspondents who visited one of the towns, halabja, last week reported seeing hundreds of bodies unmarked by bullet or shrapnel wounds. hundreds more iraqi kurds with severe burns and respiratory ailments consistent with exposure to poison gas have been seen in tehran hospitals
irna claimed thursday that iraqi warplanes also dropped chemical bombs on marivan in northwestern iran, killing ``a number'' of civilians
meanwhile, iranian revolutionary guards were reported advancing westward through kurdistan and said they bottled up 5,000 iraqis around a hydroelectric dam on lake darbandikhan, 80 miles east of iraq's big kirkuk oilfields
the iranian missile strike on kirkuk was announced after iraq declared it would halt its missile attacks on iranian cities for three days beginning today as prime minister turgut ozal of turkey visits baghdad
irna said two missiles were fired at a ``military target'' in kirkuk city early today ``in retaliation for iraqi missile attacks on iran's residential areas.''
the official iraqi news agency, also monitored in nicosia, only reported one missile hitting kirkuk, saying it exploded in a residential district, killing or wounding ``many civilians, including women and children.''
the missile struck only a half-hour after the time iraqi said it would stop missile attacks. ozal was to arrive in baghdad this afternoon
iraq sent three long-range missiles thursday into the holy city of qom 100 miles south of tehran and the central city of isfahan
there was no official response from tehran when iraq announced thursday that it would halt its missile attacks at midnight baghdad time. but an iranian embassy spokesman in ankara, turkey's capital, said thursday that his country's attacks on iraqi cities would ``automatically come to an end'' if the iraqis stopped their air and missile strikes
both sides have fired more than 250 missiles into each other's cities since feb. 29, killing hundreds of civilians
on that day that the ``war of the cities'' flared anew, ozal was visiting tehran and several missiles exploded near the downtown hotel where his delegation was staying
iraq said the latest truce would last until ozal's baghdad visit ends. officials in ankara said he would fly home sunday
turkey maintains good relations with both belligerents and has in the past tried to mediate an end to their 7-year-old war
associated press photographer greg english reported from kurdistan that iran's revolutionary guards were pushing westward in the offensive launched march 16
english, among a group of western correspondents flown to the battle zone thursday, reported from the kurdish town of dojaila that artillery rumbled to the west and it was clear ``the iranians have made significant gains.''
the iranians claim their forces occupy the eastern and southern shores of lake darbandikhan and hills overlooking the strategic dam and power station on the lake's southern tip, where they say they have surrounded 5,000 iraqis who apparently still hold the dam
a defiant jimmy swaggart probably will leave the assemblies of god rather than obey the church's one-year banishment from his television ministry, says a member of the denomination's louisiana council
swaggart cited the louisiana district council's recommendation for a more lenient three-month ban when he said through his lawyer wednesday that he would defy the national leadership and return to the pulpit on may 22
the 19-member district council was to meet today at jimmy swaggart world ministries to discuss the case, but swaggart had not been asked to attend and didn't plan to, said his lawyer, bill treeby
one member of the louisiana council said there was little it could do to fight the presbytery's harsher penalty, which includes two years of church-supervised counseling, and swaggart probably would leave the assemblies
the executive presbytery may not have the right to discipline him, but they have the power,'' the rev. ansley orfila of slidell told the springfield (mo.) news-leader. ``i don't think we'll meet to defy them. maybe it will be just to decide how to handle things.''
assemblies general superintendent g. raymond carlson said swaggart probably will be expelled from the denomination if he ignores the national body's sterner penalty
the rev. forrest hall, secretary-treasurer of the louisiana district council, said the state body probably will support the national recommendation
swaggart left the pulpit feb. 21 after tearfully confessing to an undisclosed sin. a prostitute has said swaggart paid her to pose nude for him
treeby said there was a conflict within the assemblies, the nation's largest pentecostal denomination, over whether the national presbytery or the louisiana council has the right to discipline swaggart
he is willing to submit himself to the louisiana district,'' treeby said wednesday. ``he will be considering an appeal to the national presbytery.''
state church officials decided on today's meeting, the news-leader reported, shortly after the church's national officials announced tuesday that they had rejected the three-month ban as too lenient
a storm that whipped up a tornado, hail and wind gusts up to 59 mph in texas and new mexico spread rain and snow today across the great plains
a tornado touched down thursday evening northwest of hobbs, n.m., damaging an unoccupied barn and house trailer
in northwest texas, golfball-size hail fell near woodrow, brownfield, post and denver city. two inches of penny-size hail covered the ground at odonnell late thursday. lubbock recorded a wind gust of 59 mph
the southerly flow of moist air from the gulf of mexico brought heavy rain to some areas. more than 2.5 inches fell late thursday near walnut and cherryvale, kan
forecasters posted flash flood watches for much of southeast kansas, parts of oklahoma and parts of mississippi
the rainfall at wichita falls, texas, brought the total rainfall for march to 5.24 inches, its wettest month on record. the previous record was 4.71 inches set in 1905
omaha, neb., however, had its driest march since 1910 with just .07 inches of rain, but forecasters said substantial rainfall was expected through saturday
snow continued this morning in parts of the southern rockies. albuquerque, n.m., had 4 inches of snow on the ground by midnight and edgewood, n.m., had 7 inches
in colorado, the storm began easing after dropping 20 inches of snow at rye, 15 inches at buelah, 13 inches at silver cliff and 9 inches east of salida. seven inches fell on the denver area. forecasters predicted another 1 to 4 inches of snow in colorado today
a snow advisory was posted for northwestern kansas, and a freeze warning was in effect in southeast arizona above elevations of 4,000 feet
today's forecast called for widespread rain and thunderstorms across kansas, oklahoma, parts of texas and the mississippi and tennessee valleys; showers and a few thundershowers from the ohio valley to the middle atlantic coast and across southern michigan and new york state; thunderstorms from alabama into the western carolinas; snow across colorado, northern new mexico, parts of the texas and oklahoma panhandles and northwest kansas
highs will be in the 50s or 60s in much of the nation; 30s and 40s from the central high plains and the texas panhandle across the central rockies to northern arizona, and michigan to northern minnesota; 70s and low 80s from california to the desert southwest, and from southern and eastern texas across the lower mississippi and tennessee valleys and the southern appalachians to the south atlantic states
the high for the nation thursday was 91 degrees at presidio, texas
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 9 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 75 degrees at key west, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 62 cloudy; boston 44 cloudy; buffalo 44 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 61 fair; cincinnati 53 rain; cleveland 41 cloudy; detroit 41 cloudy; miami 72 fair; new york 45 partly cloudy; philadelphia 49 cloudy; pittsburgh 53 foggy; portland, maine, 31 partly cloudy; washington 53 cloudy
_central: bismarck 30 partly cloudy; chicago 41 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 65 cloudy; denver 20 cloudy; des moines 47 cloudy; indianapolis 48 rain; kansas city 45 rain; minneapolis-st. paul 30 fair; nashville 57 rain; new orleans 64 partly cloudy; st. louis 50 foggy
_west: albuquerque 31 snow; anchorage 32 cloudy; las vegas 46 fair; los angeles 58 fair; phoenix 55 fair; salt lake city 35 fair; san diego 58 fair; san francisco 55 fair; seattle 46 partly cloudy
_canada: toronto 34 partly cloudy
the government foreclosed on his farm, evicted him from the land and burned down his home, but albert schumaker wants to buy back the place
there was just poor judgment on somebody's part'' to burn the house down in january, schumaker said thursday as he asked the farmers home administration to rebuild his home and let him buy back part of the 2,460-acre farm
the 58-year-old farmer, wearing a western hat and accompanied by 10 supporters, made his application at the fmha's burleigh county office here
schumaker said he could raise the $25,000 to $30,000 he estimates he'll need to buy back his farmstead and 10 acres in driscoll, about 30 miles east of bismarck
there (are) people pretty disgusted about the whole thing and will put the money out,'' he said. in addition, a petition is circulating calling for the ouster of some state and local fmha officials, schumaker said
schumaker, a farmer since 1959, said he hopes to eventually buy back all the acerage he lost through foreclosure. ``i have two boys, (ages) 32 and 36, and they were with the operation. my boys might be eligible for a loan.''
the fmha acquired schumaker's farm in march 1986 in a foreclosure, said burleigh county fmha supervisor sterling breuer. schumaker was evicted from his home in december
the home, a corn crib and a garage were burned jan. 30, breuer said. two barns and six steel grain bins were left standing. breuer said the house was destroyed because repairs to bring it in line with agency standards would have cost too much
schumaker said he didn't learn about the fire until three days after it happened. ``that's about the last kick they can give you after you lose a farm,'' he said
schumaker said the kitchen had been remodeled, and new windows, a furnace and water heater had been installed. ``all the neighbors knew it was livable and a good house,'' he said
these days he lives in a mobile home near driscoll, and works for farmers livestock exchange as a cattle consignor
schumaker made his application under the dwelling retention program, part of the agricultural credit act that congress passed in december calling on fmha, the lender of last resort for farmers, to go easier on growers behind in their payments
schumaker claims the agency violated his rights to retain the farmstead when it burned down his home
bob zimmerman, head of fmha farmer programs in north dakota, said the agency would consider schumaker's application, but said he was unsure whether the agency was liable for rebuilding the home
at the time of the burning, one law was being phased out and another was being phased in, zimmerman said
fmha had not received regulations for the dwelling retention program, he said. the agency was told jan. 7 to stop certain foreclosures and liquidations, but received no instructions on situations like schumaker's, where land was already in fmha hands, zimmerman said
however, don vig, vice chairman of the dakota resource council, an advocacy group for farmers and landowners, said fmha should have known about the new law when it burned schumaker's buildings
how is it possible for employees of a federal agency to be totally ignorant of the laws that they are supposed to be implementing?'' asked vig
motorola inc., fined $16.7 million for allegedly overbilling the government on defense contracts, said it is disciplining 59 employees involved in the incident
the company notified the employees last week when the $16.7 million settlement with the government was announced, spokesman mario salvadori said thursday
the company said 20 managers were dismissed or had their salaries frozen or were denied promotions. the other 39 employees were told that if they failed to follow company rules they would be fired
the $16.7 million in civil and criminal penalties and restitution stemmed from charges that the company's government electronics group in scottsdale, ariz., had mischarged the government $2.5 million on three programs in 1983
all of the employees investigated in the case work in arizona. salvadori said he did not know how many of the managers were dismissed. the government has said that criminal charges against individuals are still possible. advisory</note>
in a strategic shift, secretary of state george p. shultz said he is exploring with the soviet union arrangements for continuing u.s. and soviet military aid to rival forces in afghanistan
the proposed compromise on afghan aid would remove the only major roadblock to a negotiated settlement of that country's 8-year-old war and the withdrawal of the red army, which has been propping up the marxist government in kabul
it would be better to have a moratorium,'' shultz said
but, he added, ``to date the soviets have not wanted to do that.``
shultz also said that in meetings this weekend with italian officials he planned to discuss moving dozens of u.s. fighter planes to italy from spain
he heads for the middle east on sunday to continue efforts to spur arab-israeli negotiations
the issue of u.s. aid to afghan guerrillas and soviet aid to the kabul government has become an impediment to improved superpower relations and one of the key regional disputes confronting planners of the planned superpower summit in moscow in late may
shultz made it clear he preferred a suspension of soviet aid to the kabul regime and a matching cut-off of u.s. support for the resistance groups. american weapons have included stinger missiles that have been effective against soviet planes and helicopters
but shultz said the overall goal was ``a balanced outcome.'' he said there was nothing in peace accords being drafted in geneva ``that tells us we cannot support our friends
if the soviets exercise restraint, we are prepared to exercise restraint,'' he said
shultz said he did not know whether the soviets would go along with the equal levels of aid to the two sides. but he stressed the united states was prepared to guarantee a settlement even while weapons keep flowing to the combatants
if we have signed the accords and see a need to support our friends we will be able to do it,'' he said
shultz said he discussed the idea on the telephone wednesday with pakistani foreign minister mohammad khan junejo and that country's president, mohammad zia ul-haq, then called president reagan
so these things are in place,'' shultz said. ``where we will all come out remains to be seen.''
the united states, the soviet union, their clients in afghanistan and the government of neighboring pakistan, have been involved for months in u.n.-sponsored efforts to bring about a withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops fighting in afghanistan since the kremlin intervened in december 1979
soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze said in an interview released thursday that he would not be surprised if afghanistan peace talks fail and he accused the united states and pakistan of blocking their success
shevardnadze said that if u.n.-mediated talks in geneva fail, the soviet union will withdraw its troops ``in a way convenient for the government of afghanistan and ourselves.''
he did not indicate whether the soviet union would stick to the nine-month withdrawal timetable already agreed to in geneva
talks aimed at ending the war in afghanistan recessed for the easter holiday. they are scheduled to resume monday, but informal contacts were expected over the weekend
shultz said he would spend the weekend in rome for easter observances and to confer with italian officials. the main topic is finding a new home for 72 u.s. f-16 jet fighter planes spain is evicting in 1991. italy is a prime candidate to take them
shultz did not predict how he would make out in the middle east next week, but he was cautiously upbeat, particularly about king hussein of jordan. his trip last month failed to bring agreement
the jordanians are quite intrigued with this,'' shultz said, ``and i look forward to intensive discussions`` with king hussein
i think we have a chance to see some motion,'' shultz said of his shuttling to israel, jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia
the last time foreign correspondent thomas l. friedman won a pulitzer prize he said the moment was marred because he received the news while covering the bombing of the american embassy in beirut
on thursday, though, the second pulitzer for international reporting for the new york times writer was ``unalloyed, untinged by any tragedy,'' friedman said as he and others winners across the country celebrated their honors
in 1983, friedman, then the beirut bureau chief for the times, was told of the award he received for his stories about the israeli invasion of lebanon as he was covering the embassy disaster
it was a moment very much bittersweet for someone living in beirut, with friends in the embassy,'' he said
this time, he received a telephone call from max frankel, the times' executive editor, as he worked on a book at his home in jerusalem
champagne corks popped in newsrooms across the land
if i can win the pulitzer prize, the cleveland indians can win the pennant this summer,'' said the wall street journal's walt bogdanich, who won for specialized reporting. wsj writers daniel hertzberg and james b. stewart also won for explanatory journalism
this place looks like a locker room after a world series victoy,'' said jacqui banaszynski of the st. paul pioneer press dispatch newsroom after she won for feature writing for her series on an aids victim in a farm community
champagne also flowed at the lawrence eagle-tribune, a 60,000 circulation daily in massachusetts that won the general news reporting prize for stories on a furloughed murderer who assaulted a maryland couple
this is pretty big for us. we're just a nice community newspaper,'' said susan forrest, one of the lawrence staffers who worked on the story
tom shales of the washington post, the criticism winner for his writing on television, said he was ``in a state of slack-jawed dumbfoundness.''
it's nice to be in the world almanac permanently,'' said boston university historian robert v. bruce, who won the pulitzer in history for his book, ``the launching of modern science 1846-1876.''
toni morrison, winner of the fiction award for ``beloved,'' said joy was uppermost in her feelings because, ``i really was thinking dark and difficult thoughts about what was available to this book in terms of recognition.''
the book sparked controversy when it did not win two other major literary prizes. ms. morrison said she respected the pulitzer committee for ignoring ``outside matters of speculation and gossip and some slander.''
university of michigan music professor william bolcom said, ``it's better than a kick in the teeth,'' after he won the pulitzer for music for ``12 new etudes for piano,'' a tribute to the late pianist paul jacobs
but bolcom, who said he was disturbed by the ``prize mentality'' of the public, planned a subdued celebration
i put a bottle of champagne in the ice box,'' he said. ``the local paper is coming over to take a picture of me sipping it. we'll have dinner, take baths and go to bed.''
at the miami herald, pulitzers were taken home by humorist dave barry and photographer michel ducille, a second-time winner who this time won for photos of apartments inundated by the drug crack, a potent form of cocaine
i don't want to lessen the pulitzers, but i feel more proud that the photos ... made changes in the community,'' ducille said
barry said he hopes winning the pulitzer ``will make me taller.''
he recalled he once wrote a column making fun of the pulitzer awards, saying that ``horrendously long, complicated'' pulitzer-entry stories should have editor's notes warning readers to avoid them
charlotte observer managing editor mark ethridge iii said he hoped the ptl story that brought the newspaper one of two pulitzer prizes was ``not a story that comes along just once in a lifetime.''
the observer's doug marlette also won a pulitzer for his editorial cartooning in charlotte and at the atlanta constitution, where he now works
scott shaw, a 24-year-old photographer for the odessa (texas) american, said he was surprised to win the spot news award for his coverage of the 58-hour operation that rescued little jessica mcclure and fascinated a nation
i am pretty young. i am just pretty surprised,'' said shaw
a bus filled with holiday travelers plunged 200 yards down a mountainside early today, killing 24 people and injuring 20, police said
the bus began its journey in cape town and was traveling between the towns of ladismith and calitzdorp in southern cape province when it veered off a road through a mountain pass shortly after midnight
police col. herman scheepers said those on board were people of mixed race, except for one white man, believed to be the driver. the white man was killed along with 17 other men, four women and two children, scheepers said
the cause of the accident was under investigation
south africa observes a four-day holiday weekend each easter, and the rate of traffic fatalities during the period is often the highest of the year
the u.n. command rejected north korean claims today that the united states is preparing to launch a nuclear attack from south korea and accused the north of trying to wreck the 1988 olympic games
united nations representatives at a meeting of the military armistice commission ridiculed north korean claims that u.s. forces are using military exercises in south korea to prepare for a nuclear attack against the communist north
u.s. navy rear admiral william pendley, chief u.n. delegate, said north korea was trying to increase tension on the divided korean peninsula to undermine the olympic games in seoul in september
we can understand your need for tension _ it is part of your effort to undermine the olympics,'' said pendley as the two sides traded charges and taunts in panmunjom, a village in the neutral demilitarized zone separating the two koreas
chief north korean delegate maj. gen. li tae ho started the meeting by demanding u.s. and south korean forces halt annual ``team spirit'' exercises in the south involving about 200,000 troops
li claimed the united states was using the exercise as a mask to build up its forces to attack north korea. he asserted u.s. forces introduced a large number of nuclear weapons in recent weeks
your wreckless war promotion has created a serious situation on the korean peninsula and war could break out at any time,'' li said
north korean military forces had been placed on alert to counter a u.s. attack and were in ``a full combat mobilization posture .. . to cope with the extremely dangerous situation created by your reckless military provocations,'' li said
north korea announced the alert last week
pendley said the united states had no intention of attacking north korea and that ``team spirit'' was a legal and reasonable exercise to ensure the defense of south korea. he repeated an offer to let north korean delegates observe the exercises and said the north has always rejected the offer
north korea routinely charges the united states is preparing to launch an attack. it has also placed its forces on alert during the ``team spirit'' exercises in past years
the united states has about 40,000 troops in south korea under a mutual defense pact against the north. u.s. forces are reported to have some nuclear weapons, but washington will neither confirm nor deny the reports
pendley told reporters after the meeting that the u.n. command was making every effort to safeguard the olympic games. but he warned the north may resort to terrorism to frighten other nations into staying away from the games
they may take actions to increase that tension,'' he said
the united states and south korea charge north korea was behind the nov. 29 bombing of a south korean airliner in which all 115 people aboard were killed. a woman who confessed to being a north korean agent said she put a bomb on the plane to wreck the olympics
north korea, which denied it had anything to do with the plane attack, is demanding to co-host the olympics. the international olympic committee and south korea have rejected the demand, but offered to let the north stage some events
the u.n. command, consisting of the united states and 15 nations that aided south korea during the korean war, meets with north korean and chinese delegates to police the cease-fire signed in panmunjom that ended the war in 1953
a former wedtech corp. executive says he plotted with a onetime aide to then-presidential counselor edwin meese iii to cause legal problems for the defense contractor's competitors
under cross-examination by defense attorneys thursday, ex-wedtech vice chairman mario moreno conceded that the now-defunct company used reagan administration connections to have the government investigate rivals for no-bid contracts
however, moreno denied getting wedtech competitors indicted through political connections
moreno testified at the trial of rep. mario biaggi, d-n.y., and six others charged with turning the bronx defense contractor into a racketeering enterprise that paid millions in bribes. the trial was recessed until monday
moreno testified about james jenkins, who was a top aide to attorney general meese when meese was counselor to president reagan
when defense attorney dominic amorosa asked whether jenkins had told him a wedtech competitor ``was also going to run into some serious legal difficulties,'' moreno said he had
in fact, you testified on prior examination here that you and jenkins sat down and agreed to come to limit the competitors to two, to get a particular contract, and whoever the other one was, was going to end up in serious investigative problems, correct?'' asked amorosa
moreno hesitated, then replied, ``yes.''
jenkins, who became a wedtech consultant after leaving the white house, has not been charged with wrongdoing
wedtech grew from a small machine shop into a multimillion-dollar manufacturer through a federal program that set aside non-competitive contracts for companies controlled by minority group members
prosecutors contend that biaggi and others helped wedtech falsely portray itself as a minority concern eligible for the program
defense lawyers are trying to show that wedtech officials corrupted numerous administration officials, and didn't the help of biaggi, a democratic congressman from the bronx, to obtain government contracts
amorosa ticked off a list of politically connected people who got jobs with wedtech: e. robert wallach, meese's former attorney; jenkins; former reagan political adviser lyn nofziger and nofziger's business partner, mark bragg
these people,'' asked amorosa, ``had the ability to get people indicted, didn't they?''
i believe so,'' moreno replied
but he repeatedly denied asking bragg to have wedtech competitors indicted
we asked to have them investigated _ for any skeletons in their closet,'' insisted moreno, one of four ex-wedtech executives who pleaded guilty to state and federal charges and agreed to testify for the prosecution in exchange for leniency
pressed by amorosa, moreno conceded that bragg, while not a member of the justice department, knew a wedtech competitor would be indicted before the indictment was made public
moreno said only one competitor was indicted and that was for matters unrelated to wedtech
nofziger was convicted in february in washington of illegal lobbying for wedtech. bragg was acquitted on related charges
meese has not been charged with any wrongdoing, although a special prosecutor in washington continues to investigate his dealings with wedtech. rebels</head>
rebels claimed they captured three towns in northern ethiopia and state-owned radio quoted president mengistu haile mariam as saying his troops were fighting ``grim battles'' with the insurgents
it was believed to be the first time mengistu has conceded publicly that the secessionist rebels are in any way effective
radio ethiopia on thursday quoted him as saying rebels had launched a ``systematic and highly destructive campaign'' in the tigre and neighboring eritrea provinces, disrupting transport and communications networks
it was the first comment by the marxist government on reports of a new rebel offensive, which also resulted in the capture last week of three soviet military advisers to the ethiopian army
the fighting has aggravated relief efforts in the north, the worst-hit drought region of ethiopia. most of the 6 to 7 million ethiopians threatened with starvation this year live in the north
because of rebel activities, the soviet-backed government often closes roads in the region, cutting off truck convoys
assesa mamo, north american representative of the tigre people's liberation front, claimed the rebels took the towns of axum and adowa on thursday after a three-day battle. he spoke from washington in a telephone interview with the associated press bureau in nairobi, kenya
axum is 110 miles south of asmara, eritrea's provincial capital, and adowa is 30 miles from axum
eritrean rebels said sunday they captured the town of afabet, killing or capturing 18,000 ethiopian troops. the rebels said one soviet officer was killed and three taken prisoner. afabet is 100 miles north of asmara
the rebels claimed to have wiped out three government divisions and captured tanks, weapons and other military equipment worth millions of dollars
there was no way to verify the rebels' claims. but western diplomats in addis ababa said the figure of 18,000 troops, a third of troops stationed in the north, sounded preposterous
the soviet union confirmed three of its advisers were captured, but said nothing of a fourth officer being killed
mengistu made his comments about the rebels in a report to the eighth regular meeting of the central committee of his marxist workers' party of ethiopia
western diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity, said mengistu's statement indicated the fighting must be serious. they said there were reports the ethiopian leader is preparing a huge counteroffensive against rebels of the eritrea people's liberation front and the tigre rebel group
mengistu inherited the insurgencies 13 years ago when, with a group of army officers, he dethroned emperor haile selassie and helped set up a marxist government
eritrean rebels have been fighting for 27 years in africa's oldest civil war
the u.n. world food program reported thursday that a relief convoy reached the town of wukro in tigre province, bringing the first major food delivery to the drought-stricken area since january
the emergency shipment of 1,500 metric tons, enough to feed 100,000 people for a month, arrived march 24, said david morton, the u.n. representative in ethiopia
the american medical association today urged doctors to take a more active role in their communities to ensure fairness in the debate over the use of animals in research
in a commentary in the journal of the ama, the association cautioned that erosion of public support for the use of research animals poses as great a threat as pending legislation or regulatory efforts
when people are given the entire picture, when they're reminded that research animals played a crucial role in the development of vaccines ... and heart transplants and antibiotics, there is clearly backing for this position,'' said william hendee, ama vice president for science and technology
but those opposed to the practice are starting now at the local level, aiming programs at schoolchildren. it's in those situations that we're appealing to doctors and scientists to come forward, to make sure both sides of the debate are presented,'' said hendee, who wrote the commentary with stephen smith, a senior scientist with the association's department of drugs
the congressional office of technology assessment estimates that 17 million to 22 million animals are used annually in biomedical experiments, and that 75 percent to 90 percent of them are rodents: rats, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs and rabbits
dogs, cats and primates make up less than 5 percent of the remainder
primates are obtained from breeders or, in some cases, are bred by research facilities. dogs and cats are obtained from pounds or from special breeders
sixty percent of the experiments each year do not result in any suffering by the animal, and animals receive painkilling drugs or anesthesia in 32 percent of the cases, smith said. pain is inflicted on the experimental animal in 8 percent of the experiments, he added
spokeswoman jeanne roush of people for ethical treatment of animals, a washington-based animal-rights organization, said the appeal shows ``the ama is running scared
they simply realize animal-rights groups are gaining momentum ... that medical students and even doctors are less and less inclined to take part in these experiments,'' ms. roush said
they should begin seriously looking at alternatives (to animals) and phasing this practice out completely,'' she said. ``that's what people want.''
the ama authors said researchers are barred from using pound animals in some places, and that such prohibitions are being considered elsewhere
a complete ban would drive up research costs by $90 million annually, they estimated
most of the millions of animals consigned to pounds are destroyed, he said. less than 3 percent of those are research animals, according to the commentary
a karate student beat, stomped on and threw a man to the sidewalk after the victim questioned his knowledge of the martial art, police said
william roberts, 37, was in critical condition thursday at the university of maryland shock trauma center. a hospital worker who refused to identify herself said she could not release roberts' condition today
the karate student, 28-year-old john mccloskey of suburban pasadena, was held on $250,000 bond, charged with assault with intent to murder, aggravated assault and possession of a deadly weapon
witnesses told police roberts was apparently intoxicated when he staggered up the steps of the order of isshinryu karate school and knocked on the door wednesday
police found him unconscious in a pool of blood and a trail of blood leading into the school
mccloskey told police he had felt threatened
islamabad, pakistan (ap) _ a patron left a bomb in a poultry shop near the afghan border and it exploded, killing seven people and injuring 18, the official government newspaper reported today
also thursday, two other people were killed and two were wounded in another frontier village by incoming afghan artillery rounds, the english-language pakistan times said
the bombing occurred in the northwestern village of sadda when a man purchased a hen then asked the shop owner to keep the bird and a parcel for him while he finished his shopping, the times said
the man has not been apprehended and no group claimed responsibility, the paper said. pakistani officials have blamed a series of terrorist bombings over the past two years on agents of afghanistan's soviet-backed government
pakistan supports the guerrillas fighting that government and shelters about 3.5 million afghan refugees
the shelling occurred in a village identified as ghakh, the times said
cross-border shellings and aerial bombings have been frequent in the 10-year-old afghan war
both of thursday's attacks occurred in semi-autonomous districts ruled by pashtun tribal clans that are normally off limits to pakistani police and military. they are also the main staging areas for afghan guerrillas. stabbed in old city. picks up 5th graf pvs ```we planned... </note>
smaller than normal crowds of christian pilgrims today carried wooden crosses and sang psalms in the old city's via dolorosa to commemorate good friday, the anniversary of jesus' crucifixion
twenty yards away from the street, an arab attacker stabbed an israeli police sergeant in the stomach. the officer was hospitalized in fair condition. police apprehended a suspect and cordoned off the area
arab unrest in the israeli-occupied territories has prompted many pilgrims to stay away this year
the greek orthodox patriarch of jerusalem canceled three pre-easter processions scheduled for today and saturday out of concern for the pilgrims' safety and due to an expected sharp drop in the number of tourists
but the old city was more alive than it has been for weeks and many of the hundreds of tourists visiting the 12th century church of the holy sepulchre said the event was a special one. the church marks the spot where jesus was crucified and, as christians believe, resurrected
we planned to come here for a long time and nothing could stop us, even friends who said we were crazy,'' said david reid of mountain lakes, n.j. ``there are lots of police around and we are as safe here as we are in new york city.''
dozens of israeli riot police stood guard along the route, some munching the unleavened matzoh crackers jews eat during the week of passover, which begins today
the via dolorosa, or way of sorrow, marks the path where jesus, wearing a crown of thorns, was forced to carry the cross on which he was later crucified. the tradition of following the devotional walk was started in the 14th century by the franciscans, a roman catholic order
today, the via is a narrow cobblestone street crowded with shops which passes by several moslem mosques. christians singing and praying walked down the street, along with priests who carried ornate silver and gold crosses and burned incense
the church of the holy sepulchre was built on the site where jesus is believed to have been crucified and buried, and where he is said to have risen from the dead two days later, an event commemorated on easter
the spot of the crucifixion is marked on the church's second floor by an ornate gold table and a figure of jesus, lit only by candles
downstairs, pilgrims kissed and threw water on the rock marking the spot where jesus's body was washed before burial. sixteen choir boys in long black robes sang prayers
arab merchants opened their shops for the three hours permitted by the palestine liberation organization and did brisk business selling solid olive-wood crosses
but christian church officials were predicting the violence in the occupied territories would trigger a sharp decline in tourism
the rev. timoteus margaritis, a spokesman for the greek orthodox christian church, said 1,500 pilgrims were expected to attend his church's april 10 easter service, instead of the usual 10,000
tourism figures, however, have also become part of the arab-israeli conflict, with israeli officials reluctant to acknowledge an adverse impact of the conflict in the territories
tourism ministry officials said more visitors came to israel in january and february as compared with the previous year, but said 13 percent fewer tourists entered the country during the first week in march
we are concerned about the coming months, april, may and june, when we do expect a slight drop,'' said micha dedron, who added that the most serious decline in tourism was among u.s. jews
a high school football coach chose the 50-yard line of capital studium to marry a former cheerleader _ but before the nuptials were over he was called offsides for making a premature pass at the bride
when steve ash, 38, an assistant football coach at rickards high school, asked lora kyle to marry him on valentine's day, he had more than one proposal to make
i'm a coach, she was a cheerleader, we both love sports, and we both think that a marriage should be fun and make you laugh, so why not have a wedding that does the same thing?'' ash said
i never thought it would get this big,'' ms. kyle, 35, said through clenched teeth moments before her wedding
good evening ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to capital stadium,'' jeff duke announced over the public address system. after introducing all the second-stringers who helped, duke gave the starting lineup
direct your attention to the south end zone, where standing tall at 5-feet-9-inches and weighing in at 195, starting at groom from steer creek, w.va., steve ash.''
ash then burst through a paper banner with a pink tuxedo painted on it and ran to the 50-yard line
and now, in the north end zone, a 5-3, 130-pound former cheerleader from smith creek, fla., starting at bride, lora kyle.''
ms. kyle then jumped through a similar banner with a pink hat painted on it
but as the knot was being tied an overzealous ash tried to steal a kiss from his bride and the rev. chuck groover objected
that's offsides. you're supposed to wait,'' groover said. ``you're not supposed to kiss her until i say so.''
a five-second penalty followed after which the real kiss was exchanged as hundreds of blue and white helium balloons were released
pssst, wanna buy a bridge? grays harbor county has one for sale and it's a bargain. it's free
there's just one catch: the purchaser has to take the 120-foot span apart, move it and repair it, according to county records
among other things, the bridge on the olympic peninsula needs new deck planks, the metal truss work needs paint and the new owner should know the wooden stringers have a life expectancy of 10-15 years
the 14-foot-wide bridge, built in 1915, cannot support current legal loads and is to be replaced next year by a two-lane bridge
the span was placed on the national register of historic places in 1980, preventing the county from simply tearing it down without trying to find the bridge a new home
so far, there have been no takers
justice minister gonzalo durant died of a heart attack, a fellow cabinet member said. he was 67
durant was named justice minister by president alan garcia a month ago
in comments broadcast over radio programas, peru's leading news station, industry minister alberto vera said durant died thursday at a state hospital in lima
garcia's office confirmed the death but had no other details
bishop imre timko, head of hungary's only greek catholic see, died after a prolonged illness, the official news agency mti said. he was 68
timko died thursday after an unspecified illness. hungary has an estimated 6 million nominal roman catholics, with a few tens of thousands listing themselves as greek catholics
there was no immediate word on who might replace timko as bishop of the greek catholic see of hajdudorg in eastern hungary
a farmer armed with a 10-inch knife went berserk and killed four neighbors and wounded four others before a crowd stoned him to death, the military said today
philippine constabulary operations chief maj. german doria identified the man as pablo bingcoy, 33. he said the attack occurred thursday in the village of mangangaon in zamboanga del norte province, 450 miles south of manila
doria said bingcoy had fasted and prayed for several days in hopes of earning an amulet, which he believed would make him invincible
then bingcoy took a 10-inch long knife, went out of the house and attacked everyone he saw. doria said bingcoy first killed a neighbor's pig. then after a heated argument, bingcoy killed the owner, his wife and 6-year-old son
afterwards, he stabbed five people, one of whom died later in a hospital, doria said. an angry mob then stoned bingcoy to death, the major said
ferrets are increasingly popular as pets, but the weasel-like animals can be dangerous to young children, two doctors say
in three unprovoked attacks, two babies had their ears bitten off by ferrets and required constructive surgery and a third infant suffered scratches and bites requiring 39 stitches, john w. paisley and brian a. lauer write in today's journal of the american medical association
two of the children were asleep in their cribs when they were bitten,'' the two university of colorado school of medicine doctors said
although ferrets are increasingly popular pets, we believe that they are not suitable pets for families with small children,'' said the doctors, who claim americans own more than a million ferrets and are buying them at the rate of 50,000 a year
all the babies recovered, the doctors said, adding that reports of severe injuries caused by ferrets are few
but ``a ferret may bite so tenaciously that it has to be pried off or killed to loosen its hold,'' the doctors said. one of the animals in the attacks described had to be killed before it would release the child, they said
the incidence of ferret bites is unknown because most states do not require bites to be reported to health officials, the doctors said
during an 11-month period in arizona, the ratio of reported bites to the estimated pet population was 0.3 percent for ferrets, compared with 0.4 percent for cats and 2.2 percent for dogs, they said
sale or ownership of pet ferrets is prohibited in california, georgia, new hampshire, new york city and washington, d.c., the doctors said. a ban also has been proposed in north carolina. three finalists sted two, since winner was also a finalist, and that finalists were not `chosen' thursday</note>
the co-publisher of a small bronx weekly newspaper finished as a finalist for a pulitzer prize this year for the second time and conceded it's getting ``a little frustrating.''
i'd like to win it,'' said bernard stein after learning thursday he had been one of three finalists for the pulitzer in editorial writing for his work on the riverdale press, circulation 14,000
he credits some of his success to what he learns through daily reporting, a necessity for even the bosses at a paper with a news staff of six
when he's not solving problems faced by weekly newspaper publishers, such as choosing what computers to buy or deciding how to patch a hole in the roof, he might be found at the wedtech trial, where he was thursday when pulitzers were passed out
i report a lot, walking with my own feet, seeing with my own eyes and talking to people. i think a good editorial writer has to be a good reporter,'' he said
last year, stein entered the contest ``on a whim.''
this year, i thought maybe there was some serious possibility. it still feels wonderful,'' he said
stein's editorials on a variety of issues earned him a spot as a finalist along with joe dolman of the atlanta journal and constitution for his editorials on the rights of jailed cuban refugees
jane healy of the orlando sentinel won the prize for editorials protesting overdevelopment in orange county, fla
stein has a love-hate relationship with some of his neighbors for controversial stands he has taken, including one that so irked mayor edward i. koch that koch invited him to lunch to discuss the subject of housing with him
in february, stein criticized israel's policies in the occupied territory and drew plenty of hate mail from his readers, many of whom are jewish
i think you have to take a stand,'' said the 46-year-old riverdale community resident who was arrested along with more than 800 others on dec. 3, 1964 during a free speech rally in the administration building at the university of california at berkeley
tom watson, the paper's deputy editor, said he is ``somewhat in awe'' of stein, who has helped train journalists who now work at the new york times, the los angeles times, usa today and the detroit news, among others
he basically is a great teacher,'' watson said. ``he likes to call this the best graduate journalism program in new york state.''
stein, who helped found students for a democratic society at berkeley, said he fights for ``the principle that ordinary people can make the decisions that affect their lives
i try to give them the information they need to do that. i have an absolute commitment to free speech. that's why i published every letter i get, including racist and sexist letters, as long as they're not libelous,'' he said
and, he said, the readers showed their appreciation after he was named a finalist last year
neighbors, people i'd meet at the shopping center, would stop me at the street to say they felt it was their prize too,'' he recalled. ``hundreds of people wrote me letters to say they felt they had a share in it and they were immensely proud to live in riverdale because the riverdale press came so close to a pulitzer.''
japan's leading english-language newspaper reported today that tokyo's new baseball stadium would have to be moved because it sits on an ancient shinto burial ground. failure to relocate the 56,000-seat stadium would cause the yomiuri giants to finish last this year, it warned
april fool
but officials in the office of the just-opened tokyo dome, japan's first covered stadium, weren't laughing. they were busy advising callers the story was an april fool's day joke
callers weren't amused either. japanese take baseball seriously. and the yomiuri giants just don't expect to finish in last place
the story in the independent japan times said a shinto priest had discovered after the stadium opened in march that the oval-shaped ``big egg'' was built partially on a shinto burial ground
the priest predicted the giants, which share the stadium with the nippon ham fighters, would finish last in their division if the stadium were not moved 40 yards to the north
engineers had offered two solutions, the times said. some preferred filling the domed stadium with helium gas and letting it float the 40 yards. others suggested that with the japanese tradition of hard work and with lots of and with lots of overtime, the stadium could be dismantled and rebuilt on safe ground in time for the april 8 season opener
a times staffer told the associated press only that the newspaper had received numerous inquiries, including a call from the company that built the stadium, asking if the story were true. graf, attorney general.</note>
the supply of illegal drugs and the number of suppliers are endless, but the arrest of more than 100 members of a sicilian mafia drug ring strikes at a major part of the illegal drug network, fbi director william sessions said today
this is not a drug bust,'' said sessions in assessing the arrests and charges announced by the fbi and italian authorities on thursday. ``this is going into the major workings of a major enterprise, and i suspect there will be a profound effect in that part of the operations.''
sessions, interviewed on ``cbs this morning,'' said he expects the legal action which involved several u.s. and italian law enforcement agencies to eventually net or charge about 250 people
but he acknowledged there are many other organizations not touched by the crackdown, and he made no prediction about its impact on what he said is the tremendous supply of illegal drugs in the united states
there are endless numbers of suppliers. there are endless quantities of cocaine and heroine avialable,'' sessions said in another interview on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
as to whether we have broken the sicilian connection, that remains to be seen,'' he said
sessions said interdiction of drugs is very difficult and it has become a major fbi goal to undertake long-range operations that hit at organizations behind world drug traffic
plentiful cocaine supplies in the united states led the major sicilian mafia drug ring to export massive quantities of the drug to italy and trade it for heroin to sell to u.s. markets, fbi officials said in announcing the operations thursday
attorney general edwin meese iii said trading cocaine for heroin was ``a simple matter of economics.'' because of the plentiful supply and leveled-off consumption in the united states, cocaine is less expensive here, about $20,000 a kilogram, than in europe where it costs about $50,000 a kilogram, he said
heroin, on the other hand, is more expensive and therefore more profitable in the united states than in italy. two kilograms of cocaine can be exchanged for one kilogram of heroin in italy, fbi spokesman gregory jones said. a kilogram equals about 2.2 pounds
meese said the arrests will have a ``significant impact on heroin imports into this country from italy,'' but he said he could not say what volume of drugs has been affected
by thursday evening, 38 people had been arrested in the united states and 64 in italy, the fbi said. an additional 14 were already in u.s. jails. a total of 69 arrest warrants were issued in the united states and 164 were to be issued in italy. some people were being charged in both countries, the fbi said
throughout a news conference called to announce the arrests, meese was peppered with questions from reporters about defections from his department because of his own mounting legal problems, and about calls from members of congress for him to resign
the attorney general repeatedly refused to answer any questions other than those about the drug case
the 69 defendants in the united states include 38 charged in new york city, six in los angeles and boston, 10 in charlotte, n.c., eight in san juan, puerto rico, two in cleveland and five in washington, d.c., the fbi said
u.s. authorities seized 6 kilograms of heroin and 4 kilograms of cocaine along with cash, weapons, vehicles, fur coats, paintings and jewelry during the course of the investigation, the fbi said. italian authorities said they seized 25 kilograms of heroin, 5 kilograms of cocaine, and arms, ammunition and counterfeit currency
several of the defendants in the new case ran clothing stores, and fbi assistant director of the new york office james fox said the heroin brought into the united states was often referred to as ``suits'' or ``pants'' by the defendants. in other instances, heroin was called ``white wine'' or ``red wine'' by defendants, fox said
the continuing investigation began two years ago and grew out of a 1985 drug case that came to be called the ``pizza connection.'' thirty-five members of the sicilian mafia were indicted in new york in that case
the ``pizza'' case ended with 18 convictions in march 1987. it was mentioned repeatedly thursday during a related news conference in new york, although none of the sicilian heroin in the new case was distributed through pizzerias in the united states
according to a government affidavit filed in u.s. district court in manhattan, two of the defendants in new york city and one of those charged in charlotte are fugitives from italian drug convictions. some of the other defendants are illegal aliens, according to the document
among those arrested thursday was emanuele adamita of brooklyn, n.y., an unindicted co-conspirator in the ``pizza connection'' case, who was taken into custody at a manhattan hotel after telling an undercover agent, ``you're like family,'' said robert stutman, a drug enforcement administration special agent
the agent kissed adamita, who was then arrested, stutman said
also charged in the case was lorenzo zorza of manhattan, a catholic priest with a 1982 conviction for smuggling stolen art into the united states from italy, according to a 64-page complaint filed before federal judge morris e. lasker in new york
suspects arrested thursday have been charged with conspiracies to import, possess and distribute drugs, the fbi said. the charges carry possible life sentences
a bus careened off a road while crossing a bridge and plunged into an icy river in the capital today, killing at least 20 people and injuring 40, police said
many of the victims were high school students returning home
police said the accident occurred shortly after 5 p.m. in the eastern part of the capital when the bus blew a front tire and the driver lost control
the bus, carrying more than 60 passengers, fell 24 feet into the han river, police said
policemen and passersby rescued about 10 people who broke windows and climbed onto the top of the mangled bus, they said. divers pulled 20 bodies from the frigid waters and continued to search for victims in the partly submerged vehicle
police said the bus may have been speeding when the accident occurred. they gave no other details.  
a federal grand jury has indicted a former conrail engineer involved in an amtrak crash that killed 16 people on charges including lying to investigators about taking drugs the day of the accident
rick l. gates, 33, of essex, was charged thursday with one count of conspiracy, one count of obstruction of an agency investigation and two counts of making false statements, u.s. attorney breckinridge willcox said
gates missed a track signal while operating a string of three conrail locomotives and drove them into the path of a speeding passenger train
the accident, the worst in amtrak's history, also injured 175 people
the indictment alleges gates lied under oath to national transportation safety board investigators on jan. 7, 1987, three days after the crash in suburban baltimore county, when he said he had not consumed any drugs that day
gates, however, shared a marijuana cigarette with brakeman edward cromwell that day, according to the statement of facts read into the record when gates pleaded guilty to a state charge in baltimore county circuit court feb. 17
the new indictment also alleges gates falsely testified about the status of the signals in the locomotives and along the tracks and about what pre-departure tests he conducted
the conspiracy count alleges he joined with cromwell to fabricate a story about what happened
cromwell cooperated in the state investigation and is expected to testify against gates at the federal trial, willcox said. cromwell was granted immunity from prosecution by state and federal prosecutors, willcox said
gates was the only person named in the indictment. if convicted, he faces a maximum of five years in prison and a $250,000 fine on each count
on tuesday, gates was sentenced to five years in prison and fined $1,000 on a state misdemeanor charge of manslaughter by locomotive
the ntsb had no comment on the indictments, an agency spokeswoman said
pope john paul ii heard confessions from 11 pilgrims and tourists in st. peter's basilica today in keeping with a good friday tradition he began in 1979
in the evening, the pope planned to carry a wooden cross in a torch-lit procession at the colosseum recalling christ's walk to his crucifixion on calvary hill in jerusalem
several hundred people were waiting when john paul appeared shortly after noon in st. peter's basilica and stepped into one of the hand-carved mahogany confessional booths
over the next 70 minutes, he heard confessions from a family of three italians, a 40-year-old italian steelworker and his 53-year-old friend, a 13-year-old italian boy studying for his confirmation, a 59-year-old contractor from the netherlands and his 27-year-old daughter, a 22-year-old american student from california, a nigerian man studying in england, and a spanish housewife
at the end of the confessions, the pope blessed the hundreds of people present and asked them to join him in prayer
a disc jockey's april fools' day joke about a mysterious rumble and flash of light in a popular suburban park resulted in a flurry of calls today from listeners claiming to have witnessed the event
people are seeing it. but it ain't there,'' said fred honsberger, news director for pittsburgh's kdka-am
we just had a lady call who said she saw a bunch of gray trucks go in led by a jeep. these people are claiming to have seen that thing. but we started it all,'' honsberger said, chuckling
another caller, he said, wanted to know, ``who's going to pay for the military going out there? who's going to pay for all this?' ''
morning disc jockey john cigna jolted some of his sleepy listeners when he said his house shook early today and dishes rattled. he said he saw a flash of light in north park, noticed a lot of activity and wondered what was going on
the place is cordoned off. you can't get into the park,'' cigna said in a calm voice, introducing a man on the telephone as colonel charles bradshaw
is that a ufo? is that a saucer that's down?'' cigna asked
i can't divulge any information,'' the man replied, saying only that it was an ``item.''
dozens of nervous listeners called the pennsylvania association for the study of the unexplained in nearby greensburg to learn more. after an hour of checking, the association determined it was, indeed, an april fools' day joke
unfortunately, when things like this happen, it takes away from the legitimacy of the callers who see things that are unusual and can't be explained. it helps to bring back the ridicule problem,'' said stan gordon, the association's director
honsberger said none of the morning news reports included the so-called emergency
that should be a clue to anybody,'' honsberger said. ``if anything was happening, it would be our lead story. we'd have reporters there.''
despite the incongruity of it all, callers swamped the switchboard at the radio station as well as its television affiliate
it's all because of april fools','' tom trukula, an intern at kdka-tv, explained as he fielded telephone calls
they are not really mad,'' he said
but allegheny county police officers stationed at the park weren't laughing. they, too, spent the morning responding to queries, mostly from reporters wanting to know if anything really was happening
there's nothing going on,'' assured sgt. william wolverton, ``so nobody should be frightened.''
last year on april fools' day, cigna said on the air that an alligator was lurking in pittsburgh's sewer system. to solve the pesky problem, he asked listeners to flush their toilets at the same time
a lot of people did,'' honsberger said. killed</head> inserts 2 grafs after 21st graf, `the security...' to add shamir comments. picks up 22nd pvs, `four palestinians...</note>
israel reopened the occupied territories today, a holy day for jews, christians and moslems, after a three-day closure. arab reports said two palestinians were killed in a clash in the west bank
despite the tensions, hundreds of christian pilgrims crowded the narrow streets of jerusalem's old city, carrying wooden crosses and singing psalms along the via dolorosa to commemorate good friday, the anniversary of jesus' crucifixion
dozens of israeli riot police stood guard along the route. authorities were concerned that violence could be timed to disrupt easter celebrations or the eight-day jewish passover holiday, which starts this evening
arab journalists said demonstrations erupted in idna near the west bank town of hebron after noon prayers on the moslem sabbath. they said jamal tamiri, 20, died after he was hit in the head with a tear gas canister and ishak nimr salameh, 18, was killed when a burst of five bullets hit him in the chest
army spokesmen said they were checking the report
an israeli police lieutenant in jerusalem's old city was stabbed in the stomach and taken to a hospital, apparently by a moslem worshiper, police said
suddenly, there was a scuffle, and police pulled someone aside _ an arab,'' said heski rohr, a television sound man who witnessed the incident
the greek orthodox patriarch of jerusalem canceled three pre-easter processions scheduled for today and saturday out of concern for the pilgrims' safety and due to an expected sharp drop in the number of tourists
underground palestinian leaders called in a leaflet for palestinians to stage demonstrations, including a general strike monday, to protest the latest peace mission of secretary of state george p. shultz, who arrives sunday
the plo-signed leaflet appealed to ``all the arab world to block shultz's plan and to stop him from killing the uprising.''
it also demanded that palestinian politicians avoid meeting with shultz during his visit
extra troops continued to patrol the occupied west bank and gaza strip today. in recent months, violence regularly has broken out after friday moslem prayers
at the nasr mosque in the west bank town of el bireh, about 35 women marched down a street, chanting ``by our blood we will redeem palestine.''
the army fired tear gas canisters to break up the march, but some drifted back onto the soldiers
the closure was lifted at 3:00 a.m. (8 p.m. est thursday), allowing west bank residents to travel out of their towns and villages and lifting a curfew in the gaza strip, where five-hour nightly curfews were to continue
journalists could again travel freely in the occupied lands. during the closure, they were only allowed in in organized pools and under army escort
in ramallah, stores and the central vegetable market opened for the first time since the three-day closure was imposed monday night
soldiers have forced stores to shut during hours that plo leaflets say they should open. curfews, road closures and financial restrictions have also made it difficult for businessmen to operate
abed hamouri, co-owner of a fleet of 24 commuter buses, said israeli economic measures designed to pressure middle class palestinians failed to have any impact on underground activists
the israelis are talking to the people who do not have the solution in their hands. the solution is not in the hands of the people who own shops,'' hamouri said
the security measures were adopted in anticipation of major riots wednesday marking land day, an annual day of protest commemorating the deaths of six arabs in a 1976 clash over land confiscation
prime minister yitzhak shamir, speaking to jewish settlers during a tour of the west bank on thursday, referred to the rioters as ``grasshoppers.''
we say to them from this hilltop, and from the perspective of a 1,000-year past, that in our eyes they are like grasshopppers. the jewish people, thousands of years old, will overcome its enemies, no longer needing men of the underground and fighters in tunners,'' shamir said, standing on the hilltop site of the biblical king herod's palace at herodion
four palestinians were killed wednesday and dozens wounded, but officials said the clampdown had made some gains in the struggle to quell the four-month-old arab uprising in the territories israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
before today's violence, 124 palestinians had been killed and hundreds more wounded in unrest that began dec. 8
one israeli soldier has died in rioting and three civilians were killed by palestinian guerrillas in a bus hijacking. israel radio said 40 israeli soldiers have been injured in riots since dec. 8. one was paralyzed and another was in a coma
israel radio said 750 palestinians had been jailed since the uprising began under detention orders that allow up to six months' imprisonment without trial
joris minne, the belgian engraver and sculptor credited with helping revive the art of engraving, has died, his family announced today
minne died thursday at 91. the cause of death was not announced
minne and four other flemish graphic artists, frans masereel, henri van straten, jan-frans cantre and joseph cantre, founded the art magazine ``lumiere'' in the 1920s. the magazine was a key force in generating new interest and techniques in wood engraving
the five artists were credited with popularizing in the early 20th century the art of wood, copper and linoleum engraving
minne was considered a pioneer of modern wood and copper engraving. he was also a gifted drawer and painter
his sculpting career began in 1939, but he only won widespread recognition in 1950 with an exhibition in antwerp's middelheimpark. he mainly sculpted wood. women and child killed. no pickup</note>
sikh militants lined up and executed people in a courtyard near this hindu village, police said today. they were among 33 killed in the punjab state's worst outbreak of religious violence this year
thursday's attacks came hours after an umbrella organization spearheading the movement to establish a sikh homeland in the northern punjab state called for an end to killings of moderate sikhs
it was the bloodiest single day of such violence this year and brought the number of people killed in such attacks this week to more than 80. most of the killings have been near amritsar, the site of the golden temple, the sikhs' holiest shrine and a center for militants
authorities blamed the latest spate of violence on differences within militant groups and attempts to sabotage government moves to reach an accord with militants
authorities said 25 people died in three separate attacks near pangota, 25 miles north of amritsar, and eight died elsewhere in the punjab violence
eighteen people died in a hamlet outside pangota, when 12 militants stormed the huts of a hindu work commune, local police officer s.s. virk said. most of the victims were dragged out of their homes at gunpoint, lined up in a courtyard and shot, he said
the gunmen also killed a pregnant woman, her 6-month-old daughter, and her 80-year-old mother-in-law at their home, virk said. the militants had wanted to drag the family away like the others but found they could not walk, he said
seven militants fired chinese-made ak-47 rifles at a family sleeping in the courtyard of their home, local police superintendent izhar alam said
at least six other victims were women. the victims, migrants from neighbouring haryana state, were all related, virk said
at shaeed village, six miles west of pangota, another group of militants gunned down five hindus, including three women and a two-year-old boy. the militants entered the homes of the victims and shot them in their beds, virk said
the militants then shot and killed a sikh couple in nearby verowal town, virk said
elsewhere in punjab, three members of a sikh family were killed in the central kapurthala district, said a police officer in the state capital of chandigarh, who spoke on condition of anonymity. the united news of india news agency said the victims were militants killed in factional rivalry
two deaths each were reported from gurdaspur and bhatinda districts and one person was shot and killed in ropar district in the east, the officer said
earlier thursday, the underground council of khalistan had called on militant groups to cease random killings of sikhs. at least 330 of the 616 people killed this year in attacks blamed on the sikh extremists have been sikhs who oppose the demand for a separate state
khalistan is the name militants give to the homeland they want
sikhs form 2 percent of india's 800 million people but are in a majority in punjab state. the militants have been agitating for a separate state since 1983, claiming discrimination by the hindus, who comprise 80 percent of india's 750 million people
the government last month released 12 sikh leaders jailed for sedition and dissolved the punjab state assembly in what was seen as an attempt to enroll the militants in political processes
but sources in the golden temple, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said some militants opposed the peace plan since it would not give the sikhs total autonomy
western officials helping refugees on the thai-cambodian border will travel only with armed escort after a british nurse was held hostage and a firefight killed two people, an aid official said today
officials of the u.n. border relief operation and cooperating voluntary agencies made the decision thursday night, said stephen goode, director of the aid agency youth with a mission
he said workers would travel to and from refugee camps with thai security escort until the measure was reviewed saturday. also, all non-essential services to the camps were suspended until that review, he said
during the attack thursday, an assailant hijacked an unbro truck and forced the driver to stop a pickup truck belonging to youth with a mission, according to goode and western aid officials
the assailant held an automatic weapon to the head of sally rymer, a 29-year-old midwife from yorkshire who has been working for youth with a mission on the border since 1985. three defense volunteers who had been alerted by other aid workers pursued the pickup in a motorcycle, and a shootout followed
the attacker killed one thai village defense volunteer and injured two others before a thai driver for the agency shot and killed him
the assailant remained unidentified, but was thought to be cambodian since he didn't speak thai well, goode said. at one point, the assailant asked for money, but the motive for the attack remained unclear
thai and cambodian bandits roam the border, but few attacks have involved western aid workers. unlike most previous incidents, this one occurred in broad daylight, on the main road to site two camp
site two is the largest border refugee camp, housing 162,000 cambodians who fled economic hardship and a guerrilla war against occupying vietnamese troops. it is in thailand's prachinburi province and about 50 miles north of the key thai border town of aranyaprathet
a sponsor's withdrawal following protests by women students caused the cancellation of a fund-raising bikini contest planned by a university of massachusetts fraternity
the makers of miller lite beer withdrew their sponsorship hours before the contest was to begin thursday night, said joe giarusso, assistant general manager of the off-campus pink cadillac bar
there are no prizes and the event has been canceled,'' said giarusso, who refused further comment
thirty-four students had signed a petition denouncing the contest, which protester becky lockwood called dehumanizing
but fraternity brothers at delta upsilon said they didn't understand the furor
it's ridiculous,'' said fraternity president paul kearney. ``why should they be upset if it's a fund-raiser? they do it everywhere else. if they go to the beach, are they going to call that sexist too?''
robert o'brien, chairman of the fraternity's fund-raising committee, said proceeds of the contest were to be used for the fraternity's yearly beer keg roll, a charity event that raised $3,000 for the jimmy fund last year
the jimmy fund, the official charity of the boston red sox, raises money to fight cancer in children
the fraternity circulated fliers last week announcing, ``delta upsilon &amp; the jimmy fund in association with the amherst police dept. present first annual bikini contest.''
but jimmy fund associate director michael rafferty said he knew nothing of the contest and asked the fraternity not to use its name for the event
amherst police chief donald maia had accepted an invitation to be master of ceremonies at the contest but changed his mind over the weekend, saying the contest was no longer a beauty pageant and his presence would be inappropriate
more than 3,000 travelers, many embarking on their easter vacations, were stuck today in a long line of buses, cars and trucks waiting to cross the english channel at the strikebound port of dover
vacationers bound for calais, france, with ferry reservations faced delays of up to 12 hours, and truck drivers could wait even longer, said paul youden, a spokesman for the dover harbor board
the ferry worker's dispute has halted all of p and o european ferries' ships in dover, but other vessels were operating out of the southeastern port
other ports also said they were busy handling some of the traffic from dover
about 2,300 ferry workers have been on strike for eight weeks over p and o's plan to cut 400 jobs and introduce new shifts
port officials said 97 buses, 425 cars and 500 trucks were caught in the backup. likhachev</note>
`academy of sciences.' no pickup
a leading soviet scholar said a fire at the academy of sciences that burned 400,000 books and periodicals was a national disaster, but that library officials played it down like the chernobyl nuclear accident
historian dmitri likhachev, head of the soviet culture fund, demanded that top officials at the academy's library in leningrad be fired for lying about the size of the loss and ordering a clean-up instead of a careful salvage operation
the feb. 14 fire at the library, which stores publications dating back to the 17th century, ``can rightly be called a national diaster,'' likhachev said. ``our culture has suffered a huge loss.''
his comments appeared in a page-long article published in the march 18 edition of the weekly book review
the scholar said 400,000 books and periodicals had been destroyed in the blaze and that 2.7 million more suffered water and moisture damage
the library was founded by peter the great in 1714 and, according to the weekly, contained about 12 million books, periodicals and manuscripts
likhachev, 81, charged the library administration and the leningrad scientific center of the academy of sciences ``both acted, in the first days, according to the `model' programmed by the mistakes of the chernobyl catastrophe _ they tried to belittle the cultural loss in the grossest manner.''
he was referring to soviet authorities' initial attempts to hush up the world's worst nuclear disaster, an april 1986 explosion at the chernobyl nuclear power plant in which at least 31 people died and millions were exposed to increased levels of radioactivity
immediately after the fire, library administrator v.a. filov estimated the loss at about $4,800 and said the library would be open again in a few days, likhachev said
the march 8 edition of the communist party newspaper pravda said the cost of the damage was at least $480,000 and added that estimate was probably low. it said the figure was based on 1956 values and that some of the lost material was priceless
a bulldozer was called, and huge piles of burned, dampened and undamaged books were destroyed,'' likhachev charged. ``library workers were prohibited from saving books from this heap of ruins. all this in order to hide more quickly from the eyes of society the size of the catastrophe.''
the academy of sciences library began collecting books, manuscripts and periodicals in 1714, and for more than 200 years was located in a building on leningrad's vasiliyevsky island. in the 1920s it was moved to a new building built especially for it on the island
among the books destroyed was a library of foreign medical books gathered by health officials beginning in the 17th century, and libraries gathered by baltic and polish royalty of the 18th and 19th centuries, likhachev said
the books damaged by moisture began to mold less than a week after the fire, and the mold is a serious threat to cause long-term damage, he said
likhachev warned that the institute of russian literature, which holds manuscripts of pushkin, dostoyevsky, lermontov and other famous russian writers, was also in danger. that building has not undergone capital repair in more than 150 years, he said
likhachev's article was the most serious and alarming of several that have appeared in the soviet press since the fire, and was particularly striking for its bitter tone
filov was hospitalized after a series of official meetings, and his assistant, v.p. leonov, left for switzerland, likhachev said. he called for replacement of library administrators, saying they conducted themselves in an ``insufficiently civilized manner.'' up 4th pvs, `callers weren't...'</note>
japan's leading english-language newspaper reported today that tokyo's new baseball stadium would have to be moved because it sits on an ancient shinto burial ground
failure to relocate the 56,000-seat stadium would cause the yomiuri giants to finish last this year, it warned
april fool
but officials in the office of the just-opened tokyo dome, japan's first covered stadium, weren't laughing. they were busy advising callers the story was an april fools' day joke
callers weren't amused either. japanese take baseball seriously. and the yomiuri giants just don't expect to finish in last place
the story in the independent japan times said a shinto priest had discovered after the stadium opened in march that the oval-shaped ``big egg'' was built partially on a shinto burial ground
the priest predicted the giants, which share the stadium with the nippon ham fighters, would finish last in their division if the stadium were not moved 40 yards to the north
engineers had offered two solutions, the times said. some preferred filling the domed stadium with helium gas and letting it float the 40 yards. others suggested that with the japanese tradition of hard work and with lots of and with lots of overtime, the stadium could be dismantled and rebuilt on safe ground in time for the april 8 season opener
a times staffer told the associated press only that the newspaper had received numerous inquiries, including a call from the company that built the stadium, asking if the story were true
defense secretary frank carlucci said today the united states would continue its close cooperation with the moderate arab government of morocco
carlucci began a three-day visit that was to include tours of moroccan military bases. on sunday, he will fly to india and then visit pakistan and tunisia before returning to washington
on arrival, he praised ``the close links that have united our two countries in the course of the past two centuries.''
i am convinced that this cooperation with continue in the future in the interest of our two countries and our two peoples,'' he said
american aid to morocco in 1987 was $131 million, $35 million of which was to help the government in its 13-year-long war against polisario guerrillas fighting for the independence of the former spanish sahara
the defense secretary is to return to washington on april 9
a woman is suing the bank of boston for more than $2 million, claiming the bank's refusal to honor her credit card caused a hotel in the philippines to seize her baby son until the bill was paid
a judge earlier this week turned down the bank's motion to dismiss the claims by maria luz delulis, 39, of lynn, said her lawyer, benjamin glosband
bank officials say delulis had asked them to stop use of the card
according to the boston herald, delulis and her two children were staying at the royal palm hotel in manila in december 1986
when it came time to check out, i presented my card from the bank,'' she told the newspaper. ``after a delay, the clerk told me it was invalid and refused to accept it.''
she said hotel officials confiscated the card and took her to a local police station
when i got back, the hotel manager told me my children could not leave the hotel until the ($260) bill was paid,'' she said
delulis said the manager later agreed to turn over her older boy, but held onto her youngest son, william, then 7 months, as collateral
she said she eventually got her children back after tourism officials and the u.s. embassy intervened
i became very traumatized and was unable to take care of my business,'' delulis said in the court papers. ``i was depressed and am still under the treatment of a psychologist.''
bank spokesman wayne taylor said thursday bank lawyers believe delulis' claims are groundless. secretary saying mrs. reagan had seen the house before. picks up 3rd graf, `the house ...</note>
first lady nancy reagan toured the $2.5 million home she and the president will share when the couple leaves the white house
mrs. reagan, her press secretary, elaine crispen, and others in her entourage didn't stop to meet with reporters when they visited the mansion thursday afternoon
mrs. reagan, who arrived in los angeles on wednesday, checked into the beverly wilshire hotel. she was in town to see the house and to take care of ``some business and tasks that she has to perform,'' said wendy toler, the first lady's deputy press secretary
ms. crispen said the first lady had seen the house before but was taking another look while in town
the house has three bedrooms, six baths, guest room, living room, family room, sun room, butler's pantry and three servants' rooms. it's tucked away on a 1\-acre estate in exclusive bel air, 12 miles northwest of downtown los angeles
the reagans' future home sits next door to the kirkeby estate, where the ``beverly hillbillies'' was filmed. television producer jerry perenchio recently bought kirkeby for more than $13 million
the reagans also will be neighbors to such entertainers as elizabeth taylor, joan rivers, zsa zsa gabor, mac davis and burt bacharach
the president and his wife signed a three-year lease on the ranch house within the last two weeks, elaine crispen, the first lady's press secretary, said earlier this week. the house is owned by wall management services, a group of about 20 friends of the reagans who bought it with them in mind, she said
the three-year agreement gives the reagans the option to renew the lease or buy the property. the identity of the wall management individuals and the amount of the lease payments were not disclosed
communist rebels and soldiers fought a four-hour battle that left four rebels and two soldiers dead, the government-owned news agency reported today
the philippine news agency said three other rebels were wounded and captured during the battle thursday near the town of guagua, about 40 miles northeast of manila. two other soldiers were wounded
the encounter began around noon when some 30 new people's army guerrillas opened fire on a government patrol sent to verify reports that rebels had been sighted in the area, the agency said
on wednesday, security forces captured seven top communist leaders in raids on two rebel hideouts in suburban manila. those arrested included romulo kintanar, the alleged guerrilla commander; rafael baylosis, secretary general of the communist party of the philippines; and central committee member benjamin de vera
president corazon aquino hailed the arrests as a major victory and said it showed her government had turned the tide against the rebels in their 19-year insurgency. include irs statement.</note>
president reagan left today for a 10-day easter holiday after ordering new steps to force the ouster of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega by tightening the economic screws on his government
shortly before departing for his california ranch, reagan also signed a $48 million humanitarian aid bill providing supplies to nicaragua's contra rebels and medical care to war-injured children
the measure received final approval in the senate on thursday on an 87-7 vote. reagan signed the bill in his residence with no fanfare. the signing was announced by a brief executive order delegating responsibilities to various agencies to carry out provisions of the law
reagan, dogged in recent days about his embattled attorney general, edwin meese iii, and resignations at the justice department, did not make any appearance in public thursday and will remain largely out of sight until april 10
his only appearance will be at a fund-raising event monday in newport beach, south of los angeles, for the ronald reagan library. construction on the library is expected to begin this summer at a site in ventura county
as part of the economic pressure against noriega, the internal revenue service said today that american corporations' tax payments to the government of eric arturo delvalle, whom the united states recognizes as president of panama, will qualify for the u.s. foreign tax credit
the announcement cleared the way for u.s. firms that operate in panama to pay taxes into a special account at the federal reserve bank of new york without jeopardizing the tax credit. the credit is designed to avoid taxation of the same dollar of income by the united states and a foreign country
the action cuts off a source of cash to the financially strapped noriega regime. the reagan administration has expressed concern that a recent infusion of cash, some of it from u.s. corporate tax payments, may have temporarily strengthened noriega's hold
delvalle issued a decree on march 25 directing that income taxes due the government of panama be paid only to a new york federal reserve bank
white house spokesman marlin fitzwater, who outlined the series of actions against panama on thursday, said he did know how much money would be involved by the irs step, but estimated it could deprive noriega of ``millions and millions.''
the irs announcement was one of a series of measures to deprive noriega's government of money from american companies and individuals. fitzwater said the administration would consider making the measures mandatory if voluntary action proves insufficient
the action follows the disclosure that some american firms _ including texaco inc. and eastern airlines _ paid taxes and fees owed to panama for doing business there, undercutting the economic sanctions imposed by the united states on panama
announcing the new action, fitzwater said, ``we are giving u.s. companies and persons an incentive and opportunity not to provide financial support to the noriega regime
should these measures prove insufficient, we will review additional legal steps that may be necessary to deny transfer of funds to the noriega regime from u.s. companies and persons,'' fitzwater said
noriega is under indictment in the united states on drug trafficking charges. as chief of the 15,000-member defense forces, he is the power behind panama's civilian government, although the united states recognizes eric arturo delvalle _ who is in hiding _ as the legitimate leader
fitzwater said u.s. government payments owed the government of panama will be deposited in the federal reserve bank in new york. the united states already is withholding canal fees, toll payments and other funds. fitzwater said withholding taxes for u.s. employees in panama and rental payments also will go in the new account
he also said the justice department will take part in legal cases by private parties who owe debts to panama, declaring delvalle the legitimate leader of the country. the u.s. treasury will help establish an account for payments in these cases
the leftist sandinista government and the contra rebels today began a formal 60-day cease-fire in their 6{-year war, but details remain to be negotiated next week
a spokesman for the defense ministry, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there were no initial reports of violations of the truce, which began at midnight
the cease-fire was worked out last week during peace talks between the rebels and government negotiators in sapoa, a post on nicaragua's southern border with costa rica
it was arranged to give both sides time to arrange a permanent truce to bring an end to the fighting that has battered the country since late 1981
the cease-fire is an extension of a temporary truce that began march 21 during the peace talks
in technical discussions earlier this week at sapoa, both sides agreed in general terms on the size and location of five zones where the rebels are to gather in the first 15 days of april
two zones are in the northern part of the country, two on the caribbean coast and one in the south. their exact locations have not been disclosed
the two sides will resume talks next week, apparently to determine details of the cease-fire, including what supplies the rebels may receive and whether they must lay down their weapons
technical discussions are to resume tuesday in sapoa, while high-level negotiations between sandinista and contra leaders are set for wednesday in the capital of managua
under the peace agreement signed march 23, the sandinistas will grant freedom of expression and amnesty to political prisoners and will allow rebel leaders to take part in national talks
the contras, in turn, agreed to gather in the cease-fire zones and accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization, such as the international red cross
in washington, president reagan signed today a $48 million non-lethal aid package for the contras, but it probably will be at least two weeks before the rebels begin receiving supplies under the new legislation
there certainly is an urgent need among the (rebels) for medical supplies, food, clothing, the basic commodities of life,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``this bill is very welcome in that regard and we support it.''
u.s. aid to the contras ended on feb. 29
on thursday, nicaraguan president daniel ortega expressed concern that the measure called for the u.s. agency for international development to deliver the aid to the rebels. he said the organization of american states should determine how the help will be turned over to the contras
government offices and most stores were closed today to mark the long easter weekend. many nicaraguans went to the beaches on the pacific coastal for the holiday
the internal revenue service has ordered its agents to ignore more-restrictive court rulings in determining whether certain stipends paid graduate students are subject to tax
the agency said it will rely instead on a 1975 revenue ruling that allows some stipends to be excluded from taxation
the irs announcement is aimed at clearing up confusion that apparently has resulted in thousands of students being billed for back taxes on their stipends because the district where they filed returns decided the issue on the basis of court rulings
the announcement applies only to stipends earned before 1987. a new law taxes most such post-1986 payments to the extent they exceed the cost of tuition
under the irs announcement, pre-1987 stipend income is not taxed if:
_the student was a candidate for a degree,
_the student performed research or other services for the collge to satisfy requirements for the degree, and
_similar services were required of all degree candidates
students who have been assessed additional taxes and who meet those requirements should apply for a refund, if they have paid, or an abatement, if they have not paid the extra amount, the irs said. any such filing should note that it is being done for reconsideration of whether the stipend is taxable
the agency promised to give quick attention to any such claims. of effects</head>
an attorney for the internal revenue service told a federal appeals court the agency wants to revoke ptl's tax-exempt status even if it means the end of the financially troubled ministry
i don't understand why the irs doesn't take a more practical approach to this,'' judge william wilkins of the 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals on thursday told the lawyer, francis allegra
allegra replied, ``the importance here is not just in this case, but it will be felt in other cases.''
wilkins was part of a three-judge panel that heard an appeal from the fort mill-based ministry to an earlier u.s. district judge ruling permitting the irs to revoke the ministry's tax-exempt status. earlier this month, wilkins granted a stay of that ruling pending review by the appeals court, which is expected to make its decision within two weeks
the irs seeks to make the revocation retroactive to may 31, 1981. it contends that contributions funded the lavish lifestyles of ministry founders jim and tammy bakker, who resigned after a scandal over a sexual encounter bakker had with former church secretary jessica hahn, and that much of ptl's heritage village usa operations were commercial in nature
allegra said failure to revoke ptl's tax-exempt status could cost the federal government between $55 million and $82 million in back taxes
ptl attorney r. bradford leggett told the judges that loss of its tax-exempt status would jeopardize the ministry's ability to reorganize itself under federal bankruptcy court protection by a may 1 deadline
wilkins suggested to allegra that the irs could jeopardize its ability to collect back taxes if it succeeds in revoking ptl's status before may 1
allegra acknowleged the agency's action could jeopardize tax payments, but he said to allow ptl a further stay is to invite abuse, adding that the ministry could ask the court for additional stays after may 1
ptl spokesman dave west said the ministry is aware it will have to settle with the irs eventually
but if we do not continue under the protection of the bankruptcy court, then the irs can come in and supersede the work of the bankruptcy court,'' west said
at the very minimum, the irs' actions should be held in abeyance,'' he said
ptl is in the midst of a ``march to victory'' telethon that aims to raise $4.2 million by may 1 to meet the bankruptcy court's reorganization plan. the ministry has debts estimated at $60 million and so far has raised $2.2 million, west said. pvs, meanwhile, justice. trims thruout. mckay's announcement at noon est</note>
independent counsel james mckay today was preparing to issue a statement in the criminal investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii that is somewhat favorable to the attorney general, sources familiar with the probe said
however, mckay, who has been investigating meese's involvement through his longtime friend e. robert wallach with scandal-plagued wedtech corp. and a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline, will continue his criminal investigation, said the sources, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
it wasn't immediately known what the independent counsel's expected one-page statement would say, but one justice department source said that ``on balance'' it is favorable to meese
i'm not concerned about it,'' one of meese's lawyers, james rocap, said when asked if the statement were favorable to meese. rocap said the defense lawyers would have a statement of their own later
meanwhile, justice department sources said that later today meese was likely to announce the names of two, or possibly three, nominees for now-vacant justice department posts
president reagan, asked as he left the white house for an easter vacation in california, ``what about meese. ... should he quit?'' responded, ``i think you'll be hearing from him later today.''
the department's top ranks were decimated tuesday by the protest resignations of deputy attorney general arnold burns and assistant attorney general william weld, head of the criminal division
in addition, the no. 3 justice department official, stephen trott, is leaving to become a federal judge
meese is expected to announce replacements for trott and weld, and possibly burns, said one justice department source, who requested anonymity
the replacement for weld is james i.k. knapp, a deputy in the justice department's tax division who previously worked in the criminal division
the replacement for trott is francis a. keating ii, now the assistant treasury secretary for enforcement, a position that involves overseeing criminal investigations of money laundering and other crimes. keating oversees the customs service, the secret service and the bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms
the swift appointments by meese are an attempt to quell mounting calls for his resignation
earlier in the day, the justice department's fourth-ranking official, who reportedly tried but failed to get meese to resign, said he would stay on the job so long as he can work ``with integrity and effectiveness.''
the statement by solicitor general charles fried was devoid of any other expression of support for meese other than to say that the solicitor general would stay on for the time being
in a prepared statement, fried said he had had a private conversation with meese on wednesday ``to tell him clearly what course of action i thought he should follow.''
fried refused to tell reporters what that recommended course was. the new york times, however, said that fried had urged meese to quit but that meese had rejected the suggestion
i have concluded that while i am able to lead the office of the solicitor general with integrity and effectiveness in its special responsibilities to the law, to the united states and to the supreme court, i should continue to do so,'' fried's statement said
fried said pointedly that ``i will not accept any other positions in the department of justice,'' which was rocked tuesday by the resignations of burns and weld
fried's statement referred to the special, almost autonomous nature, of the solicitor general's office in connection with the rest of the justice department. fried's office is responsible for arguing the government's positions before the u.s. supreme court. his statement referred to ``the two departments'' _ his office and the justice department
as course, i serve only at the pleasure of the president,'' said the solicitor general. ``as for the attorney general, i felt it was my duty to him and to the two departments to tell him clearly what course of action i thought he should follow
i did that wednesday in a private conversation.''
retired associate justice of the supreme court lewis f. powell jr. said fried had called him monday evening, ``very upset and concerned, and very perplexed about what he should do,'' according to the times
monday was the day that burns and weld made their decision to quit out of concern that meese's continued tenure as attorney general was hurting the operations of and undermining public confidence in the justice department. the resignations were announced the next day
powell said that fried had indicated to him that ``once he found out what the facts were, he'd have to keep in mind that he had an obligation to the court,'' according to the times
meese has been under criminal investigation for nearly 11 months
meanwhile, meese is facing growing pressure from republicans as well as democrats to resign
meese met thursday with republican sen. strom thurmond, who said a number of people on capitol hill have expressed ``deep concern about the problems at the justice department.''
thurmond is the ranking republican on the senate judiciary committee and the discussion was the strongest sign to date of growing bipartisan concern in congress over whether the attorney general's mounting legal problems are dragging down his department
thurmond said he was not making any judgments, but that he would not ``countenance any corruption in any way, shape or form in the justice department or any other department.''
wallach, a san francisco attorney who is now under indictment in the wedtech scandal, is at the heart of the criminal investigation of meese that began last may 11. the independent counsel has been trying to determine whether wallach or others paid off meese in exchange for his official acts on behalf of wedtech or the pipeline project
in an interview published thursday in the san jose (calif.) mercury news, wallach said he should have been more sensitive to the appearance of impropriety in helping meese set up a financial partnership with investment manager w. franklyn chinn, who later joined wedtech's board. both chinn and wallach have been indicted on racketeering charges related to wedtech
wallach also said in the interview that meese had ``nothing absolutely'' to do with a $150,000 payment wallach received from swiss financier bruce rappaport in connection with the iraqi pipeline plan
rappaport, a partner in the pipeline project, had been scheduled to give a deposition about the case to mckay last month but backed out and has apparently decided not to cooperate with the investigation, the washington post reported today
the newspaper, quoting unidentified sources in washington and abroad, said rappaport changed his mind at the last minute because he was afraid he might not remember everything accurately
rappaport was to have been given immunity from prosecution in the case
the grandson of former university of texas football coach darrell royal has been released after being charged with stealing part of an albert einstein manuscript
samuel royal, 18, who is not a student at the university, was released thursday on his personal recognizance from the travis county jail following his arrest wednesday night
investigators said a telephoned tip led them to the younger royal's apartment tuesday where a page of the manuscript was found in a photo album, along with photographs of his grandfather, the university of texas' football coach from 1957 through 1976
sammy is my grandson, and i love him, but i will not attempt to interfere with the normal process of justice,'' said darrell royal, who now serves as special assistant to the university's president william cunningham
the felony theft charge carries a maximum punishment of 20 years in prison
for about $3,000, japanese tourists can see the great wall, eat peking duck and grow hair with zhao zhangguang's mysterious, magical hair-restoring tonic
a tour bus arrived friday carrying 98 bald and thin-haired japanese for their first treatment with 101 hair liniment, a liquid made from a secret recipe of about 30 medicinal herbs
it is the second japanese group, following 20 who arrived in february, to come to china on a package tour that includes treatment at zhao's clinic at the jinsong hospital in eastern beijing
among the first 20, ``some have already started to grow hair,'' said kenichi morita, president of china-japan treatment headquarters, a private tokyo medical firm sponsoring the tours
most of the japanese said they signed up for the trip after reading in newspapers of the miraculous results of 101, which zhao, a former farmer with only six years of formal education, developed after 10 years of private research
dr. liu qirong, the chief of 12 dermatologists at zhao's clinic, said about 2,700 chinese have been treated in the past year, with 92 percent showing some new growth of hair. for people who have lost hair in patches, the success rate is 100 percent, she said
according to the official news agency xinhua, more than 100,000 people have been treated with 101 since production began a year ago, with an improvement rate of 97.5 percent and a cure rate of 84 percent
zhao's results haven't been independently verified
by comparison, the anti-baldness drug minoxidil, recommended for approval by the u.s. food and drug administration, had a success rate of 26 percent of men in the 40-49 age group. for those under 30, the growth rate was 54 percent, and it was 41 percent to 45 percent in the 31-39 age group
zhao's liniment, liu said, works by stimulating circulation of the blood and cleaning out hair follicles. a second medicine, 102, is available to ensure that the new hair will not fall out
one slightly balding 40-year-old man from osaka, japan, said he read about the cure in a magazine and decided to join the tour because ``it's better to have hair than not to have hair.''
for some, it is more serious. yuji matsuishi, a 6-year-old from fukuoka, lost all his hair 18 months ago, and japanese doctors have had no success in either identifying or solving the problem, said his grandmother, yoshie kuga
we have high hopes. nothing else has worked,'' she said
doctors said the tonic works better on people whose hair loss is fairly recent, and they were optimistic yuji's hair could start coming back after a month or two of treatment
they said treatment generally consists of dabbing the liquid onto the scalp several times a day for about six months or as long as it takes for hair to grow back
the only side-effect, liu said, is that the scalp often turns a brownish color before the hair returns
one bottle of 101, which lasts for about a month, sells for about $12 in china, but morita said the price will soon shoot up to about $30. the chinese government, which has not given official approval to the medicine, has given zhao the go-ahead to cash in on his drug
the treatment is undergoing clinical tests in china and cannot be sold in stores or hospitals here or in any other country. it can, however, be purchased directly from zhao's clinic for personal use
zhao, who once had to sell his only pig to obtain money needed to continue his research, now operates two factories, one in central china's zhengzhou and the other in beijing. the beijing plant earned profits of about $135,000 in its first year, the official china daily reported
liu said people from japan, west germany, hong kong, singapore, the united states and other countries have written about the treatment or come to the clinic, and they hope to begin exporting it once the medicine is approved by various health agencies
we're not in this for profit,'' liu said. ``we're trying to cure people, and when people are cured, it makes us happy.''
most of the nation will spring forward to daylight-saving time on sunday, losing an hour's sleep in return for more evening light during the summer
the official moment comes at 2 a.m., when clocks should be reset to 3 a.m. most people, however, will simply do the job before retiring saturday night
standard time will return on oct. 30
it is the second year that daylight-saving time will begin on the first sunday in april. before congress chamnged the law, the time switch occurred on the last sunday of april. graf pvs bgng ``i want...</note>
democratic presidential candidate michael dukakis said today that corporate greed has left ``the average working men and women of america holding the bag'' while the rich get richer
dukakis, injecting a note of populism into his campaign speech, struck out at corporate greed he said was fostered by the reagan administration
wall street pirates and corporate hit teams aren't the model for a new america,'' dukakis said
if we're serious about winning the battle for our economic future, we've got to get control of the merger and acquisition binge that's gobbling up capital, tearing corporations apart like erector sets, making millions of dollars for a few ... and leaving the average working men and women of america holding the bag,'' he said
on thursday, dukakis said his experience as massachusetts governor would make him a better president than jesse jackson, but he refused to criticize the rival who is running neck-and-neck with him in wisconsin primary polls
i want to win this nomination and unite this party at the same time,'' he said at a news conference
dukakis also called for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii, a call made earlier in the day by jackson, who also was campaigning in wisconsin
the justice department is still in turmoil and i guess (that) will continue until we have a new attorney general and it's about time we did,'' dukakis said. ``i would hope at long last the attorney general would resign _ it's long overdue _ and the president would appoint somebody as attorney general we could be proud of.''
dukakis' remarks followed a speech at serb hall, a traditional rallying point for presidential candidates in wisconsin, where dukakis said the reagan administration ``has walked away from the american dream.''
asked why he considered himself more qualified than jackson, dukakis said, ``i think i am going to be a better president because i think i've got the strength, the experience and the values to lead this country; because i'm somebody who not only believes in good jobs and good wages for people, i've helped to create them.''
dukakis also cited his efforts in massachusetts to combat homelessness and drug abuse in schools
that's why i'm running. that's why i think i would be the best nominee and the best president. i respect the other candidates. they have their strengths and weaknesses as all of us do. we all share a lot of common values and goals, but if there is one strength i believe i bring to this campaign it is as a proven chief executive and leader who has done these things.''
dukakis said he is the candidate ``who understands how you take hopes and dreams and transform them into action.''
dukakis' speech, in which he accused the reagan administration of embracing programs for the rich and of excessive military spending at the expense of working men and women, was new
he denied it was a response to criticism that he lacked passion in his campaigning
i just thought it was time. you guys' eyes were glazing over a little bit and i just thought it was time to give you something new,'' dukakis told reporters
president reagan has nominated maj. gen. donald l. cromer for promotion to lieutenant general and assignment as commander of the air force systems command's space division, the pentagon said friday
assuming senate confirmation, cromer, 52, will replace lt. gen. aloysius g. casey, who will retire on july 1 after 34 years' service
cromer, a native of grand junction, colo., now commands the air force's space and missile test organization
in another personnel move, maj. gen. clifford h. rees jr. would be promoted to lieutenant general and named vice commander of the u.s. air forces in europe. rees, 51, would replace lt. gen. thomas g. mcinerney, who was recently nominated to assume command of the alaskan air command
rees, from newport news, va., now heads the tactical air command's air defense weapons center
reagan also nominated rear adm. everette d. stumbaugh to become the judge advocate general of the navy. sumbaugh, 50, a native of clarksville, ark., now is deputy judge advocate general. escaped from four men who held him captive. picks up in 3rd graf, `officers are ...</note>
a town marshal who was believed to have been kidnapped told his family today that he managed to escape from four men who had held him captive in an abandoned house and in a car trunk, officials said
police had launched an intense manhunt for gary stokes after he disappeared early thursday while investigating an apparent burglary in this tiny northeast mississippi town
stokes ``told his father that they let him out of the trunk early today to go to the restoom and, as he walked over some railroad tracks figuring he had a 50-50 chance to live, he ran into the woods,'' said mayor robert p. godwin
stokes was unharmed and resting at his family home, state and tippah county authorities said
about all i can tell you is that he is back and we are investigating,'' said tippah county sheriff leroy meeks said today
officers ``are treating this as a kidnapping,'' said deputy sheriff carl gillard. meeks, however, declined to confirm that stokes had been abducted
stokes disappeared early thursday and authorities feared he may have been taken captive by someone trying to break into a storage room behind a store in blue mountain, a northern mississippi town of about 860 residents
city clerk billie morgan said today her office was told that stokes, the town's only full-time policeman, had walked to a house in the town of myrtle in neighboring union county ``and called in about 3 a.m. i understand he told officers that he was abducted.''
police had used tracking dogs in the rain as they searched for stokes in rural areas around blue mountain all day thursday and well into the night. a helicopter search had been planned today
meeks had said officers from surrounding counties, firemen and civilians had helped deputies in the search
meeks said stokes, 35, radioed the nearby ripley police department for backup while investigating the possible burglary early thursday
when the units arrived, he was nowhere to be found,'' the sheriff said
morgan said officers found stokes' car with the engine still running, the lights on and his radio microphone hanging outside the door
the officers reported they found his police pistol on the ground, with one bullet fired, and his empty billfold nearby,'' morgan said
however, meeks said investigators were uncertain when the bullet was fired. he said no evidence was found that anyone had been wounded at the scene
authorities issued a bulletin for a car with four occupants that apparently was seen in the area about the time stokes radioed in
we are checking every possibility and we don't know if those men had anything to do with all this,'' the sheriff said
a 16-year-old boy died after he shot himself during a game of russian roulette in front of a friend who didn't think the gun was loaded, authorities said
gary l. craig of troy died thursday, a day after he shot himself in the head at his grandparents' home in collinsville, the madison county sheriff's department said
i didn't even know the gun was loaded,'' said richie canada, 16, who witnessed the shooting. ``i was so scared when all of this was going on that i couldn't move.'' graves</head>
john cremens isn't ready to leave this world. but when the time comes, he hopes to settle his bones among famous early americans in one of the city's two 300-year-old cemeteries
during the nation's 1976 bicentennial, the 65-year-old trial lawyer commanded the ancient and honorable artillery company, a now-cermonial militia that marks its 350th anniversary june 1
he hopes to make his last stop with john winthrop, the state's first governor; william dawes, who rode with paul revere; the first woman to get off the mayflower, and the woman some say was nathaniel hawthorne's model for hester prynne, who wore the scarlet letter
cremens wants to be buried in the king's chapel burying ground tomb of capt. robert keayne, the militia's first commander. cremens said thursday he belongs there as the bicentennial commander
an ordinance the city council passed last week permits cremens' burial in the tomb or across tremont street in the granary burying ground, where he would join paul revere, john hancock, samuel adams, and, some say, ``mother goose.''
but the cemeteries are full
and some other militia members say it's not clear cremens belongs there
a real militia established to protect colonists, the ancient and honorable lost its orgininal purpose before the civil war. but it was never disbanded and remains the world's third-oldest surviving militia, exceeded by its english counterpart and the papal swiss guards
nowadays, the group mainly raises money for charity
cremens's request is expected to be discussed monday, at the next militia meeting
member bert caldwell said opening keayne's tomb, already jammed with 36 coffins, would undo two years and $7,500 of restoration
you effectively have to make an archaeological dig. i don't know if it's worth it. ... it's best to let sleeping patriots lie.''
although the city's 16 historic cemeteries are full, title holders to underground tombs can open them for more bodies with the city's permission
ellen lipsey, preservation planner for the city parks department, said a new body is buried every 20 years or so
if cremens doesn't get into the keayne tomb, he must find another tomb and get the titleholders to let him in, then get the park department's permission
parks commissioner william coughlin said if the militia is reluctant to open the tomb it's unlikely the department will approve
cremens said that whatever happens, he's pleased for the opportunity to be buried among heroes of the past
it's a great honor. i'm very happy to be there in that great company, to be part of the history of this country and to be remembered in the prayers of people passing by ... i hope it doesn't happen soon.''
jews celebrated the first night of passover and christians carrying crosses marked good friday under heavy military and police guard that was mobilized to prevent violence after four months of arab protests
fewer tourists than usual filled israel's hotels, normally packed to capacity during passover week. tourism officials blamed it on the fear among foreigners, mainly u.s. jews, because of the fatal riots
police commissioner david kraus told israel army radio extra units of officers patrolled cities and holiday sites
in jerusalem's walled old city, hundreds of christian pilgrims carrying crosses and singing psalms traced the route jesus walked to his crucifixion, but the crowd was thinner than usual
an arab attacker stabbed an israeli police lieutenant in the stomach just 20 yards from the processional route. the soldier was in fair condition
the greek orthodox church canceled two pre-easter processions due to security concerns and an expected drop in tourism. western christians celebrate easter on sunday, while orthodox christians observe it this year on april 10
the original good friday occurred during passover, but the holidays don't usually coincide because the two religions use different calendars
friday also was the moslem sabbath, which in recent months has been a catalyst for violent demonstrations
in jewish west jerusalem, few signs of recent tensions were evident as israeli shoppers jammed stores buying flowers and candy to give relatives, a passover tradition. children, on a two-week school holiday, filled the streets eating ice cream and candy
passover, which commemorates the liberation of jews from slavery in egypt, derives its name from the biblical book of exodus. the book recounts that god ``passed over'' the homes of the israelites when meeting out the worst of 10 plagues, killing the first-born of every egyptian
the plagues finally forced the egyptian pharoah to let the jews leave egypt
the story of the exodus is recounted every year in the seder, the traditional holiday meal. participants take turns reading excerpts from the hagadah, a book of stories, rabbinical sayings and lively songs of thanksgiving
symbolic foods are eaten, including bitter herbs to remind jews of the harshness of their enslavement and haroset, a brick-colored mixture of apples, nuts and wine to recall the bricks laid by jewish slaves
but the best-known symbol is matzo, the unleavened bread eaten during passover week. matzo reminds jews that when they departed egypt, they had no time to let their bread rise and so had to take unleavened bread into the desert
in israel, stores are forbidden to sell leavened bread during passover. but many secular jerusalemites circumvent the restrictions and buy pita, the pocket-shaped middle eastern bread, from arab merchants in east jerusalem
the practice was expected to be more difficult this year with virtually every arab merchant there on a partial strike
life returned to the old city on friday when hundreds of christian pilgrims crowded the via dolorosa, or way of sorrow, tracing jesus' steps to his crucifixion. priests carried ornate silver and gold crosses and burned incense
we planned to come here for a long time and nothing could stop us, even friends who said we were crazy,'' said david reid of mountain lakes, n.j. ``there are lots of police around and we are as safe here as we are in new york city.''
the procession ended at the church of the holy sepulchre, built in the 12th century on the site where the faithful believe jesus was crucified, buried and raised from the dead on easter sunday
pilgrims kissed and threw water on the rock marking the spot where jesus' body was washed before burial, while 16 choir boys in black robes sang prayers
arab merchants opened their shops for the three hours permitted by the palestine liberation organization to sell olive-wood crosses, doing brisk business
tourism officials said more visitors came to israel in january and february as compared with the previous year, but 13 percent fewer tourists entered the country during the first week in march
the rev. timoteus margaritis, a spokesman for the greek orthodox christian church, said 1,500 pilgrims were expected to attend his church's april 10 easter service, instead of the usual 10,000
a former banker who went on a spending spree with funds from his thrift after learning he had aids has pleaded guilty to misappropriating more than $1 million
william patrick debenport, 27, said he gave some of the money to gay charities after being told he had acquired immune deficiency syndrome
debenport pleaded guilty thursday to three counts of misappropriation, admitting he illegally used his position as manager of first texas savings and loan's oak cliff branch to misappropriate $1.1 million from it
documents filed with debenport's plea show he established fake accounts, transferring money to them and then removing the funds by writing cashier's checks
he faces up to 15 years in prison and $3,000 in fines at sentencing may 5
his lawyer, steven cooper, said earlier that debenport used most of the money to buy luxuries for himself and gifts for friends, but also donated some to charities, including $175,000 to a dallas home for aids sufferers
an air force fighter-bomber on a high-altitude training mission crashed friday near the west german border, but the pilot ejected safely, the military said
the mirage iii-e long-range fighter-bomber crashed in a field near bar-le-duc after it developed technical problems, military officials said. the pilot aimed the plane at an uninhabited area before ejecting, and there were no injuries reported
jesse jackson the politician often becomes jesse jackson the history teacher these days, taking his presidential campaign to high schools as often as to union halls or churches
from the inner city school in inkster, mich., to pulaski high in the heart of southside milwaukee, the democratic presidential candidate delivers his sermon of self-respect, a drug-free and violence-free life and the need to achieve
i go to four or five high schools a week in the course of every week, because i love our children, because i care, because their lives are at stake,'' jackson told students in inkster, near detroit. ``you are our energy.''
in the high school speeches there is always a political message _ ``come alive, april 5'' was the chant he taught at pulaski, in advance of the wisconsin primary on tuesday
but jackson has other goals as well, for in 1988 he emphasizes the course of the fight for equal rights for a generation that looks at the 1950s and 1960s as ancient history
jackson tells the story of rosa parks, whose refusal to go to the back of the bus in montgomery, ala., sparked demonstrations that pushed dr. martin luther king jr. to prominence in 1955
jackson, a king protege, talks of the role young people played in the civil rights struggle, saying that king was only 26 when the montgomery bus boycott began and that college students led the lunch counter sit-ins in greensboro, n.c. that inaugurated a new tactic in the fight for desegregated public accommodations
in 1960, four student in greemsboro, n.c. sat at a lunch counter to get hamburgers. they got handcuffs,'' jackson said at pulaski high school. ``they were threatened with expulsion from school. they chose dignity over degrees. they kept fighting to make america better.''
some pulaski students may have had family members who had personal experience with the civil rights movement. it is in the heart of southside milwaukee, an all-white neighborhood that was the scene of ugly, sometimes violent confrontations during open housing marches of the 1960s
jackson also talks in sometimes brutal terms of the price that was paid in the civil rights movement, reading down the list of those who were killed in the fight. often his images are harsh, as in his description of one civil rights marcher's death
her brains were blown out at point-blank range by a shotgun,'' he told students at stevenson high school in sterling heights, mich
after recounting how far the nation has come, jackson turns to the problems of today
each generation must face the challenges of its own time,'' he told pulaski students
at inkster, the message was more direct to an audience of about 1,500 mostly black students
after years of struggle, we have obtained equal protection under the law. you have opportunity. when i went to school, we did not have equal opportunity,'' said jackson, who grew up poor in south carolina
obviously opportunity is not enough. ... what does it matter if you have equal opportunity if your players are drunk on the court? what does it matter if you have a new book or an old book if you never open either?''
this theme jackson uses to launch into his crusade against drugs
the no. 1 threat in your lifetime is not lack of opportunity _ it is concession to the no. 1 killer in the country today _ drugs,'' he said at inkster
then jackson repeats a litany to bring home the pervasiveness of the problems he is attacking. he asks how many students know someone who has died from drugs. usually, a scattering stand up
then he asks how many know someone who is in jail because of drugs. more stand. then the question is, how many know someone who uses drugs. in most schools, everyone stands
he repeats the question and response pattern about knowledge of young people who have brought guns to school and knowledge of contemporaries who contemplated suicide. in each case, a remarkable number of students stand
the preacher-turned-politician is quick to issue a reminder that this is not a limited problem
lest you forget, members of the press, whether we are in the heart of rural iowa or in inkster, mich., or seattle, wash., or pasadena, calif., this is the scene all over america every day,'' he said in the detroit suburb. ``so i reach out to young america today to provide positive and creative energy to keep america strong and to make america better.''
a fugitive arrested recently in florida could shed light on the celebrated but still unsolved ``french connection'' drug theft case, a federal prosecutor says
anthony dominick passero, 53, was arrested feb. 10 in florida on an outstanding money laundering indictment filed in new york in 1984 that named one of his many aliases, anthony paris, u.s. attorney andrew maloney said thursday
it was not until tuesday, when authorities received a report on a fingerprint check, that they realized paris was passero
he ``may be the last living guy who could solve the french connection thefts,'' maloney said
passero was identified by maloney as an alleged partner of the late vincent papa, who was suspected of being the mastermind of the theft of $70 million worth of heroin and cocaine from the property clerk's office in city police headquarters from 1968 to 1972
much of the heroin had been seized in the ``french connection'' drug case, the basis for the movie of the same name starring gene hackman and roy scheider
papa, who had alleged ties to the luchese organized crime family, was stabbed to death in 1977 while in an atlanta prison on other drug charges
maloney said no one had ever been arrested for the drug thefts, allegedly committed by a group of police detectives
in addition to the money laundering charges, passero faces charges from a 1975 heroin trafficking indictment. he also was charged in 1975 with perjury and criminal contempt in connection with the investigation into the french connection thefts, authorities said
passero, focus of an internal revenue service investigation for many years, had been living in a $475,000 home at pompano, fla., under the alias of anthony caruso. five irs agent and two pompano police officers arrested passero and his common-law wife, marie barbieri, 45, at their home feb. 10
both waived extradition
both were named in the money laundering indictment, which alleges they laundered about $750,000 from january 1980 to march 1981. passero told authorities he was a retired truck driver and scrap metal dealer, maloney said
a fraternity organized by homosexual men has been approved by the university of california, which last month approved a lesbian sorority
the 11-member delta lambda phi fraternity was recognized thursday
gay people need a lot of support in their college years,'' said senior jason howe, the group's president. ``they are trying to come to grips with growing up, getting through college and getting a career. but they also have to come to grips with their sexuality.''
the fraternity is a spinoff of a washington-based organization trying to form chapters at campuses around the country
we are trying to encourage socializing outside of the bar environment and its negative emphasis on alcohol and drugs,'' said fraternity adviser chris williamson
official recognition means delta lambda phi can use the school's name, meet on campus and apply for student activities funds, said chris fishburn, ucla's director of fraternity and sorority relations
the fraternity cannot discriminate against heterosexuals, if any apply
technicians will be able to repair a minor insulation problem on a booster rocket without delaying the space shuttle flight planned for august, nasa said friday
during an inspection wednesday, workers found four small areas where insulation had separated from the rocket casing on the bottom edge of one of four segments that make up the right solid fuel rocket. the largest was 1.4 inches
there was concern that if the separation extended deeper into the insulation, the segment would have to be replaced, which could cause a launch delay of several weeks
ultrasound devices were used overnight thursday to thoroughly inspect the segment and no additional separation or ``debonding'' was discovered
there was no evidence the debonding extended beyond the edge,'' said nasa spokeswoman lisa malone. ``it can be repaired here with no impact on the schedule.''
malone said similar debondings had been found on other rocket segments in the past and they were repaired here in parallel with other work. severe debonding could lead to the breakup of a rocket in flight and destroy the shuttle
various technical problems have caused two lengthy delays from the original february 1988 launch date. the target date now is aug. 4
the shuttle fleet has been grounded since challenger exploded jan. 28, 1986, killing the seven crew members. that accident was caused by another booster rocket problem _ a faulty joint between segments that allowed flames to escape and ignite the external fuel tank for the main liquid fuel engines
the joint has been redesigned and has successfully passed several test firings
on the first post-challenger mission, discovery is to carry five crew members who will deploy a communications satellite and conduct experiments during a four-day mission
president reagan signed a $48 million aid for nicaraguan contras and war victims friday and then headed to california for a 10-day easter vacation
reagan signed the legislation in his white house residence, forgoing the ceremonial fanfare that attends some bill-signings
only $17.7 million of the $48 million will go to the nicaraguan rebels, and the aid package contains no provision for weapons and ammunition. the bill could be the last of its kind that reagan signs, given the truce agreement the contras signed march 23 in sapoa, nicaragua, with the ruling sandinista regime
the aid package, which also contains $17.7 million to finance rehabilitation and treatment of children injured on both sides of the 7-year-old conflict, was passed overwhelmingly by both the house and senate earlier this week
besides the money for contra rebels and nicaraguan children, roughly $10 million will be sent to a verification commission to monitor compliance with the cease-fire
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters aboard air force one en route to california that the president had said the aid was ``urgently needed, that he wanted to sign it as soon as possible.''
the president also hoped ``the cease-fire talks on april 5 are productive in getting the sandinistas to bring about democratic reforms.''
fitzwater also noted that a united nations investigative team has returned from central america where it looked into the recent fighting along the nicaraguan-honduran border and the temporary deployment some 3,100 u.s. troops in honduras
although the white house has not yet seen the team's report, fitzwater said press reports have said the u.n. panel's findings ``confirm the nicaraguan invasion of honduras, that they have photographic evidence of the fighting, and that the u.s. exercises were a success. if those reports are right, why, we're very gratified and satisfied.''
reagan's signing of the bill was his last major chore before leaving on the 10-day vacation at his beloved rancho del cielo in the santa ynez mountains near santa barbara
reagan's adopted son, michael reagan, accompanied the president aboard air force one, but remained in private quarters aboard the aircraft and did not speak with reporters
the younger reagan's book detailing his early life, including being a victim of child molestation by a camp counselor, was published recently
the president was to be reunited in california with first lady nancy reagan, who flew to los angeles on wednesday. she paid a visit to the $2.5 million, ranch-style mansion the couple plans to lease when reagan's term ends next january
that wasn't the only looking-ahead note to the couple's spring vacation. the president's only appearance in california will be at a fund-raising event monday in newport beach, south of los angeles, for the ronald reagan library. construction on the library is expected to begin this summer at a site in ventura county
fitzwater also said reagan will address the national association of broadcasters meeting april 10 in las vegas, nev. the spokesman indicated the president's general subject would be foreign affairs and the theme before an expected audience of about 4,000 broadcasters would be ``broadcasting and democracy: a winning ticket.''
financial support to the contras has been shut off since feb. 29, and the house twice last month voted down assistance packages
a state department official said it probably will be be at least two weeks before the contras begin receiving supplies under the new legislation because of the time required to gear up for a new delivery effort
approximately $2.5 million of the $48 million aid package will be given to the department's agency for international development, which will administer the aid program
georgia's 93,000 kindergarten pupils begin taking mandatory tests next week that will partially determine whether they will enter first grade in the fall
some parents and educators oppose the tests
last week, the national association for the education of young children and the national association of early childhood specialists in state departments of education issued policy statements opposed to such mass standardized testing of kindergartners
such indiscriminate testing, the groups said, means ``many kindergartens are now highly structured, `watered down' first grades, emphasizing workbooks and other paper-and-pencil activities that are developmentally inappropriate for 5-year-olds.''
georgia is the first state to make such testing mandatory, although individual school districts such as minneapolis have similar programs
georgia education officials say those who are outraged over standardized tests of 5-year-olds to measure their ability to recognize sounds, letters and basic math concepts are making mountains out of molehills
i think it's more important to focus on the entire process, because there's much more to it than testing,'' said sharon meinhardt, coordinator of the georgia department of education's early childhood education program
ms. meinhardt said if a child does not achieve the required score, education officials will use both the test and the recommendation of the child's teacher in deciding whether the child is ready for first grade
there are a lot of scared parents out there _ i've talked to them,'' ms. meinhardt said. ``when i have had a chance to talk to a lot of the parents and tell them we are going to look at more than the test, there's not a parent who left the conversation without saying `i feel better.'''
the testing policy, approved by the state board of education in february, is mandated by the quality basic education act to identify children in need of special help, and students who are held back will be placed in an alternative kindergarten program
but some educators say assurances from state officials will not make them feel better about testing such young children
our state legislators feel that this test will reduce our relatively high first-grade failure rate by weeding out those children who are not yet ready to attend first grade,'' said marilyn b. gootman, assistant professor of elementary education at the university of georgia. ``instead, the test wastes precious learning time and places unnecessary stress on our children.''
we are very supportive of testing and assessing young children, but we are against one 90-minute assessment in a child's kindergarten year to predict readiness,'' said judy jefferson, gwinnett county's coordinator of primary programs and an official of the metro council for early childhood
atlanta child psychologist asa hilliard said the tests have ``a disproportionate impact on those children who need school the most, the minority children.''
stan berknopf, director of the education department's assessment program, said parental distress over testing kindergarteners will not prompt the state to change the law
their anxiety for the most part is probably misplaced,'' berknopf said. ``we expect over 90 percent of the students to do very well.''
ms. meinhardt said education officials recommend that parents treat the test as they would any other school activity and not pressure their children
there should be no great production made of it,'' she said. ``teachers are feeling a considerable amount of pressure, either from their own minds or from other people in their school system. there is no way some of that pressure is not being transferred to the children.''
the department of education's assessment department estimates that about 90 of the state's 186 school systems will begin testing next week, and the rest will start the following week
beginning friday, drug dealers operating in utah must visit the state tax commission and buy an official drug tax stamp created just for them, or else they'll face additional charges when they're arrested
this is not the case of a state agency or the state legislature condoning the use of illicit drugs,'' said tax commission spokesman lee shaw. ``the drug stamp program is actually a law enforcement tool, not a tax commission initiative. the drug stamps are just another means of applying legal pressure in the prosecution of drug dealers.''
when a dealer is arrested, law enforcement officers will check to see if his drugs have the stamp. if they do not, the dealer faces a third-degree felony in addition to any other charges, shaw said
that could prove helpful in punishing dealers who evade a distribution conviction because of some technicality, said the law's sponsor, state sen. ivan matheson
the law stipulates that if stamps are not attached permanently to drug packages, a dealer could be required to pay the full cost of the tax plus a fine of not more than $10,000
the stamps cost $3.50 for each gram, or portion of a gram, of marijuana; $200 for each gram of a controlled substance sold by weight; and $2,000 for each 50 ``dosage units,'' such as pills, of a controlled substance not sold by weight
i cannot see a major drug dealer going in there to buy a stamp,'' said attorney gilbert d. athay, who has defended a number of alleged drug dealers
but that doesn't mean there won't be a market for the stamps
stamp collectors will buy them. they'll probably be the only people in town who will own them,'' athay said
anyone can buy the stamps. purchasers do not have to identify themselves, shaw said, but must pay with cash or a cashier's check
the tax commission ordered 4,000 stamps from the state printing office
all three stamps are plain. the marijuana stamp doesn't have a picture of a leaf, just the title ``marijuana'' at the top, and several lines printed over the state seal where commission employees can fill in the quantity and their initials
the rev. brice riordan sensed a bargain in the air one day recently while he prepared to celebrate mass
dear friends, it's encouraging to see such a great number of you,'' riordan said, looking out over his congregation. ``there must be a sale at stern's or something.''
the 18-yea-old carmelite chapel in the bergen mall is one of the few in the country to be located in a shopping center. it is billed as the chapel on the mall, devoted to st. therese
the rev. ferdinand schaefer, the chapel's pastor, said the idea for a place to worship amid the materialism of a mall comes from the age-old directive to ``get christ in the marketplace.''
you have to go where the people are, and the people are in the malls,'' schaefer said
the chapel is run by four priests of the carmelite order of the roman catholic church, which helped set up the first known mall chapel more than 25 years ago in peabody, mass
the reason the bergen mall was chosen for a chapel site was a link to the peabody chapel _ allied stores, which in 1970 owned both shopping malls, schaefer said
attendance was poor in the early years but it has gained steadily, and today, especially during lent and on saturdays, it is standing room only in the 150-seat chapel, schaefer said
year round, the chapel attracts about 200 people a day for three masses daily on weekdays and four on saturday, he said. the chapel doesn't offer sunday masses, because the mall is closed
schaefer and steady chapelgoers credit the solid turnout to convenience and the strong sermons of the four carmelite priests
we just love these priests,'' said kathleen tappen of maywood
mrs. tappen and her husband, frank, have been chapel worshipers for eight years
it's like a family,'' added marge wohlrab of rochelle park, a 10-year chapel-goer. ``each (priest) gives a different perspective. we always get another reason for carrying on.''
the priests, ranging in age from 66 to 71 years old, have drawn their wisdom from experience, said schaefer
these guys have 40 to 45 years of priesthood behind them,'' schaefer said. ``they have sort of mellowed. they are not out to do anything except minister the sacraments and be kind to people. that makes a difference.''
the chapel is a no-frills religious experience. there are no baptisms, funerals or weddings. priests hear confessions, celebrate daily mass and provide counseling when needed
schaefer believes its success will continue as long as there are shoppers
you see an awful lot of people going by and stopping and looking and they are amazed,'' schaefer said. ``then, what do you know, another day or two and they will be in.''
the stanford university faculty has voted to replace a western culture requirement, branded racist by black students, with one that includes the study of women and minorities
we're fighting against the white male estabishment that's been here for years,'' said david brown, a member of students united for democratic education
the change is a substantial improvement,'' university president donald kennedy said when the faculty senate voted 39-4 for the change thursday
we feel philosophically that the vote in favor of this was a vote in favor of moving forward and progression,'' black student union chairman bill king said. ``they voted for moving toward ethnic studies, not teaching freshmen lies.''
u.s. secretary of education william bennett charged earlier this year that stanford was bowing to ``curriculum by intimidation,'' and that higher education in general was losing credibility because courses on the classics are being displaced. he is scheduled to speak at stanford on april 18
beginning next fall, freshmen will take classes on ``cultures, ideas and values,'' replacing the western culture program, dubbed racist two years ago by the black student union
students will still be required to study the likes of homer, plato and shakespeare but they also will be exposed to works from at least one non-european culture each quarter
according to a draft of the new course, its objective is to ``provide students with the common intellectual experience of broadening their understanding of ideas and values drawn from different strands of our own culture, and to increase their understanding of cultural diversity and the process of cultural interaction.''
american corporations that owe taxes to panama will be allowed the u.s. foreign tax credit if payments are made to the government of ousted president eric arturo delvalle, the internal revenue service said friday
the announcement was aimed at discouraging u.s. businesses from sending tax payments to the panamanian government controlled by military strongman manuel antonio noriega, which washington does not recognize
some large u.s.-based multinational firms recently made quarterly tax payments just in time to give that government a desperately needed infusion of cash
the foreign tax credit is designed to prevent two national governments from taxing the same dollar of income. in general, the united states will not tax income that an american corporation earns in and pays taxes on to a foreign country
the irs announcement is the latest move in the u.s. effort to squeeze noriega, who has been indicted in the united states on drug-trafficking charges
delvalle, who is in hiding, has directed that all tax payments due his country be paid through the panamanian embassy in washington into a special account at the federal reserve bank of new york
this notice confirms that income taxes due to the government of panama which are paid into such account will be considered paid to the government of panama, and will therefore be creditable foreign taxes if all other requirements'' of the law are met, an irs statement said
the white house, in declaring thursday that such an announcement would be forthcoming, cautioned that u.s. businesses might expect some sanctions if they continue turning over money to noriega
a spokesman for eastern airlines said the company had recently paid the noriega government $178,000 in monthly rentals and landing fees
texaco, inc., routinely paid income, sales and excise taxes for march, said spokesman peter maneri, and sees no conflict with the position of the u.s. government
we do not become involved in any political activity in a host nation; we're just doing business down there,'' maneri said. update with fitzwater quote.</note>
president reagan today signed a $48 million aid package for nicaragua's contras, but it probably will be at least two weeks before the rebels begin receiving supplies under the new legislation
the senate on thursday gave lopsided approval to the bill, sending it to the president on a vote of 87-7. the house had approved the measure 345-70 a day earlier
reagan signed the bill with no fanfare in his residence before departing for a flight to california and a 10-day vacation. the signing was announced in a one-sentence white house statement, which was accompanied by a brief executive order delegating responsibilities to various agencies to carry out provisions of the law
there certainly is an urgent need among the resistance for medical supplies, food, clothing, the basic commodities of life,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said. ``this bill is very welcome in that regard and we support it.''
fitzwater said the president ``just indicated that it's urgently needed ... and that he hopes the cease-fire talks on april 5 are productive in getting the sandinistas to bring about democratic reforms.''
the contras have been shut off from u.s. aid since feb. 29
the state department official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said he ``would be very surprised if any aid is delivered within the next two weeks'' because of the time required by the bureaucracy to gear up for a new delivery effort
but the official said even with the delay, delivery will begin more quickly than normal because some of the responsibility for moving supplies will be given to the department's office of foreign disaster assistance, which has experience with such programs
the aid aims at sustaining the rebels as a fighting force while they wait in cease-fire zones for their political leaders and the sandinista government to work out a long-term settlement to their nearly seven-year civil war
aid to the rebels under the bill would total $17.7 over the next six months, including $1.5 million for communications gear if such equipment is deemed to be in accord with a march 23 cease-fire accord between the two sides
another $17.7 million would be spent on a new program of medical and rehabilitation help for war-injured children on both sides of the conflict. the bill offers $10 million to a verification commission that will monitor compliance with the cease-fire, and $2.5 million to pay the state department's agency for international development to administer the aid
the overwhelming and relatively quiet approval of the bill in both houses of congress was an abrupt change in the tenor of a u.s. debate that began with the civil war seven years ago. votes on nicaragua policy have typically been decided by thin margins and with sharp and partisan argument
congress had rejected similar aid packages twice earlier this year, but the march 23 truce reached in sapoa, nicaragua, changed the political climate in congress
one can always hope we may have learned this partisanship is unhealthy,'' said sen. john mccain, r-ariz., after thursday's vote
but let's have no illusions,'' he added. ``future events (in central america) will dictate whether there's maintenance of this bipartisanship.''
sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., noted that the aid bill fell short of the desires of contra supporters, who would have preferred to send weapons to the rebels, and also bothered rebel opponents who oppose sending any aid
this package strikes a balance, and is for the sole purpose of supporting that agreement in sapoa,'' dodd said during a harmonious floor debate on the measure. ``if not for that agreement, we wouldn't be doing this today.''
a contra proponent, sen. david boren, d-okla., said the action would ``send a strong signal that the contras are not being abandoned.''
but boren also said the failure of congress to agree on military support for the rebels would prove to be ``one of the gravest mistakes in american foreign policy ever made.''
the seven senators who voted against the aid package were sens. brock adams, d-wash.; alan cranston, d-calif.; mark hatfield, r-ore.; spark matsunaga, d-hawaii; john melcher, d-mont.; william proxmire, d-wis.; and robert stafford, r-vt
not voting were sens. joseph biden, d-del.; albert gore, d-tenn.; edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; john kerry, d-mass.; warren rudman, r-n.h. and paul simon, d-ill
law enforcement agencies in florida seized more than $4.5 million in property and cash from suspected criminals in the last three months of 1987, according to a state report
state law lets police seize property when authorities believe it was used in a felony. the law has sparked criticism because some agencies confiscate property without making an arrest
while they must return the property to innocent owners, authorities often charge fees to do so. legislation is expected this session to prohibit the fees
metro-dade police seized $1.04 million in cash and $34,000 in property _ mainly older cars _ and earned $55,000 in interest
this is home base on the u.s. side to the major traffickers ... people who will have bags and boxes of money,'' said george aylesworth, commander of the metro-dade legal unit. ``we just bump into them most often.''
a surgeon who died of aids may have contracted the disease while performing surgery in africa and didn't know he had been infected until six days before his death, his superior said friday
the doctor, david collings, performed 338 operations in britain after returning last year from five years in his native zimbabwe. health officials are trying to find the patients to offer them counseling and, if necessary, a free blood test. officials are warning them not to panic
collings, 30, thought he had a bad dose of flu when he became ill on march 16, but his condition dramatically worsened. a blood test on march 21 showed he had aids, and he died six days later at royal devon and exeter hospital in exeter
he just shrugged his shoulders and said, `that is one of the risks of doing surgery in africa,''' said his superior, consultant surgeon bruce campbell
collings, who was trained in edinburgh, scotland, was married and had an 18-month-old child. he worked in mpilo and marondera, zimbabwe, for five years before returning to britain last year, the exeter health authority said
he worked at the alexandra hospital at redditch for a few months before starting a one-year contract in exeter on july 1
collings mainly operated on patients suffering from complaints such as appendicitis, hernias or varicose veins
a list of his patients was drawn up and general practitioners will contact them in the coming days
the officials stressed that they were being contacted to give them reassurance, not because they believe there is any real risk of infection
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is a fatal disease that breaks down the body's natural defenses against disease. there is no known cure
construction spending fell for a third consecutive month in february, a 0.3 percent decline which reflected weakness in the housing sector, the government reported friday
the commerce department said that construction spending declined to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $391.5 billion in february following a 2.8 percent drop in january. in addition, the department revised the december figure to show a small decline of $100 million instead of a 0.4 percent increase
the february decline pushed construction spending 2.5 percent below where it was a year earlier. analysts are forecasting further cutbacks in 1988 because of high vacancy rates in apartments and office buildings
michael sumichrast, an economist and editor of a construction newsletter, said that he was predicting a 7 percent decline in private non-residential construction this year following a drop of 8.1 percent in 1987
much of the strength in the past few years was in over-building driven by tax breaks rather than building for the existing market,'' he said. ``as a result, we don't have much strength anywhere.''
residential construction fell by 1.1 percent in february to an annual rate of $188.1 billion. this included declines of 1 percent in construction of single-family homes and a drop of 4.3 percent in construction of multi-family units
non-residential construction posted a 1.2 percent increase to an annual rate of $92 billion. the biggest source of strength came from an 18.8 percent surge in hospital construction which offset drops in office, hotel and shopping center construction
sumichrast said that construction of hospitals and private schools would show increases this year although both sectors represent only a small fraction of the total industry
public construction edged up 0.4 percent in february to an annual rate of $74.7 billion with the biggest category, highway building, posting a 0.4 percent increase
an ap correspondent entered ramallah hours before the israeli army set up roadblocks tuesday and left friday morning, after the curfew was lifted. here is his report:
please! please! a kilo of bread!'' shouted women outside a bakery off ramallah's main square
the flustered bakery owner held out empty hands. ``that's all! i can't sell anymore!'' the stocky man shouted back, locking his shop door to obey the demands of gun-toting israeli soldiers who had confiscated his identity papers
the shop shutters that crashed shut at gunpoint throughout ramallah on tuesday began three days of what residents called a siege by israeli troops determined to crush a 4-month-old arab uprising
but palestinians are hoarding food and launching a grassroots campaign to endure tougher measures some say they expect to come
israeli troops closed off the occupied territories for three days this week, hoping to prevent massive demonstrations on wednesday, a palestinian commemoration of efforts to fight israeli land confiscations. the military ordered all 650,000 arabs in the gaza strip to stay in their homes for three days, and severed telephone links
on the west bank, israel blocked the 850,000 arabs from leaving their towns
journalists were forbidden to enter or travel without military escorts. an associated press reporter entered ramallah, eight miles north of jerusalem, hours before the army set up roadblocks, and he left friday morning, after the curfew was lifted
on the first day, troops in riot gear moved through the hilly streets of ramallah and neighboring el bireh, forcing shops to close. it was punishment for the merchants' nearly universal acceptance of a palestine liberation organization demand they open in mornings and close in afternoons
the shutdowns left the twin cities, home to about 55,000 palestinians, still. men unable to reach jobs hoed their gardens. women chatted while shelling almonds in front of their limestone houses
shrieking children scampered around vacant lots kicking soccer balls or hurling rocks at one another. it was a game they called ``jews and arabs.''
if i see the soldiers, i run,'' said a pushcart vender named bassam, who glanced nervously up a street near ramallah's main business district while cutting off bananas for customers
the conflicting demands of israel and underground arab leaders have imposed similar, longer closures in bethlehem, nablus, jericho and jenin
abded hamouri, co-owner of a fleet of commuter buses, said the israelis ``are talking to the people who do not have the solution in their hands. the solution is not in the hands of the people who own shops.''
i'm not afraid of the military governor. i'm afraid of the guy i don't know who he is or what he is going to do,'' he said, referring to masked young men who tell shopowners when to open or close
israel has tried to mop up those youths since december by arresting more than 4,000 arabs, by government count. palestinian lawyers insist the toll is much higher
yet protests continue, and walls throughout the town carry spray-painted slogans: ``long live the uprising!'' ``up with the plo!''
arabs said jewish settlers were responsible for a grim reply stenciled on a few walls: a hand holding a club over a broken bone, reference to israel's use of beatings to quell disturbances
the three-day closure was israel's broadest effort yet to stifle protests against military occupation. but most palestinians interviewed in ramallah's streets said it was little worse than existing restrictions
to the boys here, it doesn't matter,'' said a young man named suleiman, trying to evade the soldiers who had imposed a curfew on the crowded el amiri refugee camp. he said most young men sleep outside the camp to escape the army's midnight raids
israel earlier severed international telephone connections to the west bank and gaza, blocked deliveries of gasoline and fuel oil to arab dealers, and imposed a tight limit on the west bank's crucial foreign currency imports
it now demands proof of tax payment to obtain a driver's license or exit visa
despite the scramble for bread, arabs throughout the area insisted they were ready for tougher israeli pressure
reporters saw huge bags of flour and stacks of powdered milk cans in two houses. many people said they had stockpiled essentials
we are ready for anything,'' said ramallah chamber of commerce president khader kasis. ``we can exist just on bread and zatar,'' he added, referring to a popular green spice
an el bireh shopowner who spoke on condition he not be identified said his neighborhood this week formed a self-reliance committee
he pointed out vacant land the group planned to fill with crops, and said it had arranged for merchants to sell goods when stores are closed
i think that's happening a lot, especially for security and self-sufficiency,'' said attorney raja shehadeh, a human rights activist. ``people are experiencing a siege.''
authorities have recovered 39 bodies from an avalanche that buried a northern mountain village earlier this week, it was reported friday
another 11 people were still missing in the arundu village high in the remote korakoram mountain range, according to the government-run news agency, the associated press of pakistan
seven people were rescued after the snow slide destroyed the village, the agency said. 12th graf pvs, the saudi deployment.</note>
the united states ambassador to saudi arabia, hume horan, is leaving his post after only six months because of a personality conflict with king fahd, a state department official said today
horan is expected to be replaced by career diplomat walter cutler, a former ambassador to saudi arabia who was succeeded by horan last september, the official said
the official, who asked not to be identified, denied a published report that horan was being withdrawn at saudi request and that his recall was related to u.s. complaints over the saudi purchase of chinese missiles
state department deputy spokeswoman phyllis oakley confirmed that horan was being reassigned but she gave no further details
meanwhile, a group of 32 senators urged the administration in a letter to pressure the saudis to withdraw the missiles
the letter from the senators says the administration should reconsider a $450 million support package of training and maintenance for awacs radar surveillance planes. the administration has not yet asked officially for congressional approval of the package
we strongly believe that our current policy toward arms sales to saudi arabia must be re-examined,'' the letter said
the saudi deployment of the css-2 intermediate-range missiles came to light two weeks ago in news reports and was confirmed by the state department, which said the rockets are not yet operational
shultz will be meeting with saudi leaders in riyadh next week during his shuttle mission to the mideast. he will be lobbying for israeli-arab peace talks, but also is expected to bring up the chinese missiles
shultz already expressed u.s. concern about the sale of the missiles, which have a range of 1,850 miles, when he met in washington earlier this month with chinese foreign minister wu xueqian
saudi arabia, an ally of iraq, says it needed the missiles to protect itself in case of a further escalation in the iran-iraq war, especially in view of iranian threats
but u.s. officials say the saudis bought the missiles in frustration over repeated attempts by congress to block american arms sales
the kingdom began negotiating the deal with the chinese in 1985, after congress blocked the sale of 48 f-15 jet fighters to saudi arabia. congress late last year agreed to sell the saudis 24 f-15s in order to maintain saudi air strength at its current levels
the css-2 rockets also have a nuclear capability, but both china and saudi arabia have assured the united states they do not intend to arm the rockets with nuclear warheads
in another letter, sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., called for a hearing by the senate foreign relations committee to discuss the implications of the new saudi missiles and the reported failure by u.s. intelligence to detect the purchase from china for some two years
we are also deeply concerned that the saudis hid the fact that they possess these weapons,'' the letter said. residues</head>
a national consumer group has lent support to an agriculture department plan for requiring the identification of hogs so that illegally high traces of drugs in their meat can be traced back to the farm
ellen haas, executive director of public voice for food and health policy, said in comments filed with usda this week that the proposal is in the best interests of consumers
improved methods to control and monitor dangerous chemical residues in the swine supply are sorely needed, and this measure will help meet this demand,'' she said
the proposal was announced a month ago as part of a program to strengthen usda's inspection and monitoring of pork for illegally high traces of drugs, particularly sulfamethazine used to treat or prevent swine disease. the drug also has been used as a feed additive for many years in subtherapeutic doses to boost weight gains
a stricter monitoring program already has been put into effect, and the identification proposal is said by usda officials to be on a fast track for approval
the proposed rule would require all swine in interstate commerce to be individually identified by a tag or other approved means, and producers would have to maintain appropriate identification records on each animal for two years
ms. haas cited usda records for 1987 showing that levels of sulfonamides as a group _ which include sulfamethazine _ exceeded food and drug administration maximum levels in 4 percent of the total samples
but in certain states, the problem was dramatically worse: in north carolina, the violation rate was 10.2 percent; in alabama, 8 percent; and in georgia, 7.8 percent,'' she said
according to usda figures cited by ms. haas, violative percentage rates for sulfonamide residues in pork tested in 1987, included these states of origin:
illinois, 4.8; indiana, 6.7; iowa, 2.2; michigan, 3.9; minnesota, 2.1; nebraska, 6.7; ohio, 7.5; and wisconsin, 3.3
virginia, none; and all others (not specified), 2
alabama, 8; florida, none; georgia, 7.8; kentucky, 6.3; mississippi, 2.9; north carolina, 10.2; south carolina, none; and tennessee, 6.9
south dakota, 2.4; and all others (not specified), none
kansas, none; missouri, 4.4; oklahoma, none; texas, none; and all others (not specified), none
hume horan, the u.s. ambassador to saudi arabia, is being reassigned after only six months on the job because of personality differences with king fahd, a state department official said friday
horan is expected to be succeeded by the man he replaced last september, career diplomat walter cutler, the official said
horan, who is fluent in arabic, has been in washington on consultations and will return to saudi arabia shortly for a brief stay to tend to personal matters, according to the official, insisting on anonymity
state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley confirmed that horan is being reassigned but provided no further details except to say that he is being considered for a new post
secretary of state george p. shultz will stop in saudi arabia next week as part of his effort to win acceptance for his middle east peace proposal
both saudi and american officials denied a washington post report that the saudi government had asked that horan be replaced. a u.s. official also denied that horan's reassignment was related to a u.s.-saudi dispute over that country's acquisition of missiles from china
horan had a ``personality conflict'' with king fahd, the official said. ``the decision to recall him was made here, not in saudi arabia. they did not specifically ask us to withdraw him,'' he said
this is the second abrupt departure by an american ambassador to saudi arabia during the reagan administration
former ambassador robert g. neumann was forced out in 1981 by secretary of state alexander m. haig after only two months on the job
cutler, since leaving riyadh last year, has served as diplomat-in-residence at georgetown university here
saudi arabia's purchase of chinese missiles, which have a range of more than 1,000 miles, has been a contentious issue in u.s.-saudi relations
israel is within easy reach of the missiles, which are capable of carrying nuclear warheads. the saudis have said the missiles won't be fitted with such warheads
a group of 32 senators has written a letter to shultz asking that the united states reconsider further arms sales to saudi arabia until the missiles are withdrawn. the administration has been expected notify congress shortly that it intends to sell $450 million worth of support equipment for surveillance aircraft the saudis acquired recently. killed</head>
israel reopened the occupied territories friday at the start of a holy weekend for christians and jews, and soldiers killed two arabs and wounded 13 others hurling firebombs after moslem prayers in the west bank, the army said
a palestinian emerged from a mosque and stabbed a jerusalem policeman in the stomach as he stood guard near the route where good friday pilgrims traced the steps of christ as he carried his cross
police and soldiers were out in force to guard christians as they remembered christ's death and jews celebrated the start of the week-long passover festival
hundreds of pilgrims carried wooden crosses along the via dolorosa _ the route jesus walked to his crucifixion _ in the walled old city, but the crowd was smaller than usual. the greek orthodox church canceled three processions planned before its observance of easter on april 10
an israeli police lieutenant was stabbed in the stomach about 20 yards from the good friday procession, apparently by a worshiper emerging from prayers at the sacred al aqsa mosque. the policeman was reported in fair condition, and a palestinian was arrested
the government lifted an order under which the occupied lands were sealed off for three days, and it ended a round-the-clock curfew in gaza
in addition to the two deaths reported friday, a third palestinian died overnight of a gunshot wound to the head inflicted wednesday. the arab death toll stands at 127 since violence began dec. 8 in the occupied west bank and gaza strip, according to u.n. figures, and an israeli soldier also has been killed
army and arab reports differed on what happened in the confrontation between soldiers and palestinians at idna, a village seven miles west of hebron in the west bank
officials at hebron's alia hospital and arab journalists said soldiers stormed the village mosque to subdue palestinians hurling rocks and bottles after prayers
they said jamal tamizi, 20, died after being hit in the head with a tear gas canister and five bullets struck ishak nimr salameh, 18, in the chest and head. the reports said 25 people were wounded
according to the army, soldiers opened fire when they were surrounded by dozens of arab rioters, some flinging bottles filled with flaming gasoline
last week, defense minister yitzhak rabin authorized troops to fire on arabs who throw firebombs
in jerusalem, officials at mukassad hospital said an arab youth from the old city's moslem quarter was wounded in the leg
hundreds of arabs have been wounded since riots began among the 1.5 million palestinians of the west bank and gaza, which israel has occupied since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
israel radio said 40 soldiers have been injured, including one who is paralyzed and another in a coma
about 35 women, many of them elderly, emerged from the nasr mosque in the west bank town of el bireh on friday shaking their fists and chanting: ``by our blood and spirit we will redeem palestine!'' soldiers fired tear gas to disperse them
in ramallah, stores and the central vegetable market opened for the first time since the territories were shut down monday night. during the three days, soldiers forced shopkeepers to close during the only hours plo leaflets said they could open
abed hamouri said israeli economic measures, intended to turn middle-class palestinians against the rebellion, had no impact on underground activists. he is co-owner of 24 commuter buses
the solution is not in the hands of the people who own shops,'' hamouri said. ``i'm not afraid of the military governor. i'm afraid of the underground leaders i don't know.''
his reference was to masked men who order shopowners when to open or close and threaten those who do not comply
shmuel goren, government adviser on the occupied territories, contended that israel's methods were working
we have to divide the population,'' he said on israel radio. ``we see a great number of people who certainly feel tired and want very much to stop these things.''
in the gaza strip, the army reimposed 24-hour curfews on the nusseirat and beach refugee camps and on the villages abassan, beit hanoun and bani suheila. a five-hour nightly curfew was restored in the rest of the 6-mile-long coastal strip
army spokesmen said 300 palestinians were arrested while gaza was closed. with number of missiles fired.</note>
ten thousand iranians shook their fists while chanting of death to iraq and the ``great satan'' america at friday prayers, glancing nervously skyward now and then for the vapor trails of incoming missiles
a western diplomat described the weekly ritual at tehran university, where unarmed students defied the imperial army when the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi was deposed in february 1979, as ``the beating heart of the islamic revolution.''
iraq said it would stop firing missiles into tehran and other iranian cities during a three-day visit to baghdad of the turkish prime minister, turgut ozal, beginning at midnight thursday
iran said it launched seven rockets friday into kirkuk, the oil center in northern iraq, and the southern port of basra, but did not report firing any at the iraqi capital. the last report of a missile explosion in baghdad was march 27
turkey maintains good relations with both iran and iraq, which have been at war since september 1980, and has tried to act as mediator
despite the apparent lull in the month-long ``war of the cities,'' in which hundreds of civilians have been killed on both sides, no one in tehran was taking anything for granted on this moslem sabbath
two long-range iraqi missiles landed in the capital during friday prayers in mid-march
we saw the vapor trails, but nobody at the prayers moved,'' said a translator from the islamic guidance ministry who accompanied visiting western correspondents to the university. ``everyone stayed seated when the missiles exploded some distance away.''
weekly prayers on the campus and elsewhere in iran, to western eyes a cross between a revival meeting and political rally, are the main platforms for mobilizing mass opinion and stoking fervor for the war
shiite moslem fundamentalists beat their chests with fists in unison, chant slogans and listen to leaders exhort them to victory, condemn the ``great satan'' america and preach ayatollah ruhollah khomeini's revolution
hashemi rafsanjani, the parliament speaker, is a regular prayer leader at the university but this week it was president ali khamenei
he urged iranians to vote in parliamentary elections april 8 ``even if there are missiles and bombs falling,'' echoing remarks the revolutionary partriarch had made the day before
khamenei praised the current thrust by revolutionary guards into northeastern iraq and said western media had not given enough coverage to alleged chemical warfare in the region
iran claims the iraqis dropped chemical bombs march 16-17 on three kurdish towns in iraq that had been captured by iranian troops, killing 5,000 civilians and wounding an equal number
at prayers, the pattern is the same each week: calls for sacrifice interrupted by such chants from the crowd of ``war, war, until victory!'' and ``death to america!''
death to russia!'' has joined the lexicon since missiles began demolishing homes, schools and hospitals feb. 29. iraq is believed to be using soviet-designed scud-b missiles fitted with boosters so they can reach tehran, which is nearly 300 miles from the border
among the estimated 10,000 people at the campus prayer meeting were about 60 iraqi prisoners of war iranian officials said had volunteered to fight on iran's side
they squatted in an enclosure in front of the covered podium, which bore photographs of khomeini and other religious leaders. all wore white t-shirts emblazoned with the image of imam bakr sadr, a shiite cleric executed by iraq as a subversive in 1980
the imam was a cousin of mohammad bakr al-hakim, leader of the supreme islamic revolutionary council of iraq, a group of dissident iraqi factions supported by iran
another enclosure held men wounded in the war _ without limbs, in wheelchairs _ not far from ranks of teen-aged volunteers for the front wearing red headbands with islamic slogans
security was tight and foreign correspondents were frisked twice before being allowed onto the campus from the surrounding streets, where thousands more people had gathered to hear the sermons through loudspeakers
a bomb exploded on the campus two weeks ago, but no casualty report was given
iranian women, shrouded in the black head-to-toe robes called chadors, were not allowed onto the campus because strict islamic law requires them to be segregated. they sat in an enclosure some distance away
outside the campus, cartoon-like posters explained what to do in case of an iraqi poison gas attack
beside the entrance was a transparent plastic ``war fund'' box into which worshipers stuffed banknotes. officials said one slipped in a check for 400,000 rials, about $5,600. graf pvs, ``an officer...''</note>
sikh gunmen stormed into huts and houses across punjab state on friday and killed 37 people, including seven children, in the bloodiest one-day murder spree this year, police and witnesses said
police in amritsar imposed a night curfew in parts of the region. in new delhi, prime minister rajiv gandhi met government officials and ordered stringent steps to check sikh violence, united news of india reported
gandhi also ordered new police alerts in five states that adjoin punjab
in amritsar, two hindu organizations called for a daylong strike in the district on saturday to protest the killings, uni said. most of the victims were hindus
the attacks began thursday night, hours after an umbrella organization heading the sikh separatist movement called for a halt to the killings of moderate sikhs
the worst attack occured at a hamlet near pangota, 25 miles north of amritsar. twelve gunmen raided the mud huts of a hindu laborer commune and murdered 18 people, said s.s. virk, deputy inspector general of the paramilitary central reserve police force
i heard the killers ordering us to get out of our huts, i hid myself ... and moments later i heard sound of gunfire and screams,'' said tara singh, 45
fifteen people were lined up and shot, and a 23-year-old pregnant woman, a 6-month-old baby girl and an 80-year-old woman were shot and killed in their hut when the killers saw they could not walk, virk said
he said all the victims were related
at shaeed village, six miles west of pangota, another group of militants shot and killed six people, virk said. the victims, all hindus, included a 2-year-old boy. the assailants broke into the homes and shot the victims in their beds
the killers murdered a sikh couple in nearby verowal town after leaving shaeed, the officer said
uni said suspected sikh radicals shot and killed two people in gurdaspur district friday
an officer at the state police control in chandigarh said elsewhere in punjab, nine other people were killed by suspected sikhs late thursday and early friday
an underground organization formed to achieve an independent sikh nation called on militant groups to cease random killings of moderate sikhs
at least 330 of the 618 people killed this year in sikh attacks have been moderates who do not support the militants' demand for an independent homeland in sikh-dominated punjab
sikhs are a religous minority in india, comprising only 2 percent of the total population, and claim they are discriminated against by hindus. militants hae been fighting for a sikh state since 1983
the council of khalistan issued the statement from amritsar's golden temple, the holiest sikh shrine and the center of militant activity. khalistan is the name the militants give to their envisioned homeland
the attacks brought the number of people killed in random attacks this week to more than 80. most of the killings have been near amritsar
the spurt in violence is blamed on differences within militant groups and an attempt to sabotage government moves to reach an accord with the militants
the government last month released 12 sikh leaders jailed for sedition and dissolved the punjab state assembly in what was seen as an attempt to enroll the militants in politics
but sources in the golden temple, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said some militants opposed the plan since it would not give the sikhs total autonomy
punjab gov. s.s. ray said in a recent interview, ``i have seen that whenever a good thing is proposed to be done about punjab ... anti-national terrorists indulge in an orgy of violence thereby trying to prevent anything from being done.'' 3 grafs to update with identity of new owner.</note>
after 24 years as the disc jockey, technician and owner of wvca-fm, simon geller has sold his one-man radio station for $1 million, saying that at age 68 he's ready for a new life
when in a few months he hangs up the earphones for the last time in his two-room apartment-studio, geller plans to walk away from this sleepy fishing community 25 miles north of boston. then he'll finally pop the question to his sweetheart of 32 years
i've had 46 years in this miserable business and it's time to get out,'' he said, when asked about his decision
his 3,000-watt classical music radio station has been on the air every day, except when he shut down to run errands
it's an institution built on the single-minded dedication of a man who won an 11-year battle against the federal communications commission and a powerful business group bent on takeover
it's also a focal point of 90,000 loyal listeners in a 35-mile radius extending into boston and new hampshire, who have contributed more than 90 percent of the money geller needed since wvca-fm went on the air in 1964 as the voice of cape ann
it took a bit of probing before geller, a diabetic with high-blood pressure, talked about his decision to sell
an insulin reaction in 1986 caused him to fall while walking from one room to another in his apartment. he remained conscious, but it took friends five hours to find and help him, while a long-playing tape was unwinding on air
i'm 68 years old, and i don't know how much longer i'll live, so i want to get things straightened out in case i should drop dead next week,'' he said. ``the life expectancy is only 70 in this country.''
also taking its toll is mental fatigue from his battle for license renewal
the challenge was mounted in 1964 by grandbanke corp., a group of new england station owners that wanted to take over his frequency for a folk rock station
while only a few local businesses advertise on wvca-fm, its listening area is considered lucrative. grandbanke argued that the station's format violated fcc requirements that community interest, news and public affairs be a part of programming
an fcc decision against geller was reconsidered in 1984 on orders of a federal appeals court, which pointed out that the station had the support of gloucester community leaders and listeners. his license was renewed a year later
my license was safe until 1991, but i was afraid someone would challenge me in 1991 and i would be in the same mess i was with grandbanke,'' geller said
geller's two cluttered rooms above a coin laundry are crowded with a mixture of antiquated and new equipment, with a maze of extension cords competing for space with unopened mail and cardboard boxes. order is imposed by neat rows of records and tapes on shelves lining the walls
while he said new owner doug tanger, a boston businessman, will likely expand operations, geller declined to discuss details of the sale beyond disclosing that an application was filed with the fcc this week
he said it will probably take three months for the fcc to approve tanger's application, allowing him to take over and allowing geller to walk out the door
tanger owns stations wclz-am and -fm in portland, maine, and with his family has wqrs-fm in detroit
geller said a promise that the station will remain classical permits him to look forward to the future with carol hill
he has publicly talked about proposing to his former bookkeeper for years. but he remains coy about a date
i haven't discussed this with her and until i'm clear here i cannot discuss it,'' he said. ``let's wait until fcc approval.''
georgia, alabama and south carolina are facing their fourth serious drought in eight years, experts said friday
if we don't get a dramatic increase in rainfall, we'll be looking at water restrictions this summer,'' said david word, chief of water resource management for the georgia department of natural resources
lake lanier in north georgia and lakes hartwell and thurmond on the georgia-south carolina border are at lower levels than they were at this point in the drought years of 1981, 1986 and 1987, officials told reporters friday in atlanta
likely effects of the drought include timber loss, reduced water quality, stress on fish and ``water restrictions, if this continues through the summer,'' said pat davis, chief of the technical engineering branch for the u.s. army corps of engineers' mobile district
we're in the third (consecutive) year of greatly reduced rainfall,'' davis said. ``it's been persistently below normal through the decade.''
for the 1980s, much of the area is 12 percent below normal rainfall _ the equivalent of an entire year without rain, he said. some parts of georgia are 70 inches below normal for the decade
the area remains under a ``water shortage alert'' issued by the corps last fall, and that could become a ``drought alert'' later this month, officials said
lake lanier, which supplies water to metro atlanta and is the most visited lake in the corps of engineers system, stood friday at nine feet below its normal level
we have only about a 10 percent chance to fill the lake by june 1,'' said ed burkett, chief of water management for the corps' mobile district. corps officials in november reduced the amount of water flowing from lanier downstream into the chattahoochee river, in an attempt to conserve water in the lake
despite a forecast for above-average rain for april to june, burkett said, the customary summer and fall drops in lake levels would likely leave area lakes below normal levels
the united states announced friday that beginning july 1 it will eliminate duty-free imports on products worth $1.1 billion in 1987, shipped here from 140 third world countries
a u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the decision would add $50 million to $100 million a year to the tariffs collected by the united states. it will also provide additional business to some u.s. producers by discouraging imports
total u.s. imports under this system of ``generalized special preferences,'' the biggest of its kind in the world, reached a record $16.3 billion last year. it is designed to help poor countries improve their production in about 3,000 different products
as developing countries become increasingly competitive, we are removing tariff preferences... for those products where duty-free treatment is no longer warranted,'' said u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter
another $114 million worth of goods, previously cut from the list, was reinstated
and $40 million worth of new products was added, from $17 million worth of fireworks to $3,911 worth of pickled beans. hong kong will be the biggest beneficiary, but only until mid-1988, when it is due to lose its duty-free privilege entirely
none of the exporting countries was removed from the list in this annual review
yeutter said five countries whose labor and human rights situations had been challenged by labor unions and others will remain eligible because of ``improvements in their practices.'' they are taiwan, south korea, indonesia, thailand and turkey
the central african republic is still being reviewed
the trade bill approved thursday by conferees of the senate and house would increase pressure on third world countries on labor issues. it grants the president power to retaliate against exports of countries where the government refuses to give workers internationally recognized rights, such as the right to form unions
supporters of the bill argue that denying such rights gives those countries an unfair trade advantage because it enables them to keep wages down
the reagan administration opposed the provision but rep. donald j. pease d-ohio, its chief sponsor, said in an interview today it has not threatened a presidential veto on that ground
pease said such provisions are intended not to deprive poor countries of trade but to give them an incentive to change their labor laws
it's already happening in country after country,'' he added
yeutter's office gave thailand until dec. 15 to comply with u.s. conditions for protecting patents and copyrights. he has been asked by business groups here to deny duty-free privileges to thailand on this ground
a dog that had been adopted by a convalescent hospital the day it was to have been destroyed was honored for helping a seizure victim by barking to alert others
tori, a 5-year-old sheltie, on thursday was awarded a silver medal in a ceremony attended by actor earl holliman, a member of actors and others for animals, at the astoria convalescent home in sylmar
nancy sue merritt, 50, had been unhappy about the adoption and threatened to move when the dog arrived in january. her opinion changed feb. 7
ms. merritt suffered a seizure, fell and hit her head when no other people were around
but tori barked so loud ``you would have thought there was a pack of dogs,'' said lita joy parker, the director of activities
when she came to, ``i tried to wiggle around,'' ms. merritt said, ``but tori placed a paw on me and wouldn't let me up until help arrived.''
investigators are trying to determine if there was a connection between the crashes of two training helicopters within three days, a spokeswoman said friday
neither the instructor pilot, marine capt. steven andrews, nor his student, navy ensign scott jackson, were hurt when their th-57 helicopter crashed thursday, said airman audry anderson
two days earlier, marine capt. thomas lindblad, an instructor, was slightly injured and his student, marine 2nd lt. bradley eid, was unhurt when another th-57 went down
the helicopters crashed at two outlying practice fields, but photos show each wound up on its left side and with its two-bladed main rotor ripped from the aircraft
the helicopters were assigned to two squadrons in whiting's training air wing 5
a leading cultural figure accused communist party officials of ``upside-down glasnost'' for trying to cover up the truth about a fire that destroyed or damaged millions of literary treasures at a leningrad library
state cultural fund chairman dmitri likhachev said party officials ignored the plight of soviet literature and failed to preserve rare books that their elders managed to protect even from the siege of leningrad during world war ii
the feb. 14-15 blaze struck the library of the u.s.s.r. academy of sciences in leningrad and destroyed or damaged more than 3 million books and periodicals, likhachev said in an interview with the weekly moscow news and in an article he wrote in the weekly publication book review
he said the fire, which raged for 19 hours, was a national disaster made worse by official attempts to conceal it and ``became, truly, a chernobyl of our culture.''
the historian, writer and cultural activist said 400,000 books were destroyed by fire and 2.7 million books and periodicals damaged by water and moisture. a quarter of the library's unique newspaper fund was destroyed, and many of the lost issues were the last in existence, he said
the library, located in a 1920s building on leningrad's vasiliyevsky island, contained about 12 million books, manuscripts and periodicals. its collection was started in 1714, about a decade after peter the great founded the city
it pains me to recall how books were saved during the blockade of leningrad,'' said likhachev, 81, referring to the world war ii occupation when citizens spirited away rare books and other art treasures to protect them from the nazis. ``now, in these peaceful and happy times, books are dying. incredible.''
likhachev said the fire could have been prevented if party and government officials had heeded warnings about the dilapidated condition of the nation's most prestigious book collections
warnings of impending disaster had been published in the state-run press, and party officials responded with promises that crumbling libraries and museums will be taken care of
there grew up splendid buildings of district party committees and regional executive committees ... in which those who had signed those official replies discussed the problems of leisure, deliberated on the declining thirst for books and the crisis of moral integrity,'' likhachev said
this upside-down glasnost is worse than keeping silent, for it creates the illusion that things are being done and enables people to make believe that the train is picking up speed when in fact it is standing stock-still,'' he said, referring to soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's policy of openness
the losses could have been minimized, he claimed, if the fire had been properly extinguished instead of by the ``antediluvian method'' of having 25 fire engines flood the building for 19 hours
he accused library management of trying to hide the extent of the damage and the mishandling of the fire and said administrator v.a. filov and his assistant, v.p. leonov, should be fired
filov originally estimated damage at about $4,800, and promised the library would reopen within a few days
the march 8 edition of the party newspaper pravda said damage was at least $480,000, but added that the figure was based on 1956 values and that some of the lost material was priceless
filov and leonov ``both acted, in the first days, according to the `model' programmed by the mistakes of the chernobyl catastrophe _ they tried to belittle the cultural loss in the grossest manner,'' likhachev claimed
he was referring to soviet authorities' initial attempts to hush up the world's worst nuclear disaster, an april 1986 explosion at the chernobyl nuclear plant in which at least 31 people died and millions were exposed to increased levels of radioactivity
a bulldozer was called, and huge piles of burned, dampened and undamaged books were destroyed,'' likhachev wrote. ``library workers were prohibited from saving books from this heap of ruins. all this was in order to hide more quickly from the eyes of society the size of the catastrophe.''
mold started growing on the water-damaged books within a week, and only through the efforts of literature students and other volunteers has serious work begun to salvage the water-logged books, he said
special driers have been brought in, absorbent paper has been painstakingly applied between the pages of soaked books and great stores of other damaged materials that rescuers could not get to immediately have been frozen to preserve them during the interim
he criticized officials for failing to seek foreign help in salvaging damaged books
the united states won a gold and silver medal at the 19th world irish dancing championships, which drew more than 4,000 participants from nine countries
john jennings, from the golden school of irish dancing in new york, won the world title in the competition for 17- to 19-year-old boys on thursday night
second place went to another new yorker, neill reagan, of the inish free dance school in miller place, according to official results released by the irish dancing commission
there were 19 teen-agers in the competition from australia, scotland, ireland, england, wales, canada and the united states
canadian ryan carroll of the butler school in oakville, ontario, won second place in the competition for 15- to 17-year-old boys
the championships, which started march 26 and end easter sunday, are being held in galway for the third time
several other americans missed out on the top rankings but were named overseas winners for achieving the best scores among foreign participants
jean butler of the golden school in new york was the overseas winner in the competition for 16- and 17-year-old girls, getting a special distinction for placing sixth among 82 entries
julie showaher of the dennehy school in oaklawn, ill., was overseas winner in the competition for 15- to 16-year-old girls, and collette cremins from the same school was overseas winner in the 11- to 12-year-old girls' competition
paul mayer of the mayer school in elmhurst, ill., was overseas winner in the 13- to 15-year-old boys' competition, and erin pender of the schade school in new york was overseas winner in the 14- to 15-year-old girls' competition
the overseas winner in the mixed dancing competition for 13- to 16-year-olds was the mcging school in chicago
after arrests for art smuggling and ticket scalping, the rev. lorenzo zorza claimed he was only trying to help his friends. these days the ex-vatican diplomat has new friends, federal officials say _ and they operate an international drug ring
zorza, 46, was identified thursday as one of 39 people in the new york area involved in swapping cocaine for heroin with the sicilian mafia in what u.s. authorities described as the biggest international drug bust ever. for the italian-born fugitive priest, it was just another twist in what was apparently a strange double life
known to his friends as father lorenzo, zorza handled an assortment of church duties since arriving here in 1969: at the consolata fathers home for runaway girls, as fourth ranking vatican diplomat to the united nations, as assistant pastor at a manhattan church
authorities provided a different resume: art smuggler, ticket scalper (although charges were eventually dropped), heroin smuggler
among other criminal activities, zorza carries money derived from illegal sources back and forth between the u.s. and italy,'' the heroin complaint against the priest charged. the priest also is heard in several wiretapped conversations allegedly talking about the ring
zorza remained at large friday after failing to get off a flight from italy at kennedy international airport on thursday, as authorities expected
his first encounter with federal authorities came in 1982, when zorza was arrested for using his clerical garb and diplomatic status to smuggle two 16th- century oil paintings worth more than $100,000 from italy into the united states for an $8,000 fee
zorza, who was at the united nations at the time, was placed on probation for three years after pleading guilty to charges in the case
i did it sincerely to help somebody,'' zorza told the judge, asserting he did not know the paintings were stolen. ``i'm terribly sorry.''
and after charges of scalping $40,000 worth of tickets to broadway's ``les miserables'' were dropped in august 1987, zorza said he was ``just trying to help out two friends.''
zorza was ordained in 1966, moved to the united states three years later and became an american citizen in 1976
authorities said zorza remained a member of the consolata fathers of somerset, n.j., but a priest there said the order ended its association with him more than a decade ago by mutual agreement
we just know what we heard last night,'' said the priest, who declined to give his name. ``we don't know what he's doing, or where he's doing it.''
the archdiocese of new york also doesn't know where zorza is, a spokesman said friday. zorza was assistant pastor at st. agnes church in 1983, but officials at the church hung up the phone when called for comment
zorza is charged with conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute heroin, cocaine and marijuana. the conspiracy charge carries a maximum penalty of life imprisonment
italy's defense minister assured secretary of state george p. shultz on friday that the government is considering seriously the possible transfer to italy of f-16 jets being evicted from spain
but defense minister valerio zanone did not commit italy to accepting the fighters. he said the entire nato alliance should be involved in the decision
shultz took up the issue of the f-16s with zanone during a stop in rome before heading for the middle east on sunday to continue efforts to spur arab-israeli peace talks
italy is considered the prime candidate to take the 72 fighter-bombers of the u.s. 401st tactical fighter wing, based in torrejon, spain. in january, washington bowed to a spanish demand to remove the planes within three years
in a communique issued after the talks, the defense ministry said zanone ``stressed the satisfactory progress of the study under way to identify all elements necessary to a carefully pondered decision, which will have to be made in concert with parliament.''
asked at a news conference whether an accord in principle had been reached on the f-16s, zanone replied, ``i wouldn't say an accord in principle. there is serious attention by the italian government to the problem.''
his statements did not go far beyond those made in february following talks in rome with defense secretary frank carlucci
zanone reiterated italy's position that the f-16s must remain in europe to protect nato's southern flank, but that a decision on where they should be relocated and how to finance the move must be decided by the entire western alliance
there is a predisposition by italy to study the possibility'' of accepting the f-16s, the minister told reporters
shultz did not meet with reporters after the meeting with zanone
state department spokesman charles redman said the meeting with zanone was ``not in any sense an effort to make commitments'' on the f-16s
zanone said he and shultz discussed the ``various possible'' sites in italy where the f-16s could be based, but he declined to identify them. italian media have identified possible sites as the bases of gioia del colle in southern puglia, decimomannu in sardinia, the present cruise missile base in comiso, sicily, and the u.s. base in aviana in northeastern italy
zanone, the lone cabinet minister from the tiny liberal party, noted that the issue will have to be faced by italy's new government. premier giovanni goria resigned three weeks ago, and fellow christian democrat ciriaco de mita is trying to form a new five-party coalition
some italian politicians, including former premier bettino craxi, a socialist, have voiced concerns about the possible relocation. the communists and other opposition groups are firmly opposed
shultz met earlier friday with president francesco cossiga and foreign minister giulio andreotti
speaking with reporters earlier on the plane taking him to rome, shultz was cautiously upbeat about his new middle east peace mission. his trip last month failed to bring an agreement
i think we have a chance to see some motion,'' he said of his shuttling to israel, jordan, syria, egypt and saudi arabia
shultz said he felt especially positive about the role of jordan's king hussein, describing him as a ``key player'' in the peace process
i hope we can make some headway,'' he said
so far only eygpt has endorsed the plan to have talks on palestinian self-rule begin on may 1
on saturday, shultz is to have a private audience with pope john paul ii. he also plans to attend the pope's easter mass on sunday before leaving for jerusalem
when it came to the crunch, eric erickson says he's proud to be a ``chocolate city man.''
erickson, 31, wrote a song to defend his birthplace in the ``chocolate wars'' between burlington, the home of nestle food corp., and hershey foods corp. of hershey, pa
the battle began when burlington adopted the name ``chocolate city usa'' during the debut of a chocolate festival in may 1987
nestle, the city's largest employer, embraced the idea. but hershey foods protested when burlington officials filed for trademark protection of the adopted name and a logo bearing a chocolate morsel. hershey foods claimed they bore too close a resemblance to its trademarks, including the name ``chocolate town usa'' and the hershey kiss
a word of warning, hershey _ and it's more than just a hunch. try and scare us with your `kiss of death' and you'll get the nestle's crunch,'' erickson sings
he also advises hershey: ``forget about the lawsuit _ you'll never make it stick. you'd be better off to get a glass of milk and have some nestle's quick.''
the song really makes you feel proud of this city,'' said jack berry, chocolate festival coordinator
hershey foods was closed friday and officials could not be reached for comment
a group of university of massachusetts professors has embraced ``squash power'' to help the land-grant university celebrate its 125th anniversary
the professors have stuffed a young hubbard squash into a foot-square plexiglass chamber so the fruit can expand only in a downward direction. now, the giant squash is growing ever larger in a campus greenhouse, compressing a set of springs connected to a set of load cells connected to a balance beam
and on charter day, april 29, the contraption will be wheeled out to the campus pond to demonstrate the power of the fruit by hoisting a tractor
the hubbard hijinks have historical precedent, said john w. denison, professor emeritus in the college of food and natural resources. the experiment was first performed at the institution in 1874 by its third president, col. william s. clark, a ``somewhat flamboyant botanist,'' according to denison
before it expired, clark's squash hoisted about 5,000 pounds worth of anvils, anchors, drainpipes, barrels of sand and ``whatever else he found lying around,'' denison said
we figure to do a bit better, maybe 30,000 pounds'' denison said wednesday. ``they've been really babying that vine over in the greenhouse. they even come in on weekends to feed it.''
elementary school principal gail thompson may think twice before betting with her pupils again
thompson challenged her doniphan elementary school pupils to read 10,000 books from october through march as part of the ``book it!'' national reading program. if she lost, she promised to spend four hours in a tub of oatmeal
the 200 youngsters met the goal, so the principal headed for the porridge thursday, clad in a 1920s style bathing outfit, checked hat and goggles
ohhh, this is awful,'' she said as she stuck her foot in the cereal
one of the youngsters was worried about the principal's ordeal
it's ok, honey,'' thompson told a pre-schooler. ``you don't have to feel sorry for me. it's just fun. i asked for it.''
the pupils also were given a special breakfast treat in honor of thompson's adventure. you guessed it, oatmeal
the reagan administation threatened a presidential veto of the newly minted congressional trade compromise friday unless major changes are made when lawmakers come back from their spring break
the administration says the president's hands would be tied unreasonably by provisions in the legislation calling for import curbs to retaliate for trade agreement violations
the compromise worked out by house and senate negotiators thursday night would transfer authority to retaliate from the president to the u.s. trade representative. but it would leave waiver authority if the president thought the costs of import curbs would outweigh the benefits
the measure also would impose restricitions on imports to punish toshiba corp. of japan and its toshiba machine co. subsidiary for the latter's role in the sale to the soviets of computerized equipment that helps make soviet submarines more difficult to detect
we still have grave reservations about several of the provisions, including plant closings, toshiba, presidential authority and some of the mandatory retaliatory provisions,'' spokesman marlin fitzwater told reporters traveling with reagan to california for a 10-day vacation
the plant closing provision would require employers to provide their employees with 60-day notice of plant closings and large-scale layoffs
lawmakers who drew up the compromise wrapped up most of their work before heading for the airports to start their spring break. but they left enough loose ends to cloud the picture
farm lawmakers were still wrangling over details, and a house-passed plan to require registration of foreign property ownership in the united states still had lawmakers deadlocked. they planned to tackle the issue again later
renewed white house veto threats should put the spotlight on senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, who is empowered under the rules to start action that could lead to a so-called superconference meeting of lawmakers to perform radical surgery
fitzwater said such a meeting already was in the works
the superconference will meet after recess, and if substantial changes aren't made by the superconference, the president's senior advisers will recommend a veto,'' fitzwater said
earlier, u.s trade representative clayton yeutter said congress ``jettisoned a lot of undesirable things'' in negotiations this week
the question is whether they jettisoned enough,'' he said. ``and we need a couple of days to assess that.'' he said there ``certainly are some provisions in there of dubious merit.''
some lawmakers already were indicating they saw room for revision
the bill is good strong market opening legislation,'' said sen. john c. danforth, r-mo., one of the conferees
i am convinced that the trade provisions which are the heart of the bill could be signed into law if they were standing alone,'' he said. ``but they are not standing alone. congress will have an opportunity in mid-april to consider any changes needed to meet remaining objections from the administration.''
the inventors of a flying machine to be used in an attempt to break the world distance record for human-powered flight said friday that strong winds may delay the endeavor for another three days
i think it's virtually impossible at this point to fly tomorrow ... but monday, tuesday it should be feasible,'' said steve k. bussulari, a massachusetts institute of technology aerospace expert heading the daedalus project
gale winds up to 45 mph are preventing the 70-pound plane from attempting the 74-mile flight from crete to the island of santorini, also known as thira
essentially, the airplane is ready to go anytime, and the pilot's ready to go. we're in a pattern waiting on the weather,'' john s. langford, the project director, told reporters
the flight will also update the 3,500-year-old legend of the inventor daedalus, who escaped from crete with his son, icarus, on wings he made from feathers and wax. icarus crashed into the sea and drowned after soaring so close to the sun that his wings melted, but daedalus flew safely across the aegean
the daedalus 88 aircraft will be pedaled in a five-hour flight that requires dead calm or a light southerly tailwind
five pilots _ four americans and a greek _ are taking turns on standby for 48 hours at a stretch and cycling up to 90 miles daily to stay in shape. there are four backup pilots in case something goes wrong
i feel a little disappointed i won't be going but i've been watching the weather and saw this delay coming,'' said greg zack, 26, a professional cyclist who was ready to fly friday or saturday
the three-year mit project already has produced one world record distance for human-powered flight of 37.2 miles. it was set by glenn tremml, piloting a daedalus prototype plane in circles around edwards air force base in california in january 1987
but the straight-line world record still stands at 22 miles set by bryan allen in 1979 flying across the english channel
with the right wind, daedalus 88 could probably go 100 miles, but we'll be satisfied with a touchdown on santorini,'' langford said
langford said the 36-member team will wait until mid-may if necessary to make the record flight
we've got funds for another six weeks and two backup planes that we'd also be willing to lose in the attempt,'' he said
the graphite epoxy and plastic aircraft with a wingspan of 112 feet could break up if the pilot crashes into the sea
greek navy vessels and a flotilla of inflatable crafts will escort the daedalus plane, which would fly just 15 feet above the waves
the government on friday apologized and offered compensation for hundreds of people killed and wounded when its troops scoured the city of kwangju to put down a 1980 civil revolt
it was the first official government apology for its handling of the citizens' uprising, the worst in modern south korean history
president roh tae-woo, who took office feb. 25 with promises of reform, pledged during his campaign to change the government's official account of the violence and offer financial compensation for victims
the government offers its sincere apology, not only to the victims of the turmoil, but also to all residents of kwangju and the general public,'' culture and information minister chung han-mo said in a statement friday
chung, the official government spokesman, also said the resistance was ``part of the democratization efforts of the students and citizens in kwangju'' in a concession demanded by city residents
his description sharply departed from the stand taken by the government of former president chun doo-hwan, which used the terms ``rebellion'' and ``rioters'' to describe what happened in kwangju
the city, 200 miles south of seoul, is the capital of opposition leader kim dae-jung's home province, south cholla
he was arrested in a government crackdown on opposition leaders may 17, 1980, when the former military-controlled government expanded martial law and moved to suppress political dissent
most pro-democracy demonstrations elsewhere in the country were quashed, but the struggle in kwangju led the government to move martial law troops into the city
kwangju citizens, armed with rifles and machine guns taken from government arsenals, drove out troops. however, reinforcements retook the city nine days later
by official count, 191 people were killed and more than 800 hurt. dissident sources put the casualty figure much higher
the government spokesman said friday that roh believed a satisfactory resolution of the kwangju issue was essential to promoting national reconciliation. others have said roh is trying to distance himself from the authoritarian chun government to prepare for national assembly elections at the end of the month
roh, a former general and schoolmate of chun, helped the former president gain power in 1980
the government spokesman said the administration would offer financial support and employment to bereaved families and wounded victims. the government also vowed to beautify a cemetery where many of the kwangju victims are buried
civic leaders in kwangju welcomed the government's offer of financial aid
but they have insisted that the government investigate the cause of the deaths and punish those responsible. the main opposition political group, the reunification democratic party, called the government measures a sham
government officials, however, have said an inquiry would only aggravate old wounds
members of pi kappa alpha fraternity are nearing their goal of winning a pool table from country music star larry gatlin by not drinking alcoholic beverages or using mind-altering drugs this week
we haven't messed up yet, and i don't think we're going to have any problem,'' said former pi kappa alpha president steve swanson of their saturday midnight deadline
gatlin, of nashville, set forth the conditions in a letter to swanson after learning the fraternity at tennessee tech was interested in the pool table he was trying to sell
gatlin received treatment in 1984 for drug and alcohol problems. since then, he has encouraged young people to avoid lifestyles that can lead to addiction
first lady nancy reagan was mum after her look at the $2.5 million bel air quarters she and the president will move to after their lease is up at the white house
no one was talking either about how much the first couple is paying in rent, but the house was purchased for them by wall management services, a group of about 20 friends of the reagans. the group, whose members were not identified, gave the reagans a three-year lease with an option to buy, mrs. reagan's press secretary, elaine crispen, said earlier this week
mrs. reagan toured the ranch-style house thursday
it has three bedrooms, six baths, guest room, living room, family room, sun room, butler's pantry and three servants' rooms. it is tucked away on a 1\-acre estate in exclusive bel air, 12 miles northwest of downtown los angeles
the reagans' new neighbors will include elizabeth taylor, joan rivers, zsa zsa gabor, mac davis and burt bacharach
singer johnny cash has entered the hospital for a checkup at the eisenhower medical center
the singer-songwriter known for such hits as ``i walk the line,'' ``ring of fire'' and ``folsom prison blues,'' said thursday that his busy schedule the past two years has prevented him from doing ``all the things a 56-year-old man should do to keep track of how all the parts are working.''
cash flew to the hospital 100 miles east of los angeles after an engagement in las vegas, nev
cash was suffering from bronchitis and laryngitis which have lingered since a recent bout with the flu, the statement said
olympic gold medalist brian boitano has hired a public relations firm to help him endorse products ``i use or believe in.''
the list of things the skater from sunnyvale likes includes soft drinks, rice cakes and mineral water, said leigh steinberg, his sports agent
that list also includes women, but the 24-year-old world champion in men's figure skating said at a news conference thursday he so far has no endorsements along that line. his training for the olympics left him little time for a social life, but boitano said he has plans to change that
it's been so long since i've been able to go out on a date or find a lady who can share with me the success i've had,'' said boitano, of sunnyvale, calif., who returned to the bay area monday night after winning the world championship in budapest
it shouldn't take the skater long
women send pictures of themselves along with marriage proposals,'' he said. ``some of them expect me to pick them up at the airport. it's hilarious.''
blues-rock band zz top will show up for a fund-raising catfish fry to honor the group's ``spiritual godfather,'' muddy waters. the trio behind such tongue-in-cheek hits as ``tush,'' ``legs'' and ``sharp dressed man,'' is helping launch a $1 million campaign april 21 for clarksdale's delta blues museum
the money collected in the museum's muddy waters memorial fund will improve and expand the museum and help establish a permanent waters exhibit, said sid graves, director of the carnegie public library where the museum is housed
zz top members billy gibbons, dusty hill and frank beard will present a special guitar to the museum, graves said
the group's publicist, isabel dassinger, said in new york that the groups members feel mississippi bluesman waters was their ``spiritual godfather.''
a man accused of attacking one of two british soldiers who later were killed told police he was sorry the incident occurred, according to testimony friday
anthony gallagher, 17, appeared before belfast magistrates court charged with causing grievous bodily harm to cpl. david howes on march 19. he was ordered to remain in jail until his next court appearance april 22
howes and cpl. derek wood were beaten by a mob of mourners after their car encountered an irish republican army funeral procession in a predominantly roman catholic district of west belfast. they later were shot to death
a detective with the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, told the court that when police formally charged gallagher, he replied: ``i'm sorry it ever happened.''
gallagher is the fifth person charged in the incident
two men have been charged with murder, a third was charged with withholding information from police, and a fourth with trading a pair of bloodstained slacks with a man believed to have been involved in the murders
the outlawed, predominantly catholic ira has been fighting to oust the british from northern ireland and to reunite the province with the republic of ireland
the internal revenue service is promising quick relief for students who are due refunds because they were wrongly taxed on teaching or research stipends earned during graduate school
in general, any pre-1987 stipend that meets three tests spelled out by the agency in a 1975 ruling will be considered non-taxable, the irs said friday. students who apply for refunds of any additional tax will get prompt attention, the agency said
the irs announcement was aimed at clearing up confusion resulting from the fact that courts have issued conflicting decisions on the question. some court rulings have been considerably more stringent than the 1975 irs policy, and some irs district offices have chosen to use the court decisions as a guide
as a result, thousands of students have been billed for back taxes on their stipends. the irs says there is no concerted drive to audit the returns of graduate students, and says much of the blame for the students' problem is because many colleges reported their stipends as taxable income
a student who has paid additional taxes because a district irs office wrongly considered a stipend taxable should file an amended return (form 1040x) and ask for a refund, the irs said. those who have received a bill but have not yet paid the tax should file for an abatement
taxpayers should clearly indicate on the form that the claim is being filed for reconsideration of the teaching or research stipend issue under revenue ruling 75-280,'' the irs said
that ruling states that a stipend is non-taxable if:
_the student was a degree candidate at the time the stipend was earned
_the student performed research, teaching or other services that were required for a degree
_similar services were required of all candidates for the degree
if those tests are met, the irs said, the stipend will be considered non-taxable under the presumption that its primary purpose was to further the student's education or training
the rule applies only to stipends paid before 1987. a new law that took effect in 1987 specifically taxes such income
a woman says her sick infant and 6-year-old daughter were held as collateral in the philippines until her hotel bill was paid, and has turned her anger on the boston bank she says caused the trouble
maria luz deiulis, who failed in her bid to sue the hotel, has sued the bank of boston for $2 million, saying her anguish was caused by someone at the bank who bungled her credit card account
a suffolk superior court judge this week refused a request by the bank to dismiss the suit she filed last year. the bank says the suit is groundless and that deiulis brought all the trouble on herself by using a card she had asked be restricted so her boyfriend could not use it
deiulis, 39, of lynn, a filipino native, said her ordeal began when she returned to manila in november 1986 with two of her three children to see her ailing father
deiulis, her 6-month-old son and daughter checked into the royal palm hotel in manila for a week. she presented her bank of boston credit card and thought little of her $260 tab until shortly before she was to leave
they called my room at 11 o'clock at night and said the bank had voided my credit card,'' said deiulis
deiulis said she asked the hotel to check again but that the hotel responded by confiscating her credit card and calling police, who seized the family's passports
because it was the start of a three-day holiday in the philippines, deiulis said she was unable to go to a bank. as a result, the police ordered a security guard to watch them during the holiday
after the weekend, deiulis was escorted to a bank by police. she says police and hotel management said the children could not leave the hotel until the bill was paid and that it took most of the day to arrange to get the money
my baby son was sick, he had a fever and diarrhea,'' deiulis said. ``i was nervous all the time. i was horrified. i thought they might take the kids away from me forever, i thought they might take them away.''
deiulis said hotel officials released the children after she paid her bill and after she complained to the american embassy and ministry of tourism in manila
this is the craziest story,'' bank of boston spokesman wayne taylor said friday. ``it's absolutely crazy. it's the most groundless, frivolous suit. it's the most ridiculous thing in the world.''
taylor said deiulis contacted the bank before she left for the philippines and asked that her boyfriend's name be taken off the account. taylor said the bank gave her a choice of either notifying them in writing, or canceling the account and getting a new card. taylor said deiulis was unsure what to do and agreed to have the card ``restricted,'' meaning no one could use it
but deiulis said she had paid her credit card bill in full at the time and understood that she could continue to use it
deiulis said her attempt to sue the hotel was dismissed in the philippines
arman mamangon, an operator at the royal palm hotel for eight years, said in a telephone interview friday that he was unaware of the deiulis case. but he said that when customers fail to pay their bills, the hotel ``sometimes takes collateral like a passport, or maybe jewelry.''
mamangon laughed when asked if children were held as collateral. ``no, i never heard of that,'' he said
the wednesday night ladies house league says their bowling alley manager cares more about how many beers they knock down than pins
the league has been ousted from its 6 p.m. time slot in favor of a men's league _ who put more of a dent in a keg than the ladies
the women are out, the men are in because they can drink more than us, ... that's the bottom line,'' league official mary-lou allen said thursday. ``drinking should not be a prerequisite for bowling.''
jimmy walker, manager of fern hill golf and country club lanes in this detroit suburb, said he asked the 60 league members wednesday to switch to another time slot for their 30-week season beginning next fall strictly for business reasons
women's leagues water you do death,'' he said, bemoaning what he says is their preference for water over more costly beverages. ``that's why most places don't cater to women on the first (evening) shift. the bowling business is not strictly bowling.''
he said the men's league taking the women's place next fall will bring in $100 to $150 per night in addition to regular bowling costs. the women sometimes spent as little as $40 a night, he said
and some leagues are worth still more
what would you do if you owned the business?'' he asked. ``we've got an amvets league in here that does $250 to $275 a night, and they're all great guys.''
the league isn't sure what it will do, but carol blossey, outgoing president and a member of mothers against drunk driving, said she plans to file a complaint with her organization
i have a beer once in a while, but i can't bowl well if i'm drunk,'' said blossey, who carries a 167 average. ``i feel we're being discriminated against.''
the woodland park zoo says it no longer has a problem with people abandoning their rabbits after easter since word spread that zookeepers feed some of the unwanted pets to the lions
zoo spokesman hank klein said friday that in years past the zoo was overrun with rabbits. after easter passed, some people found that bunnies aren't as much fun in may as they were in march or april
abandoned rabbits damaged the zoo grounds and created other problems, klein said. domestic rabbits can't survive on their own and end up starving, getting run over by cars or eaten by owls and hawks
the zoo now has a pest control officer who traps and kills rabbits, adding them to the daily feed for lions, wolves and cougars
there are not too many people that want cute little thumper to end up in the jaws of a lion,'' klein said
it's not a good idea to surprise someone with a bunny,'' he said. ``we encourage people to think very carefully before giving any animal, especially as a surprise.''
a town marshal missing for a day after disappearing on a burglary call said friday he escaped after being held in a closet and car trunk by four men he thought were about to kill him
i knew i was done for anyway and i had nothing to lose,'' gary stokes said of his early friday escape in rural northeast mississippi. ``when they let me out of the trunk, i hit the ground running and i didn't look back.''
stokes, 35, disappeared about 12:55 a.m. thursday after calling for back-up units while investigating a possible attempted burglary at a store in this town of about 860 residents
police arriving at the store found his car with the engine still running, the lights on and his radio microphone hanging outside the door. his revolver and billfold were found nearby
about all i can tell you is that he is back and we are investigating.'' said tippah county sheriff leroy meeks said friday
sammy pickens, a highway patrol investigator, said the case was being treated ``as a felony ... an abduction, but we can't release any more information at this time.''
stokes, the town's only full-time policeman, said he was ``still nervous and kind of shook up. they had said several times they were going to kill me, and i believed them.''
he said he managed to escape when the men stopped their car near myrtle in adjacent union county ``because one of them had to go to the bathroom. i asked them if i could use the bathroom, too, and they agreed.''
stokes said he immediately ran down railroad tracks beside the highway and ducked into a wooded area before making his way to a house and calling police in nearby new albany
i had just about given up hope,'' he said. ``they were talking about robbing another store around holly springs and said before they got there, they would kill me.''
lawmen had used dogs as they searched for stokes in rural areas surrounding blue mountain all day thursday and well into the night
stokes said that while investigating what he believed was an attempted break-in at the store he confronted two men, drew his weapon and ordered them to stop
while i was chasing them, two others came up from behind and one of them hit me,'' he said. ``that caused my gun to discharge above their heads.''
he said the men drove him to a highway rest area about five miles away
one wanted to kill me right then,'' stokes said, but the others talked him out of it. ``they then put me in the trunk. i spent several hours in the trunk and all day in the closet of an abandoned house.''
he said the four put him back in the car trunk thursday night and drove to the myrtle area, where he escaped sometime before 3 a.m
stokes said he had seen the four men earlier in the week in another car. he said they were not from the blue mountain area
mary stokes, the officer's step-mother, said stokes appeared tired and shaken when he arrived home friday morning, and ``he's got a bad place on his face where they hit him
but i asked him if he would ever put the uniform on again and he told me he was going right back to work because he is needed.'' flap</head>
the naming of a plastic surgery consultant to the miss san diego pageant is drawing grimaces from state and national pageant officials, but stephen grifka doesn't understand what all the fuss is about
the culver city doctor said cosmetic surgery is a legitimate option for today's beauty queens
this is a competition,'' grifka said. ``and in order to get the competitive edge, they want to enhance themselves to the maximum amount. i can't change a couch into a chair. but i can certainly fluff up a pillow.''
dayna waitley, executive director of the miss san diego pageant, appointed grifka to the unpaid consulting position at the recommendation of a mutal friend
in a jan. 5 letter to grifka, waitley wrote that the expertise of the doctor, who specializes in nose jobs, scar removal and facelifts, could help contestants realize their full potential
the appointment brought a storm of criticism from other beauty pageant officials
that's the last kind of person who would ever be involved with the miss america pageant,'' leonard c. horn, chief executive officer of the miss america pageant, said in an interview in friday's los angeles times san diego edition
we have consultants on hair and evening gowns, but to have a consultant on plastic surgery seems a little strange,'' horn said
though horn branded the idea as ``laughable,'' plastic surgery is permitted under pageant rules. indeed, there were reports shortly after the 1982 contest that titlist debra sue maffett had undergone extensive cosmetic work
there is no chance in the world he would ever be associated with us,'' said robert arnhym, chief executive officer of the miss california pageant, which oversees the san diego pageant and 41 other contests throughout the state
no one in the state of california has ever encouraged our winners to have plastic surgery _ ever,'' arnhym said
grifka had no involvement in this year's pageant, which was held march 19, waitley said. she said she will ask the pageant's board of directors to review the arrangement because of the protest
for his part, grifka said he accepted the appointment with the best of intentions and has no desire to bring negative publicity to the pageant
these contests are not strictly a show of beauty,'' he said. ``if you attended a pageant you would be amazed at how talented these girls are.''
theatrical agent joe collins, the father of ``dynasty'' actress joan collins and novelist jackie collins, died friday at his home. he was 85
collins, who helped launch the careers of peter sellers, tom jones and roger moore and convinced joan collins to take her famous role as alexis in the popular tv series, suffered from a kidney infection, according to press association, britain's domestic news agency
although he came from a family of stage performers, collins said he did not consider show business a suitable profession for his daughters. ``too many pitfalls,'' he once said
he later came to feel differently: ``my children are healthy and have made their mark on the world. i think i can claim that almost every person in every land has had some form of entertainment, some pleasure brought their way by one member or another of my family.''
collins was born in south africa, where his parents, both from london, entertained. they returned to britain when collins was a year old and he was educated there
he began his show business career as office boy with moss empires theaters in london and later worked as an assistant theater manager in sheffield and liverpool
in 1931, he became a theatrical agent. the first artist he signed was dancer lew grade, now television producer lord grade, who became his partner. when grade left the collins and grade agency, collins continued alone
collins married his first wife, elsa, in 1932, and she gave birth to their daughter, joan, the next year. elsa died in 1962
collins did not encourage his daughter's early acting ambitions, but once she won a place at the royal academy of dramatic art, he supported her. he even set up a repertory company in southeastern england to help her career
he later persuaded her to take the role of alexis in ``dynasty'' even though a theatrical company was trying to hold her to a previous contract
collins said he was proud of his daughter jackie's success as an author but never read her books, which included ``hollywood wives'' and ``lucky.'' he declared the sexy novels were ``not my cup of tea.''
his own biography was titled ``a touch of collins.''
besides joan and jackie, collins is survived by his second wife, irene, and their daughter, natasha. services were scheduled for tuesday in london
rumors that a satanic cult planned to sacrifice a virgin reached a peak this week, leading people to keep hundreds of children home from school and inundate police with calls
despite the hysteria, police and school officials said extensive investigations didn't produce any evidence to support the rumors
pike county residents locked their doors and kept children home from school by the hundreds thursday, the day the rumors said was the intended date of human sacrifice
we have a 30 percent absenteeism in the district,'' mccomb assistant school superintendent leslie daniels said thursday. ``some of that is due to the weather; some of it is because it's the day before a holiday. but from the calls we've had, i believe much of it's from the rumors.''
there are about 3,700 students in the district
sheriff robert lawson has said in the past that there are 22 members of a satanic cult in pike county and that the group has probably sacrificed dogs, cats, goats and other animals in secluded areas
officials said the latest rumors led them to fear the public might act irrationally if someone was identified _ even erroneously _ as one of the cult members
as paranoid as this public is, some innocent person could get hurt,'' said lee barkdull, mccomb's acting director of public safety. ``i'm worried about mischief _ someone spray-painting something crazy and getting caught by others.''
since about march 24, barkdull's office has fielded dozens of calls from residents worried by reports that a cult planned human sacrifices and that several mccomb schoolchildren were on a list of potential victims
police believe the story spread quickly in schools, reaching a crisis level when parents got wind of it
students at gibson high school said teachers canceled tests thursday when classes began with small numbers of students. they also said rumors persisted that satan worshipers planned a midnight march through town, with a later sacrifice of a baby and a 13-year-old
the story is that good friday is their black sabbath, and they need a sacrifice,'' said 16-year-old tammy perry, a 10th-grader at gibson high school
i figure it's a bunch of kids playing practical jokes,'' said terry butrick of summit
i believe people worship satan. why not? people worship their car, why not satan?'' said butrick, who has two children in elementary school. ``but as far as me running around getting out the garlic and the silver bullets, nah.''
soviet tv reported friday that strikes have paralyzed most industry in stepanakert, the main city in a caucasus region that is at the center of an ethnic dispute
the nightly news program, ``vremya,'' said construction was at a standstill and delivery of goods to and from the city had been disrupted
public transport is virtually at a halt and many enterprises are idle on account of the failure to turn out to work,'' it said
reports by ``vremya'' and the official news agency tass appeared aimed at convincing armenians it is futile to press demands for annexation of the nagorno-karabakh region, which was made part of azerbaijan in 1923
about 75 percent of the 157,000 residents are ethnic armenians, most of whom are christian. azeris, the indigenous population of azerbaijan, are predominantly shiite moslem
farmers in nagorno-karabakh were shown on television hard at work with spring planting. the news reader said the akhtanak collective farm had appealed for a return to normal in stepanakert
cameras panned deserted building sites and quiet streets in the city while the narrator explained that most workers were staying home
stepanakert's industries have run up debts of ``several million rubles,'' the report said. no more specific figure was provided
most industrial activity stopped march 24 in protest of the communist party leadership's refusal to attach nagorno-karabakh to soviet armenia
activists in armenia and nagorno-karabakh began demonstrations in mid-february demanding that nagorno-karabakh, slightly smaller than delaware, be made part of armenia even though there is no common border. the kremlin refused and said protests were ``intolerable,'' although it announced a development program
the armenian claims incited riots feb. 28 in the azerbaijan city of sumgait. official reports said 32 people were killed and nearly 200 injured, and that about 400 were arrested for murder, rape, looting and other crimes
communist party officials said the nagorno-karabakh development plan would involve spending 400 million rubles _ $640 million at the official exchange rate _ to improve housing, education, armenian-language literature and broadcasts, and other elements of life in the region
complaints that nagorno-karabakh was losing its traditional armenian character were among points cited by activists in their demand for annexation
vremya'' said the development plan will not be carried out if the strike continues
the people of stepanakert have long been renowned for their good sense, their love of work, their skill,'' the news reader said. ``let them show all these qualities now in the present difficult situation.''
security forces were deployed in yerevan, the armenian capital, earlier in the week to guard against more disorder there, but it was not clear from the vremya footage whether similar measures were being taken in stepanakert
telephone calls to the region were not answered friday, even at such facilities as railroad stations and newspaper offices
in its only dispatch on the matter friday, tass outlined legal problems involved in addressing armenian demands for annexation. it said the legislatures of both republics would have to approve any change in status and the national supreme soviet would have the final say
washington _ (ap) _ the nation's unemployment rate fell to a new decade-low 5.6 percent in march even though there were 306,000 fewer americans at work than a month earlier, the government said friday
the drop from february's 5.7 percent rate was credited entirely to a 455,000 decrease in the number of people in the labor force _ those either holding jobs or seeking work _ raising inflationary alarms among some economists
it's just one month, but it indicates that wages are not high enough to coax second earners out of the home any more,'' said roger brinner, an analyst for data resources inc., an economic consulting firm in lexington, mass
if the labor force has stopped growing, then wage inflation may be right around the corner, not now but possibly in early 1989,'' brinner said. ``higher wages might coax more people out of the woodwork, but any increase in the standard of living will be temporary because prices will soon catch up.''
the number of americans in the labor force dropped from approximately 123.1 million to 122.6 million between february and march, as the percentage of the population age 16 and over holding or seeking jobs declined from an all-time record 66.3 percent to 66 percent
the government has been warning about a reduced rate of labor force expansion for several years, based on declining birth rates in the 1960s and early 1970s
and a big part of the full percentage point drop in a jobless rate that stood at 6.6 percent in march 1987 was the fact that the number of new jobs last year climbed by 3 million while the labor force grew by only 2 million
although women are continuing to enter the labor force in large numbers, the rate of their increase has slowed,'' labor statistics commissioner janet l. norwood told the joint economic committee of congress on friday. ``the dramatic surge of women in the labor force took place in the 1960s and 1970s.''
while the lower unemployment rates are raising fears of renewed inflation among some economists, there certainly was no evidence of it on the wage front last month
average wages in private industry rose just 2 cents an hour in march to $9.20, just 3 percent above what they were a year earlier. consumer prices, meanwhile, have risen 3.9 percent in the same period
the experience in the 1980s clearly shows that full employment and a falling inflation rate are not incompatible,'' said richard rahn, chief economist for the u.s. chamber of commerce. ``we have reached the lowest unemployment rate in a decade without stoking the fires of inflation.''
except for may 1979, when joblessness also was 5.6 percent, march's rate is actually the lowest it has been since august 1974
reagan administration officials were quick to pounce on the figures to bolster their opposition to union-sought provisions in a trade bill that would require companies to give workers 60 days advance notice of layoffs
sixty-four straight months of job creation and nearly 16 million new jobs is the product of a vibrant, innovative and entrepreneurial economy,'' said labor secretary ann mclaughlin. ``now is not the time to put on the brakes with anti-competitive, anti-growth federal mandates on business.''
despite the fewer number of americans at work, employer payrolls showed an increase f 262,000 new jobs in march, according to a separate survey by the department
ms. norwood explained that the payroll survey and the household survey from which the unemployment rate is calculated have moved in opposite directions before
over the long run, however, the two surveys generally show similar trends,'' she said, adding that the payroll survey is probably a better indicator of what actually occured in march
but the news on the payroll survey wasn't entirely good either. factory jobs, after rising an average 40,000 each month since last summer, fell by 1,000 in march, with small declines spread over 11 major industries
of the new payroll jobs, 85,000 were in business and health care services with another 80,000 in construction
in happier times, she planted flowers for the anniversary and directed tours of the small motel where martin luther king jr. died
but now, in the 20th year after his death, jacqueline smith huddles on a sidewalk, wraps herself in plastic to keep off the rain and tells anyone who'll listen how the slain civil rights leader would not like plans to make the lorraine motel a museum
miss smith, 37, lived and worked at the lorraine for 11 years and helped organize annual gatherings there on the anniversary of king's death
we would clean up and plant flowers, and how the crowd was handled was up to me,'' she said
but miss smith was evicted march 2 and has no official role in ceremonies set monday for the 20th anniversary of king's death
i feel sad,'' she said. ``i'll miss talking with the people as they go in the room.''
participants in memorial programs for the king anniversary plan a march through town, ending at the lorraine. after a wreath-laying ceremony there, a combination march and motorcade billed as a ``poor peoples' pilgrimage'' will be launched from the motel for a trek through mississippi, alabama and georgia
the lorraine, where king was staying while helping lead a memphis sanitation workers' strike, is to become a civil rights museum
for past anniversaries, visitors could go to the room where king stayed. over the years, motel employees built a makeshift shrine in the room
state officials closed the lorraine in january and put a chain-link fence around it, saying it was unsafe for habitation. miss smith stayed on
after her forced eviction, she set up housekeeping on the sidewalk
the motel is in a downtown district of warehouses and low-rent apartments, but developers have begun in recent years to upgrade property in the area in hopes of attracting middle-income renters
miss smith claims the $8.8 million museum will speed the gentrification of the neighborhood
dr. king would not want the poor people displaced,'' she said
the project for the lorraine museum, financed by the state and local governments, is largely due to the work of a citizens' group which raised $140,000 to buy the motel at a foreclosure auction. the museum is scheduled to open in 1991
d'army bailey, a memphis lawyer and a prime mover behind the project, said museum visitors will be surrounded by pictures and sounds of civil rights marches of the 1960s
the museum will take you back to those times and do all we can to recreate those feelings, the tensions of the moment,'' he said. ``when people come in and spend an hour or two and then walk out, i think and hope that what walks out is going to be affected and changed.''
bailey said it has taken almost 20 years for local government to realize that the lorraine should be preserved as an integral though painful part of memphis history
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis adopted a new populist stand friday in a drive to win blue collar support in wisconsin's primary while the democratic presidential candidates in a chorus called on attorney general edwin meese iii to resign
the four democrats kept up hectic schedules despite the passover and easter observances this weekend, mindful of the 81 delegates at stake tuesday in wisconsin
dukakis and jesse jackson each held farm rallies. jackson attracted more than 2,500 farmers and their families to his event on bud and faye lee's farm near amery, in northern wisconsin. jackson told the farmers they deserve fair prices for their products ``and workers deserve fair wages and the rich must pay fair taxes.'' he said people could afford to pay a little more for milk, bread and ice cream to make sure farmers got their due
sens. albert gore jr. of tennessee and paul simon of illinois joined dukakis and jackson in demanding that meese resign
as a member of the senate judiciary committee, today we are asking ed meese to resign,'' simon said at a breakfast speech in superior
it's time in this nation to restore respect for government, to establish rule of law,'' gore said in the same town
dukakis blamed meese's justice department for allowing the ``merger mania'' he said has cost a half million jobs
we've got an attorney general who couldn't tell the difference between antitrust and antifreeze, an antitrust division that hasn't been heard from in years,'' dukakis told a labor audience in racine. ``the japanese must be laughing at us all the way to the bank.''
the furor over meese's troubles erupted again friday when independent counsel james c. mckay announced there was no evidence ``developed to date'' to warrant a criminal indictment against the attorney general in connection with an iraq-jordan pipeline plan or his investment in telephone company stock. mckay said the probe was continuing
dukakis' speeches and a new television ad that started airing friday demonstrated the governor's shift to a more emotional approach drawing on the economic populism theme developed by rep. richard gephardt, who dropped out of the race monday
the human cost of seven years of republican indifference is staggering,'' dukakis says in the ad as laid-off workers, homeless people, unemployment lines and ``factory closed'' signs roll by the screen. ``who in this administration could look right into the eyes of the laid-off factory worker or the homeless family and say they've kept the promise of america? i say they've broken that promise.''
gephardt said on syndicated television program ``one on one'' that he didn't mind the heavy borrowing from his campaign. ``everybody has stolen it,'' he said. ``i willed it everybody when i pulled out and i hope they will use it. it is the issue of this campaign.''
gore, who has been outspoken in criticism of jackson this week, said again that jackson's race doesn't entitle him to kid-glove treatment
an end to bigotry does not mean some candidates are game for criticism and some are immune,'' gore said
in washington, house democratic leader tom foley said jackson will be subjected to increased scrutiny now that he is a front-runner. ``i think he would welcome that,'' foley said. ``the question that remains for the jackson campaign is whether he is electable in the fall.''
foley said decisions by himself and others to withhold an endorsement at this point should not be interpreted as a stop-jackson signal
there is a little bit of a sense that if you are neutral, you are getting in the way of jesse jackson,'' he said. ``that's unfair.''
colorado, with caucuses on monday night, was drawing some politcal attention this weekend, including on the dormant republican side
pat robertson, who has all but conceded the nomination to george bush, scheduled three days of activities in colorado including talks at four easter sunday services. he has said he is determined to go to the gop convention in august with a block of delegates to influence the party platform and bush's choice of a running mate
jackson and dukakis also planned some activities this weekend in colorado. but the democrats were focused mainly on wisconsin and the two industrial-state primaries that follow later this month: new york and pennsylvania
gore spokesman mark armour said the campaign has had fund-raising surge that will allow gore to conduct a $1 million-plus campaign for new york's april 19 primary without taking out any new loans
a prosecutor running for judge in racially troubled robeson county on friday asked the governor not to call a special legislative session to let a minority candidate enter the race after the slaying of a lumbee indian contender
district attorney joe freeman britt declared himself the democratic nominee for superior court judge. britt, who is white and would have faced julian pierce in the may 3 democratic primary, would automatically win the judgeship in november because there is no republican candidate
britt met privately for an hour with gov. jim martin a day after supporters of pierce asked the republican governor for the special session. britt had no comment afterward except to say, ``you will have to get your information from the governor's office.''
martin's chief of staff, phil kirk, said britt had met with the governor at martin's request and had spoken ``very firmly'' against a special session
he considers himself to be the nominee of the democratic party for the ... judgeship,'' kirk told reporters
martin said he remained undecided and would discuss the matter with advisers and legislators over the weekend. he said he hoped to make a decision early next week
pierce was shot to death last week in what authorities described at first as a probable assassination. on tuesday, they arrested a young man and said a second suspect committed suicide, and attributed pierce's murder to a domestic dispute
under state law, if a candidate dies more than 30 days after filing for a primary has closed, his opponent wins. pierce's supporters want the law amended to allow a replacement candidate
the judgeship is one of nine created last year in districts designed to enhance minorities' prospects for winning
britt's supporters suggested that britt was a minority candidate since blacks and indians make up 58 percent of the registered voters in robeson county, kirk said. but he said that argument ``doesn't hold water'' because the legislature intended for whites to be outnumbered in the new districts
that's why they were created that way, to give minorities an excellent chance to be elected,'' kirk said
the support price for 1988-crop honey will average 59.1 cents per pound, down 6 percent from last year's level, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng announced friday
actual honey support prices will vary between about 48 cents to 62 cents per pound, depending on the color or class of honey offered by producers, lyng said. the price supports will be carried out through loans on honey stored on or off the farm
under the 1985 farm law, honey supports are being gradually reduced. last year's average loan rate was 63 cents per pound and the 1986 rate was 64 cents
lyng also said the 1988 program will retain the ``marketing loan'' provision to help reduce inventories held as surplus by the department's commodity credit corp
in earlier years, producers could redeem their honey only by paying off the full amount of the ccc loan, plus interest. they had the option of not repaying the loan at all, allowing ccc to assume ownership of the honey which had been offered as collateral
consequently, because of large supplies and low market prices, ccc inventories of forfeited honey increased rapidly
but since the 1985 law, a honey producer can take out a loan and then repay it at the prevailing market rate. in effect, this allows the beekeeper to sell honey to the government at a specified price and then buy it back at a lower price
currently, producers who obtained price support loans averaging 63 cents per pound for 1987 honey can pay off the loans at 34 to 40 cents per pound, depending on quality
lyng said the lower buy-back rates ``will be established at levels that will minimize loan forfeitures, reduce honey stocks and storage costs, and maintain the competitiveness of domestic honey in u.s. and export markets.''
the seventh national conference on humor opened on april fool's day without so much as a gag, practical joke or even a hint of buffoonery
the 70-odd scholars gathered friday at purdue university to dissect the fragile body of humor. these humor anatomists specialize in the brain more than the funnybone
this is serious business,'' said purdue linguist victor raskin, the conference chairman
how serious? well, have you heard the one about, ``the effects of a silent or laughing confederate and the amplification or inhibition of facial reactions on cartoon funniness evaluation?''
ball state university researchers lambert deckers and daniel moore planned to deliver a paper on that topic during the three-day conference
you don't have to be funny while you're presenting a paper,'' raskin said
he knows the public is puzzled by the paradox of ``excrutiatingly boring'' research on a topic that is mirth itself
he learned that lesson the hard way, ducking ripe tomatoes and rotten eggs hurled by the media after the first conference in the 1970s at arizona state university
the media decided that the humor conference was supposed to be hilarious,'' he said ruefully. ``so there was a full page report in time magazine on how boring it was, complete with a couple of pictures of back-benchers dozing off during presentations
well, we learned our lesson,'' he said
at the five conferences that followed at arizona state, reporters were invited to cover sessions featuring humorists and dynamic public speakers, while the real work was carried out in back rooms, he said
the media on the whole have been very happy with those conferences ever since,'' he said
there is something funny going on here, though. the meeting is called the whim conference, that's for western humor and irony membership
and, for those not celebrating passover on friday night, the program guide promised seating for ``an indefinite number of people'' at a beer and pizza place down the block. on sunday night, a three-hour joke-telling contest was scheduled
but why do these academics _ linguists, psychologists, anthropologists and sociologists _ do it?
raskin's answer is basically, ``why not?''
it's an important natural phenomenon,'' he said. ``it's a human faculty, and we study all the other faculties. we study the mind, we study emotions, we study our health and behavior. and humor is part of all that.''
while a comedian knows which material works, the professors want to know why
you don't expect a gymnast or a figure skater to come up with a scientific explanation on their failures or successes,'' said raskin. ``that's what we are for. we're trying to figure out what makes humor work
i know of no reseachers who have any ambition to become stand-up comedians,'' he said. ``most of us are professors, and we use a lot of humor in the classroom. but that's a matter of survival. if you don't, the students doze off on you and this is reflected in your teacher evaluations and salary raises.''
sixteen americans will receive literary awards from the american academy and institute of arts and letters, the academy announced friday
in addition, the academy announced that blake morrison of london will receive the e.m. forster award, given to an english writer for a stay in the united states
nine of the 16 awards include $5,000 purses given to encourage writers in their creative work
those nine are william barrett of north tarrytown; david bottoms of marietta, ga.; rosellen brown of houston, texas; david cope of grandville, mich.; john clellon holmes of old saybrook, conn.; john mccormick of princeton, n.j.; james seay of chapel hill, n.c.; william weaver of arezzo, italy; and norman williams of north ferrisburgh, vt
holmes died wednesday of cancer in middletown, conn., and the prize money will go to his estate, the academy said. holmes had been told of winning the prize
the other seven are andrew hudgins of montgomery, ala.; kaye gibbons of raleigh, n.c.; edward hirsch of houston; thomas mcmahon of wellesley, mass.; andre dubus of haverhill, mass.; jonathan evan maslow of mobile, ala., and clement greenberg of new york city
the awards will be given may 18
the government sued the nation's second largest meatpacker friday on a claim that it cheated tens of thousands of workers out of millions of dollars in overtime pay at 10 packinghouses in kansas, iowa, nebraska, minnesota and idaho
in a suit filed in kansas city, kan., the labor department accused ibp corp. of ``repeatedly and willfully'' violating laws requiring employers to pay hourly workers one and one-half times the normal wage for work beyond 40 hours a week
the suit seeks what the government claims is unpaid overtime plus interest stretching back to april 1985 for between 20,000 and 70,000 current and former employees of the company
government officials refused to specify how much the sought damages might total, but one acknowledged that it will likely be in the tens of millions of dollars
attorneys for the united food and commercial workers union, which is trying to organize some of the plants and initiated the labor department's action, calculated the possible back pay awards at between $20 million and $43 million
the suit is based on allegations that ibp workers were required by the company to spend up to two hours a week putting on, taking off and cleaning safety equipment and maintaining knives without being paid for their labor
based on hourly wages in the industry averaging $6 an hour, and assuming each worker was denied about two hours of overtime a week, the union calculated that each worker may be owed as much as $3,744 in back pay
full-time employment at the 10 plants is slightly less than 9,000 according to company officials. however, meatpacking has one of the highest job turnover rates of any industry in the country _ estimated by some at as much as 80 percent annually
gary mickelson, an ibp spokesman, said the company is ``confident the courts will find our policies entirely acceptable and lawful.''
he said ibp follows the same wage practices with regard to maintaining safety equipment at its three unionized plants and its 11 non-union packinghouses. none of the unionized plants was mentioned in the suit
it's the same procedure industrywide,'' mickelson said. ``the unions have negotiated away what the labor department thinks we should be paying.''
we find this action ironic,'' he added. ``on one hand our company has been widely criticized as not doing enough to ensure the safety of our employees. now we're being sued for making sure our employees take the time to wear the equipment necessary to protect them on the job.''
last summer the labor department fined ibp $2.6 million for alleged job safety and record violations at its flagship packinghouse at dakota city, neb
the investigation leading up to that fine, which has been appealed by the company, was prompted by another complaint that the union filed with the government while engaged in a strike at the dakota city plant
the suit friday alleged the wage law violations occurred at ibp plants in emporia and holcomb, kan.; madison and west point, neb.; luverne, minn.; denison, storm lake, council bluffs and columbus junction, iowa; and boise, idaho
the city's no. 2 symphony orchestra is canceling the rest of its 1988 concert season because of money troubles, only months after chicago's ballet company disintegrated
the orchestra of illinois, a highly praised group observing its 10th anniversary this season, announced thursday it is canceling its remaining seven performances because of a $410,000 deficit in its $650,000 budget
the situation is very serious,'' linda g. moore, the orchestra's executive director, said in a chicago tribune interview. ``our cash-flow position has been bad for some time, and it has gotten to the point where we literally don't have enough money to pay our musicians.''
just four months earlier, the chicago city ballet, the city's only classical ballet troupe, collapsed following an internal dispute over artistic directorship that alienated its chief financial supporter
but the two groups' failures do not necessarily cast a pall over the performing arts in general, observers say
one organization's problems do not necessarily reflect the community,'' said matthew raphaelson, director of the chicago music alliance, a service organization comprising 15 orchestras and dozens of other music groups such as operas and chamber music companies
we have 86 member organizations ... and many of them are doing quite well,'' said raphaelson. ``many are having their best years.''
the city also has been supporting 28 performing companies, including the now-defunct chicago city ballet, said lisa tylke, executive director of the chicago dance arts coalition, another service organization
dancers who lost jobs at chicago city ballet have followed its former artistic director, daniel duell, in an attempt ``to rise from the ashes'' with a new classical troupe called ballet chicago, ms. tylke said
the troupe has given one fundraising performance in its own behalf and is practicing for another in may
gregory mansfield, spokesman for the illinois arts council, a state agency that poured $2.2 million into performing arts last year, said the failures of the orchestra and the ballet are the only ones he is aware of in the state this year
those failures may end up as springboards to healthier organizations, he said
the orchestra of illinois has a record of artistic excellence and could resolve its problems, he said. the orchestra's board has ordered outside experts to analyze its financial affairs to see what can be done, he said
the arts council feels that by stopping to re-evaluate, an arts organization can often emerge actually better,'' mansfield said. ``and there are hundreds of arts organizations in chicago that are doing quite well, and i'm speaking of performing arts.''
raphaelson said setbacks for performing groups seem to generate more fear than problems with business organizations
when it happens in the arts community, people seem to get more nervous than if it were soft drinks or crackers,'' he said
he speculated that the reason is that arts groups depend more on fund raising and benefactors, who may be unduly frightened by negative signs
the solution, obviously, (for arts advocates) is to be ever more outspoken in their support for the arts,'' he said. ``if that fear is the reality, the problem is not so much a problem in the industry as a problem of perception.''
the united states and spanish governments have agreed to eliminate duplicate coverage and taxation under the two countries' social security systems, social security commissioner dorcas r. hardy announced friday
many u.s. citizens working in spain for u.s employers now pay social security contributions to both countries for the same work, and the same applies to many spanish nationals working in the united states
elimination of the overlapping requirements was effective friday
similar agreements were already in effect with belgium, canada, italy, norway, sweden, switzerland, the united kingdom and west germany. agreements have been signed with france and the netherlands and are expected to become effective later this year
fifty-five percent of those questioned said attorney general edwin meese iii should resign his post, according to a u.s. news &amp; world report poll released friday
only 21 percent of the respondents said meese should stay in office, the magazine said
fifty percent of those who considered themselves politically conservative said meese should quit, while only 27 percent of all conservatives believed he should stay, the magazine said
forty-six percent of republicans said meese should go, compared with only 28 percent who said he should continue. sixty-one percent of all democrats and 54 percent of all independents should meese should quit
meese, who has been under criminal investigation for 11 months, has been under pressure in congress this week to quit since two top aides left the justice department. the aides said meese's continuing legal problems were hurting the department's operations and image
the nationwide telephone poll of 1,004 adults, conducted by the roper organization on wednesday and thursday, has a margin of error of plus or minus four percentage points
the air force on friday rewrote its contracts covering development of the new midgetman mobile nuclear missile, canceling almost $1 billion worth of work planned by six contractors
the service, in a brief statement, stressed it could not speak for the six contractors involved but estimated the cutbacks could affect the jobs of as many as 2,300 private-sector employees
the air force action became inevitable several months ago when defense secretary frank c. carlucci decided the pentagon could not afford to develop and deploy the single-warhead midgetman within the budget levels set by the white house and congress
the air force had recommended carlucci kill the program outright, but the defense secretary decided to request $200 million in fiscal 1989 to keep the program alive pending a final decision by the next president
the house armed services committee, a major proponent of the new weapon, has already voted to increase that figure to $500 million in fiscal 1989. even if that figure is approved, however, the air force said it would not have enough money to sustain the program on its original schedule, leaving no choice but to rewrite the seven major development contracts held by the six firms
in order for the program to adhere to its original schedule, the air force would have needed about $2.2 billion this year and another $2.2 billion in fiscal 1989. congress provided $700 million for the midgetman this fiscal year
the biggest loser as a result of friday's action was the rockwell international corp. its autonetics division had a $484.2 million prime development contract for the missile's guidance and control system that was slashed by $374 million to $110.2 million
the other losers included:
_boeing aerospace co., under contract to develop the missile's mobile launcher, cut $278 million to a new total of $313.6 million
_martin marietta corp. it had two contracts, one to provide support and assembly services and the other to develop the warhead's ``post-boost vehicle and shroud.'' the first contract was cut $47 million to a new total of $76.9 million, while the second was cut $100 million to a new total of $244.5 million
_aerojet nevada rocket operations, developer of the stage 2 booster for the missile, cut $77 million to a new total of $103.7
_hercules inc., developer of the stage 3 booster, cut $72 million to a new total of $97.7 million
_morton thiokol, developer of the stage 1 booster, cut $51 million to a new total of $74.9 million
when all the reductions are added, they total $999 million, the air force said
republican presidential candidate pat robertson is spending easter weekend in colorado trying to drum up support for his dormant campaign
he will be making an appearance, encouraging people to go vote'' in colorado's caucuses on monday night, robertson state campaign coordinator david nelson said friday
robertson has conceded that he has virtually no chance of winning the republican nomination. but he plans to stay in the race in hopes he can influence the gop platform that will be drawn up at the national convention
he wants to represent conservatives and christians in the formation of the platform so we can have a voice,'' nelson said
in colorado, nelson hopes robertson can win one-third to one-half of the state's 36 gop delegates
he said up to 10 phone bank operators are trying to persuade at least 10,000 people to show up for the caucuses. ``our goal would be to have 15,000,'' he said
the former television evangelist's only strong showings have come in caucus states, where organization and depth of support count
robertson's three-day schedule here includes talks to an estimated 5,000 people in four denver-area congregations on easter sunday
robertson summed up his version of the easter message this way during a rally in a virginia beach, va., church last weekend: ``...some of the press have been saying that in terms of my candidacy that it is dead. what they don't know about is the resurrection.''
nelson said robertson wouldn't mix church and politics in his talks, although robertson's support has been derived primarily from fundamentalist christians
i don't think it's proper to go into a church and say, `vote for me.' i believe pat respects the rules and regulations involving churches and politics. he will just talk about how important it is to be involved in the political process,'' he said
attorneys for inmates of the u.s. penitentiary at marion asked an appeals court friday to end the prison's 4{-year lockdown, arguing that inmates are suffering physical and psychological brutality
prisoners are chained to their beds, spread-eagle, sometimes for days at a time,'' attorney nancy horgan argued before a three-judge panel of the 7th u.s. circuit court of appeals
u.s. district judge james foreman, who heard the original class-action lawsuit filed on behalf of marion inmates, refused last february to grant an injunction ending the lockdown
foreman's ruling followed a 1985 decision by u.s. magistrate kenneth meyers that tight security at the prison dubbed the ``new alcatraz'' did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment and was necessary to protect inmates and staff
the lockdown was imposed in october 1983, following a bloody week in which two guards and an inmate were killed in separate incidents
since then, virtually all 350 inmates at the maximum-security penitentiary remain locked in 7-by-8-foot cells for 23 hours a day, although prisoners in certain tiers are given an additional four hours outside their cell each week
family contact visits aren't allowed. meals are delivered through a slot and are eaten by prisoners while sitting on the floor or on a bed because cells have no chairs or tables
attorneys for the inmates argued friday that the lockdown has become a permanent condition of imprisonment, and that marion officials use a capricious, arbitrary system in assigning prisoners to tiers and doling out limited privileges
prison officials counter that the lockdown is necessary because the prison houses the most unmanageable inmates in the federal prison system
most of them come from the segregation units at other federal prisons,'' assistant u.s. attorney ralph friederich told the judges. ``it is a place for inmates who have demonstrated an inability to control their conduct at other institutions.''
marion was built in 1963. in 1979, it was designated by the federal bureau of prisons as the first level 6 prison _ the system's most secure. it remains the only level 6 institution
the roster of high-profile inmates who have been imprisoned there and several spectacular escape attempts have led to its comparison to alcatraz, the fortress island prison in san francisco bay that was closed 25 years ago
before friday's hearing, about 50 demonstrators marched outside the federal building in support of the inmates, carrying signs reading ``prison system built on lies.''
stephen wittman, a spokesman for the committee to end the marion lockdown, which helped organize the demonstration and has provided legal and financial support to the legal case, contended the penitentiary was being used to silence political prisoners
they keep them as long as (they) can and each time we draw attention to an individual, they transfer them,'' he said
equally important, they hold marion over the head of all prisoners in the system,'' wittman contended. ``they use the prospect of going to marion to intimidate them into behaving the way they want them to.''
a 5-year-old who had a fractured skull when he died in january had complained in november of being hit with a flat board as punishment and asked to leave his foster home, according to state records
rosa lee jones, 40, was charged wednesday with second-degree murder and aggravated child abuse in the jan. 8 death of albert smith. she has not yet been arraigned and was jailed in lieu of $50,000 bond
police say the boy's skull was fractured when he was struck with a board for refusing to kneel to say his prayers
over an eight-year period mrs. jones was a foster mother to 14 children. in 1986 and 1987 she asked the state for a break, saying at one point she was ``stressed out,'' records of the state department of health and rehabilitative services show
before licensing mrs. jones, a state worker had only one reservation, about the woman's membership in the fundamentalist holiness faith
mrs. jones' religion is obviously very important to her and she might border on being somewhat fanatical,'' licensing analyst salley caro wrote in her study, the tampa tribune reported friday
she may tend to be a little rigid in some areas because she is a devout member of a fundamentalist religion. however, i do not feel that she will be unreasonable in her expectations of the children.''
the first placement in february 1980, a 13-year-old girl, left seven months later after she complained of being whipped with a belt
after a warning about corporal punishment, which is against hrs rules, mrs. jones took 13 more children over the next seven years
mrs. jones nursed the sores of a neglected boy, adopted three foster children, and accepted as many as seven children in her home at once, including mentally impaired children
hrs workers reported no problems in annual reviews of her home, called ``the cleanest home that has ever been seen'' by one worker
by january 1986, mrs. jones told state workers she needed a break from foster parenting and asked that no more children be placed in her home, hrs records show. she had three adopted children and was caring for two foster children
two more were placed but by june 1987 the home was returned to its scheduled capacity of five
three months later, a caller reportedly said mrs. jones was abusing albert smith
the boy tearfully told social workers he had been spanked with a board or a belt. but no marks were found, making it more a discipline problem than abuse, said joseph tagliarini, hrs administrator for hillsborough county
albert's school bus driver told hrs workers the child had started crying when he got close to jones' home
mrs. jones denied she hit albert, but admitted she was ``stressed out'' and asked to have her foster home closed
social workers were working hard to keep albert and his little brother together. they had no other foster homes available when albert asked to leave in november, records show
mrs. jones agreed to care for the children a little longer
we try to preserve a (foster care) placement,'' said tagliarini. ``maybe sometimes we try to preserve too much.'' employees</head>
taking advantage of an appeals court ruling earlier this week, the army on friday ordered a resumption of random drug testing of civilian employees in certain critical jobs
the directive went out today,'' said paige eversole, an army spokeswoman at the pentagon. ``it orders resumption of the program effective immediately.''
the move had been expected since tuesday, when a federal appeals court struck down a preliminary injunction that had stopped the drug-testing program a month ago
a three-judge panel of the u.s. circuit court of appeals said it was staying the injunction granted to employee unions while it considered the legal merits of the case
the employee unions filed suit to stop a program under which any civilian worker in a so-called ``critical'' job can be tested at random for evidence of drug use. about 9,400 army civilians are currently subject to the testing because they work in such fields as security, aviation and law enforcement
men and women on active military duty have long been subject to random drug testing. the extension of that testing to civilian workers, however, began only last year
on march 1, u.s. district judge thomas f. hogan ruled against the army and issued a preliminary injunction to stop the random testing of civilians, concluding that the practice amounted to an ``excessively intrusive'' search prohibited by the constitution
hogan said that random checks of employees in sensitive positions could not be justified by safety concerns, because the urine test used by the army did not indicate whether an employee was using drugs on the job
the suit challenging the army was brought by public employee unions representing civilian army employees at fort stewart, fla.; aberdeen proving ground, md.; and the sharp army depot in lathrop, calif
the unions have vowed to pursue their challenge. no date has been set as yet for the appeals court to hear arguments in the case
television reporters, angered by the live telecast of a soccer match during a journalists' strike, staged a retaliatory walkout friday that halted all newscasts by the state-controlled rai network
the national journalists union backed the 24-hour blackout of televised news, calling rai's behavior ``a severe attack against the right to strike.''
rai telecast the exhibition soccer match between the national teams of italy and yugoslavia on thursday night, reportedly bowing to pressure from sponsors who had invested about $300,000 in advertising at the yugoslav stadium
the telecast was without comment and viewers could hear only the crowd noise
ninety minutes of mute soccer on television,'' wrote the milan newspaper corriere della sera in a front-page story critical of rai's decision
italian press and television journalists have been striking on and off for weeks to protest a breakdown in negotiations for a new labor contract
italy's major newspapers will not print saturday because of the continuing strikes
top policymakers at the federal reserve, faced with a weakening economy, decided to push interest rates slightly lower in late january and early february, according to minutes released friday
the minutes of the february meeting of the federal open market committee confirmed comments federal reserve chairman alan greenspan made to congress on feb. 23 that the fed had eased its grip on credit in an effort to stimulate economic growth at the beginning of the year
partly in response to that easing move, a variety of interest rates, including mortgage rates, fell by more than one-half percentage point. major banks lowered their prime lending rate on feb. 2 to 8.5 percent, the lowest level for this benchmark interest rate since mid-1986
the minutes of the feb. 9-10 meeting said the slight easing move was taken because of concerns at the time about a slowdown in business activity
the fed had moved immediately following the oct. 19 collapse of the stock market to push interest rates lower in an effort to keep the economy out of a recession. but then in december had begun tightening slightly out of fears that too much money in the economy would threaten higher inflation later in 1988
the fed minutes said the central bank believed it had room to lower interest rates further because the dollar's value had stabilized on foreign exchange markets after falling sharply at the end of 1987
the minutes said the slight easing occurred in late january and early february, prior to the february meeting. at that meeting, fed officials decided to leave policy unchanged
the open market committee met again tuesday and officials said they believed that the central bank once again decided to make no changes to monetary policy in light of the fact that the economy has been showing surprising strength in recent months
the labor department reported friday that the civilian unemployment rate fell to an eight-year low of 5.6 percent in march, down from 5.7 percent in february
greenspan, in recent comments, has said he doubts the jobless rate can fall much farther without threatening a round of renewed inflation
because of these statements, many economists believe the fed will not ease further for the rest of the year unless the economy takes an unexpected turn for the worse
the committee minutes said that for the period before the march meeting, the central bank would seek to ``maintain the slightly reduced degree of pressure on (bank) reserve positions sought in recent days.''
the fed influences interest rates through its control over how much money banks have on hand. by increasing bank reserves, the fed increases the amount of money banks have to lend and thus drives down the cost of that money
the members were in broad agreement that any substantial change in policy, in either direction, was not warranted under prevailing economic and financial conditions,'' the minutes said
the fed decision was approved on an 11-0 vote. there is one vacancy on the fed board
the february meeting also sets monetary targets for the year and the committee voted unanimously for growth targets of 4 percent to 8 percent for two broader measures of the money supply known as m-2 and m-3. these targets were revealed by greenspan during his congressional testimony
m-2 actually grew only 4 percent in 1987, substantially below the low point of the fed's target of 5.5 percent growth for last year. that event had spurred some reagan administration officials to complain that the central bank was not doing enough to keep the 5-year-old economic recovery alive
however, after greenspan publicly complained about pressure from the administration, the critics, including beryl sprinkel, chairman of the president's council of economic advisers have been silent in recent weeks
nasa flight medals honoring the seven astronauts who died in the challenger explosion more than two years ago were given friday to their families
the presentations were made during a ceremony a day after hundreds of people gathered at a celebrity-packed tribute and fund-raiser for the challenger center for space education
june scobee, widow of challenger commander dick scobee, said it would have been a ``tremendous moment'' for the astronauts if they had lived to receive the flight medals, along with framed certificates acknowledging work in the space program
their proudest moment was to be known as one of you (nasa),'' mrs. scobee said, choking back tears
we want to thank you,'' she added
the dream is alive,'' mrs. scobee said, apparently in reference to the challenger center project. ``and it's becoming not only a dream, but a reality.''
conceived and developed by family members of the crew, the educational center will offer teachers and students the opportunity to learn about space by participating in simulated space flights and missions at the flagship center in washington, d.c., and at satellite learning centers around the country
some $2.5 million has been raised for the center since the challenger explosion jan. 28, 1986, when all seven astronauts died
daniel c. brandenstein, chief of the astronaut office at nasa's johnson space center, said the medals are given to those who have ``made significant contributions to the manned space program.''
those appearing thursday night were the fabulous thunderbirds, melba moore, pia zadora, brooke shields, actor michael york, the houston pops, and michael maguire and brandy brown, who are starring on broadway's ``les miserables.''
american adults are expected to reduce their cigarette consumption again this year after a 2 percent drop in 1987, the agriculture department said friday
domestic cigarette consumption is likely to decline this year because of further price hikes, continued anti-smoking activity and increased restrictions on where people can smoke,'' the department's economic research service said in a report
american adults consumed an average 3,201 cigarettes last year, down from 3,274 in 1986, according to the preliminary figures. that was the lowest since world war ii. the peak was 4,345 cigarettes per person in 1963
officials caution that the per capita figures measure the average ``disappearance'' of cigarettes among those 18 years and older, including smokers and non-smokers alike. it is used to show changes from one year to another and does not indicate actual use among the smoking population
a military school student was hunted down and held at gunpoint by neighbors convinced he had kidnapped a 4-year-old girl, officials said
kenneth widel jr., 21, was jailed on a kidnapping charge and released friday on $2,500 bail. he said the child was going to show him where an old girlfriend of his lived in a subdivision near orlando
widel, a senior at the citadel in south carolina, was tracked down wednesday night by neighbors who were alerted by a 5-year-old friend of the little girl. widel's car was spotted, and a neighbor stopped it and forced widel to step out. the girl ran home
if words could kill, that guy would be dead,'' said the girl's mother, carolyn john-nurse. ``when i was cussing him out, he said, `i'm sorry, ma'm. i'm sorry, ma'm. i was just getting ready to bring her back.'''
widel's attorney, dan perry, said widel told his mother he had six beers when he drove to hunter's creek to look for a woman he knew only as samantha. widel stopped to ask whether the little girl or her friend, rachel anne newhart, 5, knew samantha
the lawyer said the little girl told widel she knew where samantha lived and volunteered to show him. she got into widel's car, and the other girl ran off, perry said
after a while, according to widel, the little girl decided she wanted to go home. widel took her back, and a band of neighbors confronted him at gunpoint and accused him of being a child molester, perry said
it was a simple misunderstanding that i can understand,'' the lawyer said. ``he obviously exercised poor judgment. he's a good kid.''
deputies believed rachel, a youngster with ``exceptional'' presence of mind, sheriff's spokesman randy means said thursday. she told her mother widel yanked the little girl into the car
there is no reason to doubt the 5-year-old's story. it is pretty much corroborated by the other little girl and neighbors who were around,'' sheriff's spokesman jim solomons said. ``she apparently didn't get in the car willingly.''
widel told police he didn't know samantha's last name. solomons said no one named samantha has come forward to substantiate widel's story
widel, who is 45 days from receiving a degree in electrical engineering, was on full scholarship until recently, said officials at the citadel, who refused to give out any other information
widel's mother, carol widel of kissimmee, said her son lost his scholarship when his grades dropped
of his arrest, she said, ``this is so far out of the ordinary that i don't know what to think. ... i'm utterly dismayed. he has a lot to contribute to society.''
solomons said no neighbors would be charged. ``you can't condone it, but you can't condemn'' what they did, he said. ``it apparently was the right thing to do in this case. it's not illegal to have a firearm, and this guy stopped a first-degree felony.'' attacks; picks up 6th grar pvs, ``associated press ...</note>
iran said friday a new iraqi chemical bomb attack on kurdish villages killed 75 people and wounded more than 100. it also said it accepted a u.n. call for a halt in the deadly ``war of the cities.''
the iranians claim 5,000 civilians were killed and the same number wounded in gas attacks two weeks ago
the official islamic republic news agency, monitored in cyprus, reported that iran earlier fired fired seven missiles into kirkuk, iraq's northern oil capital and basra, a southern port city. iraq said many civilians were killed or wounded in kirkuk
no iraqi missile firings were reported. iraq said thursday it would suspend attacks on iranian cities for three days, beginning at midnight, while prime minister turgut ozal of turkey is visiting baghdad
turkey has good relations with both iran and iraq, which have been at war since september 1980, and ozal has tried to mediate
tehran radio said friday that u.n. secretary-general javier perez de cuellar asked iran to stop attacking residential areas in iraq. the request came in a meeting in new york with iran's acting u.n. ambassador, mohammad ja'afar mahallati, said the radio, monitored by the british broadcasting corp
it quoted mahallati as saying: ``in line with our usual policy, iran accepts this request. however, true to its usual ways, iraq will renew these attacks. therefore, the u.n. secretary-general must not confine himself to a mere request.''
the statement appeared to represent a call for u.n. action to force iraq to end its attacks
associated press photographer greg english reported from kurdistan that iran's revolutionary guards were pushing westward into the strategic region of iraq as part of an offensive begun march 16
a dispatch from iran's islamic republic news agency said iranian jet fighters flew seven sorties against iraqi troop concentrations in the region friday, inflicting ``substantial casualties and losses.''
irna said iraqi warplanes dropped bombs containing nerve and mustard gases in the qara dagh region of northeast iraq on march 21-26
it quoted sources among iranian-backed kurdish guerrillas as identifying the villages affected as susiyan, doukan, balakha, jafaran and oliyan
there was no independent confirmation or comment from iraq
qara dagh is 15 miles west of the front in the kurdistan mountains
iran claims the thousands of casualties from chemical attacks were caused march 16-17 in three towns captured by iranian forces
western correspondents who visited one of the towns, halabja, last week reported seeing hundreds of bodies unmarked by bullet or shrapnel wounds. hundreds more iraqi kurds with severe burns and respiratory ailments, consistent with exposure to poison gas, have been seen in tehran hospitals
on thursday, iran claimed iraqi warplanes dropped chemical bombs on marivan in northwest iran, killing civilians
irna said missiles were fired friday at basra and at a ``military target'' in kirkuk ``in retaliation for iraqi missile attacks on iran's residential areas.''
iraq reported only one missile hitting kirkuk, 80 miles west of the battle zone in the kurdistan mountains. the official iraqi news agency said it exploded in a residential district, killing or wounding ``many civilians, including women and children.''
more than 250 missiles have been fired by both sides since the latest ``war of the cities'' began feb. 29, killing hundreds of civilians
in the kurdistan campaign, officers of iranian revolutionary guards said their forces had bottled up 5,000 iraqi soldiers around a hydroelectric dam on lake darbandikhan, 80 miles east of the kirkuk oil fields. the dam and power station provide most of the region's electricity and some power to baghdad
english, who was with western correspondents flown to the battle zone thursday, quoted revolutionary guards commander asgar ahmadi as saying his men were within five miles of the highway between the provincial capital of sulaymaniyah and baghdad, 160 miles to the southwest
ahmadi claimed sulaymaniyah was within range of iranian artillery
sulaymaniyah, which has a population of 100,000, is northwest of the darbandikhan region, where the iranians said several days ago they had captured 540 square miles of territory
the iranians claim to have killed or wounded 12,000 iraqis, captured more than 4,500 and destroyed more than 200 tanks and armored vehicles
english reported from the kurdish town of dojaila, captured on the second day of the offensive that he could hear artillery fire to the west and it was clear ``the iranians have made significant gains.''
here is a transcript of attorney general edwin meese iii's news conference friday
good afternoon
i indicated yesterday, when we were at the fbi, that i would meet with you in due course
and although my time is limited, i know that some of you, perhaps all of you, are on deadline
i did want to make myself available before the end of the week to take a few questions
before doing so, i would like to announce that early next week, we will be holding a press conference
terry eastland will let you know as to the details of that conference
and at that time, i will have with me certain individuals who will be filling key positions here in the department
now, let me also say that i have been gratified by the action and the statement issued earlier today by independent counsel james mckay
in addition to that, my attorney, nathan lewin, has also commented on it, and i would refer any questions you might have on that subject to those two statements and to mr. lewin
as i have said on many occasions, the purpose of an independent counsel is to review all allegations that may be outstanding and that all of us should await the determinations of the independent counsel
for that reason, i would certainly urge that there be no rush to judgment, but i am gratified by the statement that has been issued today
with that, i'll be glad to answer any questions. yes?
q. mr. attorney general, people in and out of the department have commented that the appearance of propriety is important as propriety itself. and therefore, that a law enforcement officer who is under investigation ought to step aside while that investigation is under way. can you tell us why you have not stepped aside, and what message that sends to other law enforcement officers who may find themselves in a similar position?
a. well, the purpose of the independent counsel process is to enable people to go on about their duties and, at the same time, to have an independent and fair evaluation of whatever allegations may be pending
that's the process, that is the way it should work, and that's the way it is working in this case
and therefore, there is no reason _ as a matter of fact, if a person has to step aside merely on the basis of some allegation, however false, then it would be easy for unscrupulous persons to make allegations and therefore literally cause people to step aside and move out of their offices
q. are mr. burns and mr. weld unscrupulous persons?
a. i beg your pardon?
q. are mr. burns and mr. weld unscrupulous persons?
a. are they unscrupulous persons? no
q. why did mr. burns and mr. weld resign?
a. well, they've already indicated that they are resigning to go back into private practice
let me say that there were some basic differences as to the effect that recent events have had on the department
and beyond that, i think their resignations are going to have to speak for themselves
q. were those recent events the investigations, sir?
a. i beg your pardon?
q. could you elaborate _
a. i say, there was a difference as to the impact that recent events had on the department
in part, they were the fact that there is an independent counsel investigation, yes
police charged a 31-year-old builder friday with conspiracy in the kidnapping of a lebanese businessman, who escaped unharmed two days earlier from a rural bungalow where he was held for 24 hours
the kidnappers demanded 5 million swiss francs ($3.7 million) as ransom for ramzi ata dalloul, scotland yard said. dalloul, 52, is head of rad projects and developments, a management consulting firm
dalloul's captors apparently did not know he had escaped and made ransom calls to the man's home after he was gone, police said
anti-terrorist detectives arrested a man who accompanied dalloul to his home in london's fashionable kensington district wednesday night. derek stanley bumbridge, 31, was charged friday with conspiring ``with persons unknown'' to kidnap dalloul and was to appear in court on saturday
scotland yard would not comment on media reports that the man was dalloul's only guard and helped in the escape
police said dalloul believed at least five men were involved, four britons and one who spoke arabic
he was seized tuesday night after his car was rammed on the way home from his office in london's west end, and driven for about 15 minutes before being bundled into the back of a white van and bound
dalloul was taken to a bungalow in tenterden, kent, about 40 miles southeast of london, where he was handcuffed while one man stood guard
the kidnappers telephoned dalloul's wife, saeda, late tuesday night demanding the ransom and she told scotland yard shortly afterward
on wednesday evening, the kidnappers again contacted mrs. dalloul, repeating their demand and explaining the method of payment, police said
forty-five minutes later, dalloul telephoned his wife to say he had escaped and was on his way home, police said. he turned up about two hours later
pope john paul ii, carrying a black wooden cross, led a torchlight procession at the colosseum friday night that symbolically retraced christ's walk to his crucifixion
tens of thousands of people gathered to watch the via crucis, the way of the cross ritual that ends the saddest day of the roman catholic year
john paul began the walk inside the great arena, where tradition says ancient romans threw christians to the lions. he proceeded up cobblestone steps and ended on the edge of the roman forum, once the meeting place of rome's leaders
thousands of people followed the service from behind barricades marking the pope's path, reading from prayer booklets illuminated by candlelight. many added their voices to the chorus that chanted the service
during the walk, john paul pressed the 5-foot cross, which weighed only a pound, to his forehead as he marked the 14 stations of the cross that represent the physical torment and mockery jesus endured as he walked to his death
the stations include the three times christ fell under the weight of the cross, the placing of the crown of thorns and whipping by jailers
john paul, wearing a white skullcap and gold-trimmed cape over a white cassock, was illuminated at the beginning of the procession by torches placed in the colosseum's arches
descriptions of the various stations were read in italian, french, english, german, spanish and portuguese and in the pope's native language, polish
vatican radio and italian state-run television carried the event live. the television said it was transmitted to 27 countries on five continents
earlier friday, the pontiff heard confessions from 11 pilgrims and tourists in st. peter's basilica in keeping with a good friday tradition he began in 1979, during his first easter week as pope
several hundred people were waiting when he appeared in the basilica shortly after noon and stepped into one of the hand-carved mahogany confessional booths
for 70 minutes, he heard confessions from, among others, an italian family of three, a 59-year-old contractor from the netherlands and his daughter, and a 22-year-old student from california
two small planes collided friday and crashed, killing one person and critically injuring another, authorities said. one plane landed safely with four people aboard
we were climbing out toward the ocean. ... then all of a sudden there was a tremendous explosion. the windshield blew out,'' said bob bruce, 38, of camarillo, pilot of plane that landed safely. ``i looked over and there was another airplane that looked like it was descending; on its way down.''
bruce's rented plane, a cessna sky hawk, was damaged but landed at camarillo airport. he suffered facial cuts when the windshield shattered, said ventura county sheriff's lt. lou mccombs
a cessna 172 crashed in a rural area 65 miles west of los angeles, said nona makinson, operations manager at camarillo airport. one man aboard that plane died and another was in extremely critical condition, said spokeswoman millie schofield of ventura county medical center
bruce, who has eight years of flying experience, said he was on a sightseeing flight over the ocean when the collision occurred. his passengers, including boys ages 4 and 5, were not hurt
the national transportation and safety board was investigating the crash
q. do you feel vindicated? do you feel vindicated as a result of mr. mckay's _
a. i think mr. mckay's statement today is very helpful, but i think it has to be taken as to what it is
it's an interim statement, and it just shows again that people should not be rushing to judgment until all the conclusions are in
but in that regard, i think it's very helpful to point to that particular aspect of it. yes?
q. did mr. _
q. how do you respond then, mr. meese, to those who say in congress that you have become a liability for the administration and a disgrace for the country?
a. well, i would respond that for me to step aside or to do things that are incompatible with the actual state of affairs, for reasons i mentioned earlier, would be much more of a liability
and frankly, i've been tremendously appreciative of the broad support from law enforcement people, from people in congress on both sides of the aisle and elsewhere
and so i think there's no basis to step aside
q. is there any circumstance, sir, under which you would resign?
a. well, i'm not going into hypothetical questions. yes?
q. mr. attorney general, could you clarify (inaudible) weld told you when he said he was resigning?
a. no. i don't think it's appropriate to discuss what was meant to be a private conversation
q. why not?
q. sir _
q. could you clarify for us what he did tell you?
a. no. i'm not going into the private conversations or any other of the aspects, because in order to do so, i'd have to comment on a lot of things related to the matter that's under inquiry
yes, right down here?
q. did mr. fried suggest that he resign?
a. well again, i'm not going into any of the private conversations
i've talked with all of our management team, a management team that i am convinced is supportive of the way in which the department is going, and i'll leave it at that. yes?
q. mr. meese, on the question of mr. fried, he said that he would continue in his job as long as he could work with integrity and effectiveness. that's not exactly an ringing endorsement of your leadership, sir
a. well, i'm confident that mr. fried will always act with integrity and effectiveness. yes?
q. you used the term unscrupulous persons who might abuse the process, but _
a. yes. i was using it not in regard to anybody in the current situation, but in the hypothetical situation that if people wanted to get rid of someone in office, all they would have to do is make accusations
q. there has been the more general case that there's a growing trend toward the abuse of the criminal justice system for political ends, such as to the point when even an investigation is launched, this serves some people as an opportunity to begin a drum beat to get others out of office? isn't this what's happening really in your case and how can the system be rectified so that the mere introduction of an investigation or even indictment, anything short of conviction, brings with it the assumption of guilt?
a. well, i think there are some real problems along that line, and i will be happy to address those when this independent counsel matter is totally completed
now, any other questions? mr. archibald
q. attorney general, in interviews with attorneys throughout this department, both appointed people and career civil servants, the expressed view of many of these people is that whether or not you are indicted or indictable is really not the issue. the issue is that because of the prolonged investigation and the revelations that have come out in the press, that your credibility has been so tarnished that your effectiveness as attorney general has been so undermined that really, for the good of the department of justice, the administration and the country, (inaudible) people who are your professional colleagues are expressing their opinion that they think that really you should step aside and that this was the view that was apparently expresssed to you by mr. burns, mr. weld and mr. fried. sir, would you give us a definitive statement, if you are in disagreement with that opinion, as to why you disagreed with this opinion which seems to be very widely held in this department? soldiers for ... ; picks up 5th graf pvs: in washington...</note>
sandinista soldiers and contra rebels on friday began observing a 60-day cease-fire designed to give both sides time to arrange a permanent peace in their 6{-year-old war
a spokesman for the defense ministry said there were no reports of violations of the truce, which began after midnight thursday
the cease-fire provision was contained in a peace agreement signed march 23 in the border outpost of sapoa, but details remained to be worked out
soldiers for both the leftist government and the u.s.-backed rebels had been observing a temporary truce since march 21 while negotiators hammered out the peace agreement
an associated press reporter in northern nicaragua reported no signs of battle friday
we want a truce,'' said a rebel leader known as comandante ernesto, one of a group of contra leaders huddled in front of a wooden shack in the village of la vigia. ``this cease-fire is the first step toward peace.''
nearby, sandinista troops meandered down winding dirt roads
the heaviest fighting of the war has been around la vigia, 120 miles northeast of managua, and other parts of the mountainous north
in washington, president reagan signed a $48 million non-lethal aid package for the contras, but it probably will be at least two weeks before the rebels begin receiving supplies under the new legislation
there certainly is an urgent need among the (rebels) for medical supplies, food, clothing, the basic commodities of life,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``this bill is very welcome in that regard.''
u.s. aid to the contras ran out on feb. 29
there was no immediate comment from the sandinista government on the bill. most offices were closed for good friday observances in the predominantly roman catholic country
many nicaraguans marked the long easter weekend by taking vacations at beaches on the pacific coast. banks, government offices, stores and most restaurants were closed until monday
managua's three newspapers stopped publishing for the weekend
ortega charged thursday that the united states will try to undermine the nicaraguan peace process because negotiations ``debilitate the politics'' of the reagan administration
the (reagan) administration maintains in its thinking the decision to destroy ... the nicaraguan revolution and not to normalize relations with nicaragua,'' ortega said
on tuesday, ortega urged the united states to hold talks to normalize relations with his government
the peace agreement calls for contra rebels to gather in cease-fire zones during the first 15 days of april but left the conditions to be arranged in later talks
earlier this week, both sides held discussions on the cease-fire and agreed to set up two zones in the northern part of the country, two on the caribbean coast and one in the south
contra leader aristides sanchez said both sides had agreed not to pinpoint the exact locations
negotiations between the technical committees are set to begin at sapoa again tuesday to determine the size of the zones and operating rules for contras within the areas. still to be decided is how the contras will lay down their arms
under the peace agreement signed march 23, the sandinistas will grant freedom of expression and amnesty to political prisoners and will allow rebel leaders to take part in national talks
the contras, in turn, agreed to go to the cease-fire zones and accept only humanitarian aid from a neutral organization, such as the international red cross
on sunday, the sandinista government released 100 political prisoners from managua's zona franca prison as part of a three-stage amnesty agreement for the estimated 3,300 political prisoners
the sandinistas came to power in a revolution that ousted the pro-american, rightist regime of the late president anastasio somoza in july 1979. the united states supported the sandinistas initially, but in 1981 began financing the contras
protestants and roman catholics marched together through london, dublin and belfast on good friday and prayed for an end to sectarian violence
cardinal basil hume asked london marchers to pray for political leaders of britain, northern ireland and the irish republic who seek an end to the strife
today, as never before, healing is needed not only in grief-stricken ireland but here in the heart of london, since we are sadly but inevitably part of the problem,'' he said
the violence has always been the work of the few at the expense of the many who want nothing better than to live at peace with their neighbors.''
referring to the latest killings in northern ireland, hume said: ``for the sake of the future of our countries, there must be a renewed attempt to build a better society. this is no time to match violence with violence even in the face of real or perceived injustice.''
thirteen people have been killed in the province since march 6, when british soldiers killed three irish republican army guerrillas in gibraltar
the mainly catholic ira is fighting to drive the british out of northern ireland, where protestants are a majority, and unite the province with the irish republic
archbishop of canterbury robert runcie, spiritual leader of the church of england, sent a message of peace to the 200 people who marched silently from the catholic westminster cathedral to westminster abbey
i pray that the people of ireland and england will forgive each other for the hurts and wrongs done in the past and find in today's common action a deeper unity of spirit,'' he said
about 400 people marched through belfast and 1,000 in the center of dublin
northern ireland police said three people were arrested in belfast after stones and eggs were thrown at people marching from falls road, a catholic district, to shankill road, a protestant stronghold
the incident was over very quickly,'' a spokesman said
a. well, i doubt that it's very widely held, and i have had so many expressions to me personally to the contrary so that i think that the action i'm taking is in the best interests of the department, and i'm satisfied with that. yes?
q. most of us who cover this beat were under the impression that you had at least two people who had accepted jobs and a third on the griddle. how come you can't announce at least two of them today? is there a hitch?
a. no, as i've said before, when i'm ready to announce the people i will announce, and up until that time, i will not comment on the various steps in the process, and i also mentioned earlier that when i do announce the people who will be holding these particular positions, i want to have them available here
q. general meese?
a. yes?
q. it has _ senator levin has said that one of the indications showing your support and confidence within the agency would be the _ how rapidly you were able to get someone to step in to fill the vacancies. now it's been put off until next week. is that an indication of a lack of support?
a. not at all
we have excellent people who are being considered for all of the positions in the department, and i have no problem whatsoever as to that. yes?
q. why do you think you've been in constant difficulty?
a. well, i don't know that i've been in constant difficulty
i think one of the things that you have, whenever there's an independent counsel investigation, is it is an exhaustive process
that's been true not only in my case, but in all of the cases
and i think that's proper, because when that _ when that particular process is completed, i think there will be no doubt in anybody's mind what the facts are, and at that time, i will rest on that judgment. yes?
q. what's your opinion of how your problems are affecting the administration? what are your personal feelings about this?
a. i don't know
it's always hard to ask an individual, but all i can say is that i have had tremendous support from within the administration at the highest levels, and throughout the administration from other departments, from other cabinet members, and i'm confident that the action which i'm taking at the present time is the right one
q. general meese?
a. yes
q. majority leader byrd called you the jeweled crown of the sleaze factor of this administration. could you comment on that?
a. no, i'm not going to comment on that. all right. yes?
q. sir, in regard to the remarks on exhaustive investigation, a number of witnesses, including mr. wallach and (inaudible) mr. chinn, are not cooperating with that investigation. how can you say that the investigation is totally exhaustive when key witnesses are not cooperating with the case?
a. i'm not going to comment on any aspect of, or details of the inquiry. that's something that will have to be determined by the independent counsel
jesse jackson has maintained a slight advantage over massachusetts gov. michael dukakis among texas democratic convention delegates, who will pick 64 delegates to the party's national convention
presidential candidates have to compete twice for delegates from texas, once in the state's march 8 primary and again in a series of caucuses and conventions which begin that day. while the primary results governed allocation of 119 national delegates, another 64 were at stake through the caucuses
dukakis, who won the primary, was lagging behind jackson in state convention delegates in a nearly complete count issued by the party on thursday
of the 5,037 state delegates counted so far, jackson led with 1,722, dukakis had 1,666 and tennessee sen. albert gore jr. had 915. another 251 state convention delegates remain to be counted
houston may host the first of four scheduled debates between the 1988 presidential nominees this fall, but vice president george bush's campaign has not committed to participate in it
bush spokesman pete teeley said the vice president, the expected gop nominee, intends to debate the democratic nominee, but only on his terms and at a site chosen by the candidates, not the parties. but he said thursday it would be premature to discuss which cities bush, who calls houston home, would consider
since last july the democratic and republican national parties have heavily promoted the series of debates and are scouting potential sites
but donald ward, coordinator of the city's bid, said further delay in an announcement of debate sites may force houston to drop its effort to host the event. this includes the release of 2,500 local hotel rooms and the third floor of the george r. brown convention center which have been held since october in anticipation of the debate, he said
iowa democratic party leaders vowed friday to crush an attempt by political extremist lyndon larouche's supporters to use the party's mantle in the june primary, even if it means urging voters to go republican in some cases
to us, these people are political poison and we are going to beat them,'' said party spokesman phil roeder
they apparently feel this is fertile ground, but we are going to teach them a major lesson,'' said joe shanahan, who runs legislative elections for the party
their alarm grew out of the number of larouche supporters filing nomination papers to run in the june 8 primary for legislative and congressional seats. the party leaders said they identified 16 larouche backers who met friday's filing deadline
larouche supporters could win the democratic nomination in some legislative districts because no other democrats are running
if that happens, roeder said, ``we will encourage people to vote against them.''
groups and individuals are spending more money overall on independent campaigns for congressional candidates, but are spending less on negative ads, the federal election commission has found
a survey of 1985-86 election spending patterns revealed that independent expenditures for house and senate candidates was $9.3 million, up from $5.9 million in 1983-84
independent expenditures, in which a person or group buys advertising or otherwise campaigns for the candidate, are legal as long as the person making the expenditure does not coordinate with the candidate's campaign
in the 1986 congressional elections, independent expenditures against congressional candidates totalled $1.3 million, compared to $2.6 million in 1984
independent expenditures in favor of candidates totalled $8 million, up from $3.3 million spent in the last election
meese received other good news friday when solicitor general charles fried said he would remain at the justice department, even though fried reportedly urged meese to resign earlier in the week
i have concluded that while i am able to lead'' the solicitor general's office ``i should continue to do so,'' fried said. the new york times reported that fried had urged meese to quit wednesday but that meese had rejected the suggestion. fried's statement did not endorse meese
the independent counsel said that if at the end of his investigation there remains ``insufficient evidence to warrant a prosecution as to these or any other matters'' he will issue a report covering all the matters which have been under investigation
based on the evidence developed to date, he (mckay) does not intend to recommend that the grand jury return an indictment against meese as to the `aqaba pipeline' matter or as to matters relating to mr. meese's investments, including the so-called `baby bells' matter,'' mckay's statement said
if he issues a report without obtaining an indictment, mckay said he would ``refer all of those matters for review and action by the appropriate administrative authorities,'' an apparent reference to office of government ethics procedures
the ethics office has put its investigation on hold of meese's initial failure to disclose investments in the ``baby bell'' companies pending mckay's probe, said deputy director donald campbell
if that proceeding is revived, the office could move to have meese make a complete disclosure of those holdings, campbell said
nathan lewin, one of meese's lawyers representing him in the criminal investigation, criticized what he called ``speculation and uninformed judgments by others that have appeared in the media.''
today's announcement by the independent counsel should encourage everyone to continue abiding by the process,'' justice department spokesman terry eastland said. ``it is very important for the rule of law that we allow the process that the congress has ordained by enacting the independent counsel statute to continue to run its course.''
mckay has been investigating whether meese conspired with wallach and others to violate the foreign corrupt practices act in connection with an alleged scheme to pay the israeli government and the country's labor party to protect a proposed $1 billion oil pipeline from military attack by israel
four months after enlisting meese's assistance on a $1 billion iraqi pipeline project, wallach wrote the attorney general a memo saying that a portion of up to $700 million from the pipeline would be paid to the israeli labor party of then-israeli prime minister shimon peres. the pipeline was never built
wallach at the time was legal counsel to swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the project and a longtime close friend of peres
meese has contended he never read the portion of wallach's memo referring to labor party payments, rappaport says he never suggested any such plan and peres says he was never offered any money
mckay also has been investigating meese's ownership of stock in companies created by the breakup of at&amp;t when he was in a position to make policy affecting the telecommunications industry
meese as attorney general met with executives of four of the regional bell telephone companies at a time when he owned $14,000 worth of stock in the baby bells, raising conflict-of-interest questions
at the time, the bell companies were seeking a reversal of the justice department's position opposing the bells' expansion into new areas of business. meese ended up approving a reversal of the department's position early in 1987 in accordance with the companies' wishes
meese says he had intended to sell the stock in 1985 but was unable to do so because he had lost the stock certificates. on his financial disclosure forms for 1985 and 1986, meese listed the bell stocks as having been sold. the fact that he still owned them wasn't uncovered until last summer, when pressure from congress forced the attorney general to disclose the details of his financial holdings
in december, mckay's office issued a similar annnouncement stating there was insufficient evidence at that time to bring criminal charges against meese in connection with his efforts to help the scandal-plagued wedtech corp. get defense contracts
a storm spread snow up to 10 inches of snow from the southern rockies to the southern plains on friday, and heavy rain ahead of the storm raised a threat of flooding
snow fell over the southeastern third of colorado, the northeastern half of new mexico, the texas panhandle, the oklahoma panhandle and western kansas
there were reports of 10 inches of snow over sections of the texas panhandle and 6 inches of snow at ulysses, kan., the national weather service said
in oklahoma, the range was from 5 inches near boise city to 10 inches near guymon. amounts in colorado were mostly around 3 inches or less
the snow closed some highways in the texas and oklahoma panhandles
ahead of the snow, rain and thunderstorms extended from the remainder of kansas and oklahoma into eastern texas, producing marble-size hail in oklahoma. ground in the southern half of the plains was already saturated and flash flood watches were posted over northeastern and central oklahoma and the southeastern quarter of kansas
the caney river was expected to crest during the night at bartlesville, okla., at about 3 feet above flood stage. the neosho river was expected to crest about 4 feet above flood stage sunday evening at commerce, okla., and oswego, kan
showers extended across northeastern texas, the lower two-thirds of the mississippi valley, the ohio valley, the tennessee valley, eastern mississippi, alabama, western georgia, northern pennsylvania and southern new york state
elsewhere, rain continued over the northern oregon coast
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 26 degrees at yellowstone national park, wyo., to 85 degrees at kingsville, texas. the early morning low for the nation was zero at yellowstone national park
for saturday, rain and occasional thunderstorms were forecast from new jersey across pennsylvania, the ohio valley and the tennessee valley, from the northwestern half of georgia across the florida panhandle, alabama, mississippi and southeastern louisiana, and from iowa across missouri, northern arkansas, the east-central plains, illinois, southern wisconsin and lower michigan. scattered rain was forecast over the northern pacific coast
highs in the 40s and 50s were predicted over new england, the great lakes, the upper mississippi valley, the central plains, oklahoma, the texas panhandle and the southern rockies, as well as the pacific northwest; in the 80s over the florida peninsula, southern texas, central california and the desert southwest, and in the 60s and 70s over the remainder of the nation
the federal aviation administration on friday ordered a $632,200 civil fine for numerous safety violations against orion air, the cargo airline that is being sought out to fly passengers in case of a strike at eastern airlines
the civil penalty stemmed from violations of federal aviation regulations uncovered during an inspection of orion air's operations a year ago. the faa said the violations have since been corrected, although the agency is still reviewing whether to allow the airline to fly passengers
the north carolina-based cargo airline became the object of controversy in recent months after it entered into an agreement to fly passengers on eastern airlines' routes if eastern becomes the target of a strike by machinists and pilots
eastern's unions have charged that the tactic is a violation of labor law. earlier this week a federal judge ordered eastern to halt the training of non-union orion pilots under the contract with eastern, putting the future of eastern's plans with orion air into doubt
the faa said its fine stemmed from practices by orion air that involved operating some aircraft that did not meet federal airworthiness requirements and allowing pilots to fly too many hours in violation of federal duty-time limits
for example, the agency said, an orion air boeing 727 was found to have flown 1,193 flights while violating an airworthiness requirement involving the plane's mechanism that adjusts wing slats. slat position is critical in an aircraft's takeoff because it affects lift
in another example cited by the faa, some pilots of orion air were found to have flown slightly more than 100 hours during a single month. the faa requires that no pilot fly more than 100 hours during a 30-day period and most commercial passenger airlines schedule their pilots to no more than 70 to 75 hours per month
the faa said in a statement that orion air, which has its headquarters in raleigh, n.c., ``moved quickly to correct the deficiencies (discovered during the inspection) and is now in compliance with the (federal) regulations.''
a request that orion air be given a certificate to fly passengers is still pending before the agency, said faa spokesman fred farrar
few travelers likely have heard of orion air, which has 55 jet aircraft and serves such air freight companies as united parcel service, emery air freight and purolator
in an attempt to blunt the effects of a strike, eastern earlier this year disclosed that it was leasing 26 of its jets to orion air. eastern officials called the move ``insurance'' that would allow the cargo airline to fly passengers on eastern routes if pilots honor a possible strike by eastern's machinists
the faa acknowledged during congressional hearings in february that it found numerous safety violations at orion air during its inspection in april and march, 1987
at the time, orion officials acknowledged the violations, but said that the problems had been corrected
orion officials could not immediately be reached for comment on the civil penalties announced by the faa friday
gov. evan mecham stayed at his suburban ``government in exile'' friday as state senators prepared for the weighty decision of whether to remove the impeached governor from office
mecham, who has been giving speeches and making campaign trips, stepped out of the spotlight friday as his senate impeachment trial approached final arguments, and possibly a vote, on monday
there will be nothing over the weekend,'' said a secretary at mecham's office in suburban glendale. ``he is in the office just working on things here.''
at the senate building, which was officially closed for good friday, republican majority leader robert usdane was at his desk, poring over legal instructions and a trial memorandum from the prosecution
he insisted he has not made up his mind whether mecham is guilty or innocent
the first-term republican is charged with attempting to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat by one of his staffers and misusing $80,000 from a protocol fund by loaning it to his car dealership
i have to go back and look at the evidence again,'' usdane said. ``nothing hit me between the eyes, so i'm going to have to go back and see what's there.''
usdane said he found the second charge regarding the $80,000 loan ``heavier.''
there's more involvement by the governor. more people testified,'' he said, adding that testimony by mecham's former chief of staff, jim colter, contradicted the governor's
usdane said his greatest concern was that his senate colleagues not be swayed by phone calls from constituents urging them to vote one way or the other or face retribution at the ballot box
when it comes down to the bottom line, people will make a decision and not let what is going to happen to them politically change that decision,'' usdane said. ``at least that's what i hope.''
politics was evident this week when the 11 democratic senators voted as a bloc wednesday to dismiss the third impeachment count against mecham. democrats said they wanted to get the trial over in advance of the may 17 gubernatorial recall election. if he is removed from office, mecham will not be able to run
five republicans who have consistently voted on the governor's side joined the democrats to dismiss the count, which accused him of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan
mecham also faces an april 21 criminal trial on felony charges of concealing the campaign loan
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate would be required to convict mecham, the first u.s. governor impeached in six decades. another two-thirds vote could bar him for life from holding elective office in arizona
clergyman carrying crosses led hundreds of people on a silent march through downtown durban friday to protest the white-led government's new restrictions on anti-apartheid groups
in a separate development, police reported that a white constable was fatally stabbed overnight by a group of blacks while on foot patrol in pinetown west, on the outskirts of durban. no details about the attack were released
nearly 1,000 people participated in the march at dawn. nineteen people wore gags to symbolize restrictions that banned the opposition newspaper new nation and major organizations opposed to apartheid, under which the black majority has no voice in national affairs
many voices which stand for justice are being silenced in our country, and we commit ourselves to ensure that those voices may be heard once again,'' said miriam cele of the dependents' conference, which assists the families of detainees
among those addressing the protesters at church services before and after the march was archie gumede, co-president of the united democratic front, south africa's largest anti-apartheid coalition and one of the groups banned from all activity in february
gumede was issued an individual restriction order limiting his political activities
other speakers at the services were roman catholic archbishop denis hurley and the rev. stanley mogoba, general secretary of the methodist church
after the march, women from the black sash civil rights organization planted crosses on the beach opposite regional army headquarters to protest monday's commando raid in botswana in which four people were killed
south africa said the victims were guerrillas of the outlawed african national congress, the main guerrilla group fighting apartheid. botswana says three of those killed were botswanan citizens
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
q. there are reports that first lady nancy reagan would like to see you go. what can you tell us about your relations with mrs. reagan?
a. i have always had a very good relationship with mrs. reagan and that still continues
q. you say you've had strong support in congress and yet everything we've heard in the public record except for maybe one or two senators who have supported you has been quite critical, especially among republicans who say that you are hurting the party and you are doing a disservice to the president. do you not feel that in a political election year, perhaps you should step, if not down, aside?
a. i can only tell you what people have told me, and as i say, they come from both sides of the aisle
q. are you troubled by what senator thurmond told you yesterday?
a. no, senator thurmond was very helpful and i'm very appreciative with my conversations with him
q. have any of these problems been caused by any mistakes of your own? and if so, what is wrong?
a. well, again, i will be happy to talk about my own conduct in detail, when the independent counsel inquiry is over
as a matter of fact, i'll be meeting with all of you at that time and that's when i can answer those questions more fully
q. mr. meese, in the general sense, you promised the senate judiciary committee _
a. i'm sorry, i can't hear you _
q. you promised the senate judiciary commmittee during your confirmation hearings that you had learned a lesson from the stein inquiry and that you would be more sensitive to ethical questions in the future. do you feel in general without going into the details of the investigation that you can't talk about, that you've lived up to that promise?
a. yes. ok?
q. some officials have said this week that you've been so distracted by your problems that you spend only 10 minutes a week on the war on drugs, that you haven't been available for meetings to try to decide what to do about the mcnally decision. could you comment on those perceptions?
a. yes, that's totally untrue
i would say that i devote a good portion of my time
first of all, virtually all my time during the work week and a good portion of weekends is devoted to the business of the department and the attention that i've given to the matters of leading the drug policy board occupies a good portion of my time, probably somewhere between 30 and 50 percent of my time
q. that's during the week
a. during the week, yes. not on sundays
q. sir, why isn't the public entitled to know why mr. burns and weld, who are public officials who quit for reasons which involve public policy, why aren't they entitled to know what they told you and what their concerns were?
a. because _ as has been my practice in all personnel matters, i leave that up to the individuals themselves, and i do not go into detail as to what they've told me in confidential conversations. yes?
q. attorney general, would you tell us why judge adams is reluctant to take the deputy's job?
a. i don't know what you're talking about
i never comment on anything or anybody affirmatively, negatively, affirm or deny as to any person unless and until we're ready to make an announcement
q. you said _
a. yes
q. _ you said you were talking to people of quality. he is a person of quality. why is he saying no?
a. i'm talking to a lot of people of quality
hello?
q. is it your intention to stay on the job until the end of the administration?
a. well, again, i've told you before. i've never set either a limit or a deadline, but it is certainly my intent to carry on my duties as long as the president wants me to
i think that just about exhausts the questions
thank you. in 2nd graf, ``james c.''</note>
in with am-meese bjt
here is the text of the statement issued friday by the office of independent counsel james c. mckay regarding the investigation of attorney general edwin meese iii:

james c. mckay, the independent counsel investigating attorney general edwin meese iii, in order to clarify the current status of this criminal investigation, announced today that, based on the evidence developed to date, he does not intend to recommend that the grand jury return an indictment against mr. meese as to the `aqaba pipeline'' matter or as to the matters relating to mr. meese's investments including the so-called ``baby bells'' matter
this announcement is being made because of recent media reports that an indictment is imminent
mr. mckay has previously made a similar announcement with respect to the wedtech matter
mr. mckay emphasized, however, that the grand jury's investigation is not yet complete as to these and other matters, and will continue at least through the end of april
if at the end of that period of time there remains insufficient evidence to warrant a prosecution as to these or any other matters, and if the grand jury and the office of independent counsel concur that further investigation is not warranted, the office of independent counsel will issue a report covering all the matters which have been under investigation
also, in that event, mr. mckay will refer all of those matters for review and action by the appropriate admnistrative authorities. annually</head>
a nasa scientist said friday he found new evidence supporting a controversial theory that millions of small, dark, water-bearing comets strike earth's atmosphere every year
other scientists remained skeptical, but physicist clayne yeates, of nasa's jet propulsion laboratory, said: ``i'm very convinced that what i'm seeing is real. ... these objects would not have been seen inadvertently during other searches. they're small, they're dark and they're moving fast.''
the theory was first proposed in 1986 by university of iowa physicist louis frank, who said friday he was met with ``total disbelief'' and ``lost a lot of friends'' because of it
i'm happy (about yeates' observations), but it's been a long two years,'' frank said by telephone from iowa city
a nasa news release called frank's hypothesis ``one of the decade's most controversial astronomical theories.''
frank proposed the theory after ultraviolet photographs of earth taken by the national aeronautics and space administration's dynamics explorer 1 spacecraft in 1981-86 revealed countless dark spots that appeared to be tiny holes in earth's atmosphere
frank theorized that about 10 million comets, essentially 30-foot-diameter fluffy snowballs with a dark coating, plunge into the atmosphere each year, forming holes then breaking up and vaporizing
he hypothesized that during earth's early history, billions of the tiny comets would have provided enough water to fill all the oceans
yeates said his observations on the 36-inch spacewatch telescope at kitt peak national observatory in arizona make him believe that at least a million such comets hit the atmosphere annually at a speed of 22,000 mph
the comets appeared as white streaks on enhanced telescope images, said yeates, who is deputy project scientist for the planned 1989 launch of the galileo space probe to jupiter
i'm a little skeptical,'' said astronomer anita cochran, of the university of texas at austin. ``he (yeates) may be seeing something, but to leap to 10-meter comets is a fairly large leap of imagination.''
frank said a soon-to-be-published study, in which atmospheric holes were recently observed by sweden's viking spacecraft, also supports his theory
university of michigan physicist and planetary scientist thomas donahue said: ``i'm not going to say this sounds like confirmation of frank's comets or not. but it certainly is exciting.''
about a year ago, donahue used 1977 data from the voyager 2 space probe to show that earth's atmosphere contained an excess of hydrogen atoms released from water vapor. he said the discovery could be consistent with frank's theory, but also could be explained if the hydrogen was freed from 10 million times fewer comets that were smaller, faster but much more active than those postulated by frank
the less abundant comets wouldn't provide enough water to fill the oceans, donahue said
i really am a bit skeptical'' of yeates' observations, said brian marsden, associate director for planetary sciences at the harvard-smithsonian center for astrophysics in cambridge, mass
if they (comets) are as numerous as he's talking about, then some of these should show up when the telescope is in more normal operation, and they haven','' marsden said
frank replied that only two specialized telescopes in the country, including spacewatch, are capable of observing the comets
cochran voiced the most common objection to frank's theory: if so many icy comets hit earth's atmosphere, they also should strike the moon, creating a lot of water vapor. yet the moon has very little water vapor
yeates said his observations are consistent with frank's theory that the comets orbit the sun in the same direction as earth, and that they are very dark, reflecting only 2 percent of the sunlight that hits them
despite the large number of such comets, there is so much space around earth that they would strike any single spacecraft only once every 100 million years, he said
a group of hungarian students has established an independent youth group intended as an alternative to the communist youth organization kisz, one of the students reported friday
the objective ... is to create a new autonomous and independent youth organization for the politically active ... reform-minded youth groups,'' said a statement issued by the group, according to miklos andrasi
andrasi, 25, a recent university graduate in economics, said by telephone from budapest that the group was formally established wednesday. he said it has 37 members so far and that it wants to work for a ``new hungary.''
andrasi said kisz has been losing influence among the country's youth. he said the new group, fidesz _ the alliance of young democrats _ would accept communist party members
the group hoped to talk to representatives of kisz soon about the possibility of cooperating, he said, but it rejects the idea of membership in both organizations
there have been increased calls in hungary for more pluralism and political reforms to accompany a strict austerity program that parliament adopted last september to help the country's stagnating economy
the group's statement said fidesz wanted hungary to have a mixed economy and democracy
s-charl, switzerland (ap) _ an avalanche engulfed a dutch skiing party on san lorenzo mountain friday, killing five people and injuring a sixth in the deadliest snowslide in the swiss alps in three years, police said
the deaths brought the skiing season's avalanche toll in switzerland to 19
the snowslide occurred at noontime and swept seven dutch skiers and a local mountain guide down the slope. the guide and one tourist freed themselves and alerted rescue helicopters by a walkie-talkie radio, police reported
search teams assisted by dogs recovered five bodies and rescued an injured woman who was flown to a zurich hospital
the skiers were at the 8,600-foot level of the nearly 10,000-foot mountain when they were struck by the avalanche. the swiss avalanche research institute on friday had warned of moderate snowslide danger above 6,600 feet
police did not release the names of the victims, but said the dutch group came to s-charl on sunday for a week of ski touring
it was the deadliest avalanche in switzerland since 11 people were killed near zermatt in march 1985. in graf 7, bgng ``he's great''</note>
democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson called friday for higher prices for farm products and said most consumers can afford to ``pay a few more pennies for a glass of milk or for a cone of ice cream or for a loaf of bread.''
a crowd nearly the size of the entire population of this town gathered on bud and faye lee's farm to hear jackson call for fair farm prices, a move designed to capture the votes of the 2,500-plus farmers who attended the rally
the fact is farmers deserve fair prices and workers deserve fair wages and the rich must pay fair taxes,'' jackson said on the dairy farm outside of amery, a town of 2,800. ``the reality is if urban people are working, they can pay a few more pennies for a glass of milk or for a cone of ice cream or for a loaf of bread.''
the preacher-turned-politician campaigned for another full day across wisconsin in preparation for tuesday's primary. jackson is locked in a tight race with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis here, according to pre-primary polls
from the lee farm, he headed to an indian reservation near green bay and to meet with union workers he stood with in a strike last year
farmers are a key part of the coalition that jackson hopes will give him another big-state victory, and the almost all-white crowd in amery suggested he is making some progress
he's great,'' said david dittman, a farmer from st. croix county, wis. ``he's the only one who has been standing up for the family farm.''
we don't have to invent a 30-second tv spot showing jesse jackson with the people: he's been with the people over the years,'' said texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower, on hand for the event
jackson, standing on a hay wagon in front of dark blue grain silos on the 600-acre dairy farm, returned to his religious roots in his first event on good friday
while so many farmers have been driven under in polk county, and though there is so much pain all around us representing the crucifixion ... there is a sense that the crucifixion is not going to last much longer, somehow we are going to roll the stone away and there is going to be renewal, resurrection, new hope ... as we the people come together,'' he said
jackson, saying he has stood with farmers for years, repeated his support for the liberal harkin-gephardt family farm legislation and said he backs higher milk price supports. he did not specify what increase he would support
jackson blamed middlemen in the food business and the government for the farm problems and for increasing food prices
the farmer did not take advantage of the consumer, it was conagra, cargill and the barracudas that ate up the farmers,'' he said, mentioning several large grain companies
the system has collapsed because you had good farmers and a poor president,'' jackson added
he accused the reagan administration of misrepresenting the situation with the dairy industry in order to cut spending on price supports _ as it did in january. at the same time, he said the administration was shutting down a free-cheese distribution program _ a major outlet for surplus milk products
jackson refered again to criticism of his lack of governmental experience
there is a lot of talk now days about experience. mine is in leadership. ... some officeholders are not leaders. and some leaders are not officeholders,'' he said
masked gunmen opened fire friday in a restaurant in a naples suburb, killing three people and wounding two, italian news reports said
the news agency agi said the gunmen belonged to a neopolitan gangs and there is a feud among rival underworld organizations
reports said the dead included two ex-convicts and a waitress who was serving lunch at their table when three or four men began shooting inside the the little rabbit restaurant
two other people described as ex-convicts were wounded, one seriously, in the attack in the torre del greco suburb, the agencies said
soviet and american scientists will conduct joint ecological studies of the bering sea and central pacific ocean this summer, the official tass news agency reported friday
it said the decision was made at a meeting of soviet and american scientists in the georgian city of batumi
the studies running from july and run through october will assess man's impact on the bodies of water, tass said, but gave no details
a bus collided with a car and plummeted into a ravine in an accident that killed 13 people and injured 42, the government newspaper reported friday
it quoted witnesses as saying the bus swerved to avoid a bulldozer parked beside the ivory coast's main highway thursday and met a car head-on
the newspaper said four people in the car were killed and a fifth was injured, and firemen removed nine bodies and 41 injured people from the bus
accidents are frequent on the highway linking abidjan, the country's capital and largest city, with the central city of bouake
an 80-year-old, three-masted square rigger that sank jan. 15 was raised from the murky boston harbor on friday by three giant cranes
the danish-built regina maris, believed to be the nation's last working square rigger of is size, had gone down in 30 feet of water at dockside, leaving only its masts protruding from the water
the deck broke the surface friday afternoon, eliciting a sigh of relief from salvagers who had slung cables around the hull of the historic, 114-foot barkentine
with a ship this age and it being a wooden ship, we were concerned that if it wasn't lifted uniformly ... we would pull one of the lifting cables through the ship, so it was important that we lifted it evenly,'' said jim frye, managing director of marina bay of quincy, owner of the vessel. ``it was a little dramatic, to say the least.''
debris cluttered the deck and hung from the rigging, but the regina maris did not appear damaged
the ship had been docked at marina bay for two years. it had been taken to boston marine workers for routine maintenance when it sank without explanation
the vessel will be put in dry dock, where an effort will be made to determine the cause of the sinking
frye said the proprietors planned to turn the vessel into a floating restaurant
he said the $50,000 operation to refloat the ship took six weeks of planning. one of the giant cranes had to be brought in from new jersey
field superintendent david kenny of cashman co., which raised the ship, said the regina maris weighed more than 100 tons and the cranes had a total lift capacity of 515 tons
the knot left everybody's stomach'' as the ship came up, he said
an israeli cabinet minister said his country had no intention of attacking medium-range missiles recently acquired by saudi arabia
in an interview to be broadcast saturday by the arabic service of radio france international, yitzhak navon said:
as a vice prime minister, i can state that israel has no intention of striking saudi arabia or any other country. and if it is confirmed that these missiles threaten israel, there are diplomatic means to counter such a threat. countries like syria, iraq and libya have missiles. israel has not threatened them or done anything else.''
a french script of the interview was obtained by the associated press
the washington post reported last month that the israeli air force had been conducting unusually intensive low-level bombing practice runs. it quoted u.s. intelligence officials as saying the runs could be in preparation for a pre-emptive strike at the missiles
president reagan warned israel a week ago against attacking the css-2 missiles the saudis purchased from china
it is believed the missiles have a range of 1,000 miles _ capable of reaching israel
navon is minister of education and culture and a member of foreign minister shimon peres' labor party. peres is deputy prime minister and navon is one of several vice prime ministers in the cabinet
a delegation from amnesty international, the london-based human rights organization, is in cuba on a fact-finding mission and has met with prison inmates, according to cuba's prensa latina news agency. in a dispatch monitored in mexico city, the agency said amnesty representatives arrived in cuba on march 24 and on thursday inspected the boniato prison in santiago de cuba, 430 miles southeast of havana. it said the visitors spoke with inmates
prensa latina said ian martin, director of the organization's department for the americas, heads the amnesty team. it quoted martin as saying the prison visit was ``very special, directly related to our work.'' the agency said the amnesty group also met convicts in other cuban prisons, but gave no details
the group also met with members of the government's judicial tribunals and officials of the federal prosecutor's office, prensa latina reported
it said the amnesty visit came at the invitation of vice president carlos gonzalez perez. the dispatch did not say how many people were in the amnesty group or give other details
hundreds of christmas stockings stuffed with cocaine paraphernalia were among $5 million worth of merchandise seized from a company, authorities said friday
company owner stephan pesce, 31, of massapequa was charged under a 1987 federal law making it illegal to sell or transport drug items across state lines and to foreign countries, said u.s. attorney andrew j. maloney of brooklyn
customs agents searched main street distributors inc. in hauppauge on thursday and carted off two truckloads of merchandise, maloney said. much of the drug paraphernalia was imported from taiwan or japan, he said
the christmas stockings, sealed with a picture of a smiling santa claus and a ``merry christmas'' greeting, contained a mirror, razor blade, a metal tube, a small glass container and a cocaine spoon, authorities said
pesce could receive up to three years in jail and up to $1 million in fines if convicted
twenty suspected kurdish guerrillas were killed in a shootout friday with security forces in southeastern turkey, the state radio said
it was the highest number of rebels slain in a single battle since the kurdish insurgency began in august 1984, it said
the radio said the guerrillas opened fire after they were surrounded by security forces and told to surrender. two soldiers were also killed in the fight, which took place near the village of kadirli in nusaybin township, the radio said
the report quoted the the regional governor's office as saying two other soldiers were wounded
in addition to the battle casualties, a major was killed and five soldiers were injured when the helicopter taking them to the zone crashed, according to the report. it did not say what might have caused the crash
most of the rebels in the area belong to an organization that seeks to establish a marxist kurdish state in southeastern and eastern turkey
more than 700 civilians and military personnel and 700 kurdish insurgents have been killed in violence related to the revolt since 1984
ethnic kurds make up about one-fifth of turkey's population of 52 million
two buses collided on a mountain road in central mexico friday, killing five people and injuring 25, highway police spokesman jose manuel fonseca reported
he said both drivers were among the dead in the accident that occurred at 5:45 a.m. 35 miles southwest of mexico city on the road to oaxaca
one bus was from the red star firm and the other from the cargo and passenger line, according to fonseca
fourteen people were killed and 26 injured in a bus accident thursday near valle de bravo in central mexico
the following graphics are available in ap access
in this menu each graphic's file name (all caps) is followed by a brief description, time of input into the ap access host computer and the sau column measurement. all times are eastern standard

campeau, (map) locates retailers owned by federated dept. stores and campeau corp., 4-1, 610p, 3c x 7
ritalin, logo for `r is for ritalin' series, 4-1, 510p, 1c x 2[
masters, (map) course for 52nd masters golf tourn., 4-1, 510p, 2c x 6 7@8
takeover, value and number of recent bids, 4-1 110p, 1c x 5
construction, february spending figures chart, 4-1 1p, 1c x 4|
time, shows daylight savings time, 4-1 12a, 1c x 3
chemwar, lethal poison gases used in warfare, 3@31-11p, 3c x 5]
hockey, locates int. hockey league teams (map) adv.4-2,4-3, 3-31, 8p, 2c x 3''
leaders, corrected version of national and american league leading players, 3-31 430p, 2c x 8{ and 2c x 8}
stats, corrected version of national and amercian league stats, 3-31 430p, 2c x 8 and 2c x 9. subs 4th graf, edwards last..., with 1 graf to update with final radio broadcast.</note>
douglas edwards, who was the nation's first nightly tv anchorman, preceding walter cronkite in the job at cbs, had his last day at the network on friday after 46 years
friday's midday ``cbs newsbreak'' was his last television appearance for cbs
he concluded it with a personal statement: ``and so ends the chapter of almost 46 years as this reporter moves on along the journey. a deep bow of gratitude, love and respect to the men and women of cbs news and to the company for which they stand. to you out there, thank you for honoring me with your presence in my audience, and most of all for your voices, your most sweet voices. douglas edwards, cbs news new york.''
edwards' last radio broadcast was friday night. at its close, cbs news vice president joe dembo wished edwards ``goodbye and godspeed,'' and cbs evening news anchorman dan rather saluted him as ``one of the founding fathers'' of broadcast journalism
president reagan sent a congratulatory letter calling edwards a ``consummate professional.''
over the years, countless men and women have turned to you for the news, especially in time of crisis, and have felt reassured that they are `getting it straight' when they hear the the voice of douglas edwards. i can't think of any greater tribute to a journalist than that,'' said reagan's letter
edwards joined cbs radio in 1942, joining edward r. murrow's staff in london towards the end of world war ii. later, he served as paris bureau chief
when cbs launched its evening news show in 1948, then-cbs president frank stanton tapped edwards to anchor it and called it ``douglas edwards with the news.''
nbc followed with ``camel news caravan,'' and abc later launched a nightly news show with john daly
edwards stayed in the job for 14 years, until the show became the ``cbs evening news'' and cronkite took over as anchor
edwards, 70, plans to move to sarasota, fla. he will continue lecturing on broadcast journalism and start work on a book
talks between striking seamen and p and o european ferries broke down on good friday, the first day of the easter weekend, and no further talks were scheduled, government mediator dennis boyd said
p and o is one of the main ferry services across the english channel. at dover, where the line's seamen have been off the job for two months, about 3,800 frustrated tourists were stuck in a line of more than 100 buses, an equal number of cars and 500 trucks
p and o chairman peter ford issued a statement to those waiting at dover: ``i have nothing but apologies and regret for the people who have been disrupted. i remain convinced we will achieve a solution to this dispute, which i believe is being prolonged unnecessarily by people who are not trying to solve it.''
tourists who had ferry reservatons for calais faced delays of up to 12 hours and truck drivers could be waiting even longer, said paul youden of the dover harbor board. buses at the end of the line were given estimates of 24 hours
the strike has halted all p and o ferries in dover but other vessels were operating from the port. about 2,300 seamen are striking over the line's plans to cut 400 jobs and introduce new shifts
a ugandan rebel leader and voodoo priestess who anointed her troops with oils to protect them from bullets was turned over to united nations authorities after three months in prison, a kenyan government official said friday
alice lakwena, who fled to kenya after ugandan troops slaughtered her army, was turned over to the u.n. high commissioner for refugees, according to a high-ranking kenyan government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
new vision, the ugandan government newspaper, reported friday that ms. lakwena was seeking political asylum through the united nations
the kenya government jailed ms. lakwena and seven of her holy spirit movement followers in december on charges of entering the country illegally. kenya had said it would turn the rebel leader over to the ugandan government after she completed her a four-month sentence
but ms. lakwena appealed and the kenyan high court ruled feb. 11 that the minister in charge of immigration should decide on whether to return her to uganda. new vision said kenya had decided not to extradite ms. lakwena but did not give a source for its report
ms. lakwena, believed to be 28, was born to an anglican clergyman and his wife in northern uganda
she began her crusade against the government of president yoweri museveni in early 1987, claiming she was guided by a spirit demanding his ouster. she was known to followers as ``mama alice.''
she raised a battalion of followers numbering as many as 15,000 and told them she had magical powers to protect them. but government troops crushed her army, which fought with sticks and stones, late last year
there was no word on her jailed followers friday and no official kenyan statement on her release. the u.n. refugee office in nairobi was closed for good friday and calls to representatives' homes went unanswered
joe collins, a theatrical agent and the father of ``dynasty'' actress joan collins and novelist jackie collins, died friday. he was 85
collins began his show business career as office boy with moss empires theaters in london and later worked as an assistant theater manager in sheffield and liverpool
in 1931, he became a theatrical agent. the first artist he signed was dancer lew grade, now television producer lord grade, who became his partner. when grade left the collins and grade agency, collins continued alone
he helped launch the careers of peter sellers, tom jones and roger moore. collins also persuaded his daughter to take the role of alexis in ``dynasty'' even though a theatrical company was trying to hold her to a previous contract
his own biography was titled ``a touch of collins.''
police shut down an expressway outside philadelphia on friday in a search for a man who stabbed to death two women and wounded a couple working on an archeological dig at a construction site
police said they knew of no motive for the stabbings, which occurred in or near a house close to the schuylkill expressway, the state's most congested road and the major east-west thoroughfare through philadelphia
authorities withheld information on the dead women but identified the injured as glenn sheehan, 39, and his wife, ann jensen, 31, both hospitalized with multiple stab wounds
the shutdown of the expressway for nearly an hour forced a detour in which a tractor-trailer rammed into two cars and flipped over a barrier, injuring two people
police said they were looking for a man witnesses described as driving a pickup truck with massachusetts license plates
the top women officials of labor federations in seven cities issued a statement friday complaining that women on the job received unequal treatment and demanding a public debate on the issue
we call upon the media, economic and theoretical communities, leaders at all levels of the (communist) party and government ... and all men and women workers to air their own views and actively join in a discussion,'' the seven women said in the statement, published on the front page of the newspaper workers' daily
their statement, drafted at a meeting in beijing, was especially critical of what they said was a growing tendency to fire women once they have children
many enterprises also have done away with maternity leave and other ``women's benefits'' in order to cut costs now that companies are being held responsible for their own profits and losses
some people believe that when a woman becomes pregnant and has a child it is a private matter and becomes a burden for the enterprise,'' the statement said. ``but others believe women carry two heavy loads, of helping produce material goods for society and perpetutating the human race, and this contribution deserves social recognition and special protection.''
women were regarded as inferior in traditional china's rigid social hierarchy but are promised equal treatment in communist china's constitution
in reality, they hold few high government or party posts and have little social influence. most still bear the full burden of household chores and child-rearing while also working full-time in the fields or in factories
political and economic reforms, including decentralization of authority and emphasis on profit-and-loss, have eroded the few guarantees of access to higher education, jobs and political representation for women
official media have carried dozens of reports in the past year of women being denied jobs or fired because of their sex. a recent all-china federation of trade unions survey found that 64 percent of all workers being laid off in factory reorganizations were women
the statement by the seven labor leaders blamed the lingering influence of ``old thinking'' and the failure of enterprises to find practical solutions to problems faced by women workers with children
if these problems are not solved, not only will it harm the enthusiasm of women workers, but it will have impact on the progress of (economic) reform,'' said the seven, who head the women's sections of beijing, luoyang, wuhan, chongqing, nantong, handan and liuzhou municipal labor federations
democrat michael dukakis, looking for support among union voters, said friday the reagan administration has permitted a corporate ``merger mania'' that has cost a half-million workers their jobs and weakened america
dukakis injected a strain of populism into his presidential campaign as he spoke to labor audiences in wisconsin, where he is locked in what polls suggest is a close race with rival democrat jesse jackson
wall street pirates and corporate hit teams aren't the model for a new america,'' dukakis said
the massachusetts governor spoke to about 500 people crowded into the racine labor center, a meeting place for various union locals, where he criticized attorney general edwin meese iii and blamed the administration for what he described as a ``takeover epidemic'' among giant companies that enrich the corporate raiders and put workers out of their jobs
if we're serious about winning the battle for our economic future, we've got to get control of the merger and acquisition binge that's gobbling up capital, tearing corporations apart like erector sets, making millions of dollars for a few ... and leaving the average working men and women of america holding the bag,'' he said
dukakis' audience was mostly retired and active union members in racine, from auto, tractor and other manufacturing plants in a area where unemployment is reported to be more than 8 percent. later he was speaking to displaced workers in green bay and visiting a farm near wausau in northern wisconsin
dukakis' populist-tinged speech came as his campaign began a new television ad in wisconsin attacking the reagan administration and depicting farm foreclosures and homeless families
he is battling jackson _ whose own populist appeal has made him a close second to dukakis in the delegate race _ in next tuesday's wisconsin primary. after his loss to jackson in michigan, dukakis needs a victory in wisconsin. also running are sens. albert gore jr. of tennessee, who has been attacking big corporations in television ads in this state, and paul simon of illinois
under criticism from some democrats for a bland style, dukakis has unveiled new campaign speeches in an effort to sharpen his message, even as aides maintain he is not changing his style or approach in reaction to opponents
dukakis cited figures showing more than 12,000 corporations have changed hands in the last five years and that 15 takeover bids of $1 billion or more have been made in the past 12 weeks
and what have we got to show for it?'' he asked ``massive corporate debt. lower quality products. workers thrown into the streets. a less competitive america. and the profits these people make are unbelievable
altogether we've seen a half-million workers lose their jobs as a result of merger mania in recent years,'' he said, citing layoffs and plant closings in eau claire, la crosse, cudahy and milwaukee, wis
he blamed the administration's labor department and national labor relations board, saying they ``won't stand up for the american worker.'' and, he said, ``we've got an attorney general who couldn't tell the difference between antitrust and antifreeze, an antitrus division (of the justice department) that hasn't been heard from in years.''
dukakis said that because the administration has permitted ``this takeover epidemic ... the japanese must be laughing at us all the way to the bank.''
at a union hall in green bay, dukakis criticized meese, who has been under criminal investigation for 11 months
this guy in the justice department is spending so much time defending himself he can't do his job.''
suggesting reagan should fire meese, dukakis said: ``one of the jobs of a chief executive ... is not only you hire people but occasionally you fire them.''
meese came under heavy fire in congress this week after two of his top aides quit the justice department, saying meese's continuing legal problems were hurting department function and its image
but meese got a boost friday in washington when independent counsel james mckay announced he had found insufficient evidence to date to warrant indicting meese in connection with a $1 billion iraqi pipeline plan or a possible conflict of interest involving his telephone company stock
dukakis avoided mention of his democratic rivals but, taking questions from the audience at the green bay labor temple, said he viewed bush's claim to aspire to be ``the education president'' this way: ``with a large laugh.''
cutting and slashing student loans, destroying our commitment to education, i don't see it,'' dukakis said. ``what's he for? ... it'll be quite a conversion.''
he took a swipe at education secretary william j. bennett, saying: ``he's the exception to the rule that an education is good for you.''
dukakis met with leaders of the national farmers' union, a group representing family farmers, at a dairy farm near wausau. standing with farmers in front of a dairy barn after their meeting, dukakis said he backed ``reasonable price supports'' for milk as well as ``reasonable'' controls on supply _ but did not say what those levels would be
union president lee swenson said dukakis offered ``a very receptive ear'' to farm concerns
two jewish men imprisoned for armed attacks on arabs in the occupied land west bank were ordered freed friday in a passover holiday gesture by president chaim herzog
ira rappaport was pardoned with four months remaining on his sentence and yitzhak geniram still had 2{ months on his term, said ami gluska, a spokesman for herzog
this is really a holiday present,'' rappaport's wife, orit, told israel radio. ``we are very happy and every day ira spends with us is a present.''
gluska said the two had been pardoned in part because they expressed regret for their actions. ``there is a general trend to reduce sentences in the framework of the 40th year of the state,'' he said on israel radio. israel was founded in 1948
rappaport and geniram were convicted of belonging to a jewish terror ring that carried out attacks on arabs in the occupied west bank of the jordan river earlier in the 1980s. members of the group, called ``the jewish underground,'' were apprehended between april 1984 and december 1986
the new york-born rappaport was convicted of attaching a bomb in june 1980 to the car of a former mayor of nablus, bassam shakaa, who lost his legs in the explosion
rappaport was sentenced to four years in jail, but the court suspended 1{ years of the sentence, taking into account ``personal circumstances.''
rappaport came to israel in the 1970s and was a founder of shiloh, a jewish settlement in the west bank
geniram, a founder of the right-wing gush emunim settlement movement, was sentenced to four years in jail and three years on probation after being convicted of manslaughter and attempted manslaughter
the court ruled he loaned his car to attackers who killed three arab students at the hebron islamic college and wounded 30 in a july 1983 attack
he also was convicted of helping gather explosives for a june 1980 attack on arab mayors in the west bank and was involved in a plot to blow up moslem mosques on the holy temple mount in jerusalem
after nearly two decades in prison for the assassination of the rev. martin luther king jr., james earl ray says he would trade places with the hostages in lebanon
i'm primarily interested in getting out of jail. i'll take my chances over there,'' the 60-year-old alton native told the alton telegraph in a recent telephone interview
ray is being held in tennessee's brushy mountain state prison on a 99-year sentence for the april 4, 1968, slaying of king. ray pleaded guilty but maintains he did so only under pressure and is innocent
ray said he does not think about how he will be remembered
it's been a long time. after a while you get to think about other things,'' he said. ``i work in the laundry now. you don't get up and think about it everyday.''
the right-wing nationalist republican alliance won exactly half of the 60 legislative assembly seats in elections held on march 20, election officials announced friday
the central elections council said the alliance, known by its spanish acronym arena, won 30 seats but fell short of an absolute majority.f the elections council and a director of the governing christian democratic party, said the christian democrats won 23 seats and the conservative national conciliation party seven
arena earlier claimed the party won up to 35 seats. local media had projected the party would win 33-34 seats
in the new assembly, national conciliation legislators could form a voting bloc with the centrist christian democrats and make passage of legislation by either arena or the christian democrats difficult
samayoa said the results present an ``interesting situation because no party will predominate and will have to have negotiations.''
president jose napoleon duarte's christian democrats held 33 seats in the previous assembly and arena 13
arena founder roberto d'aubuisson said his party would petition the council to have the election results annulled. if that was rejected, arena would take its case to the supreme court, d'aubuisson said
alfredo cristiani, arena's president, had said on march 23 that the christian demcorats were manipulating the vote count to deprive his party of a parliamentary majority. ``we cannot let these shameless individuals steal our legislators,'' he said
in an interview on local television wednesday, cristiani said ``the people are being defrauded. this could explode at any moment, something difficult to stop (could) occur.''
d'aubuisson had said three days after the balloting, ``we don't want to promote violence. but we want to play clean and they won't let us.''
the national association for private enterprise had declared earlier it would call a general strike if the elections council did not report an arena victory
samayoa said friday arena would have to accept the final results and ``re-evaluate its positions.''
arena leaders withdrew from the vote-counting process tuesday night and removed their representative from the elections council
one representative from each of the three major political parties is allowed to sit on the elections panel. two votes are enough to approve any decision
francisco merino, the arena representative, withdrew tuesday and claimed the other panel members were trying to make a ``game of the vote tallies in order to change the results of the elections.''
in a recent interview with the associated press, samayoa rejected the allegations of fraud and said it ``only exists in the mind of those who have manipulated information about the results in their favor.''
while a computer count of votes for mayors in 262 municipalities was incomplete, samayoa said friday arena had won 178 of the races
japanese officials said friday they intend to continue seeking a compromise over u.s. demands for an end to their country's import quotas on u.s. beef and oranges
agriculture minister takashi sato said despite the breakdown of negotiations, his government would continue to discuss the issue through diplomatic channels. he also told reporters he was ready to return to washington when necessary. the minister was scheduled to leave saturday for tokyo
sato met briefly friday with allen wallis, u.s. undersecretary of state for economic affairs. their talk was described, however, as a courtesy call rather than resumption of the foodstuff negotiations with the office of the u.s. trade representative that ended in deadlock thursday night
u.s. officials said the next step will be next friday in geneva, where the united states will urge the council of gatt, the general agreement on tariffs and trade, to convene a panel to declare the japanese quotas illegal under international trading rules
u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter, who negotiated with sato, declared after the talks he was ``deeply disappointed that the japanese did not come forward with their proposal to liberalize trade on beef and citrus.'' japanese officials termed the u.s. demand for total elimination of the quotas covered by an expired four-year agreement unrealistic but declined to say whether they had offered a timetable for the elimination
a spring blizzard hit the texas and oklahoma panhandles on friday, stranding motorists and knocking out power in areas
as much as 6 inches of snow blanketed some areas and up to 20 inches were expected from the strong storm system that moved out of the southern rockies across northeastern new mexico, the national weather service said
they're going to have a white easter there,'' said weather service forecaster larry mooney in norman, okla., referring to a blizzard warning posted for the oklahoma panhandle
mary anne burdo, a highway patrol dispatcher at guymon, okla., where a foot of snow had fallen by late friday afternoon, said westernmost cimmaron county ``is completely shut down.''
we have a lot of stranded motorists in town and on the highways,'' said police dispatcher susie simmons in dalhart, in northwest texas. she said a lot of the travelers were on their way to ski resorts
i guess they can cross-country ski here,'' she said
at least two major highways were closed, u.s. 87 through dalhart and u.s. 287 north of stratford, because of blowing snow, the department of public safety said
winds of up to 30 mph caused power outages from west amarillo to dumas, authorities said
thunderstorms, some producing hail, also rumbled across texas and oklahoma friday
the weather service issued a flood and flash flood watch for much of southeast texas, including metropolitan houston, galveston, beaumont and port arthur
the defense minister on friday said a missing nuclear scientist, who allegedly gatherered information for the cia about purported plans by taiwan to make nuclear weapons, is in the united states
defense minister cheng wei-yuan said col. chang hsien-yi, former deputy director of the state-run nuclear energy research center, may have gone to america for a better job or because of ``his lack of confidence.'' he did not elaborate
we are not sure of the motive,'' cheng told the legislature
he said chang had telephoned and written friends in taiwan from the united states but he did not know where the scientist was staying
chang vanished in january and the government issued a warrant for his arrest. local newspapers claimed chang worked for the cia and left the country with information about a government nuclear weapons development program. they did not cite sources
taiwan's nationalist chinese government has said it does not have nuclear arms. the issue is sensitive because communist china has said production of atomic weapons in taiwan would be a justified cause for invading the island, which the communist leaders view as a renegade province
china has exploded its own nuclear devices
the american institute in taiwan, which handles diplomatic matters in the absence of official u.s.-taiwan relations, has said it does not know chang's whereabouts
a poll published friday indicated taiwanese are about evenly divided over whether the government should make nuclear bombs
the united evening news survey also indicated that most people in taiwan believe the country has the capability to make such weapons
it reported 35 percent of 767 people polled by telephone said taiwan should make nuclear weapons and 34 percent were opposed, with the rest undecided
about 58 percent believed taiwan has the ability to develop such weapons, it said
the poll was conducted last month and had a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, according to united evening news. weeks</head>
if jesse jackson is elected president and ``did everything he said he wanted to do,'' the nation would be bankrupt in three weeks ``based on all the social programs we would be putting into effect,'' mayor edward i. koch said friday
however, because of party loyalty and because ``he'd be better'' than the likely gop nominee george bush, the democratic mayor said he would vote for jackson if the democrats nominate him at their convention in atlanta
i have said i would be stuck with whoever comes out of that convention,'' koch said
reacting to koch's remarks, jerry austin, manager of jackson's campaign for the democratic presidential nomination, said the mayor has ``solidified his position in the national exaggeration hall of fame.''
koch told reporters that ``i think this country would be ill-served to have jesse jackson'' in the white house
i think that in three weeks, based on all the social programs we would be putting into effect (under jackson), if you did everything he said he wanted to do, we'd be in bankruptcy. people know that's pie in the sky,'' koch said
koch added that ``he wants to disarm us'' and is ``on the wrong side of every issue i know of with two exceptions: drugs _ he's great in opposition to drugs _ and he's great in talking about the need for family responsibility and particularly as it relates to education.''
the mayor also said that jackson's standards are ``not my standards. so i have said that it's very bad to contemplate having jackson being president.''
stanley hill, co-chairman of jackson's new york campaign, said: ``it's obvious that mayor koch is being very divisive in the city. once again, it is not helping the city.''
while he termed the mayor's remarks unfortunate, hill added: ``i'm not going to even try to reach his level of negative campaigning.''
koch also said some people claim that criticism of jackson might be based on race, but he maintained that the black candidate's positions on the issues are just as open to comment as those of white candidates
he should be held accountable like any white candidate. not different. exactly the same,'' he said
but, the mayor said, if jackson is nominated, jackson would win koch's vote in the presidential election ``for two reasons: party loyalty _ and i have said i would be stuck with whoever comes out of that convention. and the other is: he'd be better than bush,'' the vice president, who is far ahead in this year's gop presidential race
a city bus went out of control while crossing a bridge and fell 24 feet into the frigid han river in seoul friday, killing at least 20 people and injuring 40, police said
the bus was carrying some 60 passengers, many of them students returning home from school, when the driver lost control after one of the front tires blew out, according to police
they said the death toll could rise as divers searched the partially submerged bus for more bodies
police assisted by passers-by rescued passengers who broke windows and climbed on top of the bus
britain and the soviet union have agreed to exchange information on nuclear safety, including the disclosure of nuclear accidents, the government's health and safety executive announced late friday
the agreement was initialed thursday by british officials and top soviet nuclear safety experts
a government spokeswoman, speaking anonymously in keeping with british government custom, said the agreement was wide-ranging and covered the exchange of information on operating, building, commissioning and decommissioning nuclear installations
the two countries agreed to exchange information on nuclear accidents and any major release of radioactive material, she said. the soviet union was criticized for its delay in reporting the april 1986 explosion and fire at the chernobyl nuclear plant, which killed 31 soviets and spread a cloud of radioactivity around the world
the four soviet officials met top officials at the energy department and toured the hinkley point magnox nuclear plant in southwest england during a four-day visit to britain. they have returned to moscow
veterans of britain's first ``ban the bomb'' movement 30 years ago, including former labor party leader michael foot, marched friday in front of thousands of demonstrators walking toward a nuclear facility
organizers said about 5,000 people participated in an anti-nuclear rally friday at hyde park in london. thousands of other protesters were expected to join the demonstrators on their 52-mile march that is to end monday with another rally at the aldermaston nuclear base in berkshire
the base houses the government's atomic weapons research center
organizers said some protestors at the hyde park rally were children of the demonstrators 30 years ago
foot said friday's protest was aimed at current problems. ``this has nothing to do with nostalgia,'' he said. ``this march is a sign that the campaign will go on until nuclear weapons are wiped off the face of the galaxy.''
a minister hired three men to kill his wife for $1,000 each, then shot himself to death as suspicion focused on him, authorities said friday in announcing the arrests of the alleged killers
the rev. charles sennett, 45, apparently borrowed the $3,000 from his girlfriend for the march 18 stabbing of elizabeth sennett, 45, at the couple's ransacked rural home, said colbert county sheriff buddy aldridge
kenneth eugene smith, 22, and john forrest parker, 19, both of florence, were charged with capital murder thursday, and billy gray williams, 21, also of florence, was charged with conspiracy to commit murder, aldridge said
they were being held without bail
sennett killed himself in front of his son's home march 25
we had interrogated him earlier in the day and ... told him he was a suspect and informed his family he was,'' said aldridge. ``we had set up a polygraph test for the following tuesday.''
the sheriff said sennett approached williams ``about hurting someone,'' and williams hired smith and parker to carry out the slaying
smith and parker ransacked the sennett home and took a videotape player and other items to make the crime look like a burglary, the sheriff said
the minister of the sheffield church of christ had told police he returned home to find his wife stabbed and unconscious on the floor, investigators said. she never regained consciousness and died that night in surgery
aldridge said sennett, in shooting himself to death, left a note saying ``he had never hurt his wife and that he had gotten in with some bad guys.''
the sheriff said that police have not pinpointed a motive in the killing but that minister had admitted having a girlfriend
the woman told police sennett borrowed $3,000 to ``pay on a note,'' the sheriff said, ``but he would not account to us what he had done with the money.'' the woman, whom authorities declined to identify, was not charged
the suspects told officers they threw the weapons used in the slaying _ a hunting knife, a fireplace poker and a cane _ into a pond outside the sennett home, aldridge said
jim jordan, who delighted radio audiences for decades as the well-meaning but bumbling fibber mcgee in the classic show ``fibber mcgee and molly,'' died friday. he was 91
jordan had been hospitalized for about a week after a fall at his home, said a family friend who declined to be identified
fibber mcgee and molly'' was on the air for the nbc radio network from 1935 to 1960 and was the top-rated show in the country for seven of those years
it was the source of such familiar routines as mcgee's overstuffed closet, which always unloaded mercilessly on jordan's character whenever it was opened. even mcgee's address, 79 wistful vista, became a place on the american cultural roadmap
even though he had become very frail, his mind and his humor were as fresh as ever,'' said lenore kingston, a vice president for pacific pioneer broadcasters. ``we all adored him.''
like the couple in the ``fibber mcgee and molly'' scripts, the stars of the show were married. jim and marian jordan came to radio out of vaudeville to formulate the comedy with writer don quinn
mrs. jordan died of cancer in 1961
u.n. mediator diego cordovez on friday held separate meetings with soviet special envoy nikolay kozyrev and u.s. diplomat robert peck in his efforts to secure an afghanistan peace settlement
the superpowers could sign as guarantors if an accord is reached
peck, a deputy assistant secretary of state, and kozyrev have been following the u.n.-sponsored indirect negotiations between afghanistan and pakistan since the latest round began march 2 and have routinely met with cordovez
pakistan acts on behalf of afghanistan's moslem guerrillas, who have fought to topple the pro-soviet government in kabul for more than eight years
peck declined to say what impact, if any, a proposal by secretary of state george p. shultz had on the talks
i'm not really able to talk about the details of the diplomacy at the present time,'' he told reporters at the geneva u.n. office where the talks are being held
shultz suggested thursday that moscow could keep arming marxist forces in afghanistan after an estimated 115,000 soviet troops withdraw, provided the united states can maintain supplies to the afghan guerrillas
washington said in the past it would not guarantee a settlement unless the soviet union agreed to stop supporting the afghan governmewnt at the same time the united states ended aid to the guerrillas
soviet officials rejected that as attempted interference in soviet-afghan relations and claimed america had raised a last-minute obstacle at the u.n. talks
but peck said: ``we're continuing to work very hard and we'll stay here until we get an agreement. we should be able to put something together.''
formal negotations are to resume monday, but u.n. officials have left open the possibility of continuing diplomatic contacts over the weekend
the soviets sent troops into afghanistan in december 1979 to help the government battle the rebels who were gaining control of many areas
zimbabwean forces joined mozambican soldiers in attacks that destroyed three major guerrilla bases in southern mozambique this month, the army announced friday
the national news agency, aim, said it was the first confirmation of zimbabwean participation in the 12-year-old civil war between marxist government forces and the mozambique national resistance, which the government says is south african-backed
zimbabwean forces have been in neighboring mozambique for several years, helping to guard the limpopo railway line which runs for over 300 miles from the border to the port of maputo
zimbabwean and mozambican railway workers are repairing the track, which will give zimbabwe a second outlet to the sea. the other line, to the port of beira, functions well, said aim. it also is guarded by zimbabweans
aim quoted a spokesman for the general staff of the mozambican armed forces as saying the joint force attacked the bases of chiconjo, maginge and nhahombe in gaza province during the second half of march, killing 260 bandits
there have been several reports of mozambican guerrillas raiding villages in zimbabwe since that country sent troops into mozambique. weeks</head> jackson comment. picks up 4th graf pvs bgng: reacting to ...</note>
if jesse jackson is elected president and ``did everything he said he wanted to do,'' the nation would be bankrupt in three weeks ``based on all the social programs we would be putting into effect,'' mayor edward i. koch said friday
however, because of party loyalty and because ``he'd be better'' than the likely gop nominee george bush, the democratic mayor said he would vote for jackson if the democrats nominate him at their convention in atlanta
i have said i would be stuck with whoever comes out of that convention,'' koch said
in green bay, wis., jackson told reporters he had not heard of koch's remarks. but when they were described to him he said, ``that's unfortunate. i should not dignify that statement.''
reacting to koch's remarks, jerry austin, manager of jackson's campaign for the democratic presidential nomination, said the mayor has ``solidified his position in the national exaggeration hall of fame.''
koch told reporters that ``i think this country would be ill-served to have jesse jackson'' in the white house
i think that in three weeks, based on all the social programs we would be putting into effect (under jackson), if you did everything he said he wanted to do, we'd be in bankruptcy. people know that's pie in the sky,'' koch said
koch added that ``he wants to disarm us'' and is ``on the wrong side of every issue i know of with two exceptions: drugs _ he's great in opposition to drugs _ and he's great in talking about the need for family responsibility and particularly as it relates to education.''
the mayor also said that jackson's standards are ``not my standards. so i have said that it's very bad to contemplate having jackson being president.''
stanley hill, co-chairman of jackson's new york campaign, said: ``it's obvious that mayor koch is being very divisive in the city. once again, it is not helping the city.''
while he termed the mayor's remarks unfortunate, hill added: ``i'm not going to even try to reach his level of negative campaigning.''
koch also said some people claim that criticism of jackson might be based on race, but he maintained that the black candidate's positions on the issues are just as open to comment as those of white candidates
he should be held accountable like any white candidate. not different. exactly the same,'' he said
but, the mayor said, if jackson is nominated, jackson would win koch's vote in the presidential election ``for two reasons: party loyalty _ and i have said i would be stuck with whoever comes out of that convention. and the other is: he'd be better than bush,'' the vice president, who is far ahead in this year's gop presidential race. command comments on troops, u.s. personnel figures; picks up 12th graf pvs, ``limitations on...; minor editing to tighten</note>
police replaced gen. manuel antonio noriega's heavily armed soldiers on the streets friday for the first time since last month's attempted coup against the panamanian strongman
the u.s. defense department announced it will send 1,300 additional military personnel to panama, bringing the number of american troops there to nearly 12,000
panamanians took time out from political activity on good friday to prepare for the easter weekend. but for many that meant only another day of hunger and shortages as a 12-day-old general strike and bank closures made even basic necessities scarce
opposition leaders said they would accept, with some conditions, monsignor marcos antonio mcgrath, the catholic archbishop of panama city, as a mediator in talks to resolve the political crisis
the conditions included guarantees that noriega, head of the nation's 15,000-member defense forces and the power behind the civilian government, would indicate a willingness to resign and to leave the country
police foot patrols replaced soldiers who have filled the capital since a coup attempt failed march 16. the change was an indication of how the city has quieted for the holiday weekend, after weeks of protest
the pentagon said the 1,300 extra military personnel would improve security for american bases and u.s. residents in panama
many of those to be dispatched beginning next week are military police, but army helicopter units will be included, the pentagon said
the u.s. southern command, which is based in panama, had about 600 security personnel among its 10,000 troopers before washington intensified its campaign for noriega's removal
over a 10-day period that ended march 24, the pentagon dispatched another 670 security personnel to panama for the stated purpose of protecting military facilities
col. ronald sconyers, spokesman for the southern command, said the latest troop increase was prompted by ``a longstanding look at what has been going on down here.''
he said it was not made in anticipation of an imminent departure of noriega and any instability that might follow
no evacuation plans have been discussed with americans in panama, sconyers said during a news conference at southern command headquarters
while most troops and their 13,000 dependents in panama are assigned to live on bases, about 6,000 military personnel, dependents and defense department employees live in civilian areas.there are about 45,000 americans living in panama
limitations on movement for the southern command troops were decreased friday to ``alpha'' level, the least severe of four restrictions
the designation, in use for the first time since the crisis began feb. 26, permits free movement but advises military personnel to avoid crowds and demonstrations
virtually all businesses were closed for good friday. a general strike called by opposition leaders eased earlier in the week, with groceries and pharmacies reopening, reportedly under government pressure
banks have been closed since march 3, and panamanians who had cash appeared to be using it only for essentials
roberto aleman, an attorney for the opposition national civic crusade, said the national council of private enterprise, an umbrella group of several business organizations, had decided to continue the strike
other opposition leaders said some business executives felt the shutdown had made its point and could be ended
in a letter made public friday, three leading noriega opponents said they would accept mcgrath as a mediator in talks aimed at settling the situation only if noriega indicated, before the negotiations, that he was willing to resign and leave the country
the letter was signed by alberto boyd, coordinator of the national civic crusade; ricardo arias calderon, president of panama's christian democratic party; and alfredo ramirez, president of the liberal republican nationalist movement
any agreements reached during mediation would have to be guaranteed by the church, four government officials to be named later, and the presidents of costa rica and panama, the letter said
it also demanded the release of all political prisoners before talks started and total press freedom. panama's opposition press has been shut down for weeks
the church has called for the removal of noriega, whose supporters in the national legislature ousted civilian president eric arturo delvalle on feb. 26 after delvalle tried to fire noriega
the united states subsequently froze panamanian government deposits in u.s. banks in an effort to drive out noriega. the shortage of money and a run on banks forced panama's banks to shut down
noriega was indicted in florida in february on drug-trafficking charges, which he denies
china's first sos center, part of an international network of facilities to provide medical services for foreign tourists and residents, opened in beijing friday
claude giroux, founder and chairman of international sos co., and officials from the public health ministry attended opening ceremonies at the beijing emergency medical center, the official xinhua news agency said
the center will provide medical service to foreigners in the chinese capital and, when necessary, will help them return to their countries for further medical attention
international sos co. covers all medical and travel expenses for members. others can pay for sos services with individual medical insurance programs
the report said the company also plans to set up centers in canton, shanghai, chengdu and xian to form a medical and transfer network in the country
the company is to provide the beijing emergency medical center with $32,000 in telecommunications and medical equipment and train 40 chinese doctors in china and abroad
international sos co., founded in 1974, has 22 regional service centers and more than 10 million members, the report said. mcgee and molly'' show, funeral arrangements and survivors.</note>
jim jordan, who delighted radio audiences for decades as the well-meaning but bumbling fibber mcgee in the classic show ``fibber mcgee and molly,'' died friday. he was 91
jordan had been hospitalized for about a week after a fall at his home, said a family friend who declined to be identified
fibber mcgee and molly'' was on the air for the nbc radio network from 1935 to 1960 and was the top-rated show in the country for seven of those years
it was the source of such familiar routines as mcgee's overstuffed closet, which always unloaded mercilessly on jordan's character whenever it was opened. even mcgee's address, 79 wistful vista, became a place on the american cultural roadmap
even though he had become very frail, his mind and his humor were as fresh as ever,'' said lenore kingston, a vice president for pacific pioneer broadcasters. ``we all adored him.''
like the couple in the ``fibber mcgee and molly'' scripts, the stars of the show were married. jim and marian jordan came to radio out of vaudeville to formulate the comedy with writer don quinn
mrs. jordan died of cancer in 1961
jordan met marian driscoll at choir practice when both were in their teens in peoria, ill. they married in 1918
jordan began a singing career while serving with the army in europe toward the end of world war i. after the war, he and his wife took their act on the road, with mrs. jordan playing piano
the jordans began appearing on radio in 1925 but still worked vaudeville because the medium paid so little. during 10 years of skits, they developed the fibber mcgee and molly characters
it is typically american humor, neither the broadway type nor hollywood influenced,'' wrote the ap's hubbard keavy in 1940
they get their humor from simple things, like fixing the brakes or playing checkers. they never just tell jokes. they never step out of character.''
the situations in the show turned on such simple items as fibber deciding, against molly's advice, to tune the piano. his bumbling effort invariably was interrupted by the ``bong-bong'' of the door chimes at 79 wistful vista
their neighbors were a classic set of american humor characters
hal peary was the rumbling, pompous great gildersleeve; cliff arquette was the cantankerous old-timer whose line was ``that ain't the way i heard it, johnny''; bill thompson was hen-pecked wallace wimple, and gale gordon was mayor latrivia, whose rage against jordan's character ended with a sputtering ``mcgee!?''
fibbert mcgee and molly'' ran on television in 1959-60 but the jordans were not in the nbc series
jordan married again in 1962 to gretchen stewart, who survives him. he is also survived by a son and daughter and several grandchildren
funeral arrangements were incomplete. demonstrations in livermore, calif., minneapolis and chicago.</note>
more than 100 demonstrators were arrested in outside a philadelphia clinic in a good friday anti-abortion protest, while dozens of peace activists were arrested in a manhattan research institute and at texas and california weapons centers
we are calling on christians to demonstrate the courage and a willingness to sacrifice by not allowing children to be killed before birth in our community on the day which christians commemorate christ's passion and death,'' said patricia o'brien, a spokeswoman for the philadelphia demonstrators
in new york, more than 2,000 anti-arms race marchers walked for peace at an annual good friday rally that ended with actor martin sheen, the rev. daniel berrigan and dozens of others arrested for civil disobedience
the sixth good friday peace march began at the united nations and ended at the riverside research institute, where the protest organizers, pax christi metro new york, said research is conducted on president reagan's proposed ``star wars'' anti-missile program
pax christi spokesman jim o'grady estimated that 90 to 100 protesters were arrested after walking inside the institute and blocking the door in a non-violent protest. police officer jim coleman confirmed the arrests, but did not have exact figures
philadelphia police charged 116 people with disorderly conduct and blocking the street in front of a clinic that performs abortions, said cpl. robert ward. the two offenses carry fines of $25 to $100 each, he said
after police carried the demonstrators away, the clinic opened. abortion opponents said they would continue a prayer vigil outside, but would not block the entrance
three peace activists in the texas panhandle near amarillo stood in blowing snow and momentarily blocked traffic to the pantex nuclear weapons plant before being arrested, carson county sheriff connie reed said
they were charged with obstructing a state highway, and were jailed under $2,000 bond each, said ms. reed
a protest against nuclear weapons by about 350 people at lawrence livermore national laboratory in california resulted in 58 arrests on charges of blocking a road, officials reported
in chicago, more than 400 people prayed and sang hymns during the eighth annual good friday walk for justice to protest the u.s. military presence in central america, apartheid in south africa and racism in the united states
we are really targeting the american public. we're trying to say we are a nation of faith, and therefore our faith should impinge on our public policy, at least in terms of the voting public,'' said jean hughes, an organizer
demonstrators calling attention to homelessness set up tents in chicago and broke into a federally owned vacant house in minneapolis
the american red cross said friday it had begun a nationwide effort to reduce the chances that red cross blood centers could accidentally distribute contaminated blood or blood products
last month, the red cross acknowledged it had distributed 24 pints of blood that had failed procedures against aids contamination or carried hepatitis b antigens, but said that none of the blood was used and none actually carried the deadly aids virus
the food and drug administration said the questionable blood was shipped to hospitals and laboratories by red cross centers in washington and nashville, tenn
five of the units tested positive for hepatitis b antigens. initial tests also showed that 10 of the units contained hiv antibodies, which signaled an aids danger, but those units underwent a process that breaks down the blood into components for specific uses and eliminates the virus, the red cross said. the remaining units were from donors who were unacceptable because they previously tested ``false positive'' for the aids virus, but all the actual units were tested as safe, officials said
investigations into the failure of blood center workers to follow standard operating procedures are being conducted by the red cross and the fda
the red cross said it had begun a five-part program to reduce the chances of human error in the distribution process. the program includes staff re-education sessions, formal reviews of procedures to insure consistency with agency regulations, assessment of potential for future errors and the strengthening of current safeguards to prevent the release of unacceptable blood
red cross cannot rest until we have taken every possible step to avoid errors in the future,'' said victor w. schmitt, vice president of red cross blood services
the leader of the august coup attempt that almost toppled the government of president corazon aquino escaped from his prison ship, military sources said saturday
military spokesmen could not be reached for comment because of the easter holiday
but sources with ties to leaders of the aug. 28 attempt said col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan escaped late friday or early saturday. there were no further details
honasan had been detained on a navy ship since his arrest last december in a manila suburb
one source said officers close to honasan had been ordered to report to military chief of staff gen. renato de villa to discuss the case
definitely, there is going to be a news blackout,'' the source said, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``but an officer who picked up a navy captain and a colonel early this morning said they were invited for questioning with regards to the escape of col. honasan.''

following is a list of stories to give pms editors an idea of how the report is shaping up. this is not a complete digest. the first pms digest will move at 11:30 p.m. est
la vigia, nicaragua _ contra rebels huddle before a wooden shack in a remote mountain village as sandinista troops meander down dirt roads nearby. rebel comandante ernesto calls the 60-day truce a ``first step toward peace.'' pm-nicaragua-fighters
jerusalem _ police and soldiers are out in force over a holy weekend as christians recall jesus' crucifixion, jews celebrate start of weeklong passover festival. israel reopens occupied lands and soldiers kill two arabs, wound 13. pm-israel
washington _ the reagan administration, expressing concern about the safety of americans in panama, has decided to dispatch another 1,300 military personnel to the troubled central american nation. pm-panama troops
washington _ independent counsel james c. mckay has not found sufficient evidence to indict attorney general edwin meese iii but could issue a sharply critical report about meese's conduct if no charges are brought, according to source familiar with the case. pm-meese
undated _ democratic presidential candidates call in chorus for the resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii, while massachusetts gov. michael dukakis uses a new populist stand in hopes of attracting blue-collar support in wisconsin. pm-political rdp
washington _ a blind attorney who was carried forcibly from a jetliner after a dispute over where she should be seated complains that airlines look at the handicapped ``as if we're a safety risk and have to be treated like baggage.'' pm-blind-airlines
new york _ campeau corp., the winner in a bitter two-month battle for federated department stores inc., says it will keep the ``crown jewels'' of the nation's fifth largest retailer while it sells off the rest of the company. pm-federated
reno, nev. _ a 13-year-old boy and three youths linked to a los angeles gang called the crips admitted they gang raped a 13-year-old girl and stole the only dollar she had, police said. pm-reno rape
pasadena, calif. _ two years after iowa physicist louis frank nearly ruined his reputation by suggesting that 10 million small comets hit earth's atmosphere each year, a nasa scientist has found evidence supporting the theory. pm-comet theory. not involving oil companies. subs grafs 11-13 bgng `campeau is ...' with four grafs to update with company president confirming sell-off plans. picks up 14th graf pvs, `before friday's ...' a longer version moved on the business wire.</note>
campeau corp. won its 2-month-old battle for federated department stores inc. on friday, but rival retailer r. h. macy &amp; co. inc. will end up with two of federated's divisions in the southwest
campeau will acquire federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer and parent of up-scale bloomingdale's, for $73.50 a share, or $6.58 billion, campeau and federated said in a statement
the acquisition would be the fifth largest corporate takeover in u.s. history, and the largest deal not involving oil companies
macy came away with the bullock's and bullock's-wilshire division and the i. magnin chain, for which it will pay $1.1 billion, the statement said
macy agreed to terminate a merger agreement it reached with federated last month, the statement said
a definitive agreement signed by the three companies also calls for macy to be paid $60 million for its expenses in the takeover fight, the statement said
maureen milano, a spokeswoman for macy, said the company was pleased with the outcome
they felt that this is the most prudent decision for them,'' she said
campeau, a toronto-based real estate developer that also owns allied stores corp. in the united states, won federated following two meetings of the retailer's board this week
the deal ran along the lines of an agreement between macy and federated last month which gave macy the right to buy bullock's and magnin if the two companies' merger agreement fell through. the merger agreement was reached march 2 but federated reopened the bidding after campeau raised its offer last week
the purchase of the two divisions gives macy an expanded presence in california and the southwest. most of macy's nearly 100 department and specialty stores are in the eastern half of the country
allied president robert h. morosky, who would head the combined allied-federated operations, said campeau planned to sell off federated's supermarket, discount store and specialty store chains, as well as some of its department store chains. that would leave the company with the ``crown jewels'': rich's, lazarus, goldsmith's, burdines, bloomingdale's and abraham &amp; straus, he said
the canadian company previously agreed to sell the foley's and filene's department stores to may department stores co. if it won the fight for federated
after campeau bought allied in 1986, it sold off most of allied's store divisions to pay off debt, and ever since campeau launched its bid on jan. 25, analysts had predicted the same fate would befall federated
i'm sad about the fact that a fine department store like federated is being split up and decimated,'' said walter loeb, a retail industry analyst with the investment firm morgan stanley &amp; co
before friday's announcement, macy had offered to buy federated for $6.73 billion, while campeau bid $6.62 billion
campeau had offered wednesday to pay $74 a share in cash for federated's stock
macy offered thursday to pay $78.92 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares. it offered to pay $60 in cash or exchange five shares in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., for each remaining federated share. that would have produced a deal with an aggregate value of $75.14 a share
federated stock closed at $72.87{ a share thursday on the new york stock exchange. the stock market was closed for good friday
the fight for federated began jan. 25, when campeau offered $4.2 billion to buy the retailer, which rejected the offer as inadequate
campeau raised its bid, but federated spurned its advances until the end of february, when the retailer agreed to negotiate with campeau
but when the federated board was to meet to review that proposal, macy entered with its own bid
court battles ensued, and both suitors continued to raise their offers until the federated board called for ``final bids'' to be presented wednesday. background. no pickup.</note>
the leader of the august coup attempt that almost toppled the government of president corazon aquino escaped from his prison ship, the military announced saturday
a statement said col. gregorio ``gringo'' honasan escaped about 2:30 a.m. aboard two rubber boats along with 13 other people, including some of his guards
chief of staff gen. renato de villa ordered a massive search for the 39-year-old honasan and alerted subordinate commands nationwide to be on the lookout for him
honasan had been detained on a navy ship in manila bay since his arrest last december in a manila suburb
one military source, speaking on condition of anonymity, said officers close to honasan had been ordered to report to military chief of staff gen. renato de villa to discuss the case
the breakout followed rumors in the capital that honasan would attempt to escape
honasan, former chief of security at the defense ministry, played a key role in the feb. 22, 1986, mutiny which triggered the popular uprising that toppled president ferdinand marcos
but honasan became disillusioned with marcos' successor, president corazon aquino
on aug. 28, honasan led a force of 2,000 men who attacked the presidential palace and seized several media and military installations in the capital before they were driven off by pro-aquino forces
the coup attempt left 53 people dead and wounded hundreds, and mrs. aquino said it was aimed at killing her and her family
honasan's effort was the most serious of several major plots to unseat mrs. aquino's government
honasan has accused mrs. aquino of ``weak and inept'' leadership and says he tried to save the country from communism
the start of daylight-saving time this weekend has an effect so strange in indiana that many residents could use the extra hour to explain it to outsiders
while most indiana counties remain on eastern standard time, residents of 16 counties move their clocks forward an hour
eleven of those counties are in the central time zone, and move their clocks to be even with chicago's central daylight time and indianapolis' est
the five other counties are in the eastern zone and move their clocks up to eastern daylight time to keep pace with nearby louisville, ky., and cincinnati
the result is that some people in the same time zone have different times on their clocks, while people in different zones have the same time. this occurs among neighbors in a state less than 150 miles wide
indiana residents just call the two times ``fast'' and ``slow.''
it creates confusion for us until october,'' said barbara schuler, office manager at wsch radio in lawrenceburg. ``we make it a point to tell listeners if an event is on fast or slow time.''
she said the confusion hits hardest when family members are operating on different clocks, such as when a parent working in cincinnati has a child in a school using standard time
it's an absolute mess,'' said donna benning, a bookkeeper at an auto dealership in milan. ``the kids tell me to pick them up at 3 p.m. and i always show up an hour early.''
daylight-saving time was standardized by congress in 1966, but in 1972, indiana joined hawaii and arizona in exercising an option to exempt themselves
however, the legislature left some border counties near illinois and kentucky to go daylight-saving time. to update with report on internal justice department investigation.</note>
independent counsel james mckay said friday he has found insufficient evidence to date to warrant indicting attorney general edwin meese iii in connection with a $1 billion iraqi pipeline plan or a possible conflict of interest involving his telephone company stock
meese said he was ``gratified by the action and the statement'' of the independent counsel and that he would not step aside
it is certainly my intent to carry on my duties as long as the president wants me to,'' the embattled attorney general told a news conference
mckay said his report was an interim one and that his investigation was continuing
the grand jury's investigation is not yet complete as to'' the pipeline probe, the telephone stocks and ``other matters, and will continue at least through the end of april,'' mckay's statement said. a source close to mckay's investigation would not provide details of these matters, but said they were all felony cases
the grand jury is expected this month to hear testimony from meese, his wife, ursula, and u.s. circuit judge douglas h. ginsburg, former head of the justice department's anti-trust division that handled the breakup of american telephone &amp; telegraph co. while meese held telephone stock
even though mckay's announcement was an interim report, it was an enormous boost to meese, who has been reeling from bipartisan calls in congress for him to quit in the wake of the resignations tuesday of two of his top aides
mckay told a news conference that he decided to issue his statement on friday ``without any outside consultation.'' but he acknowledged that meese's attorney has asked several times for such a public statement, including ``quite recently.''
a source close to mckay said meese's attorneys ``have known of this decision for a period of time.'' the source said they argued mckay should tell the public as well because ``we know it and you know it.''
this source said of mckay, ``he's concerned about the fairness factor. ... he didn't want people speculating about what he would or would not do with respect to these matters.''
the source said mckay could be reappointed or retain his appointment to deal with any evidence that might surface after the grand jury is dismissed. mckay's staff is debating whether to say in his public report that he might have obtained an indictment but did not do so because he was uncertain of winning a conviction, the source said
several key figures in the criminal investigation of meese, including his longtime friend, e. robert wallach and meese's former financial manager, w. franklyn chinn, have refused to cooperate with mckay's inquiry. wallach and chinn are under indictment in the wedtech scandal
the aides who stepped down tuesday were concerned that meese's legal problems _ he has been under criminal investigation for nearly 11 months _ are hurting the justice department's operations and image
among those who resigned was assistant attorney general william weld, who oversaw all federal criminal investigations, and deputy attorney general arnold burns
meese had planned to announce replacements for burns, weld and departing associate attorney general stephen trott, but the announcement was called off at the last minute without explanation
the replacement for burns was expected to be arlin adams, a former u.s. circuit judge in philadelphia, department sources said. the replacement for wells is to be james knapp, a deputy in the justice department's tax division who formerly worked in the criminal division. the replacement for trott is to be francis keating, an assistant treasury secretary for enforcement
meese would not discuss in detail the reasons why the two top aides left, claiming his conversations with them were confidential
but he did say that ``there were some basic differences'' between burns, weld and the attorney general ``as to the effect that recent events had on the department ... in part they were the fact that there was an independent counsel investigation.''
meese told reporters that for him to resign would be ``incompatible with the actual state of affairs'' and he cited ``broad support'' from law enforcement officials, from within the administration ``at the highest level'' and from members of congress
the white house declined comment on mckay and meese's statements. and after president reagan arrived at his mountaintop ranch near santa barbara, deputy press secretary leslye arsht said only that ``the president was notified by phone in the air. we have no reaction. he has always said he has confidence in meese.''
in an interview taped for broadcast friday night on abc-tv's ``20@20'' program, meese said he did not feel he was hurting the president, but that if he thought he was, he would resign
if at any point, i felt that it was an embarrassment to the president, or an embarrassment to the department, i would not rigidly stand and stay here just for the purpose of staying here,'' meese told interviewer barbara walters
i've had people from literally all over the country calling me to say, `you owe it to the justice department, to the president, to hang in there. ... you owe it to stay, and not give in to the lynch mob.'''
asked who the lynch mob was, he said, ``certainly some aspects of the press.''
he said the justice department's problems were ``all of the false statements and false accusations on the outside. and i think it would be wrong if i, in effect, capitulated to what the president has called a lynch mob. i think that would be far worse. i think it's very important if we're gonna make government safe for public officials, that no person should be able to be hounded out of office by false accusations, by incessant media barrages, many of them based on distortions and falsehoods, or by political attacks.'' accident</head>
a 22-year-old irishwoman, critically injured in a st. patrick's day traffic accident during a trip here, is awake after 10 days in a coma and is exchanging smiles with visitors, officials and friends say
margaret hanley was listed in fair condition thursday, said anita robins, a spokeswoman at weiss memorial hospital
they're saying very little, except the doctor is saying she's becoming a little more alert,'' ms. robins said
gerry archbold, a director of the irish-american heritage center, said that when he visited miss hanley on tuesday, ``she was conscious and a smile came to her face. she recognizes voices, but she has a long way to go after this.''
an aspiring actress in dublin, miss hanley came to the united states in february to visit her jailed boyfriend and had planned to return home march 18. she was on her way to buy a bottle of milk march 17 when she was hit by a car
she was conscious in the ambulance and joked with attendants about not being able to dance for a while, but then lapsed into a coma
a broken leg created a blockage in blood vessels carrying oxygen to her brain, said miss dewitt. doctors didn't know how long the woman had a diminished supply of oxygen from the blood clot
there's hope she will recover fully, but it's too early to say,'' nursing supervisor dorothy dewitt said wednesday. ``the fact that she has been up and talking is a very, very good sign.''
another nursing supervisor, nancy durbin, said miss hanley attempts to talk, mouthing her words
the nurse said she does not know if the young woman has mentioned daniel stokes, an irish immigrant to america whom she met last year when he was back in ireland for a visit
stokes, 21, now is in cook county jail, charged with first-degree murder, residential burglary, armed robbery, home invasion and possession of a stolen vehicle. he is accused of killing his landlord and has pleaded innocent
archbold said the irish-american center helped ease the way for the woman's parents, stephen and ann hanley, who flew to this country when they learned of the accident. he attributed her improvement to the prayers of sympathizers
we prayed hard for her. there were special prayers during the palm sunday mass at the center,'' archbold said. ``just shortly after the mass was over, she started to regain consciousness.''
miss hanley's room has assumed a more cheerful atmosphere, filled with stuffed animals sent by well-wishers
a team of federal experts at an alaskan space communications center helped to rescue an ailing indian satellite that was out of control earlier this month, a u.s. official said thursday
larry heacock, director of satellite operations for the national oceanographic and atmospheric administration, said the indian satellite, called irs1a, was launched by a soviet rocket on march 17 and placed into an orbit of about 560 miles
satellite controllers in germany, he said, discovered that the irs1a was unable to focus a guidance sensor on the earth, a sighting it was to use for an accurate orientation. as a result, the craft was unstable and could not be controlled properly
heacock said the satellite passed over the noaa satellite communications station in fairbanks, alaska six times every 24 hours
the german space agency, which was operating the satellite for india, asked the noaa station to take and send data to irs1a
each time it went by, noaa took data and sent it to the german space agency,'' said heacock
using this data, the germans were able to properly orient irs1a
the satellite is now normal,'' said heacock
the irs1a is to be used by the indians to gather remote sensing data. it was placed in a near-polar orbit which enables it to scan the whole earth once every 22 days
heacock said the normal operation of the fairbanks noaa station is to collect signals from the noaa 9 and 10 weather satellites
for the indian satellite, the noaa engineers used a spare antenna, and india paid the agency about $200,000 for the work, heacock said
the noaa station earlier performed data collection for a french remote sensing satellite called spot
president reagan directed treasury secretary james a. baker iii on thursday to buy materials for u.s. coins from foreign countries when required by international agreement, despite a ``buy america'' provision enacted by congress
in a statement issued as he signed a reauthorization bill for the bureau of the mint, reagan noted that the legislation requires preference for u.s. producers and suppliers over those in any country that has its own protectionist measures governing procurement for coinage
this requirement, standing alone, conflicts with certain of our nation's international obligations,'' he said
under the general agreement on tariffs and trade, for example, the united states agreed to require the mint to give equal treatment to the products and supplies of other countries that are signatories of the agreement
some countries did not designate their mints as covered by this agreement, but may have designated other agencies that the united states elected not to have covered, the president said
thus, he said, the preference provided in the bill ``could be viewed by our trading partners as violating our obligations.''
canada did not designate its mint as covered by the agreement, but canada and the united states recently signed a free trade agreement which is now being considered by congress. the president said following the preference provided in the bill ``could also bring into question our obligations'' under the u.s.-canadian trade agreement
the president said it was fortunate that the bill would permit the secretary of the treasury to waive the buy america provision when he found that it would be inconsistent with the public interest or the cost would be unreasonable
the public interest of the united states includes adhering to our international obligations, and these obligations should be taken into account by the secretary of the treasury in making procurements'' affected by the bill, the president said
house advocates of granting banks broad new securities powers said thursday their efforts have been given a big boost by overwhelming passage of legislation in the senate
we're on the move,'' said rep. stephen neal, d-n.c., who plans to offer a bill mirroring the senate measure when the house banking committee meets next month to consider the issue
the senate voted 94-2 late wednesday to allow bank holding companies to underwrite and sell mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds
it would permit underwriting of corporate bonds and mutual funds six months after enactment by both houses of congress and signature by president reagan, who favors the bill
i think ... the vote in the senate shows a very broad-based, liberal-conservative, bipartisan base for this kind of change,'' neal said
but those pushing a more cautious approach say the senate action may have little effect, pointing out that a senate deregulation effort in 1984 died in the house for lack of support
four years ago the senate voted 89-4 for a bill that never came out of the house. i'm not sure what influence it has now,'' said rep. charles schumer, d-n.y. he said he believes provisions in the senate bill safeguarding federally insured deposits from the risk of securities activities are too weak
schumer is backing a bill drafted by house banking committee chairman fernand j. st germain, d-r.i. it would grant banks only a few securities powers _ commercial paper, mortgage revenue bonds and asset-backed securities _ and place more restrictions on banks
the senate bill substantially lifts limits on banks in place since 1933 when the glass-steagall act separated commercial from investment banking in the belief that bank involvement in securities helped fuel the speculative binge that ended in the 1929 stock market crash and the bank failures of the 1930s
proponents of change say developments in the financial system, particularly in the last decade, threaten the ability of banks to compete. securities firms, for instance, offer bank-like services such as commercial paper and money market mutual funds. they argue that sufficient safeguards can be put in place to prevent the abuses of the 1920s
the senate measure requires a separate vote in 1991 before bank holding companies could underwrite corporate stock, the most lucrative securities activity
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., whose energy and commerce subcommittee on finance has partial jurisdiction over the issue, called passage of the senate bill a positive step, but said the house will devote its attention to ``developing strong and resilient firewalls'' between banking and securities activities
consumer groups on thursday praised provisions in the bill _ unrelated to securities _ aimed at benefiting bank customers
we're very excited,'' said peggy miller of the consumer federation of america
one section prohibits lenders from unilaterally changing the pay-back and other terms of home equity loans. it requires lenders to warn borrowers that they could lose their house if they fail to pay and imposes other disclosure requirements
another provision bars misleading savings and checking account advertisements and requires banks to disclose the interest rate, fees and other information
the bill would also require banks to prove they are meeting the needs of poor citizens and neighborhoods before getting permission to exercise the new powers
and, it directs banks to cooperate if state laws require them to mail material to customers inviting them to join state financial consumer organizations
nicaragua has given the world court an estimate of damage caused by the contra war as a first step in claiming reparations from the united states, a court spokesman said thursday
the spokesman, who spoke on condition he was not identified, did not give the number. sources at both the court and nicaraguan embassy cited world court rules that forbid disclosure of written material before hearings have been held in a case
during 1985 hearings on a complaint about u.s. aid for the nicaraguan rebels, known as contras, sandinista officials speaking privately put the damage at $250-$300 million
a 1986 ruling by the court, a u.n. agency formally named the international court of justice, ordered the united states to halt all support to the contras. the rebels began fighting in 1981, and last week reached a preliminary cease-fire agreement with the sandinistas
in the ruling, the 15-judge court also directed the parties to settle the issue of reparations for damage caused by the rebels. the decision came after more than two years of proceedings on the nicaraguan complaint
the reagan administration boycotted the final 17 months of proceedings, contending the court had no jurisdiction, and refused to discuss the issue with the sandinistas. the court began the award procedure this year at nicaragua's request
it is expected to take several years. the next step is the filing of written arguments by the united states, for which the court has set a july 28 deadline
sources familiar with the dispute said it was unlikely the u.s. government would be willing to enter the reparations argument after having rejected the court's jurisdiction in 1984. the court has no enforcement powers and depends on voluntary adherence to its rulings
in a related development, nicaragua withdrew a request for an emergency ruling on its case accusing honduras of allowing the contras to have bases on honduran territory
that request was filed march 21, after the united states sent 3,200 troops to honduras in response to an alleged incursion by nicaraguan soldiers in pursuit of rebels
in it, nicaragua had asked the court to investigate alleged border crossings by honduran armed forces and requested that an international observer force monitor the border
nicaragua filed its action against honduras last year. it had been suspended on by request of both parties after five central american presidents signed a regional peace plan aug. 7
two police officers were sentenced thursday to hang for the killing of two reputed drug dealers
one of the officers, sgt. robert van der merwe, had testified that he carried out the slayings because his co-defendant, capt. jack la grange, told him the victims were helping the african national congress, the main anti-apartheid guerrilla movement
according to evidence presented during the three-week trial, la grange was hired by alleged drug dealer peter pillay to arrange the killing of two men said to be his rivals, bennie ogle and ernest molokoane
van der merwe testified that on sept. 28, 1987, while he was with la grange, he shot ogle and molokoane. ogle died and molokoane suffered five gunshot wounds but survived
van der merwe said that on oct. 4 he killed pillay, again at la grange's instructions
supreme court justice irving steyn, who presided over the non-jury trial, said it was possible van der merwe had been duped by la grange into killing ogle but ruled that the sergeant had no excuse for pillay's slaying
an execution date is pending. steyn said the two police officers could appeal their murder convictions for the death of ogle, but not for the killing of pillay
la grange, 40, had claimed he was being framed by superiors, while van der merwe, 30, contended that he thought he was taking part in an approved clandestine operation
van der merwe told the court that he knew of previous ``clandestine operations'' in which security police carried out missions to kill suspected anc operatives
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
a special police detail is using an obscure ordinance against walking in the bushes to arrest suspected homosexuals in a city park
an official of the american civil liberties union said thursday the tactic is discriminatory and probably illegal
police said they see it as a way to clear langford park of homosexuals who meet there. a city study concluded that the boardwalks that wind through the forested park have become a hangout for homosexuals and male prostitutes
plainclothes officers on the special detail walk the wooden boardwalks and wait for men to walk into the bushes and sheltered spots
the law against walking in the bushes is part of a catch-all loitering ordinance. it is not posted in the park
one 35-year-old man who did not want to be identified said he was sitting in an open area of the park listening to a radio when two uniformed officers demanded to see his identification and asked if he had ever been arrested
they wanted to know why he was in a city park 10 minutes from his home and if he was married, he said. ``they asked me if i was a homosexual. twice,'' the man said
he said the officers threatened to arrest him if they saw him ``walking aimlessly'' or spending more time there than they believed was proper
how do you walk with purpose in a park?'' ron ross, president of the local chapter of the aclu, asked thursday. ``police are using unposted laws and are creating their own criteria for arrest, like `walking aimlessly.'''
the innocent person doesn't have a chance,'' ross said, arguing that police have created a situation in which no single men are innocent
officers arrest suspected homosexuals on whatever charge they can when they are unable to prove the men are prostitutes, said police capt. duane mcgray
the tactic has been used for more than a year because it is difficult to make prostitution arrests, he said
robert stabile, 37, was picked up while strolling through the foliage last week. he was jailed on a charge of prohibited activity, although police could simply have issued him a notice to appear in court and let him go home
i wasn't doing anything. i was just walking,'' stabile complained. ``they said i was out there too long.''
the arrest report said a plainclothes officer on the special detail saw stabile ``walk into the bushes off of the park path. the subject walked throughout the wooded area. i then arrested him for prohibited activity in the park.''
stabile could serve 60 days in jail and pay up to a $500 fine if convicted
ross said the police practice is ``discriminatory, definitely discriminatory, especially in a city park that is supposed to be for the benefit of all citizens
it is outrageous to discriminate against a certain class of people _ rather, who they suspect to be members of a certain class of people,'' ross said
police attorney john ross, who is not related to the aclu president, said anyone who claims that the law is being selectively enforced has to prove it
the burden is on them to actually show that there are names and addresses of people we have not arrested,'' he said
the communist party said thursday it was to blame for hungary's economic woes and proposed reforms in party elections including secret ballots and multi-candidate slates
a draft policy statement published thursday by nepszabadsag, the hungarian communist party daily newspaper, said the party had failed to assess ``the impact of world economic changes on the hungarian economy,'' causing an economic crisis
the statement, a rare public admission of a mistake by a governing communist party, added: ``the central committee and its executive organs, the government and its institutions are responsible for all this.''
the draft is to serve as an outline of discussions at a national party conference opening may 20 to review the communists' role in the changing society
the party draft said hungarian leaders recognized ``belatedly'' that economic growth could not come without more economic and political changes
the statement advocated a new system of party elections to be implemented before the next congress in 1990
the practice of nominating more candidates should widen and secret elections be held at all levels,'' the draft said
a 1986 party resolution setting a two-term limit on some lesser party posts should be extended to cover regional party secretaries as well, the draft said
the document also noted the party ``should not assume the scope of tasks of the state and social organizations'' and pull back from daily administration
the policy statement did not say whether the conference would include a discussion on replacing janos kadar, the 75-year-old communist party leader who has held power since 1956
but an unsigned editorial in the economics weekly figyeloe said thursday that ``important decisions'' on personnel questions were expected at the conference
the party meeting must create a new political system capable of forging consensus among hungarians of different opinions and interests, figyeloe said
hungary borrowed heavily in the 1970s to build up heavy industry. now, its 10.6 million people are burdened with a gross hard-currency debt of $16 billion, the highest per capita in the soviet bloc
as part of a government austerity program that took effect jan. 1, hungary became the first east bloc country to impose personal income taxes. the government also said prices are to rise at least 15 percent this year
the austerity program is the work of prime minister karoly grosz, 57, who took over the government in july and is seen as a possible successor to kadar
the last party congress was held in march 1985. innocent</head>
a woman who concealed her husband's death for eight years and tended the corpse as if he were alive pleaded guilty thursday to two felony forgery charges related to the death
a former chicago-area dentist accused of assisting her in the forgery pleaded innocent
carole stevens, 42, of knoxville entered the plea in knox county circuit court. judge harry bulkeley placed her on two years' probation and sentenced her to 12 days in jail, for which she received credit for 12 days served
bulkeley also ordered mrs. stevens to undergo psychiatric treatment. she could have received up to five years in prison and a $10,000 fine
mrs. stevens was charged with fabricating a power of attorney for her dead husband in 1984 and using it to refinance a home mortgage
her alleged accomplice, richard g. kunce, 56, a former aurora dentist who was a guest in the stevens house, was charged with signing his name as a witness
in february, mrs. stevens and kunce pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of failing to report the 1979 death of carl l. stevens, a diabetic who authorities say died shortly after he joined a holistic health cult and stopped taking his daily insulin shots
mrs. stevens was placed on a year's probation on the misdemeanor charge. kunce has asked a judge to withdraw his guilty plea
stevens' withered corpse was found jan. 29 on a bed in the home, where officials said his widow, a registered nurse, had cared for the body daily for the past eight years, changing its clothes and moving it from room to room
mrs. stevens' children, ages 17 and 14, are in foster care receiving psychiatric treatment
in a separate case, mrs. stevenson on thursday admitted to child neglect for allowing her children to live with their father's mummified remains for eight years
she was granted permission to continue seeing her children under supervision pending a decision on whether she will retain custody
kunce also awaits a court appearance on a felony charge of cruelty to children for allegedly teaching the stevens children ``black magic and suicide'' and for allowing them to live in the same house with the corpse
if convicted on the cruelty charge, he could receive up to three years in prison and a $10,000 fine. extraneous words.</note>
two american balloonists on thursday called off their plans to circle the earth non-stop in two weeks or less, saying $100,000 worth of helium leaked out of one of their balloons
they said they hoped to try again next year
col. rowland smith, 50, said a patch in one balloon ripped wednesday as the two 360-foot-high balloons were being inflated at el plumerillo air base outside mendoza, 660 miles west of buenos aires
smith and project organizer john petrehn, of topeka, kan., said about $2.5 million had been spent in transportation, materials and personnel for the double-decker balloon flight
technically it's impossible to attempt to fly around the world'' this year, a disappointed smith said at a brief news conference. he said they hoped to try next year
petrehn, 52, is a businessman, while smith is a former vietnam war pilot and a kansas-based pilot for trans world airlines. the balloonists had hoped to do what no one else has: circle the earth around the 45-degree parallel in the southern hemisphere
they planned to follow the 45th parallel for about 17,545 miles, traveling southeast from mendoza, crossing the atlantic and indian oceans and new zealand's campbell island, then cross the pacific until chile, dropping over the andes to return to mendoza in nine to 14 days
they hoped to travel at speeds up to 60 knots an hour, following the prevailing eastern winds at altitudes of up to 30,000 feet in a pressurized radar-equipped polyethlene gondola three yards by two yards wide
the longest manned balloon flight was in 1981, when the double eagle v crossed the pacific for about 5,000 miles
the government on thursday banned all outdoor meetings for a year, except those involving sporting events or funerals
justice minister kobie coetsee announced the order under terms of the internal security act, which prohibits a wide range of activities. it takes effect friday and will be in force through march 31, 1989
under national emergency regulations already in effect, outdoor rallies are illegal unless approved by a magistrate or law and order minister adriaan vlok
it was not immediately clear if the latest order expanded government authority to restrict rallies
magistrates still will have the power to consider exceptions to the ban
the order appears aimed at nationwide municipal elections scheduled for all race groups in october. by restricting rallies to indoors, the government apparantly seeks to limit the size of crowds and reduce the potential for violence
it is the latest move in recent government crackdowns aimed at limiting political activity
last week, a judge, acting on a government request, banned an outdoor rally by the afrikaner resistance movement, a white-supremacist paramilitary organization. the group eventually met indoors
on feb. 24, the government banned 18 leading black anti-apartheid groups from participating in political activity
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
also thursday, minister of constitutional development chris heunis said residents of the small black township of oukasie, outside the northeastern city of brits, must be resettled in keeping with government policy
heunis said monday in parliament the government would not try to relocate the remaining 8,000 residents
he said thursday his statement was misinterpreted. he reiterated government policy that oukasie remained officially abolished and residents would be moved to lethlabile, a newly established township 15 miles away. but he said it would not be done by ``force.''
heunis abolished oukasie by decree in october 1986, but only about 5,000 residents moved to lethlabile. oukasie residents repeatedly have said they prefer their old homes and have no intention of moving
the government says the cost of upgrading oukasie would be ``astronomical.'' oukasie residents say the government wants them out because the township has expanded to within 250 yards of a white suburb in brits
the occupational safety and health administration should switch more inspectors to meatpacking plants because job injury rates there are the highest of any industry in the country, a house committee said thursday
the house government operations committee also called on osha to establish minimum training standards for packinghouse workers and consider setting standards on work loads and chain speeds in packinghouses
the committee concluded in a 45-page report that tens of thousands of meatpacking workers are being injured each year because they are ``regarded by some as disposable, someone who is used and then discarded.''
citing upton sinclair's 1906 novel ``the jungle'' on labor toil in chicago packinghouses, the committee said ``more than 80 years later ... meatpacking employees still work'' under the same conditions of slick floors and dangerous chain speeds that cause them to accidentally slash themselves and one another
terry mikelson, an osha spokesman, said the agency will take the committee's recommendations ``under consideration.''
we already devote special resources to meatpacking,'' he said, explaining that packinghouses are inspected three times more often than plants in other manufacturing industries. ``everybody recognizes that its a high-hazard industry and that employers need to do a better job.''
the report was based on three days of hearings conducted last year by the house panel's employment and housing subcommittee focusing on osha and ibp inc.'s flagship packinghouse at dakota city, neb
at the time of the first hearing, ibp and the united food and commercial workers union were engaged in a bitter lockout that turned into a strike involving 2,900 workers
the strike has since been settled, but not before the union succeeded in focusing both congressional and osha attention on safety conditions in the plant and the industry
last july, osha fined ibp $2.6 million _ then the biggest penalty ever levied by the agency _ for safety and record violations at the dakota city plant. the company has appealed the fine
part of the fine resulted from osha's determination that the company kept two sets of injury records at the plant, one for internal use and the other for the purview of osha inspectors when they visited
in testifying before the subcommittee, ibp chairman robert peterson denied that two sets of books were kept. later, peterson recanted that testimony, saying it was based on misunderstandings within the company
the committee concluded last week that peterson's explanation ``strained credibility'' but added that the panel lacked sufficient evidence to seek a perjury indictment of him
osha, meanwhile, announced last week that it would quit relying only on company-maintained injury records in deciding whether a plant should be inspected further
beginning this past monday, the agency's inspectors are to ``walk through'' the high-hazard areas of each plant after reviewing their safety logs
the committee, like officials in some other government agencies, concluded that exempting companies from inspections based on employer-maintained records encouraged companies to under-report injuries and illnesses
judges shouldn't be so quick to order couples in bitter divorces to share custody of their children, because the arrangement can do more harm than good to the youngsters, a researcher said thursday
far too often, said psychologist judith wallerstein, the courts are ``putting children in the middle of the battlefield.''
wallerstein, head of the center for the family in transition, helped conduct a study of joint custody arrangements, which have become increasingly popular in recent years
findings from the study were presented here wednesday at the annual meeting of the american orthopsychiatric association
researchers at the non-profit research and counseling center, located in corte madera, studied the children of 100 couples who went through bitter divorces and had custody arrangements decided by the courts. in about one-third of those cases, joint custody was ordered
researchers assessed the psychological health of the children by testing, interviews and talks with their parents, and found that children were psychologically worse off _ more depressed, withdrawn and uncommunicative _ if joint custody was imposed
the researchers also studied 93 children whose parents parted amicably and chose their own custody arrangements. again, about one-third of the cases involved joint custody
children in that group were not affected by custody arrangements, the study found
in all, 33 states have enacted legislation that permits courts to order joint custody, evidence of the growing trend in its favor, wallerstein said
it's very important for children of divorces to maintain a continuous relationship with both parents, but that doesn't have to be with the child going back and forth,'' wallerstein said thursday in an interview
what's important is the relationship'' between parent and child, she said. ``it is quality of relationship sustained over time.''
jeremy fogel, supervising judge for family court in santa clara county, said the study confirmed his observations. ``an equal time share will not solve the problems of a very conflicted relationship between parents,'' fogel said
a family law attorney in oakland, carole h. rochlin, said he fears some people may use the findings to argue against joint custody
we'd get back to the days where either one parent or the other has custody _ where we had these destructive custody fights,'' said rochlin. he heads a group called equal rights for fathers, which favors joint custody. one week</head>
the district of columbia school board, claiming budget shortfalls, voted thursday to furlough all employees for one to seven days
the board also voted to cut some summer school sessions, reduce purchases, and institute a hiring freeze because of a $15 million gap in the fiscal year 1988 supplemental budget, according to acting school superintendent alfred jenkins
furloughing all city school employees for up to seven days could save the school district $8.1 million in pay and other costs, jenkins said
i don't feel very good about it at all,'' jenkins said. ``i only know the reality is we just don't have the money. we have to make plans for any eventuality.''
jenkins said the school board did not decide whether the furloughs would take place on consecutive days, or whether they would be spread out between now and sept. 30, the end of the 1988 budget year
city council member hilda mason, who chairs the council's education and libraries panel, said she did not know whether the school district would run into accreditation problems if schools were closed
one possibility is that the furloughs would come during the summer, when most students aren't in school, while another scenario is that the temporary layoffs could be staggered in order to keep schools open, mason said
council chairman david clarke called the school board's decision ``the height of irresponsibility,'' and said that the council has approved a total of $37.7 million in additional school spending for fiscal years 1988 and 1989
the school board requested an additional $25.1 million in the 1988 budget supplement, but the council approved only $10 million of that request
including the supplemental increases, the 22,000-pupil school system will receive $579.5 million in the 1988 budget year
about 25 high school students and a teacher are being tested for aids after a 16-year-old jabbed them with a surgical instrument taken from a biology classroom, the principal said thursday
there is no indication that anyone was sick with anything, but it's better to be safe than sorry,'' said albert ferraro jr., principal at westerly high school
ferraro said the student, who was not identified, jabbed a teacher in the side and drew blood monday with a lancet, a two-edged, pointed device used to prick the skin for blood samples
about 25 students reported monday and tuesday that they had been poked as well, and a police officer who frisked the boy in the school office monday came in contact with the lancet in the teen-ager's pocket, ferraro said
the student was suspended for 10 days monday after the teacher, whom ferraro would not identify, filed assault charges
the teacher, police officer and students were given tetanus and hepatitis shots at westerly hospital on monday and tuesday, ferraro said
on wednesday, he said, the students began returning to the hospital, where their blood was being drawn and sent to the state department of health for the aids test. the results can take up to two weeks, a hospital spokeswoman said
ferraro said he recommended the testing after talking to the school doctor
the federal agency that regulates savings institutions said thursday that an internal investigation has found no criminal activity by a subsidiary agency that manages property from bankrupt s&amp;ls
however, the report by federal home loan bank board inspector general paul gibbons did reveal ``ineffective business practices'' by the federal asset disposition association
the investigation was requested in september by rep. james florio, d-n.j., after a critic of fada complained that he was being investigated by a private detective
william t. juliano, a mount laurel, n.j., developer who was threatening a lawsuit against fada, charged that the agency, through its law firm, hired a detective agency to probe his financial affairs
juliano, according to florio, reported that his office was broken into on sept. 14 and that eavesdropping equipment was found in the ceiling
gibbons, however, said new jersey state police had found no evidence of wiretapping at juliano's office and local police had closed their break-in investigation for lack of evidence
jon shure, a spokesman for florio, said the congressman had just received the report and had not had a chance to review it
but, he added, ``we are still pursuing our own look into fada. it is still very much a live issue. nothing would be in that report that would make us say, `ok we're not interested in fada anymore.'''
shure said there has been no result reported from a parallel investigation of the charges by the justice department. he said florio has asked congress' investigative arm, the general accounting office, to review the bank board report
karl hoyle, a bank board spokesman, said the report made no judgment about the propriety of hiring a private detective agency, whose investigators in questioning juliano identified themselves as representing a firm selling credit card
hoyle said the detective agency was hired without the knowledge of bank board officials and that the board subsequently directed that no investigators be hired without its permission
the bank board report also found no evidence to support allegations leveled by two others: pasquale verona, a fort myers, fla., real estate investor, and joe r. dobson, a austin, texas, developer
verona charged that fada officials offered him a bribe, in the form of a consulting fee, if he would back off from complaints he made to members of congress about the agency
dobson, according to florio, said his office was broken into and ransacked after he told fada officials he had secretly taped his conversations with them
members of congress, real estate investors and others have criticized fada for being too sluggish in selling property from bankrupt s&amp;ls, thus depriving the cash-short federal fund that insures s&amp;l deposits of money. they have said the agency is riddled with conflicts of interest and wastes money
among the poor business practices acknowledged by the bank board report were failure to return telephone calls to investors interested in buying property managed by fada and poor dissemination of bidding information
the house banking committee, meanwhile, has been preparing its own, broader report on fada, which according to an industry newsletter is being held up by the committee chairman, rep. fernand g. st germain, d-r.i
rick maurano, an aide to st germain, said the congressman was unavailable thursday evening to comment on the fada investigation. house banking committee aides did not return telephone calls on the subject
eleven men were charged after a 19-year-old woman told police she was raped repeatedly by a group of men who urged onlookers at a ranch to join in, authorities said thursday
some of the men watching illegal cockfights in a shed nearby heard the women's cries for help but did nothing; others joined in the assault saturday night, said ricardo carrillo, duval county assistant district attorney
some were holding her by the legs and by the arms, and some were covering her eyes and mouth,'' carrillo said
the woman told authorities that a group of men abducted her half a block from home and took her to a ranch north of town
authorities believe the woman, who has two children, was stripped naked and raped repeatedly for several hours in the back seat of a car, said carrillo
everybody's a little shocked and outraged by it,'' said assistant district attorney rodolfo v. gutierrez
seven men have been charged with sexual assault, three have been charged with sexual assault and kidnapping and one has been charged with kidnapping
officials say 20 to 30 men were at the ranch
a lot of people were present that did not participate, didn't assault her, but at the same time they didn't do anything to help her or do anything to stop the other people from assaulting her,'' gutierrez said
even though legally they may not be responsible, morally they didn't do anything to try and prevent this from happening or to stop it once it started.''
he said the woman knew some of her assailants but said some covered their faces while attacking her
some of them we've brought in have admitted it,'' carrillo said. ``some are not talking.''
carrillo said the woman was walking home from her uncle's house when several men abducted her and took her to the ranch
the woman reported four men later took her to another location, raped her again and dropped her off near her home early sunday, carrillo said
she was treated at humana hospital in corpus christi and released earlier this week, authorities said
people in the remote town of about 5,000 are frightened by the incident, said a 44-year-old woman who asked not to be identified because in the town ``everybody knows everybody.''
you expect something like this to happen in corpus or san antonio or dallas, but not in san diego,'' said the woman
all of the men charged are from san diego, officials said
ten suspects were arrested wednesday and thursday or turned themselves in. at least four were released on bail of $20,000 each
one man was not in custody thursday evening but was expected to turn himself in, gutierrez said, adding that there may be more arrests
an american attorney for gen. manuel antonio noriega said thursday he has advised the panamanian leader to be wary of possible attempts to kidnap him and bring him to trial on drug charges in the united states
neal sonnett of miami said he based his advice on history _ citing previous u.s. kidnappings of fugitives _ and the refusal recently of elliott abrams, assistant secretary of state, to rule out any option for removing noriega
the lawyer said a kidnapping attempt would not necessarily come while noriega is in panama. it could come as the general sought refuge in another country, he said
i don't know that the united states would send marshals, armed guards or troops to snatch him from panama,'' sonnett said
he said he would ``insist not just on a (u.s.) promise not to extradite but also on a guarantee of safe passage'' if noriega leaves panama
noriega, the military power behind the civilian government, has been indicted on drug and racketeering charges in miami and tampa
u.s. state department spokesman rudy boone on thursday refused to comment on sonnett's suggestion that kidnapping was a u.s. option
sonnett cited the u.s. decision in 1985 to force down a plane in sicily that was transporting four accused palestinian hijackers as ``an indication of the length to which the united states will go to secure a fugitive.''
a horse trainer thursday admitted taking part in a scheme to collect $81,000 in insurance by sending eight horses to their death over a cliff
bobby griffin, 45, of lufkin, texas, pleaded guilty along with leonard keith autterson, 48, of lakeside, calif., to conspiracy to defraud an insurance company
each faces up to five years in prison at sentencing may 23, but assistant u.s. attorney patrick coughlin said he will recommend probation. both men have agreed to testify at the trial of four co-defendants, coughlin said
the staged truck accident occurred in 1983 off interstate 8 near jacumba, about 70 miles east of san diego. seven horses died at the scene; the eighth horse was destroyed
coughlin said griffin was listed as the buyer of the horses because the alleged conspirators needed the name of someone in the horse business to make the accident look legitimate
i was supposed to get $10,000 to use my name as the contractor,'' griffin told u.s. district judge gordon thompson jr
they were supposed to be selling them to me and ship them to texas. i didn't put it together; i just agreed to it,'' said griffin. he said he did not get any of the money
autterson told thompson he was offered $7,500 by another co-defendant to drive the horses off a cliff
did you cause the accident?'' asked thompson
i drove the truck up to the cliff and made sure the horses were in it,'' he answered
political extremist lyndon larouche said thursday the defense at his conspiracy trial would show that vice president george bush condoned infiltration and harassment of larouche groups
vice president george bush is going to be dropped into this trial,'' larouche said without offering evidence to support this allegations. ``this is no longer a credit card case. this is the george bush-oliver north case.''
larouche is on trial on federal charges he conspired to obstruct a grand jury investigation into alleged credit card fraud by his 1984 presidential campaign
his remarks thursday were his first since defense lawyers gained access to government documents discussing alleged infiltration of larouche groups by fbi and cia operatives
according to trial testimony, the documents do not mention bush, but larouche said the vice president had to be aware of the alleged infiltration because he presided over an interagency panel that discussed intelligence matters
prosecutors contend intelligence operatives quoted in the documents lied in claiming to have been asked by the fbi and cia to infiltrate larouche groups
but larouche said the documents proved his contention that the reagan administration plotted to ruin him because he refused to support the president's contra-aid program
larouche said the defense also would prove that bush, contrary to his public statements, had a central role in the shipment of arms to iran and the diversion of the profits to the contra rebels in nicaragua
the people who are running the operations are accountable to him,'' said larouche, who espouses theories of world conspiracies and has accused prominent world leaders of being soviet agents
the vice president's office did not return telephone calls from the associated press
testimony in the trial of larouche, six aides and five larouche political organizations has been halted while a judge holds hearings on defense allegations that prosecutors withheld evidence of infiltration of larouche groups
the hearings are expected to continue at least through next week
bush's office and numerous federal agencies have been ordered to search their files for references to larouche, a candidate for the democratic presidential nomination. off-broadway</head>
sandra bernhard is a pouty priestess of pop culture, wickedly dissecting life and what passes for art and artifice at the end of the 1980s
in her show, ``without you i'm nothing,'' which opened thursday at off-broadway's orpheum theater, bernhard slouches and scowls through 90 minutes of brash comedy and rock music that is not only off-the-wall but occasionally beyond it
this outrageous woman, all lips, legs and long arms, is best known to late- night tv watchers for harassing david letterman. she's also remembered as the actress who stole ``king of comedy,'' martin scorsese's movie about a tv talk show host, from robert deniro and jerry lewis
with her new theater performance piece, bernard offers a string of unconventional, often very funny, observations about show business and the people who are consumed by it
it's a peculiar subculture which she celebrates and puts down at the same time. but then, as bernhard explains to the audience, her father was a proctologist and her mother an abstract artist, so that's just how she views the world
she seems to rap about anything that comes into her head, and the evening wanders from monologue to monologue. the performer, dressed in black pants and a denim jacket, is surrounded on stage by a small rock band. between conversations, bernhard breaks into song, much of it surprisingly effective. her repertoire ranges from such golden oldies as ``the lion sleeps tonight'' to material she wrote herself
bernard's targets in this show, which she co-authored with director john boskovich, range from broadway to cabaret to rock 'n' roll icons to fashion to her own childhood back in flint, mich., and later scottsdale, ariz
she tweaks the noses of many show biz personalities, some more famous than others. not many comedians would open their show with a parody of andrea marcovicci, a cabaret artist who is certainly not a household name in middle america
bernard also takes on more familiar performers _ joni mitchell comes in for a hilarious drubbing, for example _ and kayoes such diverse cultural phenomenon as esprit, the selling of fashion as affectation, and vanity fair, ``the least pretentious magazine in america.''
the material grows more serious, too. there's a wonderful sequence where bernhard fantasizes about being friends with stevie nicks of fleetwood mac and celebrates the women of rock 'n' roll
the actress is not on everybody's wavelength. bernhard doesn't travel in a straight line. she swoons, swerves, backtracks and then races ahead at 100 mph. but it's fun trying to keep up with her with her more fanciful observations. ``without you i'm nothing'' makes for a wild night ride of off-beat humor
britain said it would investigate thursday after a british newspaper said that kurt waldheim may have cooperated with u.s. and british intelligence in return for having incriminating evidence erased from his war record
john wakeham, a cabinet member and leader of the house of commons, told parliament the home office will conduct an inquiry into official military files that the times of london reported are missing from the public records office
the paper said the files may relate to the world war ii record of waldheim, a lieutenant in the german army who later became secretary-general of the united nations and now is president of austria
the times said that in one file on military activities in yugoslavia between may 1944 and the end of the war, an entire section listed in the index as ``allegations of murder of british prisoners of war'' was missing
waldheim served as an intelligence officer in the balkans and was posted at dubrovnik, yugoslavia, during that period
the times quoted robert herzstein, history professor at the university of south carolina, as saying several records of the british contribution to the u.n. war crimes commission also appeared to be missing from government records
britain ordered an inquiry earlier this year into the cases of six captured british commandos executed in 1944 after being handed over for interrogation to the german army unit in which waldheim served
the newspaper said it also has evidence that british wartime documents and foreign office papers which probably related to waldheim's wartime role had been suppressed
it said this suppression raised suspicions that waldheim may have collaborated with the americans and the british after the war ended in 1945 in return for having his german army record purged of incriminating evidence
the newspaper quoted herzstein as saying he believes waldheim passed on large amounts of information after the war to allied intelligence agents based at bad tolz, west germany, especially on the communist partisans in yugoslavia and guerrillas in greece
herzstein is due to publish a book next week that suggests waldheim worked for the americans after the war
a panel of historians has concluded waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them. it said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it
the panel left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime. waldheim has denied any wrongdoing. hospital</head>
a judge said thursday he had no alternative when he sent a 4{-year-old boy to a state mental hospital
authorities said the child is apparently the youngest ever committed in maryland
there was a lack of any other resources under the circumstances,'' montgomery county juvenile court judge douglas moore said in a telephone interview from rockville. he said the boy was committed tuesday evening
the child was receiving individual attention at the springfield hospital center in sykesville, said mike golden, spokesman for the department of health and mental hygiene
the action stemmed from an investigation by the county department of social services into charges that the boy had been neglected, said j.c. shay, spokesman for the state department of human resources
this is an emergency placement, until we can find something better,'' shay said. ``the boy needs in-patient psychiatric care.''
officials could not remember any child that young ever before being committed in maryland, said dr. henry harbin, director of the state mental hygiene administration
winifred depalma, an attorney with the maryland disability law center, called the move ``mind-boggling.''
i have never heard of them committing a child that young,'' she said. ``they have no facilities for a child that age. there are some very emotionally disturbed youths in the adolescent unit. in no case should a 4-year-old child ever be committed there.''
attorney general edwin meese iii promises answers ``within the next several days'' about the top-level defections that have rocked his department, but he faces growing pressure from republicans as well as democrats to resign
meese met thursday with republican sen. strom thurmond, who said ``a number of people on capitol hill have expressed deep concern about the problems at the justice department.''
thurmond is the ranking republican on the senate judiciary committee and the discussion was the strongest sign to date of growing bipartisan concern in congress over whether the attorney general's mounting legal problems are dragging down his department
plentiful cocaine supplies in the united states helped a major sicilian mafia drug ring that exported massive quantities of the drug to italy and traded it for heroin to sell to u.s. markets, the fbi says
the fbi and italian authorities said they cracked the ring on thursday, arresting more than 100 people in both countries and charging dozens more
attorney general edwin meese iii said trading cocaine for heroin was ``a simple matter of economics.'' because of the plentiful supply and leveled-off consumption in the united states, cocaine is less expensive here, about $20,000 a kilogram, than in europe where it costs about $50,000 a kilogram, he said
the charlotte observer's dogged coverage of the ptl financial scandal, scorned by jim and tammy bakker and many readers, earned the pulitzer prize for public service, journalism's highest honor
in the arts, toni morrison's novel of a former slave, ``beloved,'' won the pulitzer for fiction, a category closely watched after the book failed to win two other prestigious awards for which it was nominated
alfred uhry's first non-musical play, ``driving miss daisy,'' won the drama prize and richard rhodes was awarded the non-fiction prize for his book, ``the making of the atomic bomb.''
residents of this quiet town, where ``everybody knows everybody,'' were stunned and scared after a young woman said a group of men raped her repeatedly while onlookers ignored her pleas
it's something horrible,'' said jesse castanon, owner of the j.c. windmill restaurant on state highway 44, the main road through this south texas county seat about 70 miles west of corpus christi
i don't know how to explain it to you because all of the people are shocked because this never happened here,'' castanon said. he said he knew most of the 11 men arrested in the case
israel lifted a three-day closure of its occupied territories today, but beefed-up army units remained in the west bank and gaza strip in anticipation of expected riots following weekly moslem prayers
officials said the unprecedented clampdown had helped calm palestinian unrest despite persistent fatal clashes, and prime minister yitzhak shamir vowed to violently crush the rebellion
the uprising's underground leaders called for riots and a general strike to protest secretary of state george p. shultz's latest middle east peace mission
the government said it ordered its soldiers not to give washington a pretext for armed intervention and it failed to meet another payroll for civil servants, dampening easter celebrations
thousands of people lined up for meals provided by charity, casualties of the 5-week-old campaign to try to force the ouster of panama's de facto leader, defense forces chief gen. manuel antonio noriega
the office of acting president manuel solis palma issued a communique thursday alleging the united states was looking for an incident that could justify military intervention
president reagan will give quick approval to an aid package for nicaragua's contras, but it probably will be at least two weeks before the rebels begin receiving supplies under the new legislation, a state department official says
the senate on thursday gave lopsided approval to the $48 million aid bill, sending it to the president on a vote of 87-7. the house had approved the measure 345-70 a day earlier
there certainly is an urgent need among the resistance for medical supplies, food, clothing, the basic commodities of life,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said. ``this bill is very welcome in that regard and we support it.''
the white house, which has had at least 30 coats of paint slathered on it since it was first whitewashed in 1797, is getting a facelift for its 200th birthday
scaffolding went up along the north wall and part of the south wall of the president's home this week as workers began the job of removing paint preparatory to repainting
the elaborate sandstone carvings on the window pediments, balustrade and roofline cornice of the building also will be repaired in time for the bicentennial in 1992. news digest: wash _ meese; jerusalem _ israel; panama city, panama _ panama; santa barbara, calif. _ reagan; wash _ blind-airlines; boston _ baby lawsuit; undated _ political rdp.</note>
please! please! a kilo of bread!'' shouted women outside a bakery off ramallah's main square
the flustered bakery owner held out empty hands. ``that's all! i can't sell anymore!'' the stocky man shouted back, locking his shop door to obey the demands of gun-toting israeli soldiers who had confiscated his identity papers
the shop shutters that crashed shut at gunpoint throughout ramallah on tuesday began three days of what residents called a siege by israeli troops determined to crush a 4-month-old arab uprising
jews celebrated the first night of passover and christians carrying crosses marked good friday under heavy military and police guard that was mobilized to prevent violence after four months of arab protests
fewer tourists than usual filled israel's hotels, normally packed to capacity during passover week. tourism officials blamed it on the fear among foreigners, mainly u.s. jews, because of the fatal riots
police commissioner david kraus told israel army radio extra units of officers patrolled cities and holiday sites
ten thousand iranians shook their fists while chanting of death to iraq and the ``great satan'' america at friday prayers, glancing nervously skyward now and then for the vapor trails of incoming missiles
a western diplomat described the weekly ritual at tehran university, where unarmed students defied the imperial army when the late shah mohammad reza pahlavi was deposed in february 1979, as ``the beating heart of the islamic revolution.''
iraq said it would stop firing missiles into tehran and other iranian cities during a three-day visit to baghdad of the turkish prime minister, turgut ozal, beginning at midnight thursday
sandinista soldiers and contra rebels on friday began observing a 60-day cease-fire designed to give both sides time to arrange a permanent peace in their 6{-year-old war
a spokesman for the defense ministry said there were no reports of violations of the truce, which began after midnight thursday
the cease-fire provision was contained in a peace agreement signed march 23 in the border outpost of sapoa, but details remained to be worked out
sikh gunmen stormed into huts and houses across punjab state on friday and killed 37 people, including seven children, in the bloodiest one-day murder spree this year, police and witnesses said
police in amritsar imposed a night curfew in parts of the region. in new delhi, prime minister rajiv gandhi met government officials and ordered stringent steps to check sikh violence, united news of india reported
gandhi also ordered new police alerts in five states that adjoin punjab
the nation's unemployment rate fell to a new decade-low 5.6 percent in march even though there were 306,000 fewer americans at work than a month earlier, the government said friday
the drop from february's 5.7 percent rate was credited entirely to a 455,000 decrease in the number of people in the labor force _ those either holding jobs or seeking work _ raising inflationary alarms among some economists
it's just one month, but it indicates that wages are not high enough to coax second earners out of the home any more,'' said roger brinner, an analyst for data resources inc., an economic consulting firm in lexington, mass
the assemblies of god state council that wanted jimmy swaggart barred from preaching for three months said friday it will go along with the one-year suspension demanded by the church's national leaders
a spokesman for the fire-and-brimstone tv evangelist said swaggart will return to the pulpit may 22 despite the ruling
if he returns, he risks dismissal from the denomination, officials have said
georgia's 93,000 kindergarten pupils begin taking mandatory tests next week that will partially determine whether they will enter first grade in the fall
some parents and educators oppose the tests
last week, the national association for the education of young children and the national association of early childhood specialists in state departments of education issued policy statements opposed to such mass standardized testing of kindergartners
jesse jackson the politician often becomes jesse jackson the history teacher these days, taking his presidential campaign to high schools as often as to union halls or churches
from the inner city school in inkster, mich., to pulaski high in the heart of southside milwaukee, the democratic presidential candidate delivers his sermon of self-respect, a drug-free and violence-free life and the need to achieve
i go to four or five high schools a week in the course of every week, because i love our children, because i care, because their lives are at stake,'' jackson told students in inkster, near detroit. ``you are our energy.''
the rev. brice riordan sensed a bargain in the air one day recently while he prepared to celebrate mass
dear friends, it's encouraging to see such a great number of you,'' riordan said, looking out over his congregation. ``there must be a sale at stern's or something.''
the 18-yea-old carmelite chapel in the bergen mall is one of the few in the country to be located in a shopping center. it is billed as the chapel on the mall, devoted to st. therese
for about $3,000, japanese tourists can see the great wall, eat peking duck and grow hair with zhao zhangguang's mysterious, magical hair-restoring tonic
a tour bus arrived friday carrying 98 bald and thin-haired japanese for their first treatment with 101 hair liniment, a liquid made from a secret recipe of about 30 medicinal herbs
it is the second japanese group, following 20 who arrived in february, to come to china on a package tour that includes treatment at zhao's clinic at the jinsong hospital in eastern beijing
thy kingdom come,'' an earnest documentary about television evangelists, is so out of date it's hard to understand why public television is airing it now
the film, which will be broadcast wednesday night on most pbs affiliates, is more dated now than it was last year, when ``frontline'' decided not to air it because parts were obsolete
at the time briton antony thomas made the film, jim and tammy bakker ran the fastest-growing television ministry. at the time, jessica hahn was not yet a national celebrity
thy kingdom come'' has been updated to mention the utter collapse of bakker's empire, but it does not reflect the scandal that recently hit tv evangelist jimmy swaggart
the version of ``the kingdom come'' made available for review will have to be updated again to amend thomas' comment that pat robertson, the former evangelist turned presidential candidate, ``seems to be going from strength to strength.''
that was well before the south carolina primary which robertson promised to win
after all the developments of the past year, it's also old news that tv evangelism is a fund-raising treadmill, begging for money to buy television time in order to beg for more money
the film concentrates on the alliance between various fundamentalist and pentecostal christians and the political right, but mostly from the perspective of 1980. included is a clip of candidate ronald reagan's ``i endorse you'' speech to a gathering in dallas organized by tv evangelist james robison
it's now the end of the reagan era, and thomas does not address the pertinent question: what were the fruits of this alliance between a president and the religious right?
thomas also notes that the religious right supported republican bob martinez in his candidacy for governor in florida, but doesn't try to assess how important that support was in his victory. it leaves the impression that it was decisive
the film slights a point that became evident as the ptl story unfolded: the religious right is not a monolithic movement. the rev. jerry falwell was rejected by many of bakker's followers, bakker feuded with swaggart, and swaggart traded insults with oral roberts
thy kingdom come'' avoids total obsolescence through thomas' sympathetic interviews with a few grass-roots believers: one a former alcoholic, another a victim of child abuse and rape, a woman who says she was addicted to drugs for 20 years, and a man who felt empty despite material success
before i met jesus i felt empty, i felt hurt and lost,'' says the rape victim. ``he's healed me of hatred and bitterness i've carried for 35 years.''
thy kingdom come'' is paired with ``thy will be done,'' a film about the first baptist church of dallas and its minister, the rev. w.a. criswell, a leader of the dominant fundamentalist wing in the southern baptist convention
here, thomas takes on the issue of the relationship between religion and wealth. he is candid about his own belief that the gospels are on the side of the poor, and that jesus meant what he said when he talked of the unlikelihood of the rich getting to heaven
most pledges _ pbs stations are celebrating their best month of fundraising. in march, 683,003 public television viewers pledged $37.8 million to stations across the country. in march 1987, pledges totaled $35.5 million. membership drives are also held by some stations in august and december, but march is the main fundraising period. the previous high pledge month was march 1986 when viewers called in $37.1 million in memberships
saturday night high _ ``saturday night live,'' now in reruns because of the writers guild strike, scored its highest quarter of ratings since 1982 the first three months of this year with shows featuring such names as robin williams and james taylor, judge reinhold and 10,000 maniacs, justine bateman and terence trent d'arby, tom hanks and randy travis. for the period from dec. 27 through march 20, the show had an average rating of 8.4 and a 24 share, the highest quarter since the first quarter of 1982 when it averaged an 8.4 and 24
the rating is a percentage of the 88.6 million u.s. households with televisions. the share is the percentage of sets in use
tim matheson hopes his new abc comedy, ``just in time,'' will disprove the network belief that once a couple gets together, the relationship is no longer interesting
just in time'' brings matheson and co-star patricia kalember together not only in a personal involvement but in a professional relationship that often has them at swords' point
they think the steam goes out of the relationship once they get together,'' said matheson, whose romantic comedy _ he's co-executive producer with fred barron _ premieres wednesday
there's an element of truth in that network belief
when diane chambers and sam malone got together on nbc's ``cheers,'' the producers had to keep pulling them apart to keep the story going. abc's ``moonlighting'' has suffered since david and maddie went to bed, although the show's problems are more complicated than that
fred barron, who had worked on `kate &amp; allie,' created the show and he wanted to set up a contemporary relationship,'' said matheson. ``fred thinks that things don't start to get interesting until the couple gets together. having been married 2{ years, i can say that's certainly so.''
the show is set in a los angeles magazine publishing company
i play a hot shot chicago editor who's brought in to take what's basically a conservative, staid monthly and turn it into a hip, contemporary weekly,'' matheson said
patricia's the star columnist and their professional relationship soon evolves into a romantic liaison. it's difficult because we work together. and she has a long-distance relationship. she's playing it safe, and he's just come out of a divorce and tends to be a little more reckless.''
the relationship between the two will change in the course of the series' spring run. ``in the beginning, she's resistant and has a million reasons why they shouldn't,'' he said. ``he says let's go for it.''
matheson is best-known to movie audiences from his role as a womanizing fraternity brother in the hit movie ``national lampoon's animal house.'' he later starred in ``a little sex.''
matheson has a long line of tv credits dating back to 1961 when he was a child and starred in ``window on main street,'' with robert young. he did guest shots on ``leave it to beaver'' and was a regular on ``the virginian,'' ``bonanza,'' ``the quest'' and ``tucker's witch.''
a series is so grueling,'' he said, ``especially an hour show. a half-hour show's much better. we rehearse one day and then shoot it one-camera with no laugh track. it's not an audience show, because when you do that you need two laughs a page. with that kind of structure you can't deal with the emotions or any depth of character
we let the humor come out of the situations, rather than do a set-up, then a joke, then another set-up.''
matheson has also begun producing movies. he recently went to australia to check out movie locations for ``blind fury,'' an action-adventure that he will produce but not appear in. it's based on a series of films from japan called ``zatoichi'' _ ``the blind one.''
as an actor you get a creative catharsis,'' matheson said. ``you prepare, then you do it and leave it behind. as a producer you must have some creative satisfaction
you're juggling balls. it's problem-solving and people-matching. it's getting to the point where i now trust my first instinct. i've found from experience if i don't like somebody going in, it's going to be a problem.''
matheson and his wife, former ballerina megan murphy, recently became parents for the second time. their new daughter is emma. the have another daughter, mollie
elsewhere in television:
egyptian relics _ television rights to hundreds of priceless egyptian artifacts hidden away for more than six decades in the castle of the earl of carnarvon in hampshire, england, have been obtained for the special ``mysteries of the pyramids _ live.'' omar sharif will be host of the syndicated special on april 20. the relics came from the grave of pharoah amenophis iii, the grandfather of tutankhamun. it was the fifth earl of carnarvon who sponsored the dig that found the grave of tutankhamun. ..
most wanted _ ``america's most wanted'' is going national with its re-creation of crimes and pictures and videotapes of most-wanted criminals, said fred zimmerman, president of the fox television station group. the show will be made available to affiliates of the fox network. to date, four criminals have been apprehended as a result of exposure on the syndicated series
as the economic expansion grows in years, exceeding almost any other ``peacetime'' expansion in u.s. history, it is producing an odd by-product, a sense of foreboding about the next recession
will there be a recession? it's a sure thing; bet all your money on it
if anything is certain in economics it is that expansion and contraction follow and precede each other, each a parent and child of the other, each a cause and effect at one and the same time
but will there be a recession within the year? the answer is that nobody knows, no matter how much they talk about the the growing age of the expansion and insist that it must soon shrivel and totter from old age
the message is an important one: while traditional economics is wedded to the notion that long expansions are doomed to fade because of their age, there is growing evidence that this is not necessarily the case
the message is contained in a study of recessions by byron higgins, vice president and economist of the federal reserve bank of kansas city, and published in the bank's ``economic review.''
higgins notes that business cycles, or expansions and contractions, were fairly predictable before world war ii, but have been less predictable since then
to wit: the 20 u.s. economic expansions from 1854 to 1933 lasted an average of 25 months, and the corresponding recessions lasted an average of 22 months
this experience gave rise to the belief that an internal dynamic dictated the business cycle. there was, it was felt, a regular _ even periodic _ cycle: a recession of a bit less than two years, followed by a two-year expansion
the most popular explanation was that as expansions lengthened they bred excesses and imbalances, such as falling productivity and rising wages and prices, that led to a downfall. in turn, the recession corrected things
but, says higgins, postwar evidence is not consistent with the traditional business cycle theory. recessions have averaged just one year, half as long, and expansions have averaged almost four years, about twice as long as before
it leads him to conclude that an economic expansion lasting more than five years ``is no longer so unusual that a recession should be considered imminent merely because the expansion has continued for a long time.''
but nobody needs to be told that traditions die hard. with each passing month the talk about recession has grown more insistent. and the stock market crash of last october puncutated those fears with an exclamation point
in november, blue chip economic forecasts, published by economist robert eggert, found 35 percent of the forecasters it surveyed felt a recession was under way or would begin in 1988, a jump from 8 percent in september
but is the stock market a good forecaster of recessions? higgins found that since 1900 the market successfully predicted recessions only 41 percent of the time
but, many will be inclined to wonder _ as did higgins _ if an especially sharp decline in the market is a more accurate forecaster. he checked. no, he found, the market's predictive power actually deteriorates instead
nevertheless, he regards the oct. 19 crash as unique, explaining that it was ``so distinctive that it is outside the bounds of historical experience.''
but the evidence he amasses does carry two reassuring messages:
1. just because an expansion is statistically old doesn't mean it is doomed because of its own internal dynamics
2. the stock market's record as a forecaster is so weak that it ``provides a cautionary note to any confident prediction that the stock market decline last year makes a recession in 1988 inevitable.''
the national academy of motion picture arts &amp; sciences' 60th awards might well be termed the year of the actress, so impressive are the candidates for best performance by an actress in 1987
after being overshadowed for a few decades by macho stars, film actresses are now having powerful roles fashioned for them. this year's nominees afford proof: cher, the perplexed widow of ``moonstruck''; glenn close, the vengeful spurned lover in ``fatal attraction''; holly hunter, the dynamic news producer of ``broadcast news''; sally kirkland, the faded czech actress, ``anna''; and meryl streep, the down-and-out ex-singer in ``ironweed.''
adding to their impressive number are performances that many felt warranted academy consideration: lillian gish and bette davis, ``the whales of august''; sarah miles, ``hope and glory''; maggie smith, ``the lonely passion of judith hearn''; christine lahti, ``housekeeping''; faye dunaway, ``barfly''; barbra streisand, ``nuts''; joanne woodward, ``the glass menagerie.''
cher has been drawing the most attention among the nominees, attracting a media broadside of amazing proportions. the one-time member of the sonny and cher singing team is justifiably proud of her performance in ``moonstruck'' and has been willing to talk about it
`moonstruck' is the first movie of mine that i ever watched without wanting to throw up,'' she says. ``i was in love with the story; it's my best work since `mask
usually everyone's first choice is meryl (streep) and then so-and-so and then so-and-so. it's something to start being someone's first choice. ... jack nicholson has clout, you know. barbra streisand has clout. jane fonda has clout. i think relative to them, i'm a newcomer. ... i'm not working my way toward power. i'm working my way toward the best roles i can get.''
equally voluble is sally kirkland, who won the golden globe as best dramatic actress for ``anna.'' she has been enjoying her success after years of trying: ``i have tested for the leading role in 25 movies, and each time the choice has narrowed to another actress and myself. each time the other actress won.''
the actress campaigned for the role in the low-budget film, studying the czech accent and absorbing the atmosphere of the emigre community in new york. she even added 15 pounds and taped her face to create wrinkles
does she want the oscar?
i cannot tell a lie; my fantasy ever since i was 5 years old has been to hold that (statue) and say, `thank-you, thank-you, thank-you.'''
holly hunter, hailed as a bright new star because of ``broadcast news,'' has been as silent as kirkland and cher have been vocal. she declined most interviews, arguing that she was too involved with the sam shepard play, ``a lie of the mind,'' at los angeles' mark taper theater
director james brooks predicts the georgia-born actress ``will be around for decades.'' of his script she commented: ``i loved it; i thought it was remarkably three-dimensional.''
she also talked about the differences between herself and the news producer she portrays: ``holly hunter is certainly less driven than jane craig. i think that my priorities are quite a bit different, in that i'm probably pretty obsessed myself, but not to such a manic degree.''
after three supporting-actress nominations in six film roles, glenn close broke through in the starring category with ``fatal attraction.'' she terms the demonic alix the first woman she's played ``who is out of control, who emotionally runs the gamut _ the first real, full-blooded role i've had.''
her comment on the huge reaction to ``fatal attraction'': ``the whole male-female thing in this country is very volatile right now. i think many women are feeling used by men. they invest a lot in a relationship, in nurturing a man emotionally and in his career, but they have their own careers and emotions, and they don't get that nurturing in return.''
after playing a number of glamorous roles, two-time oscar winner meryl streep found her role as the derelict in ``ironweed'' had its advantages: ``in this world of purgatory of the soul, there are very few markers to go by. i liked that about her. i liked not having to worry about how i looked and being able to strip away, strip away everying, except what counts.''
streep has created a series of indelible performances, including oscar winners in ``kramer vs. kramer'' and ``sophie's choice,'' as well as ``the deer hunter'' and ``out of africa.''
she remains ambitious: ``there's so much i'd like to do. when the public is used to you in heavy drama, it's hard to make them take you seriously. but i want to play comedy
i can't stand it that stage fright inhibits me. at some point i'm going to face up and do a play. but for now i just go day to day.''
the race for best supporting actor of 1987 provides academy voters a choice among a perspiring tv reporter, a steely chicago cop, a philandering brooklyn husband, a wily new york city pimp and a south african martyr
the nominees are a diverse lot, ranging from the first james bond to a stand-up comedian. none has ever won an oscar
sean connery is generally considered the quintessential 007, a role that seemed impossible for him to escape. but after 30 years in films, he has finally been recognized for his performance as another enforcer, the irish beat cop jimmy malone in ``the untouchables.''
i thought it was a very clever concept to take the old cop and use him as a kind of old dog who teaches a new dog tricks,'' says connery of his role as mentor to the young federal agent, kevin costner
yet connery is maintaining a classic bond cool over the possibility of winning his first oscar. ``to be honest, i've never really spent much time thinking about it before,'' he said in a recent interview. ``i just go on with my work.''
neither is he bitter that it has taken the academy some 40 films to even nominate him. ``it's all a matter of timing and how your films and image are presented,'' connery told the hollywood reporter. ``there are a lot of my films which i'm very proud of, which i think were artistic successes, but weren't huge box office successes like the bond pictures.''
there's no chance, though, that connery will snub the academy if he wins. ``it'd be important to me, and i'd definitely turn up to collect it. i'm not one of those actors who'd send along the cleaning lady instead.''
morgan freeman accomplished the near-impossible: winning a nomination in a film released early in the year to scant notice. his role as vicious ``fast black'' in ``street smart'' was dynamic enough to remain in academy voters' minds
born in memphis and raised in greenwood, miss., before moving to chicago, freeman built up an impressive number of stage credits before appearing in such films as ``brubaker,'' ``teachers'' and ``marie.'' his performance in ``street smart'' prompted this outburst from the new yorker's pauline kael: ``is morgan freeman the greatest actor in america today?''
freeman admits to a rough life while growing up in chicago's south side: ``i stole, i conned, i passed the tests. but i was scared. i'm not the violent type.'' this contrasts the brutal role he plays in ``street smart.''
instead of sliding into delinquency, the young freeman found himself attracted to acting, and sold bottles so he would have money to go to the movies
vincent gardenia, cher's excitable father in ``moonstruck,'' has been in the new york theater since 1954 and films since 1958. he also was a member of the ``all in the family'' cast on television
gardenia was ideal casting as the italian plumber; his family emigrated from naples, and he began acting in new york's italian theater. he was delighted with the ``moonstruck'' script: ``it was the first about an italian family in a long time that you don't see shooting, killings, bombings. it's about love, about family.''
denzel washington was cast in ``cry freedom'' after a worldwide search for an actor to play the vital role of steven biko, the black leader who was beaten to death by south african police while in their custody
washington admits that his nomination was ``both a letdown and a great honor.'' the letdown came because universal pictures had been promoting him for best actor, and he had been nominated for a golden globe in that category. he adds that his reaction wasn't the result of an actor's ego
it has more to do with my own feelings about steven biko,'' he says. ``i would like to see him in (a starring) light, and i think most people do. he was not a supporting player.''
washington faced an imposing challenge: portraying a much-admired, even revered figure while making him a believable human being
i don't know how to play a saint,'' he says. ``i couldn't get any advice from anyone on how to play a saint. so that was no problem.'' under richard attenborough's direction, he created a portrait of the martyr that was both human and convincing
washington said the effect of ``cry freedom'' on the apartheid issue will be on a personal level
most of the comments i've gotten from people were that they didn't know what goes on in south africa,'' he said. ``that's where it will have its most important effect. i don't think it's going to make a change in the government's attitude or the attitude of the black people there. it's just a movie, commenting on something from the outside.''
albert brooks, the astute reporter and failed anchorman of ``broadcast news,'' is noted for directing himself in films: ``real life,'' ``modern romance,'' ``lost in america.''
brooks, a stand-up comedian before making films, says that the role of aaron altman was different from his own life: ``i don't work in the news business. i don't have a 9 to 5 or even a 9 to 9 job. i don't wear suits. i don't have friends. ... over a period of four months i hung out with a dozen reporters. i think what happens is you sort of compile little things from everybody.''
a flop london play that became a surprise new york hit is having its second shot at local success as a result of its long off-broadway run
whatever happens to it now, it's a much better piece,'' playwright simon gray said of his play ``the common pursuit,'' which opens a commercial london engagement april 7 at the phoenix theater
the play, which looks at the lapsed ideals of six graduates of cambridge university over a 15-year-period, bowed to mixed reviews and disappointing houses four years ago at west london's not-for-profit lyric, hammersmith theater
hopes of transferring that production to the west end, london's broadway, were never realized. it took the play's subsequent success off-broadway, where it began an acclaimed 10-month run at the promenade theater in october 1986, to secure its present west end engagement
co-producer john mcquiggan said the play has been transformed from its original london run. ``i don't think anyone wants to dwell on 1984,'' he said. ``my feeling is this is a brand-new production.''
mcquiggan produced the play on his own in new york and is co-producing it in london with howard panter's independent theatrical productions
capitalized at $295,000, roughly the same as its off-broadway cost, the play will break even in the west end at 40 percent capacity, mcquiggan said, meaning it could recoup its investment after five weeks if business is good. in new york, it broke even at 52 percent of capacity and recouped after 13 weeks, he said
playwright harold pinter directed the initial london production, which local critics found too narrowly focused a look at the well-educated elite of britain's publishing and academic communities
new york critics, however, responded warmly to the literacy of the play and its rueful, compelling plot. in addition, gray said they didn't bother to speculate on the real-life prototypes for his on-stage characters
people realized there wasn't anything to know except what was on the stage,'' gray, a cambridge graduate, said of the new york audience. ``it's part of the general imbecility of theater critics in england that they thought the real-life parallels were worth discussing.''
gray said three separate american productions of the play _ in los angeles, new haven, conn., and new york _ enabled him to do the necessary rewrites
i had always felt dissatisfied with the text,'' said the playwright. ``now, it's the same skeleton but with, i hope, more flesh.''
gray's previous new york and london hits include ``butley,'' ``otherwise engaged'' and ``quartermaine's terms.''
the west end production uses the same revolving oak set by david jenkins that won acclaim off-broadway. but its cast is younger than in previous productions and heavily weighted with such british comics as rik mayall, stephen fry and john sessions
i'm now absolutely certain that the cast has to be young,'' said gray, whose play requires the actors to age from their early 20s to mid-30s
but he said the present line-up did not represent a bid for increased commercialism
the comics aren't doing stand-up routines; they are acting,'' he said. ``the audience comes to see people who've made them laugh on tv, and they stay to grasp the whole experience.''
gray's previous experiences with this play have already produced two memoirs: ``an unnatural pursuit, and other pieces'' and ``how's that for telling them, fat lady?,'' which is to be published in britain next month
has gray now closed the book on his play at last?
oh god, yes,'' he said. ``i think i've done all i can humanly do to make the play work, and if it doesn't, it doesn't.''
a deluge of illegal narcotics has cascaded across the world in the late 1980s in a scourge that threatens to sap the energy and resources of nations, corrupt their officials and disrupt national policies, u.s. experts say
they estimate that this year producers mainly in latin america and asia will grow 213,700 metric tons _ 471.1 million pounds _ of illicit opium, coca (the source of cocaine), marijuana and hashish. and with increased production, street prices of processed narcotics are coming down in many areas, resulting in a sharp rise in addiction in poor countries
while the united states remains the no. 1 gross consumer of illicit drugs, the poorer nations are finding themselves afflicted with even higher addiction rates. the trend is forcing asian and latin american countries to divert scarce resources from development to the fight against drug use and addiction
the u.s. experts, who were in malaysia for a recent world narcotics conference, also said that criminal drug syndicates appear to be prospering as never before, using their staggering profits to buy off law enforcers, to arm their followers and in some cases to influence national policies
new trafficking connections resemble a map of global airline routes
there is now a realization almost everywhere that the drug problem, no matter how it manifests itself in individual countries, is an international problem,'' said u.s. state department consultant manuel gallardo. ``it's the litany, the gospel.''
senior officials of the white house, u.s. drug enforcement administration (dea) and state department, interviewed in kuala lumpur by the associated press, gave this picture of the magnitude and global reach of narcotics:
_worldwide illicit production in 1988 of opium, from which heroin is derived, may be as high as 3,000 metric tons and will originate mainly in asia's golden triangle, where the borders of thailand, burma and laos converge, and in the so-called golden crescent _ pakistan, afghanistan and iran. about 200,000 tons of coca will probably be produced, almost all of it in latin america, along with 9,500 tons of marijuana and 1,200 tons of hashish in various parts of the world
while these figures are roughly comparable to production in 1987, they represent substantial increases over the mid-1980s. meanwhile, drug prices are reported at low levels in many markets
_new trafficking routes are sprouting as authorities make headway in blocking old ones
recently uncovered connections include the passage of cocaine through brazil across the atlantic ocean to senegal and the ivory coast in africa, then on to western europe. heroin from pakistan and india is secreted through kenya, ethiopia, nigeria and senegal, also in africa, from where it is variously moved to the united states, europe and the persian gulf states. war-torn lebanon, thousands of miles from the coca fields of south america, has become a major refining and transshipment center
what is becoming more evident is the flexibility of trafficking organizations,'' said dea chief john c. lawn
_pakistan, which was virtually drug-free in 1980, now has 600,000 or more heroin addicts, a far higher percentage of the population than in the united states. countries in latin america, which once shrugged off cocaine as an exclusively ``yankee vice,'' are finding more of the drug is diverted for domestic abuse
cocaine is also spreading to western europe, and some say it is only a matter of time before it penetrates asia where heroin is still the dominant hard drug
a number of countries have moved from zero to large addict populations within a few years,'' said u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state mark dion. ``it's a heavy anchor around the necks of governments trying to bring development. the costs are tremendous.''
_the united states is the globe's top drug market, with 38 million americans having consumed illicit drugs last year, according to white house estimates. these included 12 million cocaine users and 18 million who regularly used marijuana. an estimated half million are heroin addicts
about $54 billion, three times the gross national product of impoverished bangladesh, was spent in the united states last year on health care, job absenteeism and other consequences of drug abuse
while not drawing any direct, apocalyptic parallels between the drug situation today and that of the manchu dynasty in china at the turn of the century, the experts noted that opium addiction there affected foreign policy and led to the collapse of the manchu imperial rule. some 15 million chinese, from coolies to mandarins, may have been addicted to opium at the time, they said
despite the grim statistics, a few hopeful signs are appearing
with some exceptions, international cooperation is growing in fighting traffickers, funding projects and exchanging views on addiction, rehabilitation and anti-drug education
we're talking the same language,'' said white house official donald ian macdonald of increasing u.s.-soviet cooperation on drugs. china is also becoming more active, while regional organizations in several parts of the world have been formed to tackle the problem
the united states, widely viewed as both the key anti-drug fighter and a major source of the problem, has taken a tougher drug stance abroad and may follow suit domestically
what came through in the case of panama is that the united states will not do business with a drug country,'' said the state department's dion, referring to pressure washington put on gen. manuel antonio noriega, the panamanian strongman under indictment in the united states on narcotics trafficking charges
macdonald, who is the white house special assistant for drug abuse policy, predicted a u.s. hardline on narcotics might include greater focus on and tougher action against american drug users, a move many nations would probably welcome
for a lot of politicians it's easier to talk about nasty foreigners than their own constituents,'' macdonald said. ``i don't deny most drugs come from abroad, but we have to look at our own demand and consumption.''
seen as a ``drug market leader,'' the united states also has become the proliferator of new drugs _ including synthetic ``designer'' varieties _ and the social problems they spawn will almost certainly spread to other parts of the world, the officials say
one reason we're in a sort of panic is that we're not sure what's going on with the new stuff,'' macdonald said
lawn, whose agency's current $525 million budget has jumped 140 percent since 1981, said each new drug that surfaces requires a fresh set of strategies and more commitment of resources
u.s. drug syndicates have been hit by an apparently effective legal blitz in the united states, but their drug-running activities are being taken over by asian groups
arrests of drug criminals worldwide have probably never been greater, but denser transport links and more movement of people globally present traffickers with what the u.s. customs department calls new ``windows of opportunity.''
governments in some asian countries are making sizable efforts to fight traffickers and take casualties while trying to eradicate illict crops. but syndicates have penetrated to the core of political power in nations like colombia in south america
it's going to take a long effort,'' lawn said. ``this is not a battle for the faint of heart or the short-distance runner. it's a marathon.''
john moores has amassed a fortune from other people's pennies
the bricklayer's son who started out at 14 as a post office messenger is reckoned by some to be the richest person in britain after queen elizabeth ii, who knighted him in 1980
he did it by offering the soccer pools _ football pools, they're called here _ to a public dreaming of escape from the 1930s depression. today, having expanded into mail-order shopping and chain stores, he is personally worth about $3 billion, according to the british journal, money magazine, and the guinness book of records
now 92 years old, he lives quietly in formby outside liverpool, not far from his birthplace, and has not spoken to reporters for two years. the last time moores was heard from, in an interview with the guardian newspaper, he said: ``i don't pretend to be very clever. i don't seem to have any outstanding quality. i count myself enormously lucky.''
at 82, he told the british broadcasting corp. he didn't know how much money he had, never carried any and often went weeks without buying anything
a rich man doesn't sit on bags of gold,'' he said. ``i'm often overdrawn at the bank because i don't leave my money there. i can earn much more than the 8 or 9 percent the bank pays by investing elsewhere.''
his success story began in 1924 at his kitchen table, where he devised a lottery based on the results of soccer games. his family and two of his workmates at the commercial cable co. invested a total of 150 pounds, then worth $720
they called their business littlewoods, after an aunt of that name, to avoid being fired from their jobs for moonlighting
littlewoods pools earned just 8 pounds ($38.40) its first year, and the partners opted out. so moores roped in relatives to help check coupons on sunday mornings
bettors had to guess at a penny a try which eight games would result in ties in national league soccer matches. moores didn't invent soccer pools, but he elaborated them and offered the biggest prizes. by 1932, when one-seventh of the british work force was jobless, he was a millionaire
the chances of winning even a small prize are 80-1, but some 8 million people today fill in a weekly coupon, and hundreds win something
littlewoods cagily says the odds against winning a big prize cannot be calculated because there are too many imponderables. but the guinness book of records says the odds for selecting eight ties from 55 games in one line are 1,217,566,350 to 1
in 1950, moores set a prize limit of 75,000 pounds (then $210,000), saying that was ``ample money to fulfill all the dreams and ambitions of ordinary people.''
but rivals and inflation later forced him to scrap the limit, and this past july truck driver jimmy anderson collected the british record pools win of 1,339,358 pounds (then $2.14 million) for a stake of 40 pence (64 cents)
he picked the 8 scoreless games from a list of 58
i didn't know what to do with it,'' anderson said three months later. ``all i bought in the first two weeks was a box of frozen prawns.'' he got bored not having to get out of bed for work at 3 a.m., and bought a delivery truck to go into business for himself
the three big pools companies, littlewoods, vernons and zetters, pulled in the equivalent of $956 million last year, littlewoods taking 75 percent. the companies paid out $262 million to winners and $406 million in taxes. expenses totaled $286 million
winners are not required to pay taxes on the sum they receive, but they must pay them on such things as interest on bank accounts or dividends earned from stocks purchased with the prize money
after making his first million, moores expanded into mail-order shopping in 1932 and launched his littlewoods stores chain in 1936. he now employs 41,000 people and owns 108 stores
moores recalled to the guardian that he started his mail order business with ``no buyers, no catalogue, no anything.'' he cut illustrations out of magazines, assembled a menswear range and again called on his family for help. then he went to see montgomery ward and sears roebuck in the united states
i found that if i said thank you and praised them, they would give me almost anything,'' he said. ``i got a lot of new ideas from them. i learned a lot from america and i admire the americans.''
his mother, he said, taught him the value of money by adding a halfpenny (2 cents) for every 3 pennies (12 cents) he saved in pocket money
short and white-haired, he lives in the seclusion of an italianate villa and drives a rolls-royce. he and brother cecil, 82, who runs the pools, are known in liverpool as ``the uncles.''
he married ruby knowles, a cafe waitress, in 1923, and their four children have followed him into the business. his wife died in 1965
he is president for life of littlewoods organization plc, and lists sports and travel among his pastimes. he loves to paint, and in 1957 he founded the john moores liverpool exhibition, a biennial contest to promote young painters. his knighthood was for services to art, not business
moores gives about a half million pounds (nearly $1 million) a year to charity
it's for me to help the weak and poor,'' he said in his bbc interview
a man in a swamp can only be helped by a man with his feet on dry ground. i'm strong enough to pull him out.''
at kujira-ya, one of tokyo's few remaining whale meat restaurants, about 350 customers a day fill its two floors, ordering raw whale at $24 a serving or deep-fried at $8.40 a plate
eaten by japanese for 1,000 years and once one of the country's cheapest meats, dark red, chewy whale has become increasingly costly and rare
that's because of a worldwide commercial whaling ban, imposed at the behest of the united states and other countries on grounds that the mammal of the seas has become an endangered species
japanese lovers of whale meat and whaling industry officials don't agree
americans hunted whales for their oil, so it's probably hard for them to imagine whales as a source of food,'' said makiko takai over a plate of grilled whale at kujira-ya (whale shop). ``i'd stop eating whale if all types were endangered, but i've heard some are still plentiful.''
although whale has been consumed for a millenium and 16th century documents show japan's samurai society being served whale on formal occasions, the japanese didn't regularly eat whale until the lean years after world war ii. it then became frequent fare at school and company cafeterias and steak on the table at home often meant whale steak
when japanese whaling was at its peak in the early 1960s, whales provided 23 percent of all meat consumed in the country. in 1962 japanese ate a record 226,000 tons, but last year only 25,000 tons were consumed, including imports from iceland, according to the japan whaling association
at this rate, we'll probably only be able to stay in business for two or three more years,'' said an employee at kujira-ya. ``but so far, whale meat is still obtainable.''
that continuing availability of whale meat in japan, the world's biggest whale consumer, has rankled overseas environmentalists, who charge it is using a loophole in the charter of the international whaling commission (iwc) to continue whale hunts, despite the commission's ban on commercial whaling
the ban, overwhelmingly passed by the 42-member commission in 1982 to allow scientists to study whale populations, went into effect in 1986 and is to be re-evaluated in 1990 on the basis of research results
japan officially ended its commercial whaling in the antarctic at the end of the 1986-87 season, when it caught 1,941 whales, and is to end whaling along its own coasts soon
but this season, three japanese ships are back in the antarctic, catching minke whales under a clause in the international convention that allows nations to kill a limited number of whales for scientific research
nevertheless, the moratorium has dealt japan's whaling industry a devastating blow. this season, only 400 to 500 japanese are directly employed in whaling, down from about 900 last year, and the number is likely to decrease by 200 more when japan halts its coastal whaling. last season's catch was valued at less than $100 million, small by japanese fishery standards, officials say
unlike the past, when almost all parts of whales were used _ for food, fertilizer, cosmetics, shoe horns, tennis racket string, fishing rods, crafts or medicines _ the limited supply now makes most non-food uses economically impractical, kunio arai, chief of the whaling association, said in an interview
but as the economic importance of whaling in japan has declined, the country's resistance to anti-whaling pressure has grown and toughened
it's not a question of the size of the economic impact, but rather a matter of national pride,'' said junichiro okamoto, assistant director of the fishery agency's deep sea fishery division. ``why must japanese listen to americans saying that we must stop eating whales just because they want us to? that's like telling us to stop eating rice.''
if japan doesn't stick to its principles, he added, ``the united states will have the misunderstanding that japan always succumbs to u.s. pressure. that won't lead to mature mutual relations.''
deepening the gulf between japan and anti-whaling groups is a profound difference in their perceptions of the whale, the world's largest animal. while environmental groups stress the uniqueness of whales, including their large, highly developed brains and communication ability, many japanese see their meat as a normal source of protein
at one time, japanese buddhism forbade the eating of animal meat, but made an exception for whales, which were officially categorized then as fish
when meat dishes were first widely introduced to japan from the west in the 19th century, many japanese probably felt the same way toward beef as westerners now feel toward the eating of whales,'' said junko miyamoto, a school secretary
how can someone judge that it's okay to eat cows and pigs but not whales?'' she asked, referring to current u.s. pressure on japan to increase its imports of foreign beef. ``the united states is trying to impose its own values on others.''
it was partly the u.s. whaling industry's pursuit of new whaling grounds after the depletion of the northern atlantic that brought commodore matthew perry's ``black ships'' to japan in 1853, demanding access to japanese ports for provisions and care for shipwrecked sailors
the united states killed whales because of economic demand,'' said the japan whaling association's arai. ``at that time nobody said anything about whales being cute and intelligent. but now, after americans have ended whaling, they're using those reasons to tell us to stop.''
in february, the u.s. government declared that japan's continued whaling was harming international whaling agreements. under two u.s. anti-whaling laws, it imposed a symbolic cut of 50 percent in japan's fishing quota in u.s. waters _ already set at zero for this year _ and now must decide whether to ban the import of japanese seafood
meanwhile, the japanese whalers in the antarctic are hoping to prove that sufficient stocks exist to allow the resumption of limited whaling in 1990. the vessels are supposed to sail along fixed routes and kill only one minke whale in each group sighted, up to a total of 300, to study their health, age and diet
conservation groups project a single image of whales, even though there are many kinds, some of which are endangered and others of which are not,'' arai said. ``the iwc estimates there are about 430,000 minke whales in the antarctic, and the number is growing.''
japanese whaling officials contend that the commission, now dominated by non-whaling countries, hasn't shown it is serious about carrying out a thorough research program
if by 1990 there's no sign of a comprehensive survey, then there's little reason for japan to stay in the iwc,'' okamoto said
robeson county, a house divided against itself, shudders and heaves with the tremors of a power struggle 150 years in the making
the week-old murder of julian pierce, lawyer, judicial candidate and indian activist, has shaken this troubled tri-racial county, where minorities are in the majority but whites are in control
amid anger and grief, amid rumors of official corruption and public paranoia, amid the blooming forsythia and the early spring heat, residents of robeson county _ black, white and indian _ bury the dead and wonder when there will be peace for the living
we're either going to pull ourselves apart, or we're going to pull ourselves together,'' said eric prevatte, a local businessman, his eyes red-rimmed after delivering a eulogy for pierce. ``and we all have a common interest in pulling ourselves together. the alternative is just unthinkable.''
the unthinkable has become almost inevitable in robeson, 944 square miles of tall trees, hot summers and a history of unhappiness
it is one of the state's largest counties, and one of its poorest. on a spring day, lumberton, the county seat, is deceptive; beneath the serene facade of stately brick homes and wide verandas, the quiet streets named for the trees that shade them, a stew of racial suspicion and fear simmers and sometimes bubbles to the surface
on feb. 1, eddie hatcher, 30, and timothy jacobs, 19, two tuscarora indians, charged into the robesonian newspaper office with shotguns and took at least 17 people hostage. no one was hurt. the pair apologized to their captives, many of whom sympathized with their grievances
it wasn't right,'' said tanya dial, a lumbee indian and one of the hostages. ``but it was something they had to do.''
they surrendered 10 hours later after gov. jim martin agreed to send a task force to investigate allegations of corruption in local law enforcement
sheriff hubert stone has said he is resented for his zealous pursuit of criminals. but local leaders say robeson has a huge drug problem, with cocaine flowing in from the coast and up interstate 95, a critical artery in the nation's drug network. the air is thick with rumors of official complicity, but there is no proof, and plenty of denial
it's a county that has allegations going on, mainly just wild allegations,'' said bob horne, editor of the robesonian
people don't trust the sheriff's department,'' said jo ann tyner, a legal secretary and life-long county resident. ``i think people have the evidence _ they're just scared. they want their families protected before they'll come forward.''
hatcher and jacobs also demanded an investigation into the jan. 13 death of billy mckellar, 27, a black inmate in the county jail, whom authorities said died of an ``asthmatic cardiac arrest.'' some people do not believe the whole truth has surfaced in that death, or in julian pierce's murder, or in up to 17 other mysterious or unsolved deaths in the county in the last five years
on a moonless, drizzly night in november 1986, deputy kevin stone, the sheriff's son, stopped a 1980 pinto driven by jimmy earl cummings, a lumbee indian known to police as a drug dealer. within minutes, the unarmed cummings was lying at the bottom of a ditch along the road, a bullet from stone's gun in his face
the deputy said the gun discharged accidentally. at the coroner's inquest, a six-member jury agreed
cummings' family, given less than two hours' notice of the hearing, were denied time to find an attorney. reporters were never notified. at the time of the inquest, the autopsy results were not available
not long before cummings' death, drugs were stolen from the sheriff's evidence room. a former deputy was tried and acquitted in connection with the theft
there are people who say that jimmy earl cummings had told people before then that he feared for his life, that he was selling drugs that had disappeared out of the courthouse,'' horne said. ``nobody really knows what happened that night, except kevin stone.''
outraged members of the concerned citizens for better government, a group founded by indian activist john godwin after cummings' death, bought four pages in the robesonian and printed the transcript of the two-hour hearing
four months later, godwin, 72, was dead of injuries sustained in a head-on car collision
julian pierce, 42, an attorney revered in the lumbee community and widely respected outside it, had gone to a wake for godwin the night of march 25, and later registered voters at a club in lumberton
pierce was the favored candidate for a newly created superior court judgeship designed by the legislature to give minorities better representation. even though the county's indians and blacks count 8,000 more registered voters than do the whites, he went out to register 20 more. every vote counted in this election, something he had worked nine years to achieve
sometime after midnight, pierce heard a noise at his back door. when he investigated, he was shot three times with a 12-gauge shotgun by john anderson goins, 24, of pembroke, according to sheriff stone
three days later, goins was found dead in a closet at home, killed by a blast from a different shotgun than that which killed pierce. stone said it was a suicide
an alleged accomplice, sandy chavis, 24, was charged with first-degree murder. investigators speculated that goins held pierce responsible for disrupting his relationship with shannon bullard, 16, the daughter of pierce's girlfriend, ruth locklear
at first some people, including sheriff stone, seemed to assume that pierce's death was politically motivated. state law says that if a candidate dies more than 30 days after a primary filing date, his opponent wins the nomination
in this case, because no republicans were running, winning the nomination means winning the race, and the winner would be a white man, joe freeman britt, the county's district attorney, listed in the 1985 guinness book of world records as the ``deadliest prosecutor'' for sending 23 convicts to death row in 28 months
while many people accept the official explanation of pierce's death, others remain unconvinced
the perception is that, yes, it might have been a domestic affair, but was it that alone?'' said the rev. joy johnson of concerned citizens for better government. ``could it not have been influenced by some other influence that caused it to trigger off? as long as that perception is out there, there is unrest.''
leaders asked the governor to call a special legislative session to change the law so they could field another candidate. martin has yet to make a decision
the election of an indian judge would be another sign that what not so long ago was unthinkable has become inevitable
the lumbees, who believe they are descended from sir walter raleigh's ``lost colony,'' have been fighting for 100 years to gain federal recognition as a tribe. they often are so fair-skinned that outsiders would never guess their ancestry; in robeson county, people know who the lumbees are by family names, like lowry, godwin and locklear
they were free people until 1835, when the state constitution denied them the right to vote, to carry weapons or to attend any but black schools
until 40 years ago, the mayor and commissioners of the mostly indian town of pembroke, west of lumberton, were always white; they were appointed by the governor. as recently as 25 years ago, there were separate public restrooms and drinking fountains for whites, for blacks and for indians. whites sat downstairs at the two movie theaters, the carolina and the riverside. blacks and indians sat upstairs
horace locklear, a lumbee indian and attorney, vividly remembers the day more than 30 years ago when he and a friend dared to sit downstairs for an entire whip wilson western
that was one of the most frightening times of my life,'' said locklear, who is no stranger to fear. that's why he's beefed up security at his home, and why he's taken to toting a .38-caliber police special in a leather holster
for the first time, the people in power here have realized that they're losing the power,'' said locklear, who might run in pierce's place. ``now, for the first time, we've got 37 percent indian and 37 percent white. we're equal. and our numbers are going up, while theirs are going down
they'll go to any lengths, and i'm convinced of it, to keep us from getting the elected positions we're entitled to.''
but the change will come; there have been signs that people are coming together. black, white and indian have formed a committee of 100 to plan strategies to attract industry, and last month, voters approved a plan to unify the county's five school districts
the emotional referendum passed by less than 400 votes out of more than 22,000 and is still being fought by a group called save our schools, which wants a recount. but proponents believe the merger will prevail, and that the county is headed for calmer, happier days
if there was ever a time we needed togetherness and healing in this county, it's now,'' prevatte said. ``sometimes, it's just like getting caught in a thunderstorm: you have to let it rain on you, and keep on going.''
the producer of the 60th annual academy awards show hopes big box office translates into better nielsen ratings for the show, which has lost viewers in recent years
last year's show, produced by samuel goldwyn jr. and directed by marty passetta, stemmed oscar's long-term nielsen ratings hemorrhaging, albeit by a fraction of a rating point
the 1987 show earned a 27.5 rating, just above the 1986 rating of 27.3, the worst in the history of the academy awards show and the bottom of a slide that began early in the decade. the a.c. nielson co. rating is a percentage of total u.s. homes with televisions
goldwyn, who is producing monday's awards show as well, is banking on the box-office popularity of this year's nominees
goldwyn says he studied more than 20 years of televised academy awards shows, and ``the thing i noticed is that when the movies are popular, the show does well.''
the academy's nominees in recent years have performed in critically acclaimed but not widely seen movies, such as four of the 1986 best-picture nominees, ``hannah and her sisters,'' ``the mission,'' ``a room with a view'' and ``children of a lesser god.'' the big winner was ``platoon.''
this year, covering films from 1987, the nominees come from movies that got wide attention and sold millions of tickets: ``fatal attraction,'' with more than $100 million in ticket sales, has six nominations; ``moonstruck'' also has six nominations, and ``broadcast news'' has seven
nominees for acting awards this year include robin williams for best actor in ``good morning, vietnam,'' cher for best actress in ``moonstruck,'' sean connery for best supporting actor in ``the untouchables,'' and anne archer as best supporting actress for ``fatal attraction.''
and the academy has something to celebrate this year _ itself
douglass m. stewart jr. is editing film sequences to review 60 years of oscar presentations
the `oscar memories' film, with richard dreyfuss narrating, has a lot of pieces of film many haven't seen for many years,'' goldwyn said. ``it shows the evolution from a small dinner party to an event watched by a billion people.''
there will also be a parade of performers from each of the 59 previous best-picture films, from buddy rogers of ``wings,'' the 1927-28 winner, to charlie sheen for ``platoon.''
a review of the career of writer-director billy wilder also is scheduled, with clips from his films including ``sunset boulevard,'' ``some like it hot'' and ``the apartment.'' the six-time oscar winner will receive the academy's irving thalberg award for lifetime achievement
there is the usual impressive list of stellar presenters, including connery making his first appearance at the ceremony, as well as two-time oscar winner olivia de havilland
other presenters will include cher, daryl hannah, steve martin, chevy chase, robin williams, glenn close, audrey hepburn, paul newman, gregory peck and michael douglas
goldwyn said he hopes to improve on his record by keeping the show focused. running overtime is a perennial problem for the broadcast
the biggest thing was dropping the musical numbers not generic to film, and the vague tributes,'' he said in an interview. ``if you keep the show generic to film and what the evening is about ... the audience will stay with it.''
like last year, a blinking red light will warn winners to wind it up after 45 seconds of acceptance patter
although some oscar shows haven't looked like it, they do go by a script. the presenters don't make it up as they go along. but they may have to this year
the writers guild of america went on strike march 7 and rejected an appeal from the motion picture of academy arts and sciences to grant an exemption, so work on the almost completed script stopped
however, the academy wrote to the guild at the end of march seeking to negotiate a separate contract that would allow scriptwriters mel shavelson, jack rose and ernest lehman to finish
lynn moody says the thing that excited her about joining cbs' ``knots landing'' was not the racial breakthrough but the opportunity to develop a character
this is the first role i've had that i can develop and work on,'' she said of her role as patricia williams on the hit prime-time soap opera. she previously has starred in sitcoms and was in ``roots'' and its sequel
though they are the only black regular characters on a prime-time soap, little is made of the fact that moody and larry riley, who plays her husband, are black. the producers believe that makes a better statement than having race as an issue in the stories
it's exciting, and it's a role that suits me so well,'' moody said. ``i like the soap opera formula. i like the idea of building a character who's exciting and challenging. she's a bright lady, but she has a lot of problems. she has problems with her family, with her career and with her neighbors. but she has no problems because she's black. they're all human problems
when they first talked about bringing in a new family, i don't know if they were to be white or black,'' she said. ``i don't know what the talk was before they decided on us. i know they were losing some important characters and there was a house available in the cul-de-sac.''
the vacancy in the lorimar show came when laura avery, played by constance mccashin, died in the 200th episode. her bequest to karen (michele lee) asked that her house be rented to a family ``she'd love to have next door.''
the new family, who joined the show in january, also underwent a transformation of sorts. they were rather mysterious, at times even obsessive, until it was revealed last month they were in a witness protection program living under assumed names
moody's character had been the witness to a major crime and is actually a neurologist, not a bank teller. her husband had been a police detective and was bitter at having to give up his career. that, of course, created a lot of tension between them
i found out my name was really nela stewart sollars,'' moody said. ``i told the writers i hated the name williams. they put it in the script, which made it more personal. but now it makes sense they would pick a common name to hide under.''
moody said that despite her problems, the character is not angry nor hostile. ``she's warm and sensuous. i love playing a role with all these dimensions. usually you don't get all these sides exposed. i can't wait to find out what problems i'll have next year. i've never been an independent woman who has all these layers. it's great to be able to slam doors and be dramatic.''
on ``roots'' and ``roots: the next generations,'' moody played irene harvey, the great-grandmother of author alex haley. she was married to tom harvey, played by georg stanford brown
irene was very colorful,'' she said. ``she collected flowers and dyed clothing. she had a lot of indian blood in her. the slaves sometimes ran away and lived with the indians.''
one of the first roles she ever played was that of a slave in an eighth-grade school play in evanston, ill. ``the times were different then,'' she recalled. ``there were no roles for black girls. then i played a slave and i got teased by my friends. in high school there were no roles for me. the schools were integrated but there were a lot of restrictions.''
she was on ``soap'' for two seasons as the love interest to ted wass. ``we had a lot of bi-racial jokes,'' she said. ``it wasn't daring but it was fun and i got to work with a lot of brilliant people.''
her other series were ``e-r,'' which lasted only briefly, and ``that's my mama.''
moody, who is single, spends much of her time working for save the whales international. she's on the advisory board, which is based in lahaina, hawaii
i helped rescue a pink dolphin in the amazon,'' she said. ``i helped organize the effort. they were endangered by the construction of a dam. we're trying to convince people in brazil to encourage people to come see the dolphins, not to kill them. in hawaii, whale watching alone brings in $10 million a year.''
moody has been a guest on many network episodic shows and starred in such movies as ``lost in london,'' ``wait till your mother gets home,'' ``goldie and the boxer,'' ``some kind of hero,'' ``white dog'' and ``las vegas lady.''
giving the president authority to stop a foreign company from acquiring an american concern if national security is in jeopardy may be a case of protectionism in sheep's clothing, some experts say
the measure, a small part of the sweeping trade legislation that lawmakers reached tentative agreement on this past week, is supported by american businesses. but critics argue that the government already has the ability to throw road blocks in the path of foreigners and that further power might prevent combinations that make sense
the administration has threatened to veto the trade bill unless major changes are made, but it has no objections to the foreign takeover provision
to protect the overseas transfer of vital technology, the provision would allow the white house to call for an investigation and, ultimately, to use an executive order to block a takeover that threatened national security
in the hands of a president ideologically predisposed to keeping foreigners out, this could be a mischievous weapon,'' said robert reich, a professor of political economics at harvard university's john f. kennedy school of government
a depressed dollar coupled with stock prices still discounted from october's market crash have made u.s. companies relatively cheap buys for foreigners. ``it's as if america is having a fire sale, and there's no reason to think that the trend will stop any time soon,'' reich said
yet even in the face of a stepped-up number of foreign acquisitions, ``no one has made a credible case that the current protections are not enough,'' said gregg jarrell, former chief economist at the securities and exchange commission
indeed, the committee on foreign investment in the united states, comprised of officials from a number of government agencies, is one stop-gap group that can recommend against a foreign takeover, said stephen cooney, director of international investment and finance for the national association of manufacturers
he noted the committee raised objections to allegheny ludlum corp.'s plan to sell a division to japan's nippon steel a few years ago, and the offer eventually was dropped
in addition, it is almost impossible for a foreign company to buy an american firm involved in classified research and development because foreigners can be denied security clearances, reich noted. the government also could cancel existing contracts if a defense company were acquired in an undesireable takeover
on a more subtle level, the fear of bad relations with the united states may be enough to deter at least some foreign companies whose overtures have been frowned upon
last year, for example, fujitsu ltd. of japan dropped an agreement to buy 80 percent of fairchild semiconductor corp. because of a political uproar in washington
while the japanese are particularly sensitive to government and corporate resistance, others may be more headstrong
sen. j. james exon, the nebraska democrat who co-sponsored the provision, said he became concerned about foreign takeovers of u.s. defense industries two years ago when british financier sir james goldsmith tried to buy out goodyear tire &amp; rubber co
it took a major restructuring on the part of the nation's largest tire maker _ including the repurchase of half its shares and the sale of several units _ to successfully thwarted the takeover
exon said the administration initially was against his proposal, fearing it would have a chilling effect on foreign investment in the united states
but he countered that that is precisely what it should do. ``we should have a law that has a chilling effect on foreigners trying to buy our defense technology,'' he said
the position at the national association of manufacturers is one of support, but cooney noted that ``if the trade bill didn't have the provision, we wouldn't be demanding it.''
under terms of the proposal, which would amend the defense production act of 1950, the president would have to call for an investigation of a foreign takeover offer before he could block the bid. the probe would have to be completed in 45 days
that's a very typical anti-takeover barrier,'' inasmuch as it results in a delay that can be harmful to the acquisition process, said jarrell, a director of research at chicago-based alcar group
because the call for an investigation would be discretionary, the potential exists that the administration would be the target of intense lobbying. ``since when does the administration want to be dragged into every heated tender offer battle?'' jarrell asked
many critics also fear that ``national security'' could be defined as too broad an umbrella
this is a nebulous area, but people are wandering off the reservation on this,'' cooney said. ``the definitions make it quite clear the proposal can only relate national security as it relates to defense production and defense preparedness.''
exon said it would be ``pretty difficult'' to broaden the measure to cover oil and steel companies, although he noted that it would be ``a decision of how broad the president of the united states wanted to interpret it.''
critics have labeled the proposal blatant protectionism. harvard's reich argues that the problem the nation faces is not one of foreigners snapping up domestic corporations
stopping foreign investment in the united states is no way to cure the fundamental problem, which is that we are spending too much and producing too litte,'' he said. ``americans are not nearly as productive as they need to be.''
in other news, the government reported this past week:
_the civilan unemployment rate fell to a decade low of 5.6 percent during february
_construction spending, held back by weakness in the residential sector, fell 0.3 percent in february for the third consecutive monthly decline
_the index of leading indocators rose 0.9 percent in february in a performance that analysts said should allay recession worries
_new home sales broke a three-month slide by jumping 20.3 percent in february
_orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods fell 0.8 percent, the second consecutive monthly decline
_prices farmers got for raw products at mid-march were unchanged from february and up 7.4 percent from a year earlier
_federal spending averaged nearly $3,433 per american in 1987, about $41 more than the year before
in other business news:
_american builders will be allowed to bid on japanese construction projects under a new agreement aimed at ending a trade dispute that has soured relations between the united states and japan
_a study commissioned by u.s. automakers claimed five japanese automakers have been dumping small trucks on the u.s. market, costing u.s. workers jobs and the u.s. auto industry $500 million in lost wages, sales and profits
_the internal revenue service said it will waive penalties for underpayments of estimated tax on most types of retirement income for 1987
_the federal fund that insures deposits in commercial banks could suffer a loss in 1988 for the first time in its 54-year history, federal deposit insurance corp. chairman l. william seidman warned
_an appeals court ruled congress unconstitutionally singled out publisher rupert murdoch by prohibiting his continued ownership of newspapers and television stations in the same city
_a supreme court justice set aside an appeals court ruling that had cleared the way for the merger of the photofinishing operations of eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc
_kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co., a leveraged buyout specialist, announced it is seeking federal permission to buy up to 15 percent of texaco inc.'s stock
_general electric co. reached an agreement with rival bidder whirlpool corp., allowing it to proceed unopposed with a $507.6 million offer to acquire roper corp. whirlpool will acquire the roper brand name
_eastern airlines was ordered to stop training non-union pilots aboard its aircraft by a cargo carrier that was hired to help the company prepare for a possible strike this spring
_cbs inc. offered significantly increased pension benefits to about 11 percent of its employees if they elect to retire within the next four months
_mcdonnell douglas corp. was the pentagon's top research contractor in fiscal 1987, winning awards totaling $1.7 billion, the defense department said
_international business machines corp. led forbes magazine's list of the nation's most valuable companies for a fourth consecutive year
_wall street ``whiz kid'' david bloom, 23, pleaded guilty to mail and securities fraud charges, admitting to an art work shopping spree funded with $10 million bilked from scores of investors
_the teamsters union and the trucking industry reached tentative agreement on a three-year national freight contract covering 200,000 drivers and warehouse workers
the suspense over who will end up with federated department stores inc. remained unbroken as the retailer's board put off deciding whether to remain betrothed to r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. or switch affections to campeau corp
the company's board of directors postponed the decision at least until friday after macy presented a new, $6.73 billion takeover offer thursday morning. campeau is offering $6.62 billion
general electric co. reached an agreement with rival bidder whirlpool corp., allowing it to proceed unopposed with a $507.6 million offer to acquire roper corp
ge spokesman george jamison said thursday the connecticut-based company's offer of $54 per share would be extended until 5 p.m. monday. whirlpool simultaneously announced it was terminating its $50-per-share offer
the battle to acquire roper, an appliance and lawn equipment manufacturer based in augusta, ga., began last november
the price of resorts international inc. stock slumped as donald trump, who holds 88 percent of the company's voting power, withdrew his bid to take the hotel-casino operator private and indicated he would block a higher, rival offer by entertainer merv griffin
resorts' class a stock fell by $1.62{ per share to $28.87{ thursday in trading on the american stock exchange
a supreme court justice has set aside an appeals court ruling that had cleared the way for the merger of the photofinishing operations of eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc
officials of the companies involved in the dispute disagreed thursday over whether the ruling by justice byron r. white would force the merger to be dissolved, at least temporarily
the deal created the nation's largest wholesale photofinishing operation
tropicana products inc. has obtained a court order barring a departed key engineer from divulging ``trade secrets and secret processes'' to rival minute maid
tropicana contends when engineer richard a. hamilton left last week he expressed an ``intense dislike of tropicana and stated he would `get' the company.''
hamilton began work monday with minute maid, a subsidary of coca-cola foods
nasa officials say two of the three ``more attractive sites'' for a $1 billion plant to build the next generation of space shuttle rocket boosters are on government property in mississippi
the third is near cape canaveral, fla., where shuttles are launched, nasa said thursday
nasa officials said they expect a site to be selected before requests are issued in june for proposals to build and operate the plant
wall street ``whiz kid'' david bloom has pleaded guilty to mail and securities fraud charges, admitting to an art work shopping spree funded with $10 million bilked from scores of investors
bloom, 23, faces five years in prison and fines up to double the amount lost by investors. he told a federal judge thursday he spent investors' money on ``art, automobiles, two homes and furnishings.''
house and senate negotiators reached tentative agreement on a sweeping trade bill designed to open foreign markets, but only after loading it with provisions that lawmakers said could invite a veto
repeal of the windfall profits tax on oil companies, tough trade sanctions against toshiba corp. of japan and millions of dollars in new subsidies designed to boost u.s. grain exports were tentatively included in the legislation approved thursday evening
the italian government has agreed to explore possible collaboration in building the ``super collider'' atom smasher planned by the energy department, energy secretary john herrington says
italy has not agreed to contribute to the cost of the $4.4 billion installation, but collaboration could still lead to savings, officials said thursday
italy has a distinguished history in advanced physics research going back to nuclear pioneer enrico fermi in the 1930s
the chairman of the senate banking committee has proposed creation of a regulatory committee to oversee the nation's financial markets in the wake of the october stock market crash
the bill, sponsored by sen. william proxmire, d-wis., is being pushed by former new jersey sen. nicholas brady, who headed a presidential task force that studied the crash
the bill creates an intermarket coordination committee composed of the chairmen of the federal reserve, securities and exchange commission and the commodity futures trading commission, officials said thursday
the teamsters union and the trucking industry have reached tentative agreement on a three-year national freight contract covering 200,000 drivers and warehouse workers
the new agreement, unless rejected by at least two-thirds of the affected union members, will replace a contract that expired at midnight thursday
terms of the accord were not disclosed thursday. including fringe and pension benefits, the industry had calculated its total labor costs to date at $23 an hour
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.94 to 1,988.06 thursday, finishing the week with a gain of 9.11 points
the dollar fell slightly against major currencies
bond prices were narrowly mixed as the yield on the benchmark 30-year treasury bond slipped to 8.74 percent
the contract for june delivery of live hogs plunged, and crude oil prices were mostly unchanged
oil trading has turned slow and lackluster with the approach of the holiday weekend
oil prices were mixed thursday in dull trading on the new york mercantile exchange. futures contracts for crude oil were unchanged to marginally higher, while heating oil contracts declined and gasoline was mixed
contracts for may delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, settled on the exchange at $17.08 per 42-gallon barrel, unchanged from wednesday's close
among refined products, the april contract for wholesale heating oil fell 0.45 cent a gallon to 48.15 cents. unleaded gasoline for april delivery edged up by 0.02 cent a gallon to 48.67 cents
there was no action; it was just dead,'' said chris mccormack, a futures broker for investment firm drexel burnham lambert inc
the mercantile exchange is closed friday in observance of the good friday holiday. mccormack noted that the bulk of the limited activity stemmed from traders balancing out their positions in advance of the weekend
market participants are looking ahead to an upcoming meeting of the pricing committee of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries. the session is due to start on april 9 in vienna, austria. grows</head>
magdalena barut didn't need the money, but she was bored; tired of ``just chasing the chickens around the yard'' of the maui home she has lived in since 1954
so, on a whim, the 67-year-old barut applied for a job at mcdonald's, figuring she would be rejected because of her age
but not only has mcdonald's hired barut and other senior citizens like her, the nationwide hamburger chain also lets them pick their own shifts, gives them 20 hours of training for just one task _ barut learned to make french fries _ and in some cases drives them to and from work
i don't know i was worried about getting turned down,'' said barut, who has been promoted to running a cash register. ``i guess we just didn't figure how desperate they are for workers around here.''
mcdonalds _ which traditionally hires high school students for part-time, minimum-wage jobs _ is only one of the many companies facing a labor crunch in hawaii
businesses on the islands of oahu, kauai and maui and hawaii, especially those dependent on the ever-burgeoning tourist industry, are scrambling for workers as the state's unemployment rate falls to record lows and soon-to-open luxury resorts compete for the existing work force
the state department of labor and industrial relations reported a statewide unemployment rate of just 3.3 percent for february, the most recent data available
basically, everybody's got a job who wants one,'' according to a spokeswoman from the hawaii visitors bureau, who said the state's reputation could suffer if hotels, restaurants and other tourist-related businesses could not hire enough people to serve their guests
the aloha spirit is one of the prime attractions of hawaii,'' said the spokeswoman, who asked not to be named. ``if that begins to change because there are not enough people to fill all the jobs, we could have a serious problem.''
a report by the labor department's tourism and training council projected an average of 6,400 workers would be needed each year to meet job openings forecast for hawaii, kauai and maui counties through 1995. but the study found that after this year, only about 1,600 people _ or one-fourth the demand _ would enter the job market each year until then
those dim projections helped convince mcdonalds to turn to senior citizens to fill its employee gaps. other companies have taken more drastic measures
the westin maui hotel in kaanapali, in a joint venture with the state, helps ferry workers from the nearby island of molokai, where a declining pineapple industry led to a 5.8 percent unemployment rate in february. other businesses followed suit
maui had a low unemployment rate and molokai had a high one, so we decided to work together,'' said lindsey geyer, the director of human resources at the westin maui
although many are basking in the glow of the state's ``full employment,'' others say the prevalence of tourist-related jobs _ which account for about one third of the employment in the state _ means many residents earn less than they would in other industries. since hawaii's cost of living is about 26 percent higher than the national average, many people struggle to make ends meet
the islands may be paradise, but there also very expensive,'' said geyer. educators in the state are also concerned; they say that because of the proliferation of jobs, young people who would otherwise go to college are lured away to the work world
and economists say that full employment could trigger higher inflation, because when businesses compete for employees _ offering more pay and better fringe benefits _ the cost is ultimately passed on to the consumer
then, of course, there are the tourists
1987 was a record year for tourism in the state, with about 5.7 million people visiting the islands, 3.3 percent more than the year before, according to the visitors bureau
today's traveler and tomorrow's traveler want more service, and that's labor intensive,'' said dorothy bremner, employment analyst for the labor department's tourism and training council
an obvious cure _ enticing more people to work and live here _ could be painful
bringing people in presents plenty of other problems, and our infrastruture is already overloaded,'' bremner said. ``you'll find very few people interested in making it any more crowded here.''
a better solution, she says, is to upgrade the skills of the people who already live here, and make jobs in the tourist industry career opportunities rather than just average-wage occupations
the southeast economy continues to benefit from a depressed dollar, especially the region's manufacturing and agriculture sectors, according to the federal reserve bank of atlanta
regional manufacturing continues to expand, especially for textiles and paper,'' the atlanta fed said in a periodic report prepared for the latest meeting of the federal open market committee
the petroleum and coal extraction industries are reviving,'' the report said. ``although retailers' sales are not increasing much when compared to last year, inventories are not excessive and auto sales are improving'' in the atlanta district, which covers all or parts of six southeastern states
loan demand has turned up at commercial banks and tourism has posted healthy gains. the outlook for agriculture is positive thanks in part to government programs. although commercial construction continues at a low ebb, residential building is improving in some areas.''
the analysis was prepared for the ``beige book'' used by the fomc for its meeting tuesday. the committee meets about every six weeks to set the nation's monetary policy
nationally, the analysis said, ``reports confirm a moderate expansion. ... strength in the manufacturing sector and continued moderate growth in employment are sustaining the current expansion.''
the atlanta district covers all of georgia, florida and alabama, the eastern half of tennessee and the southern halves of mississippi and louisiana
the merger between the photofinishing operations of eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc. has had a rocky trip through the court system and the journey is not over yet
u.s. supreme court justice byron white on thursday set aside a lower court's decision to allow the merger to go through
it was unclear what effect this temporary ruling would have, since the merger was completed before white's ruling
fuqua president lawrence klamon said he didn't think it would change anything and kodak asked white to reconsider
this has no practical effect on the merger,'' klamon said from fuqua's headquarters in atlanta. ``it's a done deal. this is a moot point.''
the legal wrestling over the merger comes as a result of a lawsuit filed by a small wholesale photofinishing competitor, phototron corp. of san bernardino, calif., which claims the merger violates antitrust laws
in court documents, phototron claims that together kodak and fuqua's subsidiary, colorcraft corp., would control between 65 percent to 88 percent of the wholesale photofinishing market
this merger would require us to get into a closet with a gorilla,'' said joseph alioto, the san francisco attorney who is representing phototron
the company's lawsuit was filed in fort worth, texas, and a judge there on feb. 22 blocked the merger until he could hear the case and issue a ruling
kodak and fuqua, however, appealed that decision to the u.s. court of appeals in new orleans, where a three-judge panel on monday reversed that decision
those judges said phototron had no right to stop the merger and gave kodak and fuqua permission to merge
the two companies immediately combined operations the next day, forming a new company called qualex inc., which has 94 processing labs around the country and is based in durham, n.c., which had been the home of colorcraft
wholesale photofinishers primarily process film and print photographs for supermarkets, discount store chains and drug stores
white's decision to set aside the court of appeals ruling until tuesday when additional arguments on the case can be heard further muddles the situtation
alioto said the ruling means the merger will have to be dismantled
they acted too fast and now they have to face the consequences,'' he said. ``whatever was done has to be undone.''
but klamon, who is an attorney, said white's decision will have no practical effect on the merger. he explained it using an analogy of a car approaching a stop light
he said the federal judge in fort worth turned the light red as the kodak-colorcraft merger approached. the court of appeals turned the light green and the merger went on its way, klamon said
now, phototron has convinced the supreme court to turn the light red again, but it no longer matters because the merger has already passed through the intersection
klamon said he expects the high court to dismiss white's order on tuesday once it finds out that the merger has already proceeded
kodak spokesman paul allen said the company's attorneys are still reviewing the decision
regardless of the outcome of the supreme court fight, phototron's original lawsuit against kodak will continue in u.s. district court in fort worth and a decision there could still force the merger to unravel, alioto said
the head of cbs inc. says he has had no discussions about selling either the cbs television network or loews corp.'s stake in cbs and says neither one is for sale
laurence a. tisch, chief executive of cbs, told cbs employees in an unusual memorandum on thursday that he is committed to the long-term prospects of cbs and wants its television network to reclaim first place in the ratings
but he added, ``we know it will take several years _ not a few months _ to get there.''
in recent weeks, rumors have spread that tisch might be interested in selling the cbs television network while keeping the cbs radio and television stations
alternatively, there were rumors that tisch planned to engineer the sale of the 24.9 percent stake in cbs held by loews, a new york-based holding company with interests in tobacco, real estate and financial services that tisch also heads
tisch addressed both issues in the memo, saying neither the block of cbs stock held by loews nor the cbs network is for sale
let me go further. i have met with no one, had no conversation and have received no offer for the sale of loews' cbs stock or the cbs network. if you hear or read anything to the contrary, it is absolutely, totally and categorically untrue,'' he said
on wall street, cbs fell 62.5 cents a share to $156.37{ in trading on the new york stock exchange
speculation about tisch's plans has been fueled by the cbs network's steady decline in prime-time audience ratings. cbs is expected to finish in last place among the three major networks this season, and some analysts have questioned whether tisch has the patience to wait for a revival
but tisch said loews bought its stake in cbs because it felt ``this is a good investment in a premier company in a special business _ broadcasting.''
nothing has changed that belief. loews was not looking for a quick turnaround. that has never been the loews style,'' he said
since he became chief executive of cbs in the fall of 1986, cbs has sold its records, books and magazine divisions, amassing about $3 billion in cash
tisch said the sales have allowed cbs to focus on its basic business
he conceded he has offered ``some gloomy comments'' about the economic outlook and its potential effect of the broadcasting business
but he said those views have ``nothing to do with my deep personal interest in and my commitment to the long-term prospects of cbs.''
we are committed to build a schedule that makes us first again. with our eye on that long-term goal, we shouldn't be overly concerned about small setbacks,'' he wrote
british industrialist brian beazer says koppers co. is trying to confuse its employees and pittsburgh supporters over his $1.7 billion takeover offer. koppers says beazer is the one confused
koppers management has diverted attention to irrelevant subjects such as the role of our financial advisers ... but they have never responded to the key questions,'' beazer plc, the construction and building materials company, said thursday in newspaper advertisements
we have asked koppers management again and again to sit down and discuss our proposal,'' the ad said. ``instead, they have mounted a massive campaign of disinformation, creating panic and confusion among koppers employees and the pittsburgh community.''
koppers vice president j. roger beidler, responding to the ad at a news conference, said beazer has misconstrued koppers' profit margins and employment trends
koppers again criticized shearson lehman hutton inc. for being an equity partner with beazer in bns inc., the company formed to launch the $60-per-share takeover
the investment bank overstepped the traditional role to become a corporate raider, beidler said
shearson has said it is merely helping finance the tender offer
u.s. sen. john heinz, meanwhile, failed wednesday to amend a banking bill with language to bar another beazer backer, national westminster bank plc, from its role as an equity partner in bns, said richard bryers, an aide to heinz. but the senator won a promise from banking committee chairman william proxmire to hold hearings in april on the heinz measure as separate legislation, the aide said
at a news conference called by u.s. rep. doug walgren, d-pa., robert a. papariella, 38, said he resigned his job as a vice president of investments in shearson's pittsburgh office in protest of the firm's role in the koppers takeover attempt
papariella, repeating claims made by koppers and its allies, including heinz, said shearson stands to make $150 million or more in fees on the takeover
shearson spokesman michael o'neill said the figure is inaccurate, but he declined to offer a specific figure
beidler, meanwhile, said beazer was mistaken when he claimed recently he could improve koppers' profit margins in construction materials from 10 percent to the industry average of 20 percent
beidler said beazer misconstrued companywide margins for those of one segment. koppers' margins in sand and gravel exceed 20 percent, and margins in crushed stone are near 20 percent, he said
he's going to find very little room ... to achieve that kind of improvement,'' beidler said at a news conference. ``koppers has been running the business as well or better than most companies.''
beazer's ad tried to dispel fears expressed by koppers and its allies that a takeover could elmininate 1,100 pittsburgh-area jobs and sap the local economy of an estimated $232 million per year
all beazer companies have retained their local offices,'' the ad said. mentioning gifford-hill in dallas, squires in charlotte, n.c.; cohn communities in atlanta; phillips builders in nashville, tenn.; tidewater construction co. in norfolk, va.; and fk co. in farmington, n.m
the ad said employment at koppers has declined from 18,000 to 1,000, while employment at beazer has grown from 4,000 to 18,000 in the past five years
beidler said koppers eliminated about 9,700 jobs through asset sales and attrition but added about 6,000 through growth in its businesses. employment declined from 14,500 in 1983 to 10,700 in 1987, he said
beazer said koppers' efforts to find a white knight could lead to consequences worse that beazer's plan to sell the chemical businesses if it gains control
remember, it was `white knight' chevron that emptied the gulf building,'' beazer said
opponents of the beazer bid, including federal, state and local elected officials, say they don't want the landmark koppers building in pittsburgh to be emptied as gulf corp.'s headquarters were after t. boone pickens drove the oil company into a merger with chevron
every company we've acquired has improved its performance and profitability, with corresponding growth in opportunities and benefits for employees,'' beazer said. against pound</head>
the dollar was virtually motionless in foreign exchange trading in europe today as activity wound down to a bare minimum ahead of the easter weekend. the u.s. currency remained at a 6-year low against the pound
with most asian and european markets closed for good friday and with corporate clients standing on the sidelines, foreign exchange rooms that were open were mostly idle, traders said
the only european foreign exchange markets open today were those in luxembourg, france and italy, ``but they are all lying low,'' one trader in milan said. ``there is absolutely no direction at all
gold markets in london, zurich and hong kong were closed
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 124.10 yen, down 0.40 yen from thursday despite some light intervention by the bank of japan, dealers said. later in europe, the dollar was quoted at 124.05 yen
other dollar rates in europe at midmorning, compared with late thursday's rates, included: 1.6558 west german marks, up from 1.6555; 1.3613 swiss francs, down from 1.3635; 5.6250 french francs, up from 5.6130; 1.8630 dutch guilders, up from 1.8575; 1,228.00 italian lire, down from 1,229.50; and 1.2347 canadian dollars, up from 1.2339
the british pound was quoted at $1.8885 _ a six-year high for the second day in a row _ compared with $1.8878 thursday
the dollar and stock prices fell on tokyo markets today as trading decreased with the approach of the easter holidays in the united states and europe
the u.s. currency opened at 124.30 yen and traded between a narrow range of 124.05-124.50 yen. it finished the week at 124.10 yen, down 0.40 yen from thursday's close of 124.50 yen
there is not much happening,'' said peter tasker, head of research at kleinwort benson. ``the dollar is weak and unpopular,'' he said, and a ``poor supply and demand'' contributed to the currency's fall
the bank of japan intervened immediately after the foreign exchange opened for dealing to prop up the sagging currency, but tasker said the amount of dollars the central bank bought was very small
the intervention was a ritual, he added. the bank does not publicly comment on its activities
it's the easter holiday and people are not doing anything,'' added a dealer at a major american securities firm, speaking on condition of anonymity
traders said they are anticipating a weak dollar in the new 1988 fiscal year that began today. ``the dollar will be wobbly,'' tasker said, ``but it probably will not fall below 120 yen.''
on the tokyo stock exchange, meanwhile, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues fell for a second consecutive day and lost 156.04 points, or 0.59 percent. it closed at 26,104.22 points
the loss was in ``reaction to an incredibly strong rise over the past week,'' tasker said, referring to the 1,000-point gain the nikkei averaged monday through wednesday. on thursday, the main market barometer lost 59.81 points
traders predicted the market would be quiet and show little direction during its half-day session saturday because of the easter weekend. measure</head>
government leaders and toshiba corp. executives today condemned a u.s. congressional move to punish the electronics giant for a subsidiary's sale of militarily sensitive machines to the soviet union
officials charged the united states was overstepping its boundaries by adding its own penalties to those already taken by japan
the government hinted it might bring the matter before the general agreement on tariffs and trade if the measure becomes law
the united states is seeking to unilaterally impose its own penalties in disregard of the independence of other countries,'' trade minister hajime tamura said in a statement to reporters. ``this is extremely regrettable.''
toshiba corp. president joichi aoi expressed regret, saying his company had been unaware of toshiba machine co.'s illegal sale to the soviets. he urged u.s. lawmakers to reconsider
congressional negotiators reached tentative agreement thursday night on a sweeping trade bill designed to open foreign markets. the measure would ban u.s. government purchases of toshiba equipment for three years and bar the import toshiba machine co. products for the same period
kyodo news service said toshiba corp. escaped the worst possible scenario in which it stood to lose its entire u.s. export market worth $2 billion a year. it said toshiba machine co. faces the loss of $136 million a year
the reagan administration has threatened to veto the bill because of the toshiba provisions and other measures
the japanese government determined last spring that toshiba machine co. sold to the soviets sophisticated machinery capable of silencing submarine propellers. the sales violated japan's own export laws and those of cocom, the western body that monitors such sales to communist nations
the u.s. congressional agreement ``runs counter to a basic principle of cocom that effective enforcement of export controls is entrusted to each participating country's autonomous responsibility,'' foreign minister sosuke uno said in a separate statement
he said the bill would, ``if adopted and implemented, violate the gatt provisions, which the government of japan cannot overlook.''
the columbia record, the capital city's afternoon newspaper for 91 years, ceases publication with today's edition
we will add 10,000 papers to the press run,'' acting managing editor bunny richardson said thursday. ``employees want them, people in the street want them and we've had people calling us who are not subscribers asking us where they can get a copy
there will be a lot of reminiscing in it from old record staffers. they have the same feeling that we have here now: the camaraderie, the feeling of family, the feistiness of a small newspaper.''
the demise of the record was announced jan. 20 by publisher ben r. morris, who said the readers and advertisers of the area can be served better by concentrating resources in a single daily newspaper, the state
there will be other news in the record other than its ceasing publication,'' ms. richardson said. ``we still have to put out a newspaper and that will keep us from feeling sad.''
the record staff will be merged with that of the state. both newspapers are owned by the knight-ridder newspaper group
the battle to acquire roper corp. appeared to be over with the announcement that whirlpool corp. was ending its bid, allowing general electric co. to proceed unopposed with a $507.6 million offer
a spokesman for ge said the fairfield, conn.-based company would extend its offer until 5 p.m. monday. but robert cook, chairman of augusta-based roper, indicated he expected the deal to go through quickly and smoothly
i'd say it's over,'' cook said. ``we had alrady told our stockholders to tender to ge two days ago.''
ge and whirlpool said early thursday that negotiations were continuing over their rival bids for roper, a manufacturer of appliances and lawn equipment
but the companies announced thursday night that whirlpool was terminating its $50-per-share offer for roper
ge is offering roper $54 per share
according to the ge announcement, ge will be free to acquire roper and its manufacturing capacity for kitchen ranges and lawn equipment. whirlpool obtains rights to the roper name for major appliances
ge will supply whirlpool with electric and gas ranges for the roper brand for at least two years under the agreement
also, whirlpool will relinquish its $37.50 per share option on 1.6 million roper shares upon the completion of ge's tender offer. and the companies agreed to various commercial relationships in which ge will sell to whirlpool certain industrial components and materials
the battle to acquire roper began last november, and led to a series of lawsuits charging, among other things, that roper and whirlpool engaged in activities designed to hinder ge's ability to bid competitively for the augusta company
thursday's agreement called for the withdrawal of all lawsuits upon the completion of ge's tender offer
for ge, the roper factories and roper's strong sears relationship makes this an important niche acquisition that will significantly strengthen our appliance business in an increasingly competitive global market,'' said roger w. schipke, ge senior vice president in charge of the company's appliance business
gaining the roper brand name was one of whirlpool's key strategic objectives in pursuing this acquisition,'' said david r. whitwam, chairman, president and chief executive officer of benton harbor, mich.-based whirlpool
with our complementary kitchenaid, whirlpool and roper brands, whirlpool plans to compete vigorously in all segments of the major home appliance market,'' whitwam said
the amicable settlement is beneficial to both parties, and is the foundation for a strong, expanded supplier relationship with whirlpool,'' ge's schipke said
officials reacted with regret and anger today after talks between agriculture minister takashi sato and u.s. officials failed to produce an agreement on japan's restricted imports of beef and citrus fruits
sato began three days of talks in washington on tuesday in hopes of renegotiating a four-year bilateral agreement setting quotas on u.s. beef and citrus exports to japan. no progress was made, and the accord expired thursday
shintaro abe, secretary-general of the governing liberal democratic party, told reporters, ``i am disappointed the talks ended with differences between the positions of the two countries still too great, but sato did his best.''
sato's delegation ``made efforts to explain the situation in japan, but could not regrettably come to an agreement,'' said a foreign ministry spokesman
in washington, u.s. trade representative clayton yeutter said the united states requested an emergency meeting next week of the general agreement on tarrifs and trade, where it will ask that a panel be formed to review u.s. complaints. gatt is an international body for settling trade disputes
sato is scheduled to return sunday to japan, according to an agriculture ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity
mitsugu horiuchi, chairman of the powerful central union of agricultural cooperatives, issued a strong statement accusing the united states of refusing to hear out japan
though the situation making it impossible for japan to liberalize its market for imported beef and citrus fruits was repeatedly expressed during the talks, the united states government refused to listen and continued to one-sidedly push for total liberalization or a decision by gatt,'' the statement said
horuchi said his organization would continue to urge the government to maintain beef and citrus quotas, saying ``this is the concensus of japan's 5.5 million farmers.''
japan has insisted in past talks with the united states that a liberalized market for beef and citrus imports would have a detrimental effect on domestic producers and lead to unemployment
but the united states has demanded japan remove its quotas and has refused to negotiate unless japan proposed a timetable for liberalization, something japan has yet to do
william d. slattery, a 16-year veteran of twa, has been hired by northwest airlines to head the minnesota-based carrier's flight, maintenance, cargo and ground handling operations
slattery, 45, replaces benjamin griggs jr., who was promoted earlier this week to executive vice president of nwa inc., the parent company of northwest, the carrier announced thursday
slattery, who will carry the title of vice president of operations, also will handle the duties of tom koors, the executive vice president of customer services who resigned last week, the company said
slattery's most immediate challenge is to reconcile the policies and practices of former northwest and republic airlines flight and maintenance operations
northwest merged with republic in august 1986. the combined airline has continued to operate internally as two airlines, although marketing, financial and accounting functions have been merged
slattery's appointment is the latest in a series of changes designed to bring the airline's operating functions under a single responsibility, said steven rothmeier, northwest chairman and chief executive officer
slattery also will be faced with helping to reach contracts with pilots and the international association of machinists, the union that represents 20,000 mechanics, baggage handlers, reservations agents and transportation agents
slattery is perhaps best know for getting braniff inc. off the ground again in march 1984 after its bankruptcy and reorganization in 1982. slattery was president of braniff for less than a year when he resigned amid speculation that braniff chairman jay pritzker was undermining his authority
slattery, who began his airline career as a sales representative for trans world airlines inc., became vice president of twa's international division before leaving for braniff
e.f. hutton &amp; co. says it will plead guilty to up to three felony counts and pay a fine for money laundering _ some which was conducted for organized crime figures _ at its providence branch
the company revealed details of a pending agreement with the u.s. justice department and the u.s. attorney's office in rhode island in a mandatory quarterly report to the securities and exchange commission
federal authorities have been investigating allegations that hutton, which was acquired last year by shearson lehman brothers inc., failed to report cash transactions over $10,000 conducted by its providence branch as required by law
u.s. attorney lincoln c. almond said some of the $1.2 million in transactions involved were for organized crime figures, while others were for ``legitimate'' businessmen trying to hide income from the irs
almond revealed a week ago his office and the justice department's new england organized crime strike force were negotiating a guilty plea in the case
almond and john voorhees, attorney in charge of the strike force's providence office, declined to comment on the sec report, which was filed on wednesday
companies are required to report to the sec any activities that could affect their status as licensed investment dealers
under sec rules, a felony conviction could result in the total suspension of business. but a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. in new york said thursday the company expects to receive waivers from the sec that will allow it to continue operating
in its sec report, hutton said the investigation will result in criminal charges, as opposed to civil penalties that could be imposed under federal law
the company said it will plead guilty to ``no more than three'' felony counts'' and that the allegations ``will result in a fine being imposed in an amount yet to be determined.''
most of the illegal transactions involved stephen fusco, a hutton broker who died of cancer in december 1985. fusco allegedly helped customers break large sums of money into amounts less than $10,000 that were then deposited into their accounts. the scheme is known as structuring
most of the abuses ``took place during 1982 and 1983, and none occurred later than august 1984,'' the company told the sec
michael o'neill, a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton, said thursday that the company does not expect any ``adverse impact on the business.''
last october, the sec found that hutton had violated provisions of the sec law and rules relating to financial record keeeping and reporting of currency transactions
as a result of the findings, hutton was censured and directed to report to the sec on policies and procedures regarding the receipt of cash deposits and to adopt surveillance procedures to monitor deposits of multiple bank checks. election</head>
a dissident movement within the united auto workers will have another chance to elect one of its members to the uaw's powerful executive board in a new regional election ordered by a federal judge
candidate jerry tucker lost a june 1986, election against incumbent region 5 director kenneth worley by two-tenths of a vote and protested that the election was tainted by discrepancies
on wednesday, u.s. district judge richard suhrheinrich in detroit ordered a new election in the eight-state region, which covers 80,000 active and laid-off workers in 68 local unions in missouri, kansas, oklahoma, arkansas, louisiana, texas, colorado and new mexico
tucker and worley again will compete in the election, which could be held in 60 to 90 days. a third candidate also reportedly may enter the race
as director of region 5, the winner will sit with other regional directors and top union officers on the uaw's core decision-making body
the dissident faction, which calls itself new directions, seeks more participation by the rank-and-file in decisions affecting the 1 million-member union and want more open debate about the uaw's general direction and philosophy
tucker said he is most disturbed by the reluctance of union leaders, including uaw president owen bieber, to allow the democratic participation by the rank-and-file as provided under the union's constitution
suhrheinrich also ordered new elections for the region's approximately 300 convention delegates. the uaw can appeal the order, but it cannot by law halt the election, set up by the department of labor, which had brought the case
uaw officials who asked not to be identified said the union would appeal if it believed the decision set a precedent that was harmful to the uaw
the labor department brought three suits against the uaw, charging 27 illegal delegates voted in the election, worley illegally used union money for his campaign and tucker was fired illegally in may 1986 after announcing his candidacy
worley did not return phone calls from the associated press on thursday
chrysler corp. says it will offer a $750 rebate or discount loan financing on its slow-selling new eagle premier, while general motors corp. said it was extending its buyer incentive program on certain buick and oldsmobile models
chrysler's new rebate program takes effect today and will continue indefinitely. the rebate or annual rates of 8.8 percent on loans of up to 72 months may be applied to purchases or leases of the canadian-built car
eagle is a brand-new nameplate and customers are still unsure what it stands for,'' chris cedergren, analyst with j.d. power and associates in suburban los angeles, said thursday
new models, when they are introduced in a market full of incentives, need incentives on them now to draw attention,'' he added. otherwise, buyers ignore the new cars and look for models bearing sale tags, he said
premier needed a level playing field. it has a chance to compete now because it has incentives on it,'' cedergren said
william hoglund, a gm vice president and executive in charge of its buick-oldsmobile-cadillac group, made similar comments earlier this week about gm's new buick regal
despite pricing that gm considered low for a new model, regal's sales were disappointing until early march, when gm offered option-package discounts of up to $900 on the car, hoglund said
on thursday, buick and oldsmobile extended incentives scheduled to expire april 15 until may 11, following a similar step by chevrolet earlier this week
buick extended rebates ranging from $400 to $750 on four models and option-package discounts on six models including regal. oldsmobile extended similar rebates on four models and option discounts on six models
as of march 20, chrysler had sold only 5,086 premier models since the car's introduction late last year, including 4,894 during 1988. cedergren said chrysler had expected premier to take off slowly
however, he said, the car is reaching its target audience of well-to-do young buyers who otherwise wouldn't buy chrysler products, most of which are aimed at buyers interested in prices that are usually lower than gm and ford motor co
it's not pirating sales away from other chrysler models,'' cedergren said
on the gm products, buick rebates include $400 on skylark and $750 on century, lesabre and electra-park avenue. cars must be delivered by may 11. rebates may be used as down payments or taken in cash
oldsmobile rebates include $400 on calais and cutlass calais and $750 on cutlass ciera, delta 88 and ninety-eight
option-package discounts are available on all rebate models as well as buick regal and skyhawk and oldsmobile cutlass supreme and toronado. secrets</head>
tropicana products inc. has obtained a court order in an attempt to ensure that minute maid, its top citrus-juice competitor, doesn't learn trade secrets from an engineer who switched companies
in court documents tropicana claims richard a. hamilton left last week after 3{-years employment, expressing an ``intense dislike of tropicana'' and vowing to ``get'' the company
hamilton began work monday with minute maid, a subsidary of coca-cola foods, alice brink, a spokeswoman at coca-cola foods in houston, said thursday. a judge on tuesday granted tropicana's request to bar hamilton from divulging ``trade secrets or secret processes.''
we take this matter very seriously ... it was intended to make sure (coca-cola) cannot get our proprietary secrets,'' said steven b. gold, tropicana vice president and general counsel
tropicana is considered top in the rapidly growing market for ready-to-serve citrus juices, with minute maid second
it would cause ``last and irreparable harm to tropicana,'' if hamilton were to disclose what he knows to minute maid _ ``which is attempting to develop a commercial pasteurized orange juice product,'' tropicana said in its court papers
tropicana officials maintain hamilton told them he was joining ardmore farms, a small, non-competitive juice processor in deland
tropicana said its concern was ``heightened when shortly after leaving tropicana, (it) discovered that, contrary to his earlier representations, hamilton had in fact accepted a position with coca-cola.''
before he quit tropicana, hamilton told company officials that minute maid representatives had contacted him by telephone at home and at work ``in an attempt to obtain confidential information concerning tropicana's processes,'' court documents contend
but ms. brink said any attempt to get proprietary information are ``definitely against our policy.''
the company told hamilton in writing not to divulge ``anything which would breach the confidentiality agreement he signed with tropicana. we ask our employees to sign a similar agreement,'' she said
last month, seagram co. ltd. agreed to buy tropicana from its parent, beatrice u.s. food corp. for $1.2 billion
general motors corp. has decided its high-tech teamwork and technology exhibit was such a hit in new york in january that it is taking the show on the road
the exhibit is scheduled to stop in april 26-27 in chicago, may 9-10 in los angeles, may 23-24 in dallas, june 6-7 in atlanta, and june 13-17 in warren, mich
at the exhibit, autoworkers, executives and engineers demonstrated new products, technology and production techniques, including a working design studio
we made the point with the new york show that we do have new products and new technology, and we are making great strides,'' said jim crellin, gm's chief spokesman
the show also featured concept cars, offering glimpses of the automotive future, including the cadillac voyage. the sleek voyage is a four-wheel-drive luxury car with a keyless infrared entry system and rear-view television
the teamwork and technology exhibit was held for three days at new york's waldorf-astoria hotel. parts of the show have been displayed in various cities, but most or all of the display will be reassembled for the new tour
here are the seasonally adjusted civilian unemployment rates in march for 11 large states, as reported friday by the bureau of labor statistics
california, 5 percent, down from 5.4 percent in february
florida, 4.9, down from 5.3
illinois, 7.3, down from 7.5
massachusetts, 2.9, down from 3.4
michigan, 8.3, down from 8.4
new jersey, 4.0, up from 3.4
new york, 3.8, down from 3.9
north carolina, 3.8, up from 3.6
ohio, 7.7, up from 6.4
pennsylvania, 5.1, down from 5.2
texas, 8.1, down from 8.4. picks up 2nd graf pvs, while the ....</note>
a sharp decline in the size of the american labor force last month sent the civilian unemployment rate to 5.6 percent, its lowest level since 1979, the government said today
construction spending fell 0.3 percent in february, held back by weakness in the residential sector, the commerce department said in another report
the third consecutive monthly decline in construction spending reflected the adverse effects of the new tax law and high vacancy rates for apartments and office buildings
while the number of people at work in march dropped by 306,000, those either holding jobs or looking for them fell by 445,000, the labor department reported
the 0.1 percentage point drop from february's 5.7 percent jobless rate reflected a decrease of 137,000 _ to 6.8 million _ in the number of workers listed as unemployed
janet l. norwood, the commissioner of labor statistics, said a slowdown in the expansion of the labor force is beginning to be reflected in unemployment rates, which had, until last month, been dropping more on the basis of job growth
on thursday, the financial markets gave a mixed performance in quiet pre-holiday trading, with stock prices modestly higher, the dollar losing some ground and interest rates holding steady
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.94 to 1,988.06, finishing the week with a gain of 9.11 points. six issues increased in value for every five that fell on the new york stock exchange
in foreign exchange, the dollar headed narrowly lower against all key currencies while the rising pound continued to take center stage in trading
the dollar hit its lowest level against the pound since january 1982 in london. it cost $1.8878 to buy one pound, more expensive than $1.8790 late wednesday. later, in new york, one pound cost $1.8874, up from $1.8780
in the credit markets, bond prices and interest rates were narrowly mixed, although the treausury's bellwether 30-year issue managed to end the week with a gain of [ point, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount. the bond's yield, which moves inversely to its price, slipped to 8.74 percent from 8.76 percent
analysts said traders were reluctant to carry big positions thursday ahead of the easter and passover holiday weekend, especially with the unemployment report due
both the stock and bond markets will be closed today. many currency dealers did not plan to trade today, while others said they would work only half a day. credit</head>
the internal revenue service said today that american corporations' tax payments to the delvalle government of panama will qualify for the u.s. foreign tax credit
the announcement cleared the way for u.s. firms that operate in panama to pay taxes into a special account at the federal reserve bank of new york without jeopardizing the tax credit. the credit is designed to avoid taxation of the same dollar of income by the united states and a foreign country
the action cuts off a source of cash to the financially strapped regime of manuel antonio noriega in panama. the reagan administration has expressed concern that a recent infusion of cash, some of it from u.s. corporate tax payments, may have temporarily strengthened the hold of noriega
the united states recognizes eric arturo delvalle as president. delvalle issued a decree on march 25 directing that income taxes due the government of panama be paid only to a new york federal reserve bank. details. no pickup.</note>
french publisher hachette s.a. said it is increasing its tender offer for grolier inc. to $24 a share, or $444 million
paris-based hachette's original offer of $21 a share was rejected by grolier, a publisher of encyclopedias headquartered in danbury, conn
grolier had no comment on the increased bid, which as announced after the market closed on thursday. hachette's latest offer is due to expire at midnight edt april 14
in new york stock exchange trading thursday, grolier closed at $24.37{ a share, down 62{ cents
andrew j. reinhart, grolier's president and chief operating officer, said the company will consult with its investment adviser, first boston corp., according to today's editions of the wall street journal
grolier has said it would pursue talks with other interested parties to negotiate a sale for a ``satisfactory'' price
separately, hachette said in a statement that the federal trade commission and the justice department terminated the waiting period under federal antitrust law for hachette's initial offer. decision will be announced, picks up 7th graf, for the ...</note>
the board of federated department stores inc. resumed its deliberations today on whether to continue the retailer's alliance with r.h. macy &amp; co. or agree to a buyout by campeau corp
the board was meeting in new york, but federated spokesman jim sluzewski said he had no details about the talks or when an announcement would be made
sluzewski said the board would meet ``as late as they need to.''
the board was believed to be considering a $6.73 billion takeover offer from macy and a $6.62 billion bid from campeau. however, it was possible that higher offers also were on the table
the directors had been expected to reach a decision on which offer to back following an all-day meeting wednesday. however, they agreed to continue their talks after macy submitted a higher bid on thursday
wall street analysts said that even if a decision were announced today, they did not expect the 2-month-old battle for the nation's fifth-largest retailer to end soon
macy's has a slight edge, but i don't think that it's over,'' walter loeb, a retail industry analyst with morgan stanley &amp; co., said thursday. ``there'll be more discussions and more legal wrangling.''
for the first time since it announced its cash-and-stock bid a month ago, macy placed a value on the stock end of its bid and also offered shareholders the option of taking all cash for their shares, federated said in a statement
macy offered $78.92 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's 89.5 million outstanding shares, and said it would pay $60 in cash or exchange five shares in the merged company, macy's-federated inc., for each remaining federated share. that would give the deal an aggregate value of $75.14 a share
macy's latest offer superseded a $6.61 billion bid presented at wednesday's meeting
in its latest bid, campeau said it would pay $74 a share for approximately 80 percent of federated's shares, and the same amount for the remaining 20 percent after a merger, federated said
wall street analysts had said macy would be forced to put a value on the securities portion of its offer to compete with campeau. many investors, including arbitragers who hold a sizable portion of federated stock, had been leaning toward the certainty of campeau's all-cash offer
federated had reached a merger agreement with macy on march 2 but reopened the bidding after campeau raised its offer last week
investors pushed up the price of federated stock thursday, but it held below either of the latest offers, rising $2.62{ a share to $72.87{ on the new york stock exchange
before the meeting, campeau had taken its bid directly to federated's stockholders, in a two-step, all-cash tender offer totaling $6.53 billion
macy was offering $5.4 billion in cash plus stock in the new company. analysts valued that offer at $6.3 billion overall
the fight for federated began jan. 25, when campeau offered $4.2 billion to buy the retailer, which rejected the offer as inadequate
campeau raised its bid, but federated spurned the canadian company's advances until the end of february, when the retailer agreed to negotiate with campeau
but as the federated board was to meet to review that proposal, the macy bid surfaced, and on march 2, federated and macy announced they had reached a merger agreement
court battles over federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense ensued, and both suitors continued to raise their offers until the federated board called for ``final bids'' to be presented wednesday
if federated's board endorses the latest macy bid, the battle will return to court, where the poison pill would again be an issue
the pill would make a takeover attempt more expensive by allowing the retailer's shareholders to buy more company stock at a discount, unless federated's management supported the bid
federated's divisions include bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, lazarus and rich's department stores
macy owns nearly 100 department and specialty stores
campeau, which started in real estate development in canada, moved into the u.s. retail market at the end of 1986 by acquiring allied stores corp
texas railroad commissioner kent hance says he will meet the president of the opec cartel in london monday to discuss the world energy situation and need for stable petroleum prices
hance said he also will urge that the railroad commission gain observer status at opec meetings and that crude oil prices be stabilized in the range of $18 to $24 per barrel
the president of opec, minister rilwanu lukman of nigeria, will participate in the meeting to discuss ``the world energy situation and options for the stabilization of oil prices,'' hance said
he said he has been working through diplomatic channels since last fall to achieve observer status for the commission at meetings of the organization of petroleum exporting countries
a line of communication with opec is of importance to texas and the nation,'' hance said thursday. ``at the present time, the opec cartel sets the price, and we have no input.''
the designation means that non-opec members can attend meetings but can't vote. opec ministers can exclude observers from their meetings as they choose
oil cartel founders used the railroad commission as their model when opec was formed in 1960 because ``texas is one of the largest non-opec producers in the world,'' hance said
lukman scheduled a meeting of opec`s pricing committee for april 9 in vienna
texas railroad commission was established in 1891 to prevent abuses and discrimination in freight and passenger tariffs on railroads, but its powers were later broadened to include regulation of oil and gas production. also running on general news wires</note>
a sharp decline in the size of the american labor force last month sent the civilian unemployment rate to a decade-low 5.6 percent, the government said today
while the number of people at work in march dropped by 306,000, those either holding jobs or looking for them fell by 445,000. the 0.1 percentage point drop from february's 5.7 percent jobless rate reflected a decrease of 137,000 _ to 6.8 million _ in the number of workers listed as unemployed
the 5.6 percent, seasonally-adjusted, rate is the lowest since may 1979 and has not been lower since 1974, the labor department reported
janet l. norwood, the commissioner of labor statistics, said a slowdown in the expansion of the labor force is beginning to be reflected in unemployment rates, which had, until last month, been dropping more on the basis of job growth
the birthrate decline in the 1960s and the early 1970s has resulted in fewer young people reaching labor force-age in the 1980s,'' she said
while the number of americans at work has grown by 3 million over the last year, ``the labor force has increased by less than 2 million,'' she told the the congressional joint economic committee
even though the unemployment rate has fallen a full percentage point from march 1987, the latest government data indicate that the job boom may be coming to an end
the number of so-called ``discouraged workers'' _ people who have given up the search for a job out of the belief they cannot find one and are not included in the labor force or jobless rate calculations _ rose by 115,000 in the first three months of 1988 to 1,027,000 after falling by more than 200,000 last year
two-thirds of the increase in discouraged workers was adult men, historically the primary family breadwinners
factory employment, which had soared through the last half of 1987, was stagnant for the second month in a row
at 19,417,000 people, manufacturers actually had 1,000 fewer people on their payrolls than in february. factory employment, however, is still more than 420,000 above where it was a year ago
job increases in machinery and printing and publishing were offset by small declines in 11 other manufacturing industries, ms. norwood said
despite what appears to be an end to the manufacturing rebound, total payroll employment grew by 260,000 last month, according to a labor department employer survey
the unemployment rate calculations are based on a sampling of the nation's households
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater hailed the report, saying, ``we are very pleased. jobs are still the best barometer of the economy.''
health care and business services provided 85,000 of the new jobs, with construction adding 80,000 more. the growth in construction jobs plus a jump of 10,000 people on real-estate agency payrolls affirm earlier indications of a resurging housing market
things are not so well in banking and on wall street, however, with employment dropping by 5,000 last month. it was the second straight monthly decline
retail trworkers in january and february
the jobless rate for whites fell from 4.8 percent to 4.7 percent while rising from 12.6 percent to 12.8 percent for blacks. the rate for hispanics dropped from 8.3 percent to 8.2 percent
joblessness among men was unchanged at 4.9 percent but dropped among women from 5.2 percent to 4.8 percent
the rate for teenagers rose from 15.4 percent to 16.5 percent. black teens saw their rate drop from 38.3 percent to 36.9 percent
an alternate unemployment calculation, including the 1.7 million members of the armed services stationed in the united states, also fell 0.1 percentage point to 5.5 percent
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

washington _ the supreme court issues orders and decisions
washington _ congress is in recess until april 11

washington _ arthur levitt, chairman of the american stock exchange, is the luncheon speaker at the national press club
kansas city, mo. _ the chrysler bargaining council of the united auto workers union begins a three-day session to work out its position for contract talks with the automaker, which are to begin in mid-april

detroit _ u.s. and foreign automakers are to report their sales of cars and light trucks during march

new york _ the nation's biggest general retailers are to report their march sales

nothing scheduled

vienna, austria _ opec's pricing committee is to meet to discuss ways of propping up oil prices
las vegas, nev. _ the national association of broadcasters begins a four-day meeting
market watchers expect soybean futures to open with a bang monday, following a pair of government reports that indicate supplies could become extremely tight later this year
and they says a quick, strong rally is the only thing that could encourage more soybean planting and perhaps lessen the crunch
corn-and-soybean growers have until april 15 to decide whether to opt for the security of corn price-support payments _ and the accompanying requirement that they idle 20 percent of their land _ or take their chances on the open market
higher futures prices for new-crop soybeans would induce more farmers to choose the latter course and grow soybeans on those acres that would otherwise lie idle, analysts said
market-watchers were predicting three months ago that prices for 1988 soybeans could climb as high as $7 a bushel, the highest level in four years
thursday's agriculture department reports on spring planting intentions and u.s. grain stocks reaffirmed that view
the general mentality of the market has been an expectation of over $7 beans on november futures, probably $7.20, which would result in $7 cash in most parts of the country,'' said david bartholomew, an assistant vice president of merrill lynch futures inc
but after thursday's reports ``$7 almost sounds conservative,'' he said. ``i think they're going to set prices higher after seeing these figures.''
cathy leow, assistant vice president of thomson mckinnon securities inc., predicted a sharp rise in soybean futures prices on monday and said the november contract could reach $7.30 a bushel by april 15. november beans settled thursday at $6.71 a bushel on the chicago board of trade, which closed out a work week shortened by the observance of good friday
we may go 30 to 60 cents higher from these levels, with 60 being the upper limit,'' she said
but, she added, ``i don't think you need to get quite as high as $7.30 basis november'' to encourage more soybean planting
the planting intentions report, based on surveys conducted in march, said farmers planned to plant 58 million acres of soybeans, up 1 percent from last year but still the second lowest acreage since 1976 and below the average pre-report estimate of about 59 million acres
the market has been rallying all year in an effort to get additional supplies for next year and boost farmer plantings,'' ms. leow said. ``this report shows the market hasn't done its job and prices have to move higher.''
the soybean stocks report was even more surprising. the usda reported soybean stocks at 1.15 billion bushels, down 14 percent from march 1, 1987. the market had expected the number to be about 30 million bushels higher
the relatively low number suggests soybean stocks on aug. 31, the end of the current marketing year, will also be lower than had been expected, ms. leow said
when you combine the less-than-expected acreage with a smaller-than-expected carryout, you're looking at a very, very tight supply situation for next year,'' she said
if weather is even marginally below average, supplies are going to be extremely tight. i think the market will want to do something about that.''
thursday's reports on corn and cotton planting intentions also were seen as bullish for futures prices. the wheat numbers were construed as neutral for futures prices
here are some commodity price trends during the past week:
grain and soybean futures turned in a mixed performance on the chicago board of trade
wheat for delivery in may settled thursday at $2.99\ a bushel, down from $3.05 the previous friday; may corn was unchanged at $2.09} a bushel; may oats fell to $1.61{ a bushel from $1.68}; and march soybeans advanced to $6.53{ a bushel from $6.48{
livestock and meat futures were mixed on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle for delivery in april settled thursday at 74.90 cents a pound, down from 74.92 cents; march feeder cattle advanced to 82.77 cents a pound from 82.72 cents; april hogs fell to 45.52 cents a pound from 46.25 cents; and may pork bellies retreated to 56.12 cents a pound from 57.37 cents
precious metals moved higher on the commodity exchange in new york
gold for delivery in april settled at $454.40 a troy ounce, compared with $453.30; and may silver advanced to $6.785 a troy ounce from $6.715
energy futures were higher on the new york mercantile exchange
west texas intermediate crude oil for delivery in may settled at $17.08 a barrel, compared with $17.03; april heating oil advanced to 48.15 cents a gallon from 47.78 cents; and april unleaded gasoline rose to 48.67 cents a gallon from 47.94 cents. working.</note>
removes last six grafs pvs to shorten
major changes must be made in the compromise trade bill drafted by congress or senior white house advisers will recommend a veto, presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater said today
we still have grave reservations about several of the provisions, including plant closings, toshiba, presidential authority and some of the mandatory retaliatory provisions,'' fitzwater told reporters traveling with reagan to california for a 10-day vacation
among other things, the tentative compromise reached thursday night calls for retaliation against foreign trade barriers but leaves the president some latitude to waive action if he believed that would be wiser
the superconference will meet after recess and if substantial changes aren't made by the superconference, the president's senior advisers will recommend a veto,'' fitzwater said, referring to final negotiations by house and senate members to get overall agreement on the legislation
earlier, u.s trade representative clayton yeutter said the bill has been cleansed of ``a lot of undesirable things'' but that ``there certainly are some provisions in there of dubious merit.''
in working through the package, house and senate negotiators scrapped rep. richard gephardt's controversial trade retaliation amendment while opting for repeal of the windfall oil profits tax, tough sanctions on japan's toshiba corp. and a $1 billion boost in u.s. grain export subsidies
the compromise trade bill completed late thursday night also would require employers to give 60 days' notice of plant closings and would increase government aid to those left jobless as a result of competition from imports
yeutter, interviewed on nbc-tv's ``today'' show, said the plant closing requirement ``is probably a killer provision'' that could justify a veto if not removed before the trade package receives final congressional approval
the congress jettisoned a lot of undesirable things this last week,'' yeutter said. ``the question is whether they jettisoned enough. and we need a couple of days to assess that.''
the tentative agreement was produced by 17 separate subgroups of a house-senate conference committee
at the heart of the measure are direct trade provisions designed to tightened the machinery under which the united states imposes import curbs
authority to impose restraints in retaliation for foreign trade practices that violate international trade rules would be transferred from the president to the u.s. trade representative. but the president would still be empowered to waive action under some circumstances
the president also would retain his current authority to decide what type of restraints to impose to aid u.s. industries threatened by surges in imports. but the machinery for arriving at a decision would be streamlined
even as the massive bill moved ahead in congress, concerns about a possible presidential veto were growing
sen. john c. danforth, r-mo., said the plant-closing provision and several others ``clearly would sink the legislation unless they were removed.'' the senate finance committee chairman, sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, also expressed uncertainty about whether the president would sign the overall package
rep. dan rostenkowski, d-ill., chairman of the house-senate conference committee that produced the package, said there was bound to be some grumbling, but he was upbeat about the final product
we worked long and hard and i think evidence that it's a good product is that nobody's happy about it,'' he said
at the heart of the measure are streamlined procedures for imposing import restrictions to aid u.s. industries hard hit by imports and retaliate against barriers that trading partners put in the way of american exports
erased in last-minute, one-on-one bargaining between rostenkowski and bentsen was the provision that erstwhile democratic presidential contender gephardt had made the centerpiece of his campaign. it would have required 10 percent annual rollbacks in ``excess and unwarranted'' surpluses that other countries run in trade with the united states
in its place, rostenkowski and bentsen settled on a modified senate alternative that calls on the u.s. trade representative to list foreign trade barriers and, if necessary, use import curbs to force their removal
the bill would transfer from the president to the u.s. trade representative authority to impose import restrictions in retaliation for unfair foreign trade practices. but it still would leave room to waive the curbs if the cost ``would be substantially out of proportion to the benefits of action.''
the president would retain the authority to decide what import relief to grant to u.s. industries hit hard by surges in imports
the bill would repeal the windfall profits tax on oil companies, a measure approved by congress in 1979 when petroleum prices were surging
the collapse of opec sent prices plummeting in 1985, hammering the texas economy and rendering the tax useless as a revenue raiser, at least for the time being. its repeal is a goal dear to bentsen, who is running for re-election this year
also approved was a plan to ban u.s. government purchases of toshiba goods for three years. it also would bar import of products of the company's toshiba machine corp. subsidiary for three years. in the future, such violations would be punishable by import bans of two to five years
the measure was designed to retaliate for toshiba machine's part in selling sophisticated computerized milling equipment to the soviet union to produce submarine propellers that are harder for u.s. listening equipment to detect. export of the equipment to communist countries is barred under an agreement between japan and western nations
farm-state negotiators, meanwhile, agreed on increasing the export enhancement program by $1 billion. the program furnishes grain companies and others with surplus government crops to induce them to ship american grain overseas
the dollar fell in domestic trading friday after steadying in europe as traders quit early to get a head start on the holiday weekend
gold markets were closed
activity was lackluster, with market participants reluctant to take on positions ahead of the passover and easter weekend. trading virtually halted in new york at around noon
dealers said the central banks continue to monitor market activity. should the banks come into the market in support of the dollar next week, ``there is the potential for a technical rebound,'' said stephen flanagan, an assistant vice president at manufacturers hanover trust co
many market participants are anticipating dollar-selling by the japanese as their new fiscal year gets under way
most european and asian centers were closed for good friday. but the dollar managed to hold fairly steady in what little dealings took place
markets in italy, france and luxembourg, but dealers were idle most of the day, traders said
they are all lying low,'' said one trader in milan. ``there is absolutely no direction at all
gold markets in new york, london, zurich and hong kong were closed
in tokyo, where the business day ends as europe's begins, the dollar closed at 124.10 yen, down 0.40 yen from thursday despite some light intervention by the bank of japan, dealers said
later in europe, the dollar was quoted at 124.20 yen. in new york the dollar finished at 123.90 yen, down from 124.35 yen on thursday
the british pound was quoted at $1.8895 _ a six-year high for the second day in a row _ compared with $1.8878 thursday. in new york it cost $1.8905 to buy one pound, more expensive than thursday's 1.8874
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late thursday, included: 1.6555 west german marks, down from 1.6575; 1.36425 swiss francs, down from 1.3650; 5.6155 french francs, down from 5.6170, and 1.23455 canadian dollars, down from 1.2354
other dollar rates in europe late afternoon friday, compared with late thursday, were: 1.6565 west german marks, up from 1.6555; 1.3650 swiss francs, up from 1.3635; 5.6270 french francs, up from 5.6130; 1.8595 dutch guilders, up from 1.8575; 1,228.75 italian lire, down from 1,229.50 and 1.2335 canadian dollars, down from 1.2339
ralston purina co. is giving away $29,000 sports cars in a promotion designed to sell more cereal, but it steered away from high-fiber ``adult'' products in selecting vehicles for the giveaway
the st. louis-based food marketer chose six children's cereals with names like freakies, fruit islands and ghostbusters for the promotion
ralston isn't the first to recognize the potential in marketing children's cereals to adults
the leader in the $5 billion ready-to-eat cereal market, kellogg co., has been doing it for years in advertising its frosted flakes and frosted mini-wheats brands, among others. frosted flakes commercials have shown adults ``confessing'' to a powerful attraction for the taste of the cereal and drawing the window shades while they indulge
general mills inc. advertises the ``unsinkability'' and low sugar content of its cheerios brand in advertising aimed at adults and spins stories about the latest adventures of the cheerios kid in commercials aimed at children
quaker oats co. found a few years ago that its cap'n crunch cereal was so popular at campus cafeterias that it devised a special version of a ``find the captain'' promotion for college students
ronald strauss, who follows the cereal business for the investment firm william blair &amp; co. in chicago, said cereal makers have increasingly tried to market their products as something for all the family
the demographics are changing. the average age of the population is getting older and there are simply not as many teenyboppers out there anymore,'' he said
celeste clark, a spokeswoman for kellogg, which is based in battle creek, mich., said advertising pre-sweetened cereals to adults reminds them of the good tastes they enjoyed while they were growing up
frosted flakes, for example, has been available for more than 35 years and was initially marketed to children, she said
but many of those who ate it years ago may now have children of their own and may be receptive to trying it again, she said
kellogg began advertising frosted flakes to adults five years ago with the light-hearted approach that aims at reassuring them it is appropriate for adults to eat it, and ms. clark said the cereal now leads the category
strauss said his figures confirm that, with frosted flakes capturing about 6 percent of the retail value of the ready-to-eat cereal market in 1986
ms. clark said kellogg has also fouind that while health concerns are driving some adults toward cereals with fruits, nuts and grains, a key factor in determining what cereal people buy is still its taste
kathryn newton, a spokeswoman for general mills in minneapolis, said advertising children's cereal to adults makes sense because adults make the purchases for all of them
that was the principle motivation behind the ralston sports car promotion, said spokeswoman sandra harrington
ralston purina began offering tiny sports car models in about 11 million boxes of six of its children's cereals in february. ten boxes of cereal contain a scale-model red corvette, and those who find the models can turn them in for the real thing, a 1988 chevrolet corvette valued at about $29,000
the promotion has been advertised nationally in newspapers and network television commercials, the company said. sales results are not yet available
we were looking for something that would appeal to parents as well as kids,'' ms. harrington said
she said the company doesn't know if the promotion will prompt adults to try the cereals, but hopes that it will at least get them to buy it for their children. ``maybe this will be the difference between having them pick up pour cereal or buying something else,'' she said
the chicago, missouri &amp; western railway co. filed for federal bankruptcy-court protection friday, citing a burdensome debt despite recent improvement in operations
there will be no disruption of service while the railroad awaits court appointment of a trustee to oversee operations and determine the company's best course, said dave barr, acting chief executive officer of venango river corp., the cm&amp;w's chicago-based holding company
the cm&amp;w listed debts of $131.8 million and assets of $103.5 million in its filing for chapter 11 protection from creditors
it's our intention to continue to operate in the normal course of business while we seek to reorganize and emerge a viable operation,'' barr said
he said operating expenses and revenues were close to the ``break-even level in the last few months.''
but servicing the debt incurred by the railroad was an increasing financial burden, barr said
cm&amp;w operates freight service on the 632-mile line between kansas city, mo., and joliet, with trackage rights extending the final 40 miles into chicago. it also operates the amtrak passenger line between joliet and st. louis
a second venango railroad, the chicago south shore and south bend railway, is not affected by the filing, barr said
in february, cm&amp;w and venango filed a federal lawsuit accusing the illinois central gulf railroad, the cm&amp;w line's previous owner, and its parent company, ic industries. the lawsuit contends traffic on the railroad failed to reach levels anticipated when the line was purchased in april 1987
almost every day for the past two months, stockholders of federated department stores inc. _ the target in a bitter takeover war _ got a special treat just by scanning the newspaper headlines:
federated looks to macy to counter campeau offer''
macy said to raise final bid''
both sides raise bids for federated'' and so on
each time rivals r.h. macy &amp; co. and campeau corp. upped the ante for the giant retailer, which owns popular department stores like bloomingdale's and filene's, federated's stock soared
but while stockholders were singing ``we're in the money'' as they watched share prices jump by 50 percent since bidding began late january, owners of federated's bonds were just plain singing the blues. the prospect of saddling federated with new debt once a deal was forged has depressed bond prices by about 20 percent and brought trading to a virtual standstill
interest also has waned in debt issued by companies like american standard inc., another takeover target, and stop &amp; shop cos., which recently agreed to a friendly leveraged buyout to avoid a hostile acquistion, although their stock doubled in price
in fact, the recent resurgence in takeovers has hurt the entire industrial bond market, regardless of whether the securities are vulnerable to what wall street dubbs ``event-risks,'' such as recapitalizations and leveraged buyouts. in an lbo, a company is acquired largely through borrowed money repaid through the target company's profits or asset sales
it's been a disaster for bondholders,'' said james l. kochan, chief fixed-income strategist at merrill lynch capital markets. ``there is a considerable number of investors who have chosen to avoid the entire (industrial) industry
we feel much more comfortable in recommending utility bond issues and bonds of telephones or banks.''
investment advisors suggest that industrial bondholders sell securities considered vulnerable and retain the rest. bonds that already have been depressed, such as those issued by federated, eventually could bounce back and shouldn't be sold for now, they say
if they (the winning bidder) run it like a first-class operation, then there's no reason why these things can't pop back to where they were,'' said anthony naylor, senior vice president of fixed-income securities for rodman &amp; renshaw inc
analysts attribute the increased takeover activity partly to the fact that october's stock market crash made share prices attractive and to an improving economy
naylor said his firm recently has been paying more attention to trying to predict which companies could become takeover targets. one possible giveaway is a high cash flow, which ironically is what attracts bondholders to a company to begin with, he said
having lots of cash on hand means companies will be able to pay off the interest and principal on their outstanding debt, but their creditworthiness diminishes when that's diluted
as you leverage out the balance sheet and have more debt burden ... cash flow is diverted to servicing that debt, and it makes a very tight situation in some cases,'' said kenneth pfeil, a senior vice president at standard &amp; poor's corp., a major debt-rating service. ``sometimes cash flow is not enough, and the company has to sell off assets.''
consequently, takeover targets and suitors often are placed on credit watch for possible downgrading as soon as bidding begins. the lower the debt rating, the more expensive it is for a company to borrow money
among those currently on s&amp;p's credit watch are american standard and its former hostile bidder, black &amp; decker corp.; and stop &amp; shop and its former unwanted suitor, dart group corp
moody's investors service, another debt rater, said that 32 percent of its downgradings in the industrial bond sector during the first quarter were due to so-called event risks. it suggests more might be forthcoming
part of a bondholder's risk lies in being a passive investor. while suitors have to win stockholder approval before acquiring a company, bondholders have little say in the matter
analysts say new protections should be adopted to give bondholders more security. kerr-mcgee corp. and a handful of other issuers already have introduced ``poison puts,'' which force companies to buy back their debt securities at par in case of a hostile takeover
it's an attractive thing for the bondholder. i think it could be a new enticement to minimize the risk,'' said eric friedlander, a corporate bond trader for prudential-bache securities inc
here is a list of the retailers owned by federated department stores inc. and the states in which their stores are located:
abraham &amp; straus _ new jersey, new york, pennsylvania
bloomingdale's _ connecticut, florida, massachusetts, maryland, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, texas, virginia
bullock's and bullock's wilshire _ arizona, california, nevada
burdines _ florida
children's place _ california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, missouri, new jersey, new york, north carolina, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, south carolina, texas, virginia, wisconsin
filene's _ connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island
filene's basement _ connecticut, massachusetts, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, pennsylvania, rhode island
foley's _ arizona, new mexico, oklahoma, texas
gold circle-richway _ florida, georgia, kentucky, new york, north carolina, ohio, tennessee
goldsmith's _ tennessee
lazarus _ indiana, kentucky, ohio, west virginia
i. magnin _ arizona, california, illinois, maryland, oregon, washington
mainstreet _ illinois, michigan
ralphs _ california
rich's _ alabama, georgia, south carolina
here is a list of the u.s. retailers owned by campeau corp. and the states in which their stores are located:
ann taylor _ alabama, california, colorado, connecticut, district of columbia, florida, georgia, illinois, louisiana, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, missouri, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, ohio, pennsylvania, rhode island, tennessee, texas, virginia
brooks brothers _ alabama, california, colorado, connecticut, district of columbia, florida, georgia, illinois, indiana, louisiana, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, missouri, new jersey, new york, ohio, oklahoma, pennsylvania, texas, virginia, washington
jordan marsh _ connecticut, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, rhode island
maas brothers-jordan marsh _ florida, georgia
stern's _ new jersey, new york, pennsylvania
the bon _ idaho, montana, oregon, utah, washington, wyoming
a supreme court justice friday stepped out of a legal dispute over the merger of the photofinishing operations of eastman kodak co. and fuqua industries inc. _ one he had entered a day before
justice byron r. white set aside an emergency order he had issued thursday on the request of phototron corp., ruling that the request apparently was made too late
white on thursday had set aside a federal appeals court decision that cleared the way for the merger despite a pending antitrust challenge by phototron
but in friday's superseding, one-paragraph order, white said, ``it appearing that the transaction ... was actually closed before (my) temporary stay was issued, the temporary stay is vacated.''
white's order noted that he was ``not advised of the closing'' when he issued thursday's order
the deal between kodak and fuqua created the nation's largest wholesale photofinishing operation
kodak and the atlanta-based fuqua wasted no time in completing the deal tuesday after the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals on monday reversed a federal trial judge's injunction against the merger. the injunction had been issued feb. 22
the appeals court ruled that phototron had no right to try to block the merger, although it said the san bernadino, calif., corporation may continue pursuing its related antitrust lawsuit against kodak
the new merged operation, qualex inc., combines colorcraft corp., a fuqua subsidiary, with kodak-owned laboratories. it has 94 processing labs around the country
the new company is to be based in durham, n.c., the home of colorcraft, and colorcraft's former chairman, d. carl hamill, will serve as chief executive officer
phototron's suit, pending in federal court in fort worth, texas, contends that the merger violates federal antitrust law by forcing non-kodak processing labs out of business
phototron is seeking $250 million in damages
after white's action thursday purportedly postponing the merger, lawyers for kodak and fuqua informed him that the merger occurred tuesday
any court action now, white was told, ``would amount to nothing more than a mere declaration in the air.''
the kodak and fuqua lawyers said that they informed phototron on wednesday of the merger, before phototron sought emergency help from white
the economy continued to grow in march on the strength of exporters, although at a slower pace than the previous month, the nation's purchasing managers said in a survey released sunday
the national association of purchasing management said that its economic growth index fell to 53.3 percent last month from 54.9 percent in february, the lowest since a reading of 54.7 percent in april 1987
a reading above 50 percent indicates the economy generally is expanding; a reading below that indicates it generally is declining. march was the 20th consecutive month above the break-even mark
the economy completed the first quarter with moderate, if not substantial, growth,'' robert j. bretz, chairman of the group's business survey committee, said in a statement
the healthy increase in new orders, particularly export orders, along with the anticipated slowing of price increases, signals continued improvement in the economy in the second quarter.''
march represented the 15th consecutive month of growth in new orders, according to the survey. thirty-two percent of the purchasing mangers polled reported higher levels of new orders, compared with 31 percent in february and 35 percent in january
of those whose companies export, 41 percent said their export orders were higher in march, while 3 percent said they were lower. that was up from 33 percent in february and 39 percent in january
the monthly report is based on a survey of more than 250 industrial purchasing managers who belong to the national organization
among other findings of the survey:
_production growth slowed from february, although it was at a level still considered very healthy. members who reported stronger production outweighed those reporting weaker, 32 percent to 8 percent
_deliveries from vendors slowed for the 18th consecutive month, a reflection of the slowdown in deliveries. twenty-three percent said they had slower deliveries, compared with 5 percent reporting faster
_inventories declined sharply after growing modestly in the past two months. twenty-three percent said they had lower inventories, vs. 10 percent who had higher
_fifty-five percent reported higher prices, compared with 64 percent in february, indicating a decline in inflation. three percent reported lower prices, up from 1 percent in february
_employment grew for an eighth straight month, although the results could be viewed as a slight decline considering normal seasonal increases expected in march
_prices rose for a wide variety of raw materials and fell for only a few, including fuel oil, natural gas, diesel fuel and chlorine
_products in short supply included aluminum, steel and other metals and a variety of chemicals
the hunt for the blue crab, the chesapeake bay's most valuable and abundant seafood, opened friday with predictions by watermen and scientists for a strong harvest this year
last year's catch was average, said william sieling, chief of seafood marketing for the maryland department of agriculture. the 1985 and 1986 seasons were better
but this year, people on smith island, where the crabs show up first, say the crop of small crabs on the bottom was good last fall, said l. eugene cronin, blue crab researcher and consultant for the state department of natural resources
those crabs mature through the winter and migrate up the bay. ``that's the most promising sign i've heard,'' cronin said friday
however, predicting the size of the catch is harder than predicting where the crabs are during any given week, he said
this early in the season, crabs run in the lower bay. by may or june they should be running farther north in the annapolis area
maryland watermen, anxious to make up for the poor oyster season, are setting crab pots in the lower chesapeake and at seaside, near ocean city
crabs are also more expensive this time of year. packers are paying watermen $60 to $65 a bushel and selling crabs by the dozen
bert kappel of annapolis seafood market said he has been selling north carolina crabs all winter for $15 a dozen. by summer, crab feasts likely will be more affordable at $30 to $40 a bushel
the demand for crabs traditionally runs from memorial day weekend to labor day weekend
the crab harvest season usually creates jobs for about 19,000 people and generates $80 million to $90 million for the area economy, cronin said
state officials laid the groundwork to keep the blue crab from going the way of the oyster at a crab workshop last fall, cronin said
workshop participants compiled a report listing problems that needed to be addressed to protect the blue crab, which seems less vulnerable to pollution because it spawns at the mouth of the bay, he said
the report recommended ways to:
_minimize crab waste
_distribute the catch between commercial and recreational interests and between maryland and virginia
_better measure the crab population
the report is part of a state plan to develop a baywide crab management plan to be completed by july 1989 as part of the chesapeake bay agreement between the states
william d. slattery, former head of braniff and a 16-year employee with twa, has been hired by northwest airlines to head flight, maintenance, cargo and ground handling operations
slattery, whose hiring was announced thursday, is perhaps best known for getting braniff inc. off the ground again in march 1984 after its bankruptcy court reorganization in 1982. he was president of braniff for less than a year when he resigned amid speculation that braniff chairman jay pritzker was undermining his authority
at northwest, slattery will face an immediate challenge to reconcile policies and practices of former northwest and republic airlines flight and maintenance operations
northwest merged with republic in august 1986 and the combined airline has continued to operate internally as two airlines, although marketing, financial and accounting functions have been merged
slattery's appointment is the latest in a series of changes designed to bring the airline's operating functions under a single responsibility, said steven rothmeier, northwest chairman and chief executive officer
slattery also will be faced with helping to reach contracts with pilots and the international association of machinists, the union that represents 20,000 mechanics, baggage handlers, reservations agents and transportation agents
the 45-year-old slattery, whose title will be vice president of operations, replaces benjamin griggs jr., who was promoted earlier this week to executive vice president of nwa inc., the parent company of northwest. slattery will handle the duties of tom koors, the executive vice president of customer services who resigned last week, the company said
slattery began his airline career as a sales representative for trans world airlines inc., and became vice president of twa's international division before leaving for braniff
most recently, he served as an executive vice president for ask mr. foster travel service in the twin cities
here are the 10 biggest corporate acquisitions in u.s. history:
_gulf by standard oil of california (now chevron), $13.4 billion, 1984
_getty oil by texaco, $10.1 billion, 1984
_standard oil of ohio by british petroleum, $7.9 billion, 1987
_concoco by dupont, $7.4 billion, 1981
_marathon oil by u.s. steel (now usx), $6.5 billion, 1982
_rca by general electric, $6.4 billion, 1986
_superior oil by mobil, $5.7 billion, 1984
_shell by royal dutch-shell, $5.7 billion, 1985
_general foods by philip morris, $5.6 billion, 1985
_southern pacific by santa fe (now santa fe southern pacific), $5.2 billion, 1983
if campeau corp. completes its proposed $6.58 billion purchase of federated department stores inc., the deal will rank as no. 5.  
the veterans administration said friday it was raising its maximum interest rate for federally backed va home mortgages by one-half percentage point to 10 percent
the va said it was making the change, which will take effect sunday, to reflect recent increases in interest rates in financial markets
in the past 12 months, the va rate has been changed seven times, fluctuating between 9.5 percent and 11 percent. the last change was feb. 1, when the rate was lowered a full percentage point from 10.5 percent to 9.5 percent
the federal home loan mortgage corp. said friday that the national average for 30-year conventional mortgages, those without government guarantees, rose above 10 percent for the first time since late january. the national average rate was 10.05 percent, up from 9.99 percent the previous week
the va said that effective sunday a variety of other mortgage rates will also rise by one-half percentage point. graduated payment mortgages will increase to 10.25 percent, home improvement loans will rise to 11.5 percent and loans for mobile homes will increase to 12.5 percent
the va rates apply to new loans, not existing ones. va mortgages peaked at 17.5 percent in september 1981 before beginning a decline whih reached a low for this decade of 8.5 percent in early 1987
a bill to let states regulate exports of raw logs cut on state lands gained key support friday from several northwest lawmakers, including the chairman of the house panel with jurisdiction over the measure
log exports are creating a crisis for northwest mills,'' said rep. peter defazio, d-ore., who introduced the measure almost a year ago
defazio said the new support, especially that of washington democratic rep. don bonker, ``shows a growing determination in the northwest to get serious about log exports.''
the measure is pending before the house foreign affairs committee's subcommittee on international economic policy and trade, which bonker chairs
log exports benefit certain parts of the industry, but processing those logs at home would provide thousands of jobs and a stronger domestic economy,'' bonker said in endorsing the bill. ``i think we're foolish if we don't maximize the economic benefits which come from our natural resources.''
other new co-sponsors of the bill include democrats al swift of washington and les aucoin of oregon and republican rod chandler of washington
defazio said he was ``confident'' action would be taken on his measure as soon as congress deal with the omnibus trade bill. congress is expected to vote on the trade bill shortly after it returns from its easter break
oregon, alaska and califfrnia had restricted exports of unprocessed logs harvested on state lands until a 1984 u.s. supreme court decision struck down the alaska ban
the court ruled that congress had not specifically delegated such authority to the states
defazio's bill would grant the states such authority, strictly limiting it to logs harvested from state owned or administered land
about 80 percent of the logs cut on washington state lands and about half of those harvested on oregon lands in 1987 were shipped without being processed
raw log exports from the northwest totaled roughly 3 billion board feet in 1987
defazio said that the u.s. forest service estimated that 27,000 jobs are created from every 1 billion board feet of timber milled
last year, that translated into 81,000 jobs _ unfortunately, those jobs are all oversees,'' said defazio
in addition, some northwest mill owners earlier this year blamed a layoffs at their facilities on a shortage of logs resulting from exports to japan, south korea and other asian countries
northwest timber industry groups are generally split over the measure depending on whether their members are log exporters or they have milling and processing operations
among those who support the measure are the western forest industries association of portland, the northwest timber association of eugene and northwest independent forest manufacturers headquartered in tacoma
opponents include the pacific rim traders association, whose members include weyerhaeuser, georgia pacific corp., international paper and publicly-owned ports in portland, astoria, newport and coos bay
the measure has also drawn support from several northwest and national environmental groups, including the national audubon society and the washington environmental council
west coast shrimpers staged an informal strike on the first day of their season friday to protest low prices resulting from abundant supplies of last year's catch
the boats are not out right now and this is opening day, so it appears we have a strike situation until they get the price worked out,'' said oregon department of fish and wildlife shrimp biologist neil richmond. ``it's real interesting, because there is not an organized association, but you're not real popular if you got out now. you'd be a strike breaker.''
richmond said shrimp fishermen were staying in port up and down the west coast while they haggle with packers over a price
shrimpers were asking for at least 50 cents a pound, while processors were offering only 40 cents, said scott adams, plant manager at hallmark fisheries, the largest processor on the oregon coast
last year's price averaged 68 cents a pound, with a high of 80 cents in may brought on by strong demand
adams said a huge inventory of last year's catch was driving down wholesale prices from $4.75 a pound last summer to a current level of $3.60 a pound
just about every processor on the coast has shrimp left from last year,'' he said
between 1 million and 2 million pounds remained in cold storage from last year's oregon catch of 45 million pounds, the third highest on record, according to the oregon department of fish and wildlife
processors may begin selling their stocks at $2.99 a pound to clear current inventories and any dockside price higher than 40 cents a pound would make inventory reductions difficult, adams said
you can't afford to buy a product if you can't make any money,'' adams said. ``i understand the fishermen and i'd like to see them get what they got last year, but we can't afford it.''
adams said processors probably would sit back and wait to see what happens with the market value and shrimping conditions
in astoria, point adams packing co. general manager tom libby said the current price of 40 cents a pound wasn't enough to entice fishermen to sea
i don't know of anyone who is holding out at that price locally,'' he said
in newport, state biologist marc saelens said it wasn't unusual for the shrimp fleet to stay in port the first few days of the season as the price was negotiated. the season runs through october
richmond said shrimp should be at least as abundant as last year, resulting in an increased effort by shrimpers, once the price is worked out. to at least seven cases of illness; also moved on general news wires.</note>
the food and drug administration warned consumers friday not to use nutrien and vitalite powdered drink mixes because they may be contaminated with salmonella bacteria
both products are nutritional supplements marketed as powdered drink mixes by sunrider international of torrance, calif
the fda reported there have been at least seven cases of illness associated with the products
it said sunrider has agreed to begin a nationwide recall, but has not supplied the agency with specific distribution information
the warning applies to all sizes and flavors of vitalite diet drink mixes and all flavors of nutrien drink mixes
the fda said sunrider markets its products nationally through more than 37,000 independent distributors _ generally individuals who sell them door-to-door or among friends
the full product name for nutrien is ``nutrien whole food concentrate.'' it is sold in flavors such as pina colada, mandarin orange, ambrosial almond, brisky lemon and positively plain, the fda said. the vitalite weight management product is marketed as a meal substituting for a conventional breakfast, lunch or dinner
salmonella bacteria ca cause nausea, fever, headache, diarrhea and vomiting in healthy adults. it can be fatal to infants and to elderly or debilitated individuals, the fda said
the agency said tests detected salmonella in a soybean powder extract used in the sunrider products and in some samples of finished products. promotion</head>
mcdonald's corp., general motors corp. and sears, roebuck &amp; co., the largest u.s. companies in their respective fields, linked hands friday not in monopoly, but in monopoly
in what has been called one of the biggest giveaway promotions ever, the three corporate giants are offering oldsmobiles, children's clothing, cash and food to winners in a game based on monopoly
business analysts said the campaign, based on mcdonald's successful 1986 monopoly promotion, will allow gm to pitch the 1988 oldsmobile cutlass supreme to young adult customers of mcdonald's. it also will help sears promote a line of children's clothing developed last year in conjunction with mcdonald's
company officials declined to say how much the promotion would be worth, but a report in an automotive trade magazine several months ago said it would be a joint venture of at least $100 million. the copyright story in the jan. 25 issue of automative news described the mcdonald's-gm link, but did not mention sears
i can confirm that we're part of it,'' a spokesman for chicago-based sears said when advance word of the promotion leaked out
mcdonald's is based in oak brook, a chicago suburb
mcdonald's customers who play the game will be given paper facsimiles of the monopoly game board, and can collect cards representing various monopoly properties at any mcdonald's restaurant
automotive news reported that detroit-based gm would contribute 500 oldmobile cutlass supremes as prizes in the game, as well as cash prizes
the new york times reported that sears was expected to contribute prizes from its sears mckids children clothing, a line decorated with pictures of mcdonald's cartoon characters
the joint effort ``is not suprising in the sense that we think of those three as large mass-marketing organizations,'' said sidney j. levy, chairman of the marketing department at northwestern university's j.l. kellogg school of management
they are all-american names sharing an interest in a very large public,'' levy said. ``mcdonald's, nevertheless, seems to represent a little more working-class, a little more teen-age, a little more casual idea than i would associate with oldsmobile or even sears, because i had the impression that sears was trying to upgrade.''
the game began friday at mcdonald's restaurants nationwide. grafs to update with ibm changing again to say it makes patent licenses generally available; picks up 9th graf, clone makers ....</note>
a year old on saturday, ibm's new line of personal computers will soon have some unwelcome company. big blue's rivals are about to send in the clones
the imminent arrival of compatible computers has given the world's largest computer company the difficult choice of whether to fight them all the way or give them room to grow
the question penetrates to the heart of international business machines corp., and many observers believe it has sparked a debate within the company
being the only company making a personal system-2 for the past year has allowed ibm to run up healthy profit margins, recoup some of its investment and reassert control over corporate accounts
but some customers have been reluctant to buy a personal system-2 until they know whether it will catch on as a standard. and it may not catch on as a standard if ibm is the only company making it
some big corporate customers, wanting a second source for the ps-2, have been urging ibm to license other companies to make compatible machines
there seems to be confusion even with ibm on its willingness to issue patent licenses to potential ps-2 clone makers
one spokesman said friday, ``i don't see why we would ever want to do that. ... that would be just the same as giving them the store.'' later, another said that in fact, ibm makes licenses available to anyone under reasonable terms and conditions. but clone makers still have to avoid infringing on ibm's copyrights on the ps-2
clone makers forced down prices and stole market share when they knocked off ibm's first line of personal computers. but they also helped ibm by expanding the overall market, of which ibm got a healthy chunk
in any case, the moment of truth is approaching quickly
tandy corp. has called an april 21 meeting for ``the unveiling of a revolutionary invention of major significance.'' a well-traveled rumor is that it will be a ps-2 clone
chips and technologies inc. and adaptec inc. have created sets of chips that will allow clone makers to build ps-2 look-alikes. they demonstrated a working model this past week
even compaq computer corp. of houston, which makes premium pcs based on the old standard, admitted last year it is hedging its bets by working in the back shop on a ps-2 compatible
alone in the market, ibm shipped 1.5 million of its new computer line through the end of january
the sales boosted ibm's share of the worldwide personal computer market to 13 percent last year in terms of units sold, up from 12.2 percent in 1986 and not far from the peak of 13.9 percent in 1985, estimates dataquest inc. of san jose, calif
the ps-2 has gotten some negative press lately, including an article in the wall street journal that compared its mysterious micro channel architecture to the overblown secret ingredient in a can of cleanser
most computer analysts say the micro channel architecture is more than an audacious marketing gambit. it only seems that way now because software developers have not had time to develop any important programs that take advantage of its power, said dataquest analyst peter teige
by 1990 or 1991, i personally believe the old pc bus (data pathway) will be considered very archaic,'' said john xenakis, a consultant and writer based in framingham, mass
the emergence of ps-2 clones does not entirely depend on ibm. theoretically, computers developed independently could be compatible with the ps-2 without infringing on any ibm copyrights or patents, the company says
but without ibm's blessing, many customers would be reluctant to buy clones for fear that they would not be fully compatible or would be at risk of a legal challenge
in short, ibm can squelch the clones if it chooses to do so. even if the compatibles turn out to be perfectly legal, the costs of a protracted lawsuit by ibm could wipe out some small companies
ibm could simultaneously stimulate and control the ps-2 market by selectively selling sets of chips or issuing licenses to clone makers, said john mccarthy, a director at forrester research inc. in cambridge, mass. but he doubts ibm will do so
it's kind of a circling-the-wagons mentality,'' mccarthy said
other observers are more willing to believe that ibm will take it easy on the cloners. chips and technologies, in san jose, calif., says its own discussions with ibm about licensing have been ``positive and non-adversarial.''
dataquest's teige said ibm could recoup its investment in the ps-2 through royalties and license fees from clones, while continuing to introduce new models that would keep it a step ahead of the compatibles
i don't think they want to monopolize the market,'' teige said
customers' desire for ps-2 clones is partly psychological, said john xenakis, a consultant and writer in framingham, mass
what would kind of give me personally a green light to buy the ibm is if everybody's cloning it and it'll become an industry standard and i won't become stuck with a lemon,'' he said. ``i do believe that ibm understands that strategy.''
ibm will issue licenses selectively, predicted bill langenes, an analyst with creative strategies international in santa clara, calif
ironically, ibm's original personal computer in 1981 helped legitimize computing on the desktop, a revolution in the office that is eating into ibm's traditional mainframe and minicomputer business
ibm contends there is still plenty for big machines to do, but clearly they are a shrinking portion of the total market
the pc may ultimately be ibm's undoing. they've created the monster that's going to eat the parent,'' mccarthy said
corning glass works, which had previously reached an agreement to buy a tennessee clinical testing firm, bowed out of a bidding war friday with smithkline beckman for the company
the pharmaceutical giant smithkline's latest offer for international clinical laboratories inc. was $37 per share, or nearly $400 million, for all the outstanding shares. corning's last offer had been $35 a share
corning said it had purchased 3 million shares of the approximately 10 million outstanding shares of icl stock at their original offer of $26 per share. corning has agreed to sell those shares to smithkline at $37 per share
icl is a fine company, but our management and board made a firm and final decision about icl's potential value to corning,'' james r. houghton, corning's chairman and chief executive officer, said in a prepared statement
smithkline's $37 per share offer expires at midnight edt on april 20
our offer to acquire icl is in concert with our corporate strategy of leadership in health care and life sciences. clinical laboratory services is one of our key businesses, growing fast in both sales and earnings,'' henry wendt, smithkline chairman and chief executive officer, said in a press release
icl, based in nashville, runs 13 major clinical testing laboratories mainly in the south and west. icl had sales of $205.5 million for the fiscal year ending aug. 31, 1987, compared with $168.7 million a year earlier
through a subsidiary, king of prussia-based smithkline bioscience laboratories inc., smithkline is the country's largest provider of clinical testing services
on march 8, icl agreed to be acquired by corning for about $260 million or $26 a share. before the deal could be consumated, however, smithkline offered $32 a share
corning challenged the offer with a $35 per share bid on monday and smithkline countered hours later with the $37 offer
the agreement announced friday between smithkline and corning also resolves possible claims between the two parties, corning said
in a pair of new economic reports, the government says the nation's unemployment rate fell in march and construction spending slipped in february
the financial markets' reaction to the reports won't be apparent for a few days, however, because the u.s. stock and bond markets were closed friday to mark the start of the easter and passover holidays
some light trading was reported in the foreign exchange markets, where the dollar fell in the united states after steadying in europe
the unemployment rate fell to 5.6 percent from 5.7 percent in february even though there were 360,000 fewer americans at work than a month earlier, the labor department said
the unemployment rate is at the lowest level since it was 5.6 percent in may 1979
the rate decline was credited entirely to a 455,000 decrease in those in the labor force _ which includes those either holding jobs or seeking work
employer payrolls rose by 262,000 new jobs in march, according to a separate government survey
factory jobs, which have risen an average 40,000 each month since last summer, fell by 1,000 in march. of the new payroll jobs, 85,000 were in business and health care services with another 80,000 in construction
the 0.3 percent decline in construction spending in february reflected weakness in the housing sector
the commerce department said that construction spending declined to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of $391.5 billion in february following a 2.8 percent drop in january
in addition, the department revised the december figure to show a small decline of $100 million instead of a 0.4 percent increase
the february decline pushed construction spending 2.5 percent below where it was a year earlier. analysts are forecasting further cutbacks in 1988 because of high vacancy rates in apartments and office buildings
residential construction fell by 1.1 percent in february to an annual rate of $188.1 billion, while non-residential construction posted a 1.2 percent increase to an annual rate of $92 billion
public construction edged up 0.4 percent in february to an annual rate of $74.7 billion
the italian government has agreed to explore possible collaboration in building the ``super collider'' atom smasher planned by the energy department, energy secretary john herrington said thursday
the agreement does not represent a commitment to contribute to the cost of the $4.4 billion installation, but department officials said collaborative projects could lead to concrete cost savings even if no cash were given
the united states and italy already collaborate in some energy research. a joint statement issued thursday by herrington and gianni ravaglia, deputy minister of industry, commerce and handicrafts, at the conclusion of the annual review of the work said the two men had ``endorsed the need to explore ways of achieving joint undertakings'' to support the super collider
the administration is asking congress for $363 million to begin construction in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1., but there is considerable resistance to the high overall cost. some members have asked herrington to produce evidence that other countries will contribute, or committments by them, to back up his assertions that a quarter to a half the project cost could come from other countries
a site for the machine, a 53-miles (85 km) around underground tunnel, is expected to be chosen in november. sites in north carolina, texas, arizona, michigan, illinois, colorado and tennessee are being considered
george j. bradley, principal deputy assistant secretary for international affairs and energy emergencies, told reporters that smaller sums being mentioned in congress would not convince potential foreign contributors that the united states was committed to the collider
asked specifically about discussions about allocating $200 million for the project, he said, ``it's not enough.''
if other countries are convinced the united states is going ahead, they will undertake ``complementary program'' that might include other types of less expensive high-energy accelerators. but without a u.s. super collider, they might decide that they need to collaborate on building one themselves _ and they need to make such decisions in the coming year or so, bradley said
thus, he said, $200 million is not enough because ``the key here is schedule slippage'' _ such a sum would delay the u.s. project somewhat, and foreign countries would be forced to make decisions without knowledge of u.s. intentions
he declined to specify a particular sum other than the $363 million as ``enough.''
to explore the secrets of matter and energy, the super collider would whirl beams of protons into each other at collision energies 20 times higher than the most powerful machines today
italy's help might be particularly welcome, bradley said, because that country is the only one so far to build superconducting magnets with a field strength anywhere near the strength the super collider beam-bending magnets would use, about 6.6 tesla or roughly 66,000 times the strength of the earth's magnetic field. the italian magnets are used at an accelerator near hamburg, west germany
the most powerful u.s. magnets are about 4.4 tesla. scientists have said they see no reason they can't build more powerful ones, but the $363 million budget request includes about $32 million for magnet research
if the italians are willing to transfer that technology, you don't have to spend'' that money, bradley said
italy's manufacturing capacity is only 500 magnets every three years, while the super collider will require 10,000 magents estimated to cost $100,000 each _ a $1 billion expenditure
if a magnet agreement were reached with italy, u.s. firms, and italian firm or a joint venture might build a manufacturing plant in the united states, bradley said. similar collaborations are being discussed with several countries, he said
i can assure you it's not pie in the sky,'' bradley said
italy has a long tradition in advanced physics research, going back to nuclear pioneer enrico fermi in the 1930s and extending today to carlo rubbia, professor of physics at harvard university in cambridge, mass. and director-general of cern (centre d'etudes de recherches nucleaires), the multi-national european high-energy physics reserach center near geneva, switzerland
the stock market spent the first three months of 1988 healing some of the wounds it suffered last fall
but as the end of the quarter arrived on thursday, it was still suffering from the after-effects of the crunch that culminated on black monday oct. 19
by maintaining a moderate but steady pace of growth, the economy has done its part so far to reassure investors that the crash wasn't an immediate harbinger of a recession or something worse
yet many frightened analysts and investors seem reluctant to put much credence in the favorable news, reasoning that the market last fall foresaw something that hasn't yet become visible to the naked eye
if the economy isn't going to slide immediately into a recession, the pessimists argue, then it might be heating up so much that the federal reserve will be forced to tighten credit, inducing a business slump later on
the confusion that reigns in the marketplace is illustrated by the two worst-performing stock groups in the first quarter through march 23, as calculated by standard &amp; poor's corp
gold mining stocks suffered the biggest decline, falling 8.9 percent, presumably reflecting a drop in inflationary expectations
but savings and loan holding companies, down 7.5 percent, seemed to be signaling expectations of rising interest rates prompted by increased inflationary pressures
still, analysts at some of wall street's biggest brokerage firms describe the touchy, cautious mood of investors as a significant plus for the market outlook over the next few months at least
we doubt if a medium-term top in the market will be made amid alternating worries about a too strong or too weak economy,'' maintains phil roth, a technical analyst at shearson lehman hutton inc
these worries keep buying power on the sidelines and enhance the market's technical position. it is more likely that a real top will be made when investors are actively buying stock despite real fundamental worries.''
at merrill lynch, chief market analyst robert farrell contends, ``we think the market has shown unusual underlying strength in light of the trauma of last october
most of the flaws and concern seem to be part of the wall of worry that strong advances need to keep going.''
the market made some grudging progress in the past week, which was cut to four sessions by the good friday holiday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 9.11 to 1,988.06, closing out the first quarter with a net gain of 49.23 points
other readings for the week showed the nyse's composite index up 0.02 at 146.60; the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market up 2.10 at 374.64, and the american stock exchange market value index up 1.77 at 296.43
volume on the big board averaged 146.80 million shares a day, against 157.26 million the week before
edward yardeni, economist prudential-bache securities, has been a vocal optimist lately, arguing that steady growth is possible for the next several years
he contends that the markets, in particular the bond market, now exert a powerful degree of discipline over economic conditions
economywide recessions are unlikely to occur in the future,'' he argues. ``rolling recessions that are limited to certain industries and sectors of the country are more likely to occur
market forces will keep the economy from booming. so it won't develop the excesses which typically set the stage for an economywide recession
global competitive pressures are intense and will keep a lid on wage and price inflation. such a scenario should be bullish for both stocks and bonds.''
u.s. sugar beet growers plan to increase their plantings, a move the sweetener users association said on thursday may reduce imports again
the u.s. department of agriculture reports that a survey in march indicated that sugar beet growers intend to plant 1.29 million acres, an increase of 1.6 percent
if sugarcane growers in florida, hawaii, louisiana and texas follow suit, higher domestic sugar production would force the fifth consecutive reduction in u.s. sugar import quotas,'' the association said in a statement
calculation of quotas is mandated by existing u.s. law
tom hammer, the president of the association, added:
this is bad news for many of our caribbean, latin american, asian and african trading partners who have seen their sugar sales drop from from 2.2 billion dollars to just under 400 million since 1981.''
the dominican republic has the biggest import quota, followed by the philippines
last december president ronald reagan's administration reduced the quota to 750,000 tons, compared with 5 million tons in 1981. the action was the fifth reduction in a row and brought imports to the lowest point in 113 years. there were strong protests from the governments of sugar-exporting countries
unless the legislation is changed, the trends will continue,'' u.s. agriculture secretary richard e. lyng predicted then
lyng said in january that the administration would like to kill the sugar program as enacted by congress. it keeps prices high in the united states for the benefit of domestic farmers, at the expense of countries which traditionally export it to the united states
legislators from urban areas have put forward a plan to cut the u.s. price and increase imports, saying price support for u.s. sugar benefits only 10,000 growers and costs u.s. consumers $3 billion a year. they have had little response from other membes of congress sympathetic to farm interests
last month the agriculture department raised its estimate of world production for the 1987-8 season by 1 percent to 101.9 million metric tons, 900,000 tons less than than last season's crop
the sweetener users association said u.s. sugar beet farmers last year indicated that they planned a 1.3 percent increase in acreage but actually planted 3.1 percent more, resulting in a record u.s. output of nearly 4 million tons
partly because of the high price of beet and cane sugar, sweeteners made from corn and other products have been taking a larger share of the u.s. market. consumption of sugar has been declimning
the world bank approved a $400 million loan package thursday to financially troubled argentina and its banks
funds from the 15-year low interest loan will be released in two stages. the first half will become available immediately, with the release of the final $200 million contingent on the success of argentina's economic recovery
the world bank said it made the loan to encourage deposits and confidence in the argentine banking system, improve the distribution of credit and reduce its cost
this action comes after a $317 million loan from the international monetary fund two weeks ago. the imf loan, which was also conditional on reductions in the government deficit, was designed to trigger a release of funds by private banks
argentina is the third world's third largest debtor, after brazil and mexico, with a total debt estimated at $50 billion, of which $3.5 billion is owed to the imf
argentina's situation is complicated by inflation that reached 175 percent last year and appears headed in the same direction for 1988
dravo corp. says negotiations to sell its waste-to-energy business to westinghouse electric corp. have been halted
the move will ``enable both companies to explore alternative options to achieving their respective objectives,'' said thomas j. ward, dravo's acting chief executive officer
the business ultimately could go to westinghouse, ward said, but the sale ``is now more likely to involve one of the potential buyers who expressed interest prior to the reaching of the preliminary agreement with westinghouse.''
dravo officials also said the company has executed a letter of intent to sell its interests in geothermal energy production in california to a joint venture organization formed by bonneville pacific corp. of san jose, calif., and calpine corp. of salt lake city
included in the planned sale are dravo's geothermal power generation facility and a contract for the future supply of power from a planned second unit, the company said thursday
terms of the sale were not disclosed
the sale of our stake in geothermal operations complements the divestiture actions now under way involving dravo's other engineering and construction businesses,'' ward said
donald kingsborough, chairman and founder of worlds of wonder inc., agreed to leave the debt-saddled toy maker as part of its bankruptcy terms, the company announced thursday
the agreement involves banks and unsecured creditors and has bankruptcy court approval, wow said
the new management team includes president and chief operating officer angelo pezzani and stephen j. hopkins as chief executive officer. hopkins is executive vice president of nightingale &amp; associates inc., a new canaan, conn.-based management consulting company
kingsborough, who said earlier in march that he had no intention of stepping down, has not disclosed his plans. the company said he would be available to assist the new chief executive officer
with the bank's support and toy specialists on the management team, i believe that worlds of wonder inc. is entering a new era which will inspire retailer and vendor confidence and active participation,'' he said in a press release
now the company can get on with what it does best _ creating and marketing innovative toys with exceptional play value,'' he said
wow said the new arrangements call for a business and operating plan to be presented to the banks and unsecured creditors for approval, with financing then being negotiated
the high-tech toy manufacturer owes creditors about $260 million and has missed $3.6 million in interest payments to bondholders. it lost $186.9 million in the quarter ending dec. 31, and the stock has plunged from $29 a share after it went public in june 1986 to $1.31\, up 12{ cents thursday in over-the-counter trading
kingsborough, 41, a former executive with atari corp., founded wow in march 1985 and turned it into one of the fastest-growing startup companies ever on the strength of enormous success with the teddy ruxpin talking bear and the game lazer tag. it fell victim to overexpansion and slumping sales and filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last december
