h brubeck concert and new dukakis comment; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `james c.'</note>
the nation's governors appealed to the white house sunday for relief from 163 federal rules and regulations, and heard a former governor call for a constitutional convention to restore states' rights
new hampshire gov. john h. sununu, opening the national governors' association's winter meeting, said that the time has come to press for a new division of authority between the states and washington
there has been an erosion of the fundamental balance struck 200 years ago in philadelphia,'' sununu, the nga chairman, said at a news conference before gaveling the first plenary session to order
president reagan, at a black-tie dinner for the governors sunday night, told the governors he envied the balanced-budget requirements and line-item vetoes that many of them possess. ``not one of you would put up with the mess that we have here in washington at budget time,'' the president said
he also said he did not want to tie his successor's hands, but expressed hope the next president would continue his tradition of inviting the governors to the white house for dinner each year
reagan exchanged toasts with sununu, who said to reagan, ``from all of us to one of us: you did it your way. you did it well. god speed.''
the president planned to hold a working meeting with the governors monday to hear their concerns about regulations and other matters
the dave brubeck quartet brought the reagans and their guests to their feet with a concert that included w.c. handy's ``st. louis blues,'' duke ellington's ``take the a train'' and brubeck's own signature piece, ``take five.'' brubeck was joined by his longtime clarinet player bill smith, randy jones on drums and brubeck's son, chris, on bass guitar and slide trombone
reagan paid tribute to the jazz great, saying, ``it is magic. i know it's sort of a cliche, but they not only don't write 'em that way anymore, there aren't many around who play 'em anymore.''
forty-four governors were on hand for the affair, including presidential hopeful michael dukakis of massachusetts, who quipped about his visit to the white house, ``we've been looking it over, checking it out. i've never lived over the store before.''
dukakis planned to depart the governors' meeting monday to resume campaigning in south dakota and minnesota, which hold a primary and caucus respectively feb. 23
james c. miller iii, director of the office of management and budget, told the governors the reagan administration has carried out nearly 50 of 80 recommendations the nga made 16 months ago to reduce red tape and administrative burdens on state and local governments
eyeing the new stack of 163 recommendations, miller said, ``there's a lot more out there that needs to be done. it's hard to do.'' but he added, ``there is no question that our federal system of shared power between the federal and state governments ... is healthier today than it has been in years.''
the governors heard just the opposite from former georgia gov. george busbee, who warned, ``we are about one recession away from a complete breakdown of domestic government in this country.''
busbee, an atlanta lawyer who governed georgia from 1975 to 1983, urged the governors to press for a constitutional convention ``to break the gridlock, sift through the blue smoke and mirrors and restore a sense of order and accountability in american government.''
the federal government is raiding state and local revenue sources and dumping unfunded mandates on the states, busbee said, and most of the presidential candidates are talking of new federal initiatives in such areas of traditional state control as education, welfare, economic development and criminal justice
begging congress or the administration to pay attention to federalism is, in my opinion, a waste of time,'' said busbee, a democrat. ``governors and legislators are not treated much differently from the `national association of ball peen hammer producers' _ except that (they) have a pac (political action committee) and you don't.''
even as miller and sununu exchanged thick lists of regulatory reforms _ past, present and yet to come _ north dakota gov. george a. sinner was asking the omb chief if he could stop a controversial effort to force state guananteed student loan agencies to send a quarter-billion dollars of their reserves back to washington
but miller said that was part of the bipartisan deficit-reduction measures congress and the administration hammered out late last year, and ``i don't think it's likely to be changed.''
arkansas gov. bill clinton said he thought the reagan administration was ``genuinely trying,'' but there are still too many ``conflicting regulations that drive us nuts,'' especially in health and welfare
it took us two years to get rejected for a waiver on welfare reform,' clinton complained
reagan and the governors tried and failed to engineer a grand swap of federal and state responsibilities in 1982, including a complete federal takover of the medicaid program. reagan's so-called ``new federalism'' foundered as the administration tried to inflict simultaneous budget cuts on the programs
the theme of the governor's winter meeting, ``restoring the balance: state leadership for america's future,'' is hardly new. the governor's 1980 meeting centered on ``restoring balance to the federal system.''
but virginia gov. gerald l. baliles said that does not gainsay the importance of the new federalism initiative. ``federalism is a process. ...'' he said. ``it's a journey rather than a destination.''
the winter meeting runs through tuesday. sununu said he hopes the governors will decide by their meeting this summer on what strategies to pursue on regulatory reform, any changes in federal laws and the possibility of a constitutional convention
the governors' list of 163 regulatory reforms includes a raft of proposals for standardizing eligibility rules for food stamps and aid to families with dependent children, and easing up on strictures for running job training, education and health programs. with reagan hoping to free all american hostages before end of his term. pickup 12th graf pvs ``hezbollah is...''; edits thereafter to tighten</note>
iranian-backed hezbollah extremists shot at shiite militiamen searching a southeastern village for a kidnapped u.s. marine on sunday and declared support for his abductors
the members of justice minister nabih berri's mainstream shiite amal militia fired back with rocket-propelled grenades during the half-hour clash in ein el-tineh but no injuries were reported, a police spokesman said
hezbollah gunners later pounded israel's self-designated security zone in south lebanon with mortars, said the spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity according to regulations
he said israel retaliated by shelling 13 southern shiite villages for three hours. four civilians were wounded, police said
a hezbollah leader said he believed the u.s. marine, lt. col. william r. higgins, had been smuggled out of south lebanon
we declare solidarity with, and full support for, the strugglers against america who confront the plots of the great satan,'' said a statement from hezbollah, or party of god. ``the demands of the organization of the oppressed on earth are just.''
the organization of the oppressed on earth on friday claimed responsibility for higgins' kidnapping, charging he was a cia spy. u.s. and u.n. officials denied the charge
the group early monday called on berri to order his amal militia to stop house raids and arrests in connection with higgins' abduction
the pretention that he is defending the u.n. peacekeeping forces in south lebanon is not a viable excuse for rescuing an american espionage agent,'' the group said in a typewritten statement delivered to the independent beirut newspaper an-nahar just after midnight
we are lying in wait for any other suspicious american,'' the arabic language statement said
higgins, a decorated vietnam veteran and a one-time military assistant to former u.s. defense secretary caspar weinberger, heads a 76-man observer group attached to a u.n. peacekeeping force in south lebanon. he was kidnapped on wednesday near the ancient port city of tyre
in washington, president reagan said sunday night that ``we're doing everything we can and exploring every avenue'' to free higgins
asked if he hoped to get all american hostages freed from lebanon before he leaves office next january, the president said, ``i'd like that better than anything else.''
it is such a terrible situation and you're afraid you'll do something that will harm them (the hostages). we don't know who they (the captors) are or where they are,'' reagan told reporters during a reception at the white house for the national governors' association
hezbollah is believed to be the umbrella organization for pro-iranian groups holding foreign hostages in lebanon
ein el-tineh, a hezbollah stronghold, is 31 miles east of tyre, where hezbollah claims amal has arrested more than 150 of its members in connection with higgins' abduction. amal spokesmen say only 40 fundamentalists have been detained
the abduction prompted the u.n.'s interim forces in lebanon to withdraw 20 observers from higgins' unit to its headquarters in naqoura, near the israel-lebanon border, according to timor goksel, spokesman for the unifil
goksel said the observers were withdrawn both for security concerns and to protest higgins' abduction. the rest of the observer group remained sunday in positions overlooking beirut's green line, which divides the city into moslem and christian sectors, he said
goksel declined to comment on reports that u.n. troops had abandoned checkpoints around tyre
ten unifil troops were withdrawn thursday to naqoura from an area close to an amal checkpoint on the qassmieh highway bridge north of the city. but unifil troops did not withdraw from any of their own checkpoints south and east of tyre
unifil units and amal militiamen, aided by helicopters and dogs, continued to search for higgins sunday in olive and citrus groves and cave-lined valleys southeast of tyre
berri has called higgins' abduction a threat to the security of the predominantly shiite population of south lebanon. he said amal was bent on defending the u.n. peacekeeping force irrespective of the nationality of its officers
sheik abdul-karim obeid, a hezbollah leader in south lebanon, was quoted by beirut radio stations sunday as saying he believes the kidnappers have managed to smuggle higgins out of the south
obeid told warshippers at a mosque in the southern village of jibsheet that higgins was in charge of unifil's ``spying operations.''
as a condition of higgins' release, the oppressed on earth has demanded that israel withdraw from the security zone it carved out in south lebanon when the bulk of its occupation army withdrew from lebanon in 1985, ending a three-year invasion
it also demanded the release of lebanese and palestinian inmates held at the khiam detention camp in the security zone and in israeli jails
an estimated 300 detainees are believed held at khiam, run by militiamen of the israeli-backed south lebanon army
higgins was the third u.n. official abducted in south lebanon in three weeks
jan stening, 44, of sweden and willian jorgensen, 58, of norway, both employees of the u.n. relief and works agency that cares for palestinian refugees, were kidnapped feb. 5 near sidon, 25 miles north of tyre
there are 22 other foreigners missing in lebanon. they are eight americans, four frenchmen, three britons, two west germans, an italian, an indian and two unidentified men
the longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985. sources ... of lublin.'</note>
authorities on sunday began freeing detained solidarity activists who had been stopped from attending a weekend meeting of the outlawed trade union
in southeastern poland, meanwhile, eight farmers protesting higher prices were arrested
police in the provincial city of rzeszow detained the farmers during a march by 150 people chanting: ``we want meat. we want bread.'' the march followed a national gathering of the banned farmers' union, rural solidarity
earlier at a mass in rzeszow attended by 2,000 people, local bishop ignacy tokarczuk sharply criticized the government's treatment of peasant farmers
the countryside should be united and only then it will win its demands,'' he said
the farmers' meeting coincided with the seventh anniversity of the government's 1981 agreement to recognize rural solidarity as a bargaining agent for farmers. the union later was declared illegal following the imposition of martial law
on sunday, authorities began to free members of the solidarity free trade union's national executive commission jailed over the weekend just before a planned meeting called in gdansk by solidarity chairman lech walesa
at least seven of the commission's 10 members and the union's national spokesman, janusz onyszkiewicz, were taken into custody friday and saturday
opposition sources said a small group of solidarity activists managed to meet anyway, and that a statement would be issued later
zbigniew bujak, former underground chief of the union and the warsaw-region representative on the commission, was freed sunday morning from a downtown warsaw police station, said ludwika wujec, a warsaw solidarity activist
union sources said others released later in the day were: onyszkiewicz, wladyslaw frasyniuk of wroclaw, antoni stawikowski of torun, antoni tokarczuk of bydgoszcz and stanislaw weglarz of lublin
there was no confirmation of the release of stefan jurczak, representative for the krakow region, and bogdan lis of gdansk, but they were also expected to be freed
in a sermon sunday in gdansk's st. brygida's church, the rev. henryk jankowski spoke angrily about the detentions
man's right to freedom and his freedom of thought are trampled,'' said jankowski, an adviser to walesa. ``this is an act of lawlessness that does moral harm to the nation.''
gold dropped 94 cents an ounce monday, opening at $446.57. it closed saturday at $447.51. `the gods ..., is correct, as is madolyn in 10th graf, bgn, neil simon ...</note>
paramount pictures and the disney co. are running neck and neck as the two giant film companies continue their battle for box office supremacy
for the past two years, paramount has been the unqualified leader among major distributors, scoring with such blockbusters as ``top gun,'' ``crocodile dundee'' and ``beverly hills cop ii.''
paramount's share of the domestic film market was 20 percent in 1987, according to daily variety financial expert art murphy. runners-up were buena vista, the disney distributing company, with 14 percent, and warner bros. with 13
in the first two weeks of 1988, buena vista took the lead on the strength of the smash hits ``three men and a baby'' and ``good morning vietnam'' _ 26 percent to paramount's 17. it was a happy triumph for disney chairman michael eisner and jeff katzenberg, disney's film production chief; both had previously worked for paramount
but no matter who takes the box-office crown, everybody wins in 1988
movie booms last at least 2{ years; the longest has been 3{,'' murphy said. ``this boom has lasted a year and a half, and i see no slowdown.''
the year has opened strongly, with a record take of $100 million in january. the period from jan. 1 to memorial day is traditionally the slowest period of the movie year, contributing 20 percent of annual ticket stales, compared to 40 percent for the three summer months
what wonders will theaters offer in the first five months of 1988? the mixture, as before, has a heavy accent on comedy
john hughes invades the yuppie world with ``she's having a baby,'' starring kevin bacon and elizabeth mcgovern. ann-margret falls for her daughter's boyfriend, c. thomas howell, in ``a tiger's tale.'' joe piscopo and treat williams play it for laughs as cops in ``dead heat.''
neil simon returns with the second of his autobiographical trilogy, ``biloxi blues,'' with matthew broderick and directed by mike nichols. george roy hill (``the sting'') is back with ``funny farm,'' in which new yorkers chevy chase and madolyn smith try the rural life. richard pryor as an engineer moves his family from new jersey to idaho in ``moving.''
the ageless george burns changes brains with his grandson in ``18 again,'' which might bring to mind ``like father like son.''
the gods must be crazy ii'' follow the adventures of the engaging african bushman, n!xau. richard dreyfuss continues his roll as an actor who impersonates a central american dictator in ``moon over parador.''
front page'' is replayed in tv land with kathleen turner, burt reynolds and christopher reeve in ``switching channels.'' sally field and tom hanks star as a pair of stand-up comics in ``punchline.''
those raucous rookies return in ``police academy 5: assignment miami beach,'' this time without steve gutenberg
distributors always release a heavy load of dramas in the early part of the year, when competition for the youth market is at a minimum. the most anticipated film is ``the unbearable lightness of being,'' based on the modern classic novel by milan kundera. it is the first movie by philip kaufman since ``the right stuff.''
also long-awaited is robert redford's first film as a director since ``ordinary people'' _ ``the milangro beanfield war,'' about a new mexico native who fights developers
after sinking with ``pirates,'' roman polanski goes back to the mystery-adventure genre with ``frantic,'' starring harrison ford as a surgeon whose wife disappears. kelly mcgillis and jeff daniels appear in a postwar drama about the smuggling of nazi criminals into the united states, ``house on carroll street.'' edward james olmos (``miami vice'') and lou diamond phillips (``la bamba'') appear in ``stand and deliver,'' about a dedicated teacher in east l.a
roger vadim has modernized his 1957 film ``and god created women'' with rebecca demornay in the role that helped make brigitte bardot famous. blake edwards presents an imaginary teaming of tom mix (bruce willis) and wyatt earp (james garner) to solve a murder mystery in ``sunset.''
sidney poitier returns to the screen as an fbi agent in a pair of films: ``shoot to kill,'' a crime chase with tom beringer; and ``little nikita,'' with river phoenix as son of soviet spies
alan alda breaks his absence from films as director-writer-star with ann-margret in ``a new life,'' about a divorced pair seeking new lives
in ``bright lights, big city,'' michael j. fox abandons his sunshiny image to play a cocaine-sniffing yuppie in the manhattan fast lane. kelly mcgillis and john shea are pioneering israelis in ``dreamers.'' don johnson takes a shot at the big screen in ``sweet hearts dance,'' a romantic drama co-starring susan sarandon
the new year will bring plenty of action, too. comic jay leno makes his film debut as a detroit cop teaming with a tokyo detective (pat morita) in ``collision course.'' gene hackman is a pilot downed in vietnam and danny glover is his rescuer in ``bat 21.'' the vietnam trend continues with ``off limits,'' in which willem dafoe and gregory hines investigate murders of vietnamese prostitues
academy award winners william hurt and timothy hutton combine for a world war ii thriller, ``destiny.'' sean penn appears in two films: ``judgment in berlin,'' as one of three east berliners escaping in an airplane; and in ``colors'' as a police partner with robert duvall battling los angeles gangs
the macho men are also back: charles bronson investigates mormon cult murders in ``messenger of death''; scott glenn is a cop who becomes an al capone henchman in ``verne miller.''
there's an ample supply of horror and teen films, as well as some that are hard to classify: ``eat the rich,'' ``killer klowns (from outer space),'' ``hazing in hell'' and ``zombie cop.''
austrian president kurt waldheim was never a soviet agent, according to his former under-secretary at the united nations, arkady shevchenko, a soviet defector who lives in the united states, a london newspaper reported sunday
in light of allegations surrounding waldheim's service in the german army during world war ii, there has been speculation in the western press that the soviets might have held incriminating documents against him and threatened to use them if he did not comply with their policies when he was u.n. secretary-general from 1972 to 1982
the sunday telegraph said it was told by shevchenko in washington recently that the speculation is unfounded
shevchenko was reported as saying the soviet foreign ministry had other candidates in mind when waldheim's name first came up for the u.n. post
it was only when we saw he was likely to emerge as clear favorite that we gave him our backing and actually put him up for the job,'' shevchenko said
shevchenko defected from his u.n. post in 1978. before taking his post at the united nations he was secretary in moscow to andrei gromyko, then soviet foreign minister
the defector said he saw gromyko's personal file on waldheim
it mentioned that he had fought on our russian front and had been wounded there. but there was absolutely no reference to any war crimes,'' shevchenko was quoted as saying
shevchenko was further quoted as saying that senior officials of the soviet kgb secret police in charge of soviet citizens in new york, complained of their inability to influence waldheim in getting more soviets appointed to his staff and of their being frozen out of his inner circle
an international commission has investigated allegations waldheim was involved in german atrocities in the balkans in world war ii while serving in the german army. waldheim has repeatedly denied the allegations and has rejected calls that he step down as president
the historians' commission, formed by the austrian government, concluded this month that waldheim was ``in close proximity'' to some nazi atrocities in the balkans, knew they were going on and made no attempt to prevent them. it also said waldheim concealed his wartime past and tried to make it seem harmless once he could no longer hide it
the commmission's report did not support allegations waldheim committed atrocities. but it left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime
eds: subs 2nd graf to update with two more plane-crash deaths reported in california. inserts 2 grafs after 21st graf pvs, `airport fire...', with detail on california crash, picking up 22nd graf, `in el...'. adds one graf on end with names of victims being withheld pending notification of relatives
a commuter plane that plowed through a stand of trees just after taking off, killing 12, was only 3 years old and had just been inspected, the company president said saturday
at least nine other people died in plane crashes friday and saturday in new jersey, texas, california and connecticut. one man was missing and presumed dead
american eagle commuter flight 3378 had just taken off from raleigh-durham airport at morrisville, n.c., on a flight to richmond, va., when it disappeared from radar and crashed about 3,000 feet from the runway, officials said
it sounded like a blast or something ...,'' said mary h. ward, who lives in a mobile home about three miles from the airport. ``it wasn't too awful loud. it was kind of muffled.''
the airplane is completely disintegrated,'' deputy airport director r.c. shackleford said saturday
the plane apparently skimmed just over the surface of beir lake, a flood-control reservoir that laps around the end of the runway, and hit an earthen bank before crashing through tall pine trees
some trees were broken off and others were skinned as much as 200 yards beyond the lake. shackleford said the wreckage, with none of the pieces more than 8 feet long, was scattered over about an acre
we don't know what happened,'' shackleford said. ``anything anybody tells you or anything you deduce is pure speculation.''
there was no indication to the tower that the plane was in any danger prior to takeoff,'' said teresa damiano, public affairs manager for the airport
an investigative team from the national transportation safety board arrived saturday from washington, and two officials with the state medical examiner's office in chapel hill were on the scene, ms. damiano said
donald paschall, chief of airport security, said the crash was reported at 9:27 p.m. friday by a guard at a nearby construction site
he just reported a loud crash and a ball of fire,'' paschall said
the victims were two crew members and 10 passengers, most from north carolina and virginia
the deaths were the first fatalities in eight years of operation by avair, american eagle's parent company, said larry rednour, the company's executive vice president
our shock is all that much greater because this was a seasoned crew operating their first flight of the day,'' glenn schaab, president and chief executive officer of avair, said in a statement issued saturday. ``they were in a plane less than 3 years old, which had undergone scheduled maintenance and inspection this week.''
and the pilot, capt. walter cole, last week took a test flight periodically required for commercial pilots. ``he passed without any problem at all,'' rednour said
the airplane was a swearingen sw-4 twin-engine turboprop
a twin-engine plane of the same type crashed last month in colorado, killing nine people on a ski vacation. the plane was not required to have cockpit voice recorders or flight data recorders, said james p. burke, a member of the ntsb investigative team assigned to that crash
elsewhere, three people were killed when a small plane crashed in a wooded area about two miles from the airport at atlantic city, n.j., after a flight from norwood, mass
kathleen bergen, a federal aviation administration spokeswoman, said the twin-engine piper navajo disappeared from radar in dense fog and driving rain shortly after 10 p.m. friday
airport fire and rescue crews found the plane about an hour later and worked throughout the night to remove the bodies, ms. bergen said. they were hampered by the weather and deep woods
in big bear city, calif., a pilot and a passenger were killed when their small plane, practicing rollovers near the campsite of a church group, crashed saturday in the san bernardino mountains, authorities said
no one on the ground was injured when the single-engine beechcraft muskateer hit the ground at 3:15 p.m. near dead man's lake and onyx summit, said jim bryant, spokesman for the san bernardino county sheriff's department
in el paso, texas, a twin-engine plane skimmed over morning rush-hour traffic and crashed on a freeway access road, killing all three people aboard and spewing flaming debris that destroyed two parked cars, authorities said
it looked like it was going to attempt maybe to come onto the freeway, but as soon as it got over the freeway, it just nosedived,'' said motorist victor armendariz
the gulfstream commander 680 went down in moderate snow and light fog after takeoff friday from el paso international airport, ntsb spokesman tommy mcfall said
the pilot ``was still in radio contact with the tower,'' ntsb spokesman tommy mcfall said of the pilot. ``the pilot said that he was having trouble with the landing gear and was coming back to the airport.''
a small cargo plane operated by u.s. express went down in long island sound off stratford, conn., early saturday. one body was found and authorities called in divers to help search for the body of a second man, said stratford police sgt. andrew knapp
the search was called off in the afternoon and there were no plans to resume it, coast guard petty officer roberto m. ramos said. authorities said the man was presumed dead
the plane was en route from albany, n.y., to boston, with a scheduled refueling stop at bridgeport, conn., authorities said
besides the pilot, the victims of the north carolina crash were identified by avair as 1st officer kathy digan; glenn bogitsh and libby bogitsh, both of nashville, tenn.; terry bower, mike grindle, john oliver, richard w. ross and marcia ferris, all of richmond; henry lewis, u.s. army stationed at fort lee in richmond; chris wells of the raleigh, n.c., area; and roger wilcox of florida
the new jersey crash victims were identified as pilot thomas johnson, 22, of philadelphia; co-pilot thomas thorn, 40, of pleasantville, n.j.; and passenger simon siegel, 69, of brookline, mass
the texas crash victims were identified as jesus aaron puentes, 11; his mother, rosa linda puentes, 31; and pilot don mccoy, 57, all of el paso
roberto nucifero of plymouth, mass., died in the connecticut crash. missing and presumed dead was henry lipincott of sandwich, mass., police said
names of the victims of the california crash were withheld pending notification of relatives. grissom also had problems, picking up 8th graf, `in 1969...'.</note>
william claiborne ``red'' hayes jr., the nasa official who greeted astronaut john glenn after his history-making flight in 1962, died saturday. he was 63
hayes, who spent 27 years with the national aeronautics and space administration, directed the at-sea recovery efforts that plucked astronauts from the ocean after their space capsules had returned to earth
when glenn was brought aboard the navy aircraft carrier randolph after america's first manned orbital flight, hayes was the first to greet him and shake his hand
hayes, a norfolk native, joined the national advisory committee on aeronautics in 1952 and was there when nasa was organized a few years later
from 1952 to 1961, he was assigned to nasa's langley research center where he worked with wind-tunnel research
in 1961 he was transferred to the manned spacecraft center in houston, texas, and was given charge of the recovery operations section. hayes directed the recovery of astronauts glenn, scott carpenter, walter schirra and gus grissom
the rescues were not without mishaps. grissom had to be rescued after his capsule sank, and carpenter's capsule seemed to disappear after its re-entry into the atmosphere and it took an hour to locate it. when carpenter was finally airlifted to the carrier intrepid, hayes again was first in line to shake his hand
in 1969, hayes became director of the advanced aerospace projects office at nasa-langley, and in 1971 he was named executive assistant for planning in the office of the director for center development and external affairs at langley
a year later, he was named director of the manned space technology office at nasa headquarters in washington, d.c., where he was responsible for the development of advanced technology requirements for the space shuttle, space stations, planetary spacecraft and other projects
hayes retired in 1979
he is survived by a wife, mildred mcwilliams hayes; a son; and a daughter. funeral services were scheduled for monday in purcellville. order</head> update with comment from union official, who said firefighters expected to return to work. picks up 5th graf pvs, `the city...'.</note>
much of the city fire department's day shift called in sick saturday, apparently because of a dispute with city officials over the equipping of new emergency units, a city spokeswoman said
the city late saturday afternoon persuaded superior court judge john e. orton iii to issue a temporary restraining order requiring the firefighters to return to work sunday, said barbara cottam, spokeswoman for mayor joseph r. paolino jr. it is illegal for municipal employees to strike in rhode island
leo miller, president of providence firefighters local 799, said he expected the firefighters to return to work sunday. city officials had vowed to return to orton and seek contempt citations if the job action continued, ms. cottam said
that's what the city tells you,'' was all miller would say when asked if the sickout was organized as part of a contract dispute. ``what i'm going to say is that we thought we had a contract with them but they have reneged.''
neither ms. cottam nor miller had figures on the number of firefighters who called in sick. the city covered the shifts of the absent workers by holding the friday night shift over, ms. cottam said
the city, in a contract reached last year with the firefighters' union, agreed to increase the number of rescue units in the department from three to five
ms. cottam said the union is insisting that the two new units, like the existing ones, be equipped with advanced life-support equipment
that was never discussed or agreed to and it is not necessary,'' ms. cottam said. ``the need is not there.''
she also said the department does not have enough rescue workers with the special training required for the advanced life-support systems to staff five units. hospital confirmation</note>
two women were killed and two wounded saturday night after they were herded into an apartment bedroom, bound and shot execution-style in an apparent drug related incident, police and television reports said
officers found one woman dead at the apartment in the northwest section of the nation's capital and a second woman was pronounced dead at the washington hospital center, said police capt. william ritchie. he said police were seeking four suspects
the washington hospital center was treating a third victim in its intensive care unit, a spokeswoman, who refused to be identified, said. the fourth woman, who was shot in the arm, was treated at howard university hospital and released, said administrator deborah shields
reporters on the scene for wrc-tv and wttg-tv said police entered the apartment to find one woman dead of a gunshot wound to the head and two others severely wounded. four small children, some of them in diapers, were huddled around
the woman shot in the arm managed to crawl to a neighbor's apartment and called for help, the tv reports said. police said they received the call at 7:21 p.m
the television reports said the women were described by the police as in their early 20s and as possibly jamaican
on jan. 22, police in nearby prince georges county, md., found four men and one woman shot dead in what was also described as a drug-related slaying. police have issued arrest warrants in that case for three jamaican men from brooklyn, n.y
foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze said his government wants to play ``a more active role'' in the search for an arab-israeli settlement as he opened talks sunday with secretary of state george p. shultz
the issue of soviet participation is among key items on shultz' agenda for his two days of talks here
shultz on saturday said the soviets should ``face up'' to their human rights problems and establish relations with israel if they intend to take part in the talks he will try to set up when he goes to the middle east next week
but shevardnadze, chatting with a reporter while waiting for shultz at the soviet foreign ministry's elegant guest house in central moscow, said his government already was playing a ``constructive role'' in the region
we want to play a more active role also in the negotiations,'' he said
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir has resisted soviet participation in the search for a middle east settlement
the soviets have supported jordan and egypt in calling for an international conference to serve as a framework for arab-israeli negotiations. shamir is cool to the idea, and appears to have support from shultz
shultz' talks here are intended to prepare for the next superpower summit meeting between president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev. it is to be held in moscow, likely by mid-summer, but the date has not been set
a date could be set before shultz departs
shultz flew in from helsinki, finland, where on saturday he met with reporters to discuss soviet policy on human rights and regional problems
the presence of soviet troops in afghanistan and u.s. support for afghan rebels is also on the agenda. gorbachev announced earlier this month that a soviet pullout could begin may 15 and be completed within 10 months if u.n.-sponsored negotiations in geneva next month can put together a formal agreement by march 15
talks between soviet and u.s. officials traditionally cover four areas _ arms control, human rights, matters of bilateral interest and regional conflicts. rescheduled for today, airline employees to go to work. picks up 8th graf, `the 12:01...'</note>
talks between representatives of pan am corp. and 4,500 teamsters workers broke up sunday after continuing six hours past a 12:01 a.m. strike deadline, and union officials said employees would return to work sunday
the negotiations, aimed at resolving a dispute over pan am's demands for wage cuts and work-rule changes, were scheduled to resume sunday afternoon, said alex calder, a spokesman for the teamsters' airlines division
calder refused to discuss the status of the talks, saying the union leadership is hesitant to read too much into them
earlier sunday, william genoese, director of the airline division of teamsters local 732, announced that the workers had overwhelmingly authorized a strike, although he refused to release figures on the vote
these people are fed up,'' he said of the workers. the teamsters union contends it has made sufficient concessions to aid the financially ailing airline
pan am said that in case of a strike, it would maintain service by using replacement workers for the union members, who are employed as reservation clerks, customer service agents and in various clerical positions
pan am spokeswoman pamela hanlon said talks resumed at 10:30 p.m. saturday in new york at the request of a federal mediator
genoese said that despite the resumption of talks, there was a good chance of a strike. ``they waited too long. they dragged their feet,'' he said
the 12:01 a.m. deadline marked the end of a 30-day cooling-off period mandated by the government
the transport workers union voted friday not to support a teamsters' strike, and the financially ailing airline's pilots, flight attendants and flight engineers unions were not expected to back a strike
another pan am spokesman, jeff kriendler, said: ``the company is prepared to negotiate and wants a settlement. but if there is a strike we're fully prepared to operate.''
replacement workers, including management employees, were trained and ready to replace strikers, kriendler said
genoese said thursday that there was enough support for local 732 among other teamsters locals to cut off the airline's supplies of fuel, laundry and liquor around the world
the union represents workers at airports in boston, detroit, chicago, seattle, san francisco, san diego, los angeles, hawaii, houston, washington, new york and the florida cities of tampa, orlando and miami
about 2,300 of the workers are employed in new york and another 1,300 are in miami, goenese said
china reaped a $1 billion bonanza from weapons sales to iran last year, but is not expected to block an iranian arms embargo the united states is seeking in the united nations security council, u.s. officials said
the most recent u.s. intelligence estimates show that iran received up to 65 percent of its armaments from china last year, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity
american experts were quoted four months ago as saying chinese arms to iran were flowing at a rate of $1 billion a year, and the officials said that figure appears to have held up through the end of 1987
china also has sold huge amounts of weapons to iraq since the beginning of the iran-iraq war in 1980, but those sales slacked off last year, the officials said
there is still some question whether china is continuing to ship silkworm missiles to iran, according to the officials. these anti-ship missiles are the most notorious weapons in the iranian arsenal because they have been fired from shoreline batteries against international shipping in the persian gulf
the united states _ notably during a face-to-face confrontation by secretary of state george p. shultz in beijing last spring _ pleaded with china to stop the silkworm sales. for months, china denied the sales were taking place. then it acknowledged that iran may have been getting them indirectly through other countries and said it would try to stop that flow
this was construed as a face-saving way for china to say two things at the same time: they weren't selling silkworms to iran and that they were stopping them,'' an official said
also in iran's arsenal of chinese weapons are small arms, ammunition, machine guns and artillery, the officials said
the united states has protested the sales by ending a decade-long process of easing restrictions on the type of high-tech u.s. equipment china can buy. the decision will make it harder for china to buy computers and advanced electronics now reaching the market
according to one official, china has sold $7 billion in arms to iran and iraq since 1979, but congressional research service estimates indicate this figure might be inflated
in a report to congress last may, the service estimated that china's total arms sales to all third world countries totaled nearly $7.3 billion between 1979 and 1986. in the last four years of that period, china ranked fourth, behind the soviet union, the united states and france, in that order, in sales to third world countries
even with the discrepancy, ``there's no doubt that chinese sales to iran are very large,'' a congressional expert said
last july 20, the u.n. security council passed a resolution calling upon iran and iraq to end the war and said it would follow with a second resolution imposing an arms embargo on whichever country failed to heed the truce call
iraq has agreed to a cease-fire, but iran has not, so the united states and its allies on the u.n. body are now pressing for the arms embargo against tehran
shultz is expected to press the soviets, during talks in moscow this week, to agree to the second resolution
china, a permanent member of the security council, theoretically could veto an arms embargo resolution
an official specializing in chinese affairs said, however, the chinese are unlikely to exercise that right
china has always taken a passive role at the united nations,'' the official said. `` being influential at the u.n. goes against the chinese view that it should not seek to hegemony in world affairs, as it charges the united states and the soviet union always does.''
they are not going to favor the resolution _ it will hurt them too much financially _ but they probably won't block it,'' the official said
state officials have silenced a proposal by two units of the department of environmental protection for a morning ``quiet hour.''
employees in the water pollution and waste disposal units planned to initiate a ``quiet hour'' from 10 a.m. to noon. during that time employees wouldn't take calls or visitors without an appointment
supervisors said the department's office building in hartford was so noisy and crowded that employees needed the time to get work done
the building is a pit. we've got to do something to make it possible for people to do their work,'' said michael j. harder, assistant director of the department's water compliance unit
the proposal, however, was rejected. ``we're a public agency, and we have to remain open to the public,'' deputy dep commissioner john anderson said friday
two men were accused in a federal indictment of persuading more than 1,000 people to invest $12.6 million in recordings by celebrities, which were promoted as tax shelters
the recordings, which included a cooking lesson, sports instruction program and religious story, were performed by celebrities including tommy lasorda, vincent price, billy dee williams, pat boone, dale evans and shirley jones
none of the celebrities was accused of wrongdoing
according to the indictment unsealed friday, the programs were operated in 1981 and 1982 by entertainment marketing co. inc., which was based in hollywood and controlled by johnathan d'orio, 40, now of akron, ohio, and daniel f. schustack, 38, now of new york city
the indictment alleged the two bilked 1,150 investors out of more than $12.6 million by inflating the value of the audio tapes and promising huge tax credits
the internal revenue service disallowed the tax deductions and credits and assessed interest and substantial penalties against investors, katz said
d'orio was due in court in akron on monday, while schustack will be summoned to appear in court in los angeles, assistant u.s. attorny david katz said
the number of homeless people in boston rose more than 17 percent to about 3,400 in the last 15 months, and more women and children are living on boston's streets and in its shelters than ever before, according to preliminary results of a survey
ann maguire, director of boston's emergency shelter commission, said the new figures were complied from a homeless census taken early friday, when more than 100 volunteers counted homeless people in city streets and alleys
boston officials said no other city in the country does similar street counts. the first street census of the city's homeless, conducted in november 1986, found about 2,900 homeless people
of the approximately 3,400 counted friday, 20.4 percent were women, 10.5 percent children and adolescents and the rest men, maguire said saturday
a survey of 26 cities released by the u.s. conference of mayors in december found a 21 percent increase in the demand for emergency shelter, ranging from a 44 percent jump in kansas city to no change in louisville
the national survey found families with children accounting for one third of homeless in 1987
boston mayor raymond l. flynn is chairman of the mayors conference task force on hunger and homelessness. boston increases its number of shelter beds last year by 47 percent, maguire said
in a telephone interview saturday night, flynn called on other cities to conduct similar surveys to give the mayors conference a weapon during congressional budget deliberations
flynn said most members of congress ``believe the problem is basically confined to street people and don't realize the number of families and mentally ill. we need the data to impress that upon them.''
a sphinx small enough to fit in the palm of a hand was found in the tomb of a woman who died 2,000 years ago, one of a bounty of clues that may link two ancient civilizations, experts said sunday
the sphinx, only 1{ inches tall, was among 420 trinkets found dangling from a necklace found at the burial site, which dates back to 200 b.c. to 200 a.d., abdel-aziz soweileh, bahrain's antiquities supervisor, was quoted as saying in the newspaper akhbar al-khaleej
also found was a scarab, a beetle-shaped insignia, and a perfume vial. analysis of a skeleton in the grave indicated it belonged to a woman who was between the ages of 25 and 30 when she died
the newspaper quoted soweileh as saying that the items may link bahrain's ancient dilmun civilizations with pharaonic egypt. the sphinx typically has the body of a lion and head of a man
an official in the state of himachal pradesh said sunday that 55 people died when a bus skidded into a gorge, the united news of india reported
the death toll from saturday's accident had been put at 35, but state transport minister sat mahajan said 20 additional bodies were recovered from the gorge at ghanog nallah, uni said
the mountainous area is 185 miles north of new delhi
a supermarket chain has found a way to slash the price of a little item that almost everyone buys and always at full price: u.s. postage stamps
the huge safeway chain is selling booklets containing $4.40 worth of stamps for $4 in the baltimore, washington and richmond areas
there are two catches: sales are limited to one per family per store visit and the stamps come inside a booklet of price-off coupons, which only adds to the bargain for coupon clippers
both safeway and the postal service expect to make money on the project. the postal service sells the stamps to the stores at full price. safeway would benefit from sales generated by the coupons, some of which are for safeway products
stamp-ad, inc., of houston originated the idea. the company sells the coupon ads to manufacturers. the advertising sales cover both the cost of the booklet and the difference in the stamp price
brad mcclain, president of stamp-ad, said he got the idea by wondering about more effective ways to get cents-off coupons into the hands of consumers
my wife is an avid coupon user and every sunday my living room looked like a cyclone hit it because of clipping the newspaper supplements,'' he said in a telephone interview
though the program is still in the testing stage, ``it's doing quite well,'' mcclain said
besides the washington area, safeway has tested the cheap stamp sales in houston and denver, said safeway advertising manager don zettle of landover, md
does the postmaster general know about this?'' ask lighthearted advertisements for the washington-area sales
the answer is yes, and the u.s. postal service is delighted with the idea
as far as i'm concerned they can give them away,'' said charles hughes, retail sales manager for the postal service
for us, it's a very successful way of getting stamps into hands of people,'' hughes said
folks who work a 10-or-12-hour day and stop by for a tv-dinner and salad on their way home now can buy stamps, too, without having to go to a post office, he said. many supermarkets have long been selling stamps, which they buy at full price, as a convenience to customers, but this is the first time they have, in effect, gone on sale, said hughes
the real proof of the pudding to (the stores) won't be known until people come back in and start redeeming the coupons,'' he said
hughes said there have been other proposals to combine stamps and advertising, but they have not met with much success
periodically people suggest selling the right to advertise right on postage stamps themselves or gluing the stamps onto advertising labels and then selling both at a price lower than the stamp, hughes said
a 1909 law prohibits the attaching of advertising to official government material
even without the law, stamp collectors would resist the idea of ads on stamps, and the postal service doesn't want to be in the position of deciding who can buy ads and who cannot, hughes said
in the safeway promotion, the stamps are in a separate folder attached to the coupon booklet and can be pulled out for use separately
attackers hurled homemade bombs at opposition party processions on the eve of a national holiday and injured 20 people, police said sunday
the injured included two policemen who were escorting the marches in the port city of chittagong around midnight saturday
the attackers' identities were not known, police said when contacted by telephone in chittagong, 145 miles southeast of dhaka
the marchers, from the bangladesh nationalist party and the pro-moscow communist party of bangladesh, were headed to the martyrs monument to place wreaths as part of sunday's nationwide observance of language martyrs day
the holiday commemorates the killing of six dhaka university students in 1952, when bangladesh was part of pakistan. the students were shot to death by police during a demonstration demanding that bengali be made a state language
bengali is the main language of bangladesh, formerly called east pakistan. after the 1952 language campaign, bengali was made an official language of pakisan, along with the urdu of west pakistan. but the urdu-speaking west continued to dominate the nation until bangladesh won independence in 1971
language martyrs day was observed sunday throughout bangladesh, including dhaka, the capital, where opposition leaders sheik hasina and khaleda zia placed wreaths at the martyrs monument outside dhaka university. there were no reports of trouble outside chittagong
president hussain muhammad ershad, a former army general who writes poetry, planned to observe the day by reciting some of his compositions to guests at his home
hasina is leader of the awami league and mrs. zia is head of the bangladesh nationalist party. both women are spearheading a 3-month-old opposition campaign for ershad's resignation
the protests frequently have turned violent as the opposition presses ahead with strikes and rallies aimed at forcing ershad to vacate the presidency, which he assumed after leading a bloodless coup in 1982
one of the nation's leading medical journals is headed for court in what may be its most serious editorial controversy _ the publication of an anonymous article by a doctor who described committing a mercy killing
the cook county state's attorney's office wants the name of the doctor, but the journal of the american medical association, citing a state free-press law, says it will be in court monday seeking to quash the subpoena
letters to the journal have been about evenly split on whether jama should have printed the anonymous essay
it's not the first time in recent years the 105-year-old journal, the official publication of the country's largest organization of physicians, has found itself in a clash over its contents
in 1984, a u.s. army medical expert charged that ama officials killed a story he had submitted on smoking so they could win favor with politicians in tobacco-growing states
two years earlier, the journal was accused of publishing an article on heart medicine to placate a major drug company that was an advertiser
jama officials denied the charges in both cases
the latest case involves the broader issues of press freedom and mercy killing
in the jan. 8 essay, titled, ``it's over, debbie,'' a doctor described injecting a lethal dose of morphine into a woman dying of ovarian cancer. he wrote that he did not know the patient, but was asked to check on her and moved by her plea of ``let's get this over with.''
ama officials said they did not verify the incident but believed it was based on fact. they said the author had requested anonymity. the essay did not indicate where the doctor lived or where the incident occurred
last week, the cook county state's attorney's office served jama with a subpoena ordering it to name the writer of the article
ama attorney kirk johnson said the journal would not comply. jama officials said their attorneys would file a motion monday to dismiss the subpoena
the magazine's editors invoked the illinois reporters' privilege act, saying it protected information obtained by reporters in the course of their work. that means a judge must decide whether the release of the author's identity is essential to the public interest
jane kirtley, executive director of the reporters' committee for freedom of the press, believes jama shouldn't have to release the doctor's name
even assuming a criminal activity occurred _ which i'm not saying it did _ what possible justification does illinois have to say it occurred in their state? jama gets articles from all over the country,'' said ms. kirtley, whose washington-based group provides legal and research assistance for journalists
jama, which has a circulation of 600,000 worldwide, including 365,000 in the united states, is one of the nation's most widely read medical journals
though it is generally considered less prestigious than the boston-based new england journal of medicine, it has ``a high impact in clinical practice,'' said dr. eugene garfield, president of the institute for scientific information, based in philadelphia
dr. george lundberg, editor in chief of jama, said friday he received unanimous support from the ama board on his decision to run the article
we believe that the great issues of the day in medicine should be debated primarily on the pages of jama,'' he said
lundberg, 54, has sole authority to approve jama articles for publication. when he became editor in 1982, he said he intended to handle controversial issues more aggressively and make doctors more aware of patients as people
jama has received 90 to 100 letters in response to the anonymous article, according to a spokesman for the ama, who refused to give his name
while some of the letters have voiced opposition to euthanasia, the rest have addressed whether jama should have published the article _ and are evenly divided on whether the journal should have published the article, the spokesman said
dr. edward j. huth, editor of the philadelphia-based annals of internal medicine, noted jama's willingness to take on controversial issues such as aids and artificial hearts
however, he said, ``from my own point of view, we would never publish an anonymous piece in a scholarly journal.''
ed kowas has a lot of friends in mendocino, even though he wasn't very honest with them during his more than three years in town
they don't seem troubled that the local radio talk show host's name is really leon edmond kowalski, that he concealed his past, or that he's under a federal indictment and plans to plead guilty to a charge of income tax evasion
i don't think anybody's crazy about the irs,'' snapped supporter paula creasey of nearby albion. ``i'm sympathetic toward ed; he's done a good job on his talk show.''
kowalski arrived in mendocino, a coastal tourist center some 140 miles north of san francisco, in november 1984 and took a variety of jobs
by that time, the internal revenue service had already been investigating him for more than a year
he was intentionally vague about his past, and traveled by bicycle because he was afraid to apply for a california driver's license
we figured he was on the lam from something, but we thought maybe it was a bad marriage,'' said bruce anderson, editor-publisher of the anderson valley (calif.) advertiser and an occasional guest on kowalski's show
a federal grand jury in grand rapids, mich., indicted him in december 1986, and just over two weeks ago two irs agents showed up at radio station kmfb, where ``ed kowas'' was host of the daily morning talk show ``on the record,'' and arrested him
the station received more than 500 letters and calls of support. a man from michigan sent in a check for $25 to help defray legal costs
kmfb president george anderson put up $5,000 as surety on $50,000 bail and pledged his $1,300-a-month employee ``100 percent support from me; i will do whatever i can.''
the good feelings aren't universal. a week after kowalski's arrest, a woman called him on the air, demanding he be held accountable
he readily agreed, telling his audience he'll probably have to go to jail for awhile, then spend the rest of his life repaying the money he owes
i made a mistake and i'm ready to pay for it,'' kowalski, 47, said in a telephone interview
i plan on pleading guilty,'' he said. ``what i did was wrong. i'm not going to try and weasel out. i hope that people will learn from my mistake.''
last week, he agreed to plead guilty to one count in exchange for permission to have his case adjudicated in san francisco. he could draw five years in jail and a $150,000 fine on charges he failed to report about $75,000 in income on his 1981 and 1982 returns
kowalski said he was undone because he took on too many burdens
for six years i was a deputy district attorney in st. joe county, ind., prosecuting criminal cases, including felony jury trials,'' he said. ``then, i decided to make a major transition.''
in 1972 and 1973, he said, it seemed that more and more criminal defendants were turning out to be vietnam veterans. ``it bothered me, and i made a determination to use my skills on the opposite, the defense side.''
kowalski moved to lake county, mich., where he went into general practice. in january 1979 he was named a part-time probate-juvenile judge, a post he held for four years. since the job was only part-time, he started representing farmers in chapter 11 bankruptcy cases
it was a very unprofitable situation representing the farmers, because of their own insolvency,'' said kowalski. he estimated he was making about $100,000 a year at the time
in august 1983, said kowalski, the irs notified him he was under investigation. by that time, he said, he had three children and was divorced from his second wife
he said that when he left michigan in 1984, the irs ``had made no seizures, had filed no charges, had made no type of lien against me. there was no order that i shouldn't leave town. i left.''
he claims he never knew he had been indicted and never realized he was a fugitive, though he admits he had suspicion
i made an error,'' he said. ``i was totally wrong. i plan on pleading guilty, paying any kind of penalty and advising others not to make the same mistake.'' visit</head> confirmation, details and positive identifications. picks up 8th graf pvs, `a new ...</note>
israeli soldiers shot three palestinians to death sunday in the west bank, the army said, and clashes broke out in towns and villages throughout the occupied territories
a military spokesman said two people were killed in the town of nablus, 40 miles north of jerusalem, and another person was killed in ramallah, 10 miles north of jerusalem
a doctor at al-ittihad hospital identified the nablus victims as ramez abu amara, 18, who was shot in the heart, and ahmed saler abu saler, 50, shot in the head
the doctor, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 17 other people were being treated at the hospital for gunshot wounds
the third victim was identified by hospital sources in ramallah and by the arab-run palestine press service as kamal mohammed fares, 24. they said he was shot in the chest during a demonstration at the deir ammar refugee camp and died in the emergency room
hospital sources said two people were being treated for gunshot wounds
according to u.n. figures, 62 arabs have been killed since unrest broke out dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip. the figure includes the death of a 12-year-old boy who died saturday in the tulkarem refugee camp. the army is investigating the circumstances of his death
a new leaflet was distributed throughout the occupied territories, setting out a plan for palestinian resistance to coincide with this week's visit of secretary of state george p. shultz
the leaflet, signed by the ``united national leadership of the uprising,'' called for a series of strikes and demonstrations
let us increase the occupation's political, moral and economic losses and remember that the vietnamese won their war against the americans not only with guns but also through the struggle of their peasants,'' it said
in what has become a daily scenario, arabs in the west bank and gaza strip, seized by israel during the 1967 middle east war, threw stones and bottles at soldiers, who retaliated with tear gas
meanwhile, the u.s. aircraft carrier coral sea, along with the yorktown, a guided missile cruiser, and the destroyer rickets, dropped anchor in haifa for what officials said was a regularly scheduled visit, to last about a week
asked if the visit was connected to wednesday's kidnapping in southern lebanon of u.s. marine lt. col. william higgins, a u.n. observer, rear adm. john k. redy said no, but added the force would be ready to take any action
i'm aware of what's going on in south lebanon,'' he said. ``our mission is not connected to that. i will not comment on operational matters, but the mission of the sixth fleet is to be ready to meet any contingency or any eventuality.''
a clandestine pro-iranian shiite moslem extremist group claims to have abducted higgins
shultz is tentatively scheduled to arrive on thursday for talks on how to achieve a middle east settlement
the leaflet's outline for ``national outrage in the face of the shultz visit'' calls for a day of solidarity monday with those who have died, been arrested or wounded in the unrest
a national hunger strike is set for tuesday, general strikes for wednesday and thursday, a day of demonstrations all over the territories on friday and a general defiance of curfews on saturday
it was the eighth such leaflet published since the uprising began
cardinal jaime sin said sunday that vigilante groups should concentrate on helping the poor and leave the 19-year-old battle against communist rebels to the military
sin, the roman catholic archbishop of manila, said it also was important to distinguish between rebels who espouse communism and those who fight because they are poor and jobless with no hope of lawful endeavors
those rebels ``must be reintegrated again into society,'' he said in a pastoral letter read in churchs throughout the capital
for those who take the gun, who espouse violence, who seek to overthrow the government, who act without any regard for the value of human life, the military authorities would be in the best position to prescribe and implement the correct strategy,'' sin said
we in the church will be there to support the government's counter-insurgency efforts,'' he said. ``it is our duty to be peacemakers and we will do everything we can to promote peace.''
sin previously had expressed support for the military-backed vigilante groups. but he said sunday that when he made his earlier remarks, ``i was expressing my approval of their concern for the welfare and suffering of the poor.''
the military maintains the vigilantes are needed to supplement the armed forces. critics charge the vigilantes are little more than armed thugs who are guilty of widespread human rights violations
sir john mills, the elegant british actor who won an oscar in 1970 for his role as a hunchback in ``ryan's daughter,'' turns 80 monday with tributes from fans and colleagues in a country that takes its leading men seriously
the actor, whose career has spanned 55 years and more than 120 films and plays, is being feted with honorific articles and film retrospectives
his great achievement has been to show the qualities of english decency operating at every level of society,'' wrote jeffrey richards in the daily telegraph in an appreciation entitled ``the english everyman.''
sir richard attenborough, the academy award-winning director of ``gandhi'' and a longtime friend and colleague, said mills ``gave film acting in england an integrity and a stature that nobody else did precisely in that way.''
in a tv program, ``john mills: 80 years on,'' aired friday by the british broadcasting corp., attenborough said mills possessed ``the image and the charisma of a major movie star who is essentially an indigenous movie star. ... he belongs to his own country and epitomizes his own country.''
in the same program, mills tells interviewer christopher frayling of his particular affection for britain
i'm mad about the country. i really like it. i've been all over the world, everywhere, (but) ... i'm always absolutely delighted to come home,'' said mills, who was knighted by queen elizabeth ii in 1976
these are appropriate sentiments for an actor whose career embraces such classic british films as ``in which we serve'' in 1942, noel coward and david lean's stirring war movie; lean's ``great expectations'' in 1946; bryan forbes' ``the wrong box'' in 1966; and attenborough's own ``oh, what a lovely war'' in 1969
many of the films are featured in a 10-week retrospective beginning sunday on bbc tv, and a 20-film series at the national film theater that culminates feb. 28 with a lecture by the actor
despite his screen acclaim playing archetypically british military servicemen alongside a variety of character parts, mills began his career as a theatrical song-and-dance man in the chorus line of ``the five o'clock girl'' at the london hippodrome in 1929
by the early 1930s, he was appearing in noel coward's lavish ``cavalcade'' and in his 1932 ``words and music.''
his first screen role was as a hoofing midshipman opposite jessie matthews in ``the midshipmaid'' in 1932, but his first significant part was in the world war i naval adventure movie, ``brown on resolution'' in 1935
the 1930s and '40s saw his burgeoning professional relationships with noel coward and david lean, as well as the beginning of his friendship with attenborough, his co-star in ``in which they serve'' and his director on three different movies: ``lovely war,'' ``young winston,'' and ``gandhi.''
in 1941, mills married the playwright and former actress mary hayley bell. they have three children, two of whom _ hayley and juliet _ are noted actresses
they're both awfully good,'' mills said
in 1970, the actor, known for his deftness with accents, won an oscar for best supporting actor playing the mute village idiot, michael, in ``ryan's daughter.''
it was weird,'' he joked. ``i just thought i'd been wasting my time for the past 55 years learning all these millions of lines, and then getting an oscar for not speaking.''
in 1980, he wrote his autobiography, ``up in the clouds, gentlemen please,'' and he has recently revived his stage career
two years ago, mills starred at the national theater opposite rosemary harris in brian clark's ``the petition,'' which later moved to london's commercial west end
last april, he opened on broadway in an all-star revival of george bernard shaw's ``pygmalion,'' playing doolittle, the dustman
but he said his grandchildren have their own favorite mills role _ his part with madonna in last year's flop movie, ``who's that girl?''
(to them), that was the greatest thing i could possibly have done,'' mills said
six medical relief workers from ireland, belgium and the netherlands were abducted by a rebel group in the ethiopian province of tigre, officials said sunday
kidnapped were two nuns and a doctor from ireland and two belgian doctors and a dutch nurse affiliated with the international aid group medicins sans frontieres-belgium, said reginald moreels, a spokesman for the medical group
he said the six were kidnapped thursday from their base in idaga hamous, about 340 miles north of the capital of addis ababa, by members of the rebel popular front for the liberation of the tigre
moreels said the six apparently were unharmed
no reason for the abduction was immediately known, but moreels said fighting in the northern province had been intense over the last few weeks and the rebels might have taken the doctors to treat their wounded. similar abductions to treat wounded have happened in the past
secessionist rebels in tigre have fought the government of lt. col. mengistu haile mariam for several years
the two belgian doctors were identified as germaine hanquet and michel moreau and the dutch nurse as roland raaijmaekers
the three irishwomen were identified by the aid organization concern in dublin as dr. anne broderick, sister jacinta o'sullivan and sister bernadette mangan. both are from the order of the little sisters of the assumption
the medical team was working on medical and nutritional projects in idaga hamous, which has a population of about 3,000
medicins sans frontieres, which means ``doctors without borders,'' has sent medical personnel to crisis areas around the world
after sitting on the sidelines in iowa and falling short of his aim in new hampshire, albert gore jr. has two weeks to show that he too is a real contender for the democratic presidential nomination
gore, the tennesse senator who has made much of his southern roots, long ago crafted a southern strategy for winning the democratic presidential nomination that is 100 percent dependent on achieving a breakthrough on one day
that day, march 8, looms large now that the race for the nomination has moved to his turf. twenty states hold democratic delegates contests then, including every state of the south save one
gore's strategy flies in the face of the conventional wisdom that, as in the past, to win the nomination a candidate in either party must first score a success in the earliest contests of iowa and new hampshire
to disprove that thinking, gore must mount in the two weeks before super tuesday a campaign that appeals brodadly to southern white voters _ since jesse jackson figures to take most of the black vote
and gore must do so against the attention that naturally has fallen on the democratic race's two winners to date _ richard gephardt, who won in iowa, and michael dukakis, who won in new hampshire
it's no coincidence that those two rivals were the ones gore targeted with a flurry of barbed attacks as quickly as the first southern debate began in dallas last thursday
he's got to make something happen,'' said a rival strategist, polltaker ed reilly of gephardt's campaign
gephardt was more blunt: ``he probably thinks i'm ahead in the south and he's got to jump start his campaign to have a chance.''
gore and his strategists have long contended he already had ``a ticket to super tuesday'' because gore is from the south and because he early on decided to forego iowa's caucus system to concentrate on the delegate-rich states that vote march 8. he has sought endorsements from democratic officials to demonstrate he is the region's choice, and has positioned himself to the right of his rivals on defense and foreign policy issues
we must do well on super tuesday _ there's no ifs, ands or buts about it,'' gore campaign manager fred martin said
yet at the same time, gephardt and dukakis roll into the south with the momentum their initial victories provide. dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, has an organization in place in the south that is well regarded, and gephardt, a missouri congressman, has honed a populist, protectionist message that has played well with blue-collar and conservative voters elsewhere and may do the same with those voters in the south
and after this tuesday, one or both may have more victories to point to from the smaller contests in south dakota and minnesota
while gore publicly was proclaiming all his bets were on the south, there were indications his forces hoped their quiet campaign in new hampshire would allow him to slip into the pack of leaders with a good showing. the tennessee senator didn't spend the full week before new hampshire's primary last tuesday in that state, as did his rivals, but gore devoted a significant amount of attention and money to the state. ``they did it very quietly,'' new hampshire party chairman joe grandmaison said
gore never predicted victory, but always said he had one aim: ``do a good deal better than people are expecting.''
he didn't. gore finished fifth with 7 percent of the vote, besting only former arizona gov. bruce babbitt, who quickly dropped out, and former colorado sen. gary hart, who most democratic insiders think should too. gore as much as acknowledged his failure there when asked about jackson, whom he trailed in new hampshire
the truth of it is,'' gore said, ``neither one of us did all that well in new hampshire.''
had he run a surprising third, gore would have come to the south having already demonstrated he can command votes and run competitively outside his region
because it requires campaigning in a large region in little time, television will dominate in the southern campaign. gore forces say they expect to spend at least $2 million to $3 million, and dukakis is well positioned to match or exceed that
while gore has been working long and hard in the south, he was doing it at a time when some political analysts believe few people had begun focusing on the presidential campaign _ except perhaps those who happen to live in iowa and new hampshire
we only started our tv ads a week ago, and all attention has been on the early contests,'' gore said
the early contests are over now, and al gore has two weeks to light some fires
four prominent israeli writers sharply criticized american jews for failing to speak out against israeli policies in the occupied territories and said their silence amounts to support for the ``wrong side.''
in a letter published sunday in the new york times, the israelis urged jews in the united states to condemn the army crackdown on palestinian protesters in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
by their very silence, they (american jews) are massively intervening in israeli politics and silently but effectively supporting one side, the tragicially wrong side,'' a.b. yehoshua, amos oz, amos elon and yehuda amichai wrote. ``we implore them to speak up.''
yehoshua told the associated press he hoped involvement of american jews would increase pressure on washington to seek a speedy settlement of the arab-israeli conflict
at least the u.s. administration, which is very influenced by the jewish position, will realize there is no unconditional support for the hawkish position,'' yehoshua said
yehoshua is a writer of fiction with many best sellers, including ``the lover.'' oz is a writer of fiction and essays whose books include ``here and there in the land of israel.''
amichai is a poet and elon is a journalist who has written books on israel
several prominent american jews, including movie director woody allen and rabbi alexander schindler, leader of jewish reform congregations, in the past few weeks have condemned army policies in the occupied territories
but other american jewish leaders have reiterated the traditional position of non-interference in israel's security concerns
yehoshua said such a position is no longer valid
israelis are split into two camps,'' he said. ``there is a combat between two ideologies. american jews have to speak out. they can't be indifferent to what is happening.''
in their letter, the writers sharply criticized israel's policies during 20 years of occupation and the crackdown on palestinian protests that began dec. 8
more than 20 years of short-sighted israeli policies lie battered in the rock-strewn streets of gaza and the west bank,'' they wrote. ``shooting palestinian demonstrators, expelling them or breaking their bones will not make these `policies' more workable or more just
there is no military solution. there is only a political solution based ... on partitioning the country between the two national movements that have fought over it so long,'' the letter said
american jews provide important financial support to israel and also lobby on behalf of the jewish state in the united states. since 1975, american jews have contributed $500 million a year to israel in private donations
about 6 million jews live in the united states and form the largest jewish community in the world
traffic has been banned from most streets in the heart of florence in an attempt to save art treasures and humans from harmful exhaust
the ban began saturday, but its test will come with the start of the work week monday
from 7:30 a.m. to 7:30 p.m., only buses, taxis, residents and commercial traffic making deliveries will be allowed in the center of the city
all traffic was banned in some spots. they include the squares in front of two of florence's most famous churches: santa croce, whose dark interior shelters the tombs of michelangelo, machiavelli and galileo; and santa maria novella
traffic commissioner graziano cioni told reporters saturday that florence's heavy traffic had been linked to an increase in lung cancer. the exhaust also eats away at churches and renaissance palaces, forcing costly restoration and sometimes irreparable damage. legalization</head>
employing upbeat songs and down-home block parties, federal immigration authorities are launching a show-biz campaign to combat disappointing results from their 9-month-old alien amnesty program
with the may 4 deadline fast approaching, some critics say it's all too late. nevertheless, radio shows, a parade float, street parties, bumper stickers and billboards are all part of the u.s. immigration and naturalization service's package of ploys for taking the message to eligible aliens
art zuniga, an ins official, even wrote a song _ ``amnistia,'' spanish for ``amnesty.'' the ins has arranged for him to record it this week and he will promote it at spanish-language radio stations
it starts with, `listen friends to the story i'm going to tell you,''' zuniga said. ``what comes to mind when i wrote this is that in a sense it's a gift from this country to them.''
the ins also plans to start putting fact sheets in tortilla packages around the state, with the cooperation of several bakeries
critics, though, wonder why the heavy promotion didn't start sooner
i wish they'd done it a year ago when they needed to,'' said carter white, director of the american civil liberties union's south texas project based in san juan. ``i think it's obviously designed to counter the growing sentiment that they need to extend the deadline.''
under the immigration reform and control act of 1986, most eligible aliens were given one year, beginning last may 5, to apply for legal u.s. residency if able to prove they have lived in this country illegally since jan. 1, 1982. agricultural workers have until nov. 30 to apply
the ins had predicted about 2 million would apply for amnesty, but as of last week the total was slightly more than 1.2 million nationwide, according to the agency
in texas, where up to 300,000 applicants were expected, 189,988 had applied by last week
immigration officials are fighting a proposal in congress that would extend the deadline for a year
we've seen that the national campaign wasn't bringing in as many people as we hoped it would, so we decided to start at the grassroots level,'' said virginia kice, a former television news reporter the ins hired last year to help promote the program in south texas. ``we need to try some more eye-catching things.''
one of the latest promotional devices is a parade float the ins built for the washington's birthday celebration in laredo on saturday and other events in south texas between now and the deadline
the agency also has scheduled a series of live radio broadcasts with spanish-language stations at various legalization centers around the state. its most recent radio show, last tuesday in arlington, drew a crowd of about 500, ortiz said
clara escobedo de martinez, at 98 the oldest to apply for amnesty under the new law, has agreed to do a television commercial for the ins
the agency also has rented billboards and lighted outdoor signs and ordered bumper stickers bearing the bilingual slogan: ``ahora si, con amnesty!'' (amnesty now!)
on march 12, boy scouts will be distributing leaflets door-to-door in the impoverished unincorporated rural areas of the lower rio grande valley known as ``colonias.'' at the same time, a mobile sound truck will tour the colonias announcing the deadline
carol wolchok, director of the american bar association's immigration law implementation project, said many eligible aliens will not apply, either because they do not know about the program or because they do not understand it
the publicity is important, and it should continue,'' she said, ``but the program should be extended.''
a prominent news magazine was banned temporarily because it printed a cartoon depicting president kurt waldheim of austria with a nazi swastika over his mouth, according to a published report
the biweekly duga was back on the newsstands friday after a four-day ban that followed publication of the cartoon, the daily politika ekspres reported. the magazine was banned before it was distributed and new editions contained an advertisement in place of the cartoon
the belgrade public prosecutor slapped the temporary ban on the magazine because the cartoon ``offended a foreign head of state,'' politika ekspres said in its saturday editions. offending a foreign head of state is illegal in yugoslavia
politika ekspres reported that the public prosecutor acted only after ``getting a signal'' from yugoslavia's foreign ministry
in 1948, yugoslavia placed waldheim on a list of suspected war criminals and applied for his extradition, but never pursued the request
criticism about waldheim's world war ii conduct surfaced during his 1986 campaign for president. a report by a commission of historians said this month that waldheim, a german army lieutenant who served in the balkans, was in close proximity to nazi atrocities, was in a position to know about them and did nothing to prevent them
waldheim has denied any wrongdoing. the lingering controversy has led to calls from former supporters that he resign as president
makoto miike, former japanese postal and telecommunications minister and the eldest member of japan's house of councilors, died of a liver ailment at a tokyo hospital, a hospital official said sunday. he was 87
miike, who died saturday, had been a member of the upper house of the governing liberal democratic party since 1986
he first was elected to the house of representatives, the lower house, in 1949 and was postal and telecommunciations minister from july to december 1972 in the government of prime minister kakuei tanaka
forty years ago this week, the communist takeover in czechoslovakia sealed the fate of the last land in eastern europe to join the soviet bloc
in well-organized maneuvers in five tumultuous days in february 1948, the communists assumed control in a nation where they had built up power steadiy since winning close to 40 percent of the vote in national elections in 1946
posters showing a triumphant klement gottwald, then the leader of the communist party, now adorn public buildings all over czechoslovakia as authorities mark the anniversary with a traditional communist display of public pageantry
in prague, party leaders will hold a ceremonial meeting on wednesday and preside thursday over a mass rally in the historic old town square, scene of a triumphant speech by gottwald four days before he became head of the first all-communist government on feb. 25, 1948
in a land keenly aware of its turbulent history, the celebrations fall in a year popularly known as ``the big eight'' for its plethora of significant anniversaries
in 1918, czechoslovakia became an independent democracy. in 1938, it was occupied by the nazis. in 1948, the communists took over and in 1968, soviet-led warsaw pact tanks crushed a communist-led reform, which advocated changes similar to those now occurring in the soviet union
each of these events colors the mixed feelings of czechoslovaks old enough to recall the hectic days in 1948, a heady time for young communists getting their first taste of power
it was the lost revolution,'' sighed a longtime communist, speaking on condition of anonymity
a survivor of the purge of 500,000 party members that followed the 1968 crackdown, the man recalled the enthusiasm, hard work and honesty of party workers 40 years ago
today, the communists dominate public life. but new communist leader milos jakes finds himself calling for an end to widespread corruption and must exhort workers to produce more under economic reforms that so far are more word than deed
czechoslovakia's economy, ranked tenth among industrialized nations before world war ii, is now badly in need of modernization and expensive ecological controls to undo some of the environmental damage wrought by rapid large-scale industrialization in the last 40 years
jakes must try to mobilize the country's 15.5 million people to boost growth and achieve declared goals of a vastly improved living standard by the year 2000. but the current communist leadership seems unwilling to countenance the political and cultural liberalization that could win widespread popular backing for their program of change
in a europe then overshadowed by the cold war, the communist takeover in czechoslovakia set the seal on soviet domination of eastern europe
yugoslavia was to pull out of moscow's orbit just four months later, but remained communist. soviet-style communism held sway in hungary, romania, bulgaria, east germany, poland and albania, which did not break with moscow until 1960, but also remained communist
hungary this week marks 40 years since its first cooperation and friendship treaty with moscow by hosting soviet president andrei gromyko
a senior soviet leader may also attend this week's celebrations in czechoslovakia, whose complex relations with moscow are marked by events both before and after the 1948 takeover
thousands of czechoslovaks openly protested the 1968 warsaw pact invasion and remain resentful of moscow for ordering it. yet many are now enthused by the reforms of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev
a prague man, who did not belong to the party, recalled czechoslovakia's enthusiasm with the soviet union in the 1930s, when russia's booming economic growth impressed many czechoslovaks who suffered under the depression
in 1938, he said, faith in the west was shaken when britain and france, the models for czechoslovakia's democrats, allowed adolf hitler's armies to march into prague on the pretext of reclaiming the ethnically german sudetenland
fear of germany took deep root, leading to popular support for the communist opposition to west germany after world war ii
the communists, the only political party to keep an organization going in the war, exploited such prewar sentiments after 1945 and built on popular sympathy for the soviet troops who liberated 90 percent of czechoslovakia from the nazis
by 1947, the soviets wielded enough influence for czechoslovakia to reject u.s. economic aid under the marshall plan _ an act that in western eyes put the nation firmly into the soviet bloc
internally, the decisive moment came when non-communist ministers resigned from czechoslovakia's government on feb. 20, 1948. after five days of street rallies and political struggle, the communists emerged as the sole governing force and soon initiated a stalinist-style terror that silenced their opposition
the future of the city's all-male clubs, the prestigious gathering places for business and relaxation, is about to be placed in the hands of the u.s. supreme court, until recently a masculine sanctum itself
the high court will be asked tuesday to decide whether the clubs must admit women. members say they are havens of tradition; opponents say they are bastions of bigotry
for the old boys of the `old boys network,' it is time to wake up,'' said marcella maxwell, outgoing chairperson of the city's commission on human rights
since 1986, the commission has charged four major clubs with discriminating against women. the union league club and the new york athletic club are awaiting hearings
the university club has agreed to admit women. the century association _ begun at a meeting of 19th-century intellectuals like william cullen bryant and james fenimore cooper _ has said it will comply if the supreme court upholds a local law requiring club integration
at issue is a law which says clubs that have more than 400 members, serve meals and charge non-members who use their facilities for business purposes cannot deny membership because of sex, race, creed, color or national origin
the law was challenged by the new york state club association, whose attorney, alan mansfield, refused to discuss the issue
in a supreme court brief, the city's corporation counsel says the clubs in question ``provide entry into what is popularly known as the old boy network. the exclusion of women has greatly hampered their ability to meet with other professionals and has limited the opportunity for lateral mobility or upward advancement.''
it is assumed that this is a very elitist and trivial issue that only affects a very small number of women who have made it to the top,'' said lynn hecht schafran of the national organization for women's legal defense and education fund
the fact is that people from middle management on up _ an academic, a lawyer _ are constantly invited and instructed to attend business functions at discriminatory clubs.''
two prominent all-women clubs, the cosmopolitan and the colony, also might fall under the criteria of the law, said schafran, but the men's clubs are better known as settings for business deals
schafran, who also is special counsel to the new york city commission on the status of women, guessed that about 25 clubs in the city fall under the law's jurisdiction. information on their finances and membership would be needed to know for sure
to sidestep the law, a club could simply stop taking money from non-members, said schafran. even so, women might be called upon to do business with members there under embarrassing conditions
i have a legion of stories: women having to eat in a private dining room while the men ate in the main dining room; being told they can't walk on the stairs, can't come in the front door; there are millions of variations on the theme,'' she said
dan perkes of pelham, a member of the new york athletic club, described it as ``a watering hole, a meeting place.'' its grill is open to men only
i've had business meetings there. if it involved a mixed group, we took them to the 11th floor dining room. i've never seen any overt fuss made of barring women,'' he said
the a.c. way is to keep a low profile,'' he added. ``as clubs go, it's probably been far more liberal in its operations than outfits like the university club, those old-line luncheon clubs.''
women are banned from the athletic club's steam room and pool because of male nudity. however, a pool at its westchester county facility is open to families
while the clubs also are banned from racial discrimination, sandler said the commission had received no formal complaints about that type of bias
if a man belonged to club and invited a black colleague to lunch and the colleague was told he couldn't sit in the lobby, the place would go up in smoke,'' schafran said
friends of a 23-year-old man who found him lying outside a tavern thought he had passed out, but they discovered after they drove him home that he had been stabbed, police said
arturo mata gutierrez was pronounced dead at the san fernando community hospital early saturday, police sgt. michael harvey said
gutierrez had accompanied his friends to the copa grenada bar friday and became separated from them during closing time, harvey said. when they found him outside, he said, they didn't notice he was bleeding
friends of a 23-year-old man who found him lying outside a tavern thought he had passed out, but discovered after they drove him home that he had been stabbed, police said
arturo mata gutierrez was pronounced dead at the san fernando community hospital early saturday, police sgt. michael harvey said
gutierrez had accompanied his friends to the copa grenada bar friday and became separated from them during closing time, harvey said. when they found him outside, he said, they didn't notice he was bleeding
pianist van cliburn is slowly returning to the public spotlight after breaking a long sabbatical with a performance at the white house during the summit meeting in december
that performance concluded with soviet leader mikhail gorbachev singing along as cliburn played ``moscow nights.''
president reagan told the pianist to stay in touch, because ``i might be able to get you some more bookings.''
in january, cliburn joined a stellar group of performers who appeared before the reagans at the inauguration of the bob hope cultural center in palm springs. nbc will broadcast the performance march 5
i suppose i was waiting for the right moment to come along. the white house was it,'' cliburn said in an interview published in sunday's dallas morning news
so far he has accepted only one other offer _ conductor zubin mehta's invitation to accompany the new york philharmonic on its tour to the soviet union in may and june
cliburn's big break came in moscow 30 years ago, when he won the tchaikovsky international competition at the age of 24
in 1978, cliburn gave up a busy concert schedule, intending to catch his breath for a year or so. the single year eventually stretched to 10
to be honest, i never thought the `intermission' would go on for 10 years. i guess it went on so long because i felt relaxed and was having such a good time simply living,'' he said
two libyans carrying arms and explosives were arrested trying to enter senegal at the dakar airport, communications minister djibo ka said sunday
ka, the government spokesman, told reporters the two libyans were arrested friday night on their arrival on a flight from cotonou, benin, via abidjan, ivory coast
he said another man he described as a libyan agent carrying false papers had been arrested two days earlier at kadira on the senegal-mali border, where he was trying to enter senegal by train
ka provided no details on the arms and explosives that were seized. he said the investigation was still in progress, and he said more information would be disclosed later this week
presidential and legislative elections are scheduled next sunday in senegal, with president abdel diouf expected to win re-election to a new five-year term
senegal, a nation of 6 million people at the western tip of africa, has close ties to france and generally conservative, pro-western policies
it broke diplomatic relations with libya in 1980, accusing the regime of col. moammar gadhafi of trying to destabilize senegal and other west african nations. relations later improved, and gadhafi visited dakar in december 1985, but formal ties have not been resumed
west berlin police detained two soviet military officers on suspicion of spying and sent them back to communist east berlin, british military authorities said sunday
anderson purdon, spokesman for british military authorities in west berlin, said the two ``were arrested saturday by berlin police in the british sector, and british authorities were informed about it.''
we informed the soviet embassy on the other side (in east berlin), and they were asked to send someone'' to pick up the two officers, he said
purdon would not comment on the alleged espionage activities or on why the officers weren't held by western authorities to face charges
the last reported aids patient in nigeria has died, a newspaper said sunday
mahammadu debas, a 42-year-old tailor from gambia, died friday, the vanguard newspaper said. his death brought to 12 the number of people who have died of acquired immune defiency syndrome in nigeria
the newspaper said debas was the last known aids victim in the country. nigeria reported its first aids case only eight months ago
debas' case became a controversy in nigeria when he was forcibly hospitalized by health authorities last august for five months. several doctors disputed the aids diagnosis
the man was released from a hospital last month at his own request
aids damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
william rathje says archaeology is merely digging for ancient garbage, and he's updated the field of study by sifting through america's trash
for me, the past is yesterday, not 1,000 years ago. garbage is our past and garbage is our future,'' rathje, a professor of archaeology at the university of arizona, said in an interview thursday. ``it is a material artifact of our culture.''
information gathered from garbage helps reveal social trends and landfill hazards and augments commercial market research, said rathje, who grew up not far from this western chicago-area community
he and his students have picked through landfills here, in tucson, ariz., and in the san francisco area
two things his digs in tucson documented were a sharp increase in condom use and a rise in the number of people cutting fat off meat since health warnings about fatty meat were first published
although the diggings here have not been fully analyzed, they do show things such as newspapers making up 15 percent of the garbage by weight, compared to 9 percent in arizona and just 4 percent in san francisco
the work is not always unpleasant. rathje has found a diamond ring and about $15 a year in coins
but then there was the time he took his student crew to lunch at a crowded tucson eatery after a morning of digging through a landfill
within a half hour, the other customers had cleared out and the manager told him and his students when they left: ``don't hurry back.''
the object was to build a machine that could put a postage stamp on an envelope, and the entry from theta tau fraternity won handily _ taking 33 steps and involving dolls, eggs and a mousetrap
the not-so-simple contraption was an entry in the 1988 rube goldberg machine contest held saturday at purdue university
the annual competition, named for the cartoonist who specialized in drawing outlandishly complicated machines to perform simple tasks, drew six student teams
the machines had to successfully complete the task in under five minutes, using at least 25 steps, said mike barrett of highland, a student organizer
the theta tau machine's 33 steps included a miniature mailman that braved rain, snow and an attacking dog; fluid that was forced from a jar and into a tube spelling out ``david letterman;'' a doll of indiana university basketball coach bob knight that was dunked in a vat of green fluid; a sledge smashing an egg; a bubbling jar of antacid, and marbles and a mouse trap
we started planning at the start of the semester, and spent 400-500 hours working on details of the project,'' said steve zellers of indianapolis, a senior in mechanical engineering and spokesman for the winning team
for the device's grand finale, the envelope was shot into a mailbox, which interrupted an electric eye and tripped circuits that closed the mailbox door and flipped up a flag
a 16-year-old sentenced to two life terms for murdering his father, stepmother and 5-year-old sister will be in prison for at least two decades, prosecutors say 
eric poole of mcduffie county, who was sentenced friday, will not be eligible for parole for 20 years, according to district attorney dennis sanders
the victims, all shot repeatedly with a rifle, were discovered in the family's mobile home on feb. 7, 1987, two days after they were killed, sanders said
tony poole, 34, was ambushed as he walked in the front door, sanders said. janice poole, 31, was apparently shot while asleep and michele poole, 5, was shot six times, the prosecutor said
one or more industries apparently took advantage of a major fuel spill last month to dump cancer-causing industrial solvents into the ohio river, water quality experts say
they dumped dirty solvents because getting rid of them is expensive,'' said edgar berkey, executive vice president of the university of pittsburgh's center for hazardous materials research
what these misdirected and misguided industrial people dumped are chemicals and materials far more harmful, far more biologically active, than the diesel fuel,'' berkey said
an estimated 730,000 gallons of diesel oil poured from a ruptured ashland oil inc. tank into the monongahela river south of pittsburgh on jan. 2, then flowed into the ohio river. the fuel threatened drinking supplies for residents in pennsylvania, ohio, west virginia, kentucky, illinois and indiana
samples taken along a 15-mile stretch of the ohio river between wheeling and moundsville, w.va., the week of jan. 10 contained high concentrations of chloroform, methylene chloride, and 1,1,1-trichloroethane, according to peter tennant, water quality program manager for the ohio river valley sanitation commission in cincinnati
chloroform and methylene chloride are cancer-causing substances and can accumulate in the bodies of fish and other marine life. the third substance, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, also is toxic
it's not unusual to see those chemicals in that part of the river occasionally, but never at that high a concentration,'' tennant told the pittsburgh press in an article published sunday. ``offhand, i'd estimate those concentrations at about 10 times more than what we normally might see.''
at the time of the spill, we were getting calls from lots of industries up and down the river about where it was located,'' he said. ``we thought they were worried about their (water) intakes.''
at the levels found, chloroform and methylene chloride significantly exceed the federal cancer risk level criteria for rivers and streams, according to tennant
tennant said his commission has several aerial photographs taken during the fuel spill that seem to show discharges from the ohio side of the river below wheeling. the agency in the past has investigated reports of pollutant discharges at that site
tennant said the photographed discharges have not been identified and do not seem to be coming from any building or industrial facility. he declined to speculate about their origin, except to say they could be intermittently flowing from a drainage ditch or sewer
tennat said it's ``very doubtful'' that those responsible for discharging the chemicals will be identified
tennant said his commission will begin making its data available soon to a number of agencies and investigators. among those concerned is berkey, who is directing an independent study of the spill and its aftermath for ashland
gary bryant, epa's field office chief in wheeling, said ashland officials asked for test samples to be taken as the spill moved downriver to determine whether any other industry was adding to it
we were already doing testing of the spill to evaluate if someone was adding any spice to it,'' bryant said. ``in years past, absolutely we would see such dumping during a spill where someone would need to empty a bilge tank or whatever.''
there are 83 industrial discharge points along the 87 miles of the ohio river from pittsburgh to wheeling, according to the press. seventy of them are identified as containing low-level toxic components
senate democrats are trying once again to resolve the biggest hangover issue from 1987 _ putting brakes on the rising cost of congressional elections
negotiations began last week with republican opponents of the democratic campaign spending limit bill, which gop senators were able to derail last year with a gentlemanly filibuster
headed by senate republican leader bob dole of kansas, the republicans talked away 22 days of floor time and won a record seven votes to end the debate, with the democrats falling five votes short of the 60 needed to win the so-called cloture vote
the legislation, with 52 of the 100 senators as co-sponsors, made its 1988 reappearance on the floor last week, generating still more debate amid talk of compromise and warnings from senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va
byrd, a principal supporter of the bill, said that unless negotiators from both camps can work out a deal, he will get tough and keep the senate in session nights and weekends to break the impasse
if there is going to be a filibuster this time, it is not going to be a gentlemen's filibuster,'' byrd said, referring to last year's rather civilized daylight debate that never quite reached the gloves-off stage
i don't want to see a filibuster, but if it comes to that i suggest that senators cancel all evening engagements and be present as long as the senate is in session,'' he said. ``if it should develop into a full-blown overtime filibuster, senators should expect roll calls at any time.''
byrd's warnings were followed by both sides naming four members each to attempt to negotiate differences in what sen. thad cochran, r-miss., calls ``a power struggle between the two national parties for control of the senate.''
negotiators for the democrats are sens. david boren of okla., george mitchell of maine, carl levin of michigan and james exon of nebraska. the republicans are sens. mitch mcconnell of kentucky, bob packwood of oregon, ted stevens of alaska and rudy boschwitz of minnesota
they held their first meeting on thursday without any tangible result. an aide to one of the democrats, speaking on condition of anonymity, called it ``the reykjavik of campaign finance reform,'' a reference to the unproductive u.s-soviet summit of 1986
the negotiators are slated to meet again monday, but the aide said it appears one side or the other will have to make major concessions to produce a compromise
the democratic bill would set voluntary spending limits for general elections to the senate, ranging from $950,000 to $5.5 million, depending on a state's population. the average senate campaign cost $3 million in 1986, with the price soaring beyond $10 million in the big states
a candidate observing the limit would be able to get campaign money from the treasury if the opponent exceeded the limit or if an independent group spent large amounts of money against the candidate
republicans argue that because they generally are more successful in raising campaign funds, limits would hurt them more than democrats, especially as they continue to try to further their gains in the south
the gop critics also argue that the bill would further tilt the playing field against them because it would do nothing about an area where democrats generally are ahead
this is the so-called ``soft money,'' the term used to describe the aid given candidates by groups like labor unions, often in the form of manpower for phone banks and door-to-door canvassing
democrats so far have made no overt move to limit soft money, arguing that even if they agreed to tighten up on this form of campaign resources, the republicans would still insist on no spending limits
democrats outnumber republicans in the senate 54-46. two republicans are co-sponsoring the democratic bill, sens. robert stafford of vermont and john chafee of rhode island. sen. nancy landon kassebaum, r-kan., was the third republican supporting cloture last year. alabama democrats howell heflin and richard shelby voted against cloture
the republican caucus has made opposition to the bill a hard-line party issue. to win the battle, byrd's forces will have to break through the gop ranks, picking up the votes of a handful of republicans who are said to favor spending limits but who thus far have remained loyal to dole
last week the burner was turned up under four of them: sens. william roth of delaware, william cohen of maine, arlen specter of pennsylvania and larry pressler of south dakota
they were the targets of full-page ads in newspapers back home urging them to ``stop backing the filibuster that is protecting the current corrupt campaign financing system.''
the ads were purchased by common cause, the self-described citizens lobby that is the most active organization pushing congress to change the campaign laws
the senate is the main congressional battleground for campaign finance legislation. the house has passed such bills in the past, only to see them die in the senate
house democrats have drafted a campaign revision package for house races but are sitting on it until the senate approves legislation
soviet citizens will be allowed to take out large bank loans to build private homes under a government decree published sunday that marks a major change in tackling the tenacious housing problem
the decree published on the front page of the communist party daily pravda said the government hoped to ``activate the human factor'' and get soviets to build their own homes with the help of government loans
it also calls on large industrial enterprises to take up a bigger share of the burden in providing housing. it makes clear that small groups of soviets who want to produce building materials or work as carpenters in their spare time are encouraged to do so
one in five soviet families currently lives in what is referred to as communal housing, which can be anything from a bunk in a collective farm barracks to a couple of rooms in an urban apartment shared with another family
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has followed in the footsteps of his predecessors in promising a separate home or apartment for every family, vowing to eradicate the housing shortage by the year 2000
but progress in putting up new apartment buildings has been slow, much of the existing urban housing is in poor condition and construction quality remains the subject of frequent citizen complaints
statistics published last month on the nation's economic performance in 1987 claimed 13 million families had been given improved housing. but the yearly statistical reports do not indicate how many families are displaced by major renovation or demolition projects under way in many cities
the pravda decree announces that ``unjustified restrictions'' on housing construction and purchase of building materials have been removed, but did not say what the restrictions were
private construction in the past has been discouraged as the government attempted to cut down on pilferage of scarce building materials from state enterprises, and also to prevent individuals from building homes exceeding the unspoken limits of socialist austerity
two years ago, the ruling politburo issued an order broadening the availability of private gardening plots, but said the land should not be used for building huge ``dachas,'' or country homes
those regulations, which limited the gardening huts to cabin-size, may have been among those scrapped in the government's attempt to get homebuilding going wherever possible
state construction enterprises have endured a barrage of media criticism over the years for failing to turn around the chronic housing shortage that has troubled this nation since before the 1918 revolution. the state's slow pace in improving housing conditions likely encouraged party and government officials to revise the regulations that have held back private construction
the new decree orders officials to make building plots available and appears to especially encourage construction in rural areas
loans of up to 20,000 rubles _ about $33,000 at the official exchange rate _can be taken out by those living in rural regions and paid back over 50 years, pravda said. the money borrowed by city dwellers must be repaid within 25 years
under the previous regulations governing private construction, no more than $5,000 could be borrowed from state banks and had to be repaid within a decade
the amount of interest to be charged on the larger loans was not specified in the decree, but borrowing rates traditionally have been between 1 percent and 3 percent a year
monthly pay for a soviet industrial worker averages $330
a $30,000 polio immunization fund created in 1963 by the burlington county medical society has finally been spent, after one last round of donations
the last $1,000 recently was donated to a worldwide polio fund sponsored by rotary international, said dr. harold r. reeve, president of the medical society
reeve, a urologist, said the final donation was ``a fitting conclusion'' to the fund. ``there just wasn't enough to perpetuate it anymore,'' he said in an interview last week
before vaccines eradicated it in this country, polio was a deadly killer and crippler of children and young adults
when the first oral polio vaccine became available in burlington county in 1963, the medical society arranged a mass immunization on two sundays in december of that year at schools and churches
the charge, if people could afford it, was 25 cents. otherwise the vaccine was free
about 100,000 people were vaccinated and the effort raised about $70,000, with about $40,000 going to pay for expenses
the medical society decided the remaining $30,000 should be used for the benefit of the community, reeve said
over the years the fund paid for first-aid classes, blood banks, anti-smoking campaigns, a pollution study, physical fitness programs and other public health projects. it was there when a scabies outbreak closed one of the county hospitals and when county officials decided to open a county health department
by the beginning of 1988, the fund had dwindled
it was down to nothing,'' reeve said. ``i think a few people had to chip in just to bring it up to $1,000.''
he said the $1,000 donation will immunize 8,000 children against polio in third world countries
the people of this community had contributed to the welfare of this community and now it is helping the world community,'' reeve said
the difficult task of finding good and affordable child care is drawing attention from so many diverse groups this election year that a stronger federal role in the patchwork system appears inevitable
both liberals and conservatives are trumpeting the need to address what some call a national crisis, spurred by the soaring number of working mothers
and in the last two weeks, both the national association of manufacturers and the u.s. chamber of commerce have cautiously endorsed at least some form of federal involvement
the issue is certainly heating up,'' says helen blank, director of child care for the children's defense fund. ``we're seeing more tragedies, more evidence of the system being fragile because it's pushed too far. you push and you push and you push and finally you start to fall over the edge.''
the children's defense fund was the moving force behind a $2.5 billion child care bill scheduled for hearings thursday in the house and the following thursday in the senate. also under discussion is a $375 million proposal sponsored by republicans, who have scheduled a news conference for tuesday
the gulf between the two bills is wide, both in money and philosophy. but proponents of the more ambitious plan say they are heartened by the existence of the gop bill, particularly because its senate sponsor _ republican orrin hatch of utah _ is among the most conservative members of congress
we have a tremendous amount of focus on child care and a tremendous desire to do something. and when people want to do something, there's usually room for agreement,'' blank said
you always have an advantage in an election year,'' she added
the flurry of congressional activity follows several hearings featuring the testimony not only of experts in child care and child development but of people with first-hand exposure to the problem _ including a policewoman who found two children dead in a clothes dryer. their mother had tried and failed to find supervision for them before she left for work
the $2.5 billion ``act for better child care services,'' or abc bill, was introduced last year by sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., and championed by the 122-member alliance for better child care
the money would be used to help states subsidize child care for low- and moderate-income families, increase the number of child care facilities and staff, and coordinate child care resources. the bill also calls for federal health and safety standards for day care centers and homes, and training standards for day care workers
the hatch bill would give states $250 million for grants to local governments, businesses and others to improve child care services. the bill also would limit the liability of child care providers, help states set up liability insurance pools, help home providers make capital improvements and give tax credits to employers with on-site child care
the national association of manufacturers last week adopted a statement saying the federal government should ``encourage affordable, quality child care through a bottom up approach and use of incentives.'' the group said any legislation should allow flexibility, address the liability problem and ``be guided by fiscal realities.''
the chamber of commerce board of directors, in a statement approved feb. 10, also endorsed a federal role providing incentives and limiting liability. the government also should identify programs and disseminate information, the chamber said, while regulation should be carried out at the state or local level
all this points to a growing recognition that something has to be done,'' blank said of the hatch bill and the two business groups' statements. ``it just doesn't go far enough. ... we attack the issue in a more systematic fashion. the private sector just can't make day care on its own. we try to help the private sector by creating a logical system in which they can invest.''
blank declined to discuss what kind of compromise might be acceptable to the children's defense fund except that it must do more than the hatch bill
it would be awful if we had some small child care bill that didn't put us in the right direction,'' she said. ``it's very important for the sake of children ... for us to really be cautious and careful about what the federal government does after years of inattention to child care.'' image</head>
corn sugar and artificial sweeteners are gaining a bigger share of the market, so the cane and beet sugar industry plans to fight back with a $4 million television advertising campaign
we'll associate sugar with happy moments,'' said tony contreras, vice president of marketing for the sugar cane growers cooperative in belle glade. ``it's a very positive, lifestyle-type of campaign.''
following the lead of the beef, pork and poultry producers, the sugar industry will try to increase consumption by focusing on the ``sweet, pure and natural'' aspects of sugar. the campaign starts in march
ads will be paid for by florida's sugar cane growers and other u.s. cane and beet growers, refiners and processors
the sugar market has dropped since the early 1970s. actually the market drop was caused by corn sweeteners,'' said charlie shamel, president of the sugar association, a washington, d.c., trade association
manufacturers of soft drinks, canned fruit, table syrups and other processed foods have turned to less expensive corn sweeteners instead of cane or beet sugar
meanwhile, total sugar consumption also is down. per capita sugar use could decline to 35 to 40 pounds by 1995 if the trend continues, or less than half of what it was in the 1970s, shamel said
unlike its magazing advertising last year which took a an anti-aspartame tack, the sugar association tv drive will take a pro-sugar approach. the campaign is geared toward giving viewers ``permission to eat sugar,'' contreras said
we're not suggesting anyone pig out on sugar,'' said shamel. ``but used in moderation, it tastes good and has a lot of benefits: adds texture in cakes, flavor to bland foods.''
past advertising by the sugar industry has been criticized for its use of a u.s. food and drug administration task force report that the industry said confirms ``sugar is safe.''
the 1986 fda report found no direct link between sugar and major diseases, such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer, gallstones, glucose intolerances or hyperactivity in children
a washington, d.c., consumer group claims the sugar industry manipulated the fda report
the study was part of a series of studies on food additives,'' said bruce silverglade, legal affairs director for the center for science in the public interest. ``sugar was thrown in there along with artificial sweeteners. it did not focus on the role sugar plays in the diet.''
the american dental association maintains that while sugar may be a natural product, ``it causes tooth decay,'' said rick asa, spokesman in chicago for the ada, which favors sugar substitutes
the collected writings of the chinese communist party's purged co-founder, chen duxiu, have been published for the first time since 1922, an official report said sunday
the publication, announced by the state-run xinhua news agency, indicated that current party leaders are taking a more relaxed attitude toward people who clashed with mao tse-tung during the formative years of the chinese communist party
chen was the founder of the new youth magazine that radicalized many chinese students in the 1910s and 1920s. he also was a leader of the 1917 ``may fourth movement'' that opposed japanese expansionism and china's inability to fight it
he and beijing university librarian li dazhao are regarded by western scholars as the chinese communist party's founders. he became the first party general secretary in 1921, but was ousted in 1927 after the failure of the party's policy of cooperating with the non-communist nationalist party of chiang kai-shek
chen was strongly influenced by the soviet-led comintern, which argued that china needed a democratic revolution before it could proceed to a communist-style revolution
the comintern, dominated by soviet dictator josef v. stalin, argued that china's middle class, represented by chiang's nationalist party, would play a major role in the first revolution and therefore deserved the help of all good communists
chen supported that position and clashed with activists such as mao who believed that the party must split with the nationalists, establish its own roots among the workers and the peasants and work directly for a communist revolution
chen was purged from the party in 1929, partly at mao's instigation, and went down in chinese history books as a ``right opportunist,'' his role in the party's founding downplayed. he died in 1942
xinhua said the collection of 270 essays, letters and other writings by chen were republished by the people's publishing house in his native anhui province in central china. it said the collection first was published in shanghai in 1922
xinhua described the collection as ``invaluable to the study of modern chinese history and the history of the party in its early stage.''
during the last 12 years, chinese authorities have moved away from a blind allegiance to the ways and words of mao, going so far as to criticize his economic policies and blame him for the excesses of the cultural revolution
northern ireland's police chief charged sunday that british investigator mishandled an inquiry into allegations his force had a ``shoot-to-kill'' policy
john stalker was considered to be the most proficient detective investigator in the united kingdom,'' sir john hermon said of the former deputy chief constable of manchester, who investigated hermon's force
but he said, ``i believe there are many people who are more mature and more experienced who could have done it.''
hermon was speaking on a british broadcasting corp. northern ireland television program to be broadcast monday night. a partial transcript of the program was released sunday
stalker was sent to northern ireland to investigate the killing of six unarmed roman catholics by police in three incidents in late 1982
the british government announced jan. 25 that while evidence had been uncovered of a conspiracy to pervert the course of justice, it would not prosecute any northern ireland police officers implicated by stalker. it said prosecutions would hurt national security
the decision has put a strain on anglo-irish relations. ireland views the case as a test of britain's resolve to reform northern ireland's justice system and protested the decision not to prosecute
stalker has published a book alleging that his investigation was systematically obstructed by senior officers, including hermon. he claimed he was removed from the inquiry before he could complete it because his findings were likely to lead to murder charges against police officers
five of the shooting victims were acknowledged irish guerrillas fighting to drive the british out of northern ireland. the sixth was a roman catholic teen-ager with no connections to the guerrillas
their deaths in police ambushes led to allegations that anti-terrorist officers were operating a ``shoot-to-kill policy'' to wipe out guerrillas without having to go through normal judicial procedures
hermon distributed a statement to police officers throughout northern ireland last week accusing stalker of publishing ``untruths, distortions, and inaccuracies.''
stalker, who has retired from the force, said he stood by his book
just two months before the april 24 presidential election, the socialist party launched its campaign sunday under a large banner reading: ``mitterrand generation.''
the only problem: president francois mitterrand has yet to declare
still, mitterrand, who is a socialist, is widely expected to run for another seven-year term. the announcement will likely come in mid-march
the official beginning of the socialist campaign came before a crowd of about 2,500 people in this city in central france, in a region mitterrand once represented in parliament
lionel jospin, the party's first secretary, told the audience that france was involved in ``an extraordinary campaign which we are approaching in an unusual way, our candidate not being known, the president being socialist.''
the slogan ``mitterrand generation'' has already appeared on posters around france, which show a baby reaching up to the hand of an unseen man. party officials say the campaign could be adopted either by mitterrand as a candidate, or by his socialist successor if the president does not run
opinion polls show mitterrand in first place, with premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre, both conservatives, fighting for second place
the top two candidates in the april 24 voting will face off in a decisive second round may 8, unless one of them wins more than 50 percent of the vote in the first round
in a radio interview sunday, a leader of the union for french democracy, an alliance of parties supporting barre, said his side was ``campaigning against a phantom who is hiding behind the draperies at the elysee,'' the presidential palace
mr. mitterrand would like to be a candidate without putting his name on the ballot,'' said jean-claude gaudin, president of the union's parliamentary group. ``it's ideal for someone who does not have many things to say and does have many things to hide.''
other candidates include jean-marie le pen of the extreme right national front, andre lajoinie of the communists and pierre juquin, a dissident communist. all are running far behind mitterrand, barre and chirac
one paper seemed to have the answer sunday
mitterrand has made his decision,'' was the banner headline in the journal du dimanche newspaper. the story, however, said it did not know which decision the president had made. toulouse-latrec, in 2nd graf, subs for paris-dated second item.</note>
prince edward, youngest son of queen elizabeth ii, was among the guests at a benefit gala that celebrated the centennial of the moulin rouge, a paris landmark
the moulin rouge, a cabaret under a giant red windmill, is known worldwide, especially from the posters of the henri de toulouse-lautrec
the guests saturday night dined on caviar and tournedos, drank champagne and watched a line of dancers in skimpy but glittering costumes
proceeds from the gala are going to unicef and other charities benefiting children. fluid</head>
vice president george bush has a wide lead in texas, but the democratic race is still fluid and unsettled, a poll suggests
the poll, directed by university of houston political scientist richard murray, indicates the march 8 texas primary could prove to be a tight race between democrats massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, missouri rep. richard gephardt, jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore
the survey, commissioned by the houston chronicle and the dallas morning news, suggested former colorado sen. gary hart and illinois sen. paul simon were back in the pack. the two papers published the results on sunday
on the republican side, the poll indicated the republican race to be much more settled, with bush's victory in new hampshire consolidating his position in texas, murray said
in the poll, 736 voters were interviewed feb. 17-18. the interviewees were among 1,020 people first queried for an earlier poll jan. 3-12 about their preferences in the presidential nominations races. the margin of error was 4 percentage points, the newspapers said
dukakis was the preferred candidate among 27 percent of democratic voters; 21 percent said they were unsure; 16 percent favored jesse jackson; 15 percent favored gephardt; 11 percent favored gore, with seven percent choosing hart and two percent favoring simon
among republicans, 66 percent favored bush; 12 percent backed kansas sen. bob dole; 11 percent favored pat robertson, and 10 percent were unsure
sen. alfonse d'amato has charged that state sen. warren anderson rigged the republican primary in new york state so that vice president george bush would be the only candidate in some districts
in a televised interview broadcast sunday, d'amato accused anderson, the state senate majority leader, of disenfranchising republican voters
he said anderson has refused to loosen a requirement that republican presidential candidates collect 1,250 signatures in each of the state's 34 congressional districts
warren anderson devised a program and a plan that would basically make it impossible for all but george bush to field slates throughout the state,'' said d'amato, a republican who supports sen. bob dole. ``this is not the soviet union, where you run one slate and you say take it or leave it. this is america.''
he said on wnbc's ``newsmakers'' program that the requirement favors bush because he has a larger campaign organization than dole, rep. jack kemp or pat robertson
a spokesman for anderson, r-binghampton, denied that the majority leader had any intention of keeping legitimate candidates off the ballot
of course it's not true,'' said the spokesman, charles dumas. ``everyone was given the same amount of time to collect petitions and put their candidates on the ballot. now if mr. dole's people didn't do their job, that's their problem.''
tipper gore, wife of democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr., has received one of three awards from the tennessee jaycees as outstanding tennesseans of the year
mrs. gore was honored saturday night for her efforts to warn parents about what she considers improper lyrics in rock 'n' roll music
her husband, a u.s. senator from tennessee, received the award in 1978
a u.s. aerospace consulting firm has signed a multiyear agreement to put commercial scientific projects aboard the soviet space station in the first private american deal with the soviet space agency
payload systems inc. of wellsley, mass., in an enterprise approved by the commerce department, will grow protein crystals for u.s. industry with the help of a soviet cosmonaut who will be given only minimal information about the projects, said anthony arrott, company research and development director
payload systems received a two-year government license to contract with the soviets for protein crystallization production experiments aboard the soviet space station mir, which is already in orbit, arrott said in a telephone interview sunday
it's a multiflight, multiyear agreement beginning in 1989,'' he said, adding that part of the agreement includes non-disclosure of the amount to be paid to the soviets who reportedly have offered to carry western experiments for between $10,000 and $15,000 a kilogram
arrott said the agreement was signed with the soviet union's agency for international trade agreements, licensintorg. the civilian space agency, glavkosmos, oversees the space station
the agreement will help american industry keep up in the production of protein crystals used to develop new drugs until the united states gets long-term orbiting laboratories in the 1990s, arrott said
we want to keep american industry competitive over this time period,'' he said
payload systems was founded in 1984 by byron k. lichtenberg of the massachusetts institute of technology to provide consultation for companies that want to use the commercial potential of outer space. in december 1983, lichtenberg became the first non-astronaut to fly aboard a u.s. space shuttle. he conducted protein crystallization experiments that provided evidence that larger and more regular crystals can be grown in a weightless environment, arrott said
he said crystals to be grown in the weightless environment aboard the space station could be used by payload systems clients, but company attorney mark s. mcconnell of washington, d.c., said crystals grown in the first flight would not be sold
they're just trying to see if it works for commercial purposes,'' mcconnell said. he said the soviets' goal in accepting the arrangment ``from what i could tell is to promote commercial uses worldwide of their station.''
to my knowledge, it is the first time that the u.s. government has approved commercial activity in the soviet space program,'' he said, noting that the two countries have had government-to-government programs in space
since the explosion of the challenger space shuttle in january 1986, u.s. companies have had few alternatives for commercial space projects. some companies have used european satellites
arrott said that even when the u.s. shuttle flights resume later this year, they could not provide the weeks and months of weightlessness needed to develop crystals commercially
u.s. officials have been concerned that private experiments might transmit valuable technology to the soviets, but mcconnell said steps are being taken to ensure against this
there will be extremely limited training given to the cosmonauts. they will be doing no more than turning some dials on a box, the contents of which they will not know about, and monitoring environmental conditions in the space station,'' he said
president reagan included in his budget released last week $1 billion toward construction of a u.s. space station by the mid-1990s. a smaller space module is planned to be put into orbit for commercial use earlier in the decade
light snow fell only across parts of the northeast on sunday, while high wind surged across the northern plains
a large storm moving across central canada generated strong wind across northern sections of the nation east of the rockies and was expected to continue doing so for the next few days, especially blasting the eastern slopes of the northern and central rockies
wind gusted to 68 mph at havre, mont., and caused some damage sunday morning, the national weather service said. elsewhere in montana, gusts to 66 mph were reported at livingston and to 56 mph at great falls. in wyoming, gusts were measured to 63 mph at cody and to 53 mph at casper
the stiff wind stirred up snow already on the ground and blowing snow cut visibility
a high wind watch was posted overnight and into monday for southeastern wyoming and the foothills of northeastern colorado
scattered snow flurries fell from the eastern great lakes across new york state to the mountains of northern new england, with some accumulation in areas east of lake ontario
all of the northeast was cold, with temperatures remaining below freezing from the district of columbia northward. afternoon temperatures were in the teens from eastern ohio and most of pennsylvania across upstate new york to northern new england
alpena, mich., had a record low of 12 degrees below zero
central and southern florida turned cool and wet with temperatures falling throughout the morning, into the 50s by afternoon in southern florida. rain fell throughout much of the peninsula during the morning but diminished by afternoon
the pacific northwest had patches of dense fog during the morning and visibility at portland, ore., at 11 a.m. pst was down to one-eighth of a mile
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 6 degrees above zero at massena, n.y., to 80 at palm springs, calif. the early-morning low for the day was 17 below zero at gunnison, colo
for monday, light snow or snow showers were forecast in northern maine and from western new york across northern michigan, minnesota and north dakota to montana
highs only in the teens or 20s were predicted in northern new england; falling from the 30s to the 20s in most of montana, north dakota and northern minnesota; in the 30s from southern new england to pennsylvania and in the northern great lakes; in the 60s from florida to mississippi; in the 60s or 70s from louisiana to most of missouri and kansas and from oklahoma and northern texas to much of new mexico, arizona and california; in the 80s across the southern half of texas; and in the 40s or 50s elsewhere. identification of wytkind</note>
a rash of railroad accidents last month should show congress that serious problems remain in the industry since the worst wreck in amtrak history 14 months ago, says federal railroad administrator john riley
equally troubling, riley said, is that the federal government has less power to curtail railroad accidents now than it did when three conrail locomotives slid through a warning signal and collided with an amtrak passenger train near chase, md., on jan. 4, 1987. sixteen people were killed
it's incredible to me that we're sitting here 14 months after the chase accident and not one shred of legislation introduced in the wake of that accident has yet become law,'' riley said during an interview he requested to talk about safety concerns. ``as the months pass, i see the opportunity slipping away from us,'' he said
riley said he has seen ``a progressive deterioration of discipline and commitment within the railroad workplace.''
he cited a csx transportation inc. brakeman who allegedly left a train prior to a head-on collision in upstate new york last year, and a conductor in pennsylvania last month ``sitting in the second vehicle with his back to the front of the train watching none of the signals when an accident occurred.''
two were killed in the new york accident, while the pennsylvania crash helped make january a grim month for rail safety, riley said
in lewistown, pa., federal officials said four crewmen died when a conrail coal train ignored three warning signals and, in fact, sped up before slamming into another freight train
in the month of january alone, so far, with quite a few tests outstanding, we've had four fatalities and more than a dozen injuries in cases where we believe one or more employees will test positive for drugs,'' he said
in another january accident, an amtrak train hit a maintenance vehicle and derailed, injuring 25 near philadelphia. an amtrak control tower operator fled his post after the accident, and has since resigned
riley has been lobbying for measures before house-senate conference committees that would permit direct government sanctions against railroad workers for safety violations, and authorize random drug testing
delays in enacting the sanctions measure is ``testimony to the sheer political power of the labor organizations who oppose it,'' riley said. the measure would permit the fra to suspend the operating privilege of railroad conductors or engineers
but sens. james exon, d-neb., and john danforth, r-mo., said through spokesmen that they were hopeful the legislation would soon become law
riley said that the recent accidents demonstrate that while railroad equipment has gotten steadily better, there has not been a corresponding improvement in employee performance to prevent tragedies
while accidents have been cut 62 percent since 1980, riley said the percentage of accidents caused by equipment tampering, substance abuse, or human error has risen from 26 percent to 37 percent
but instead of gaining more authority, he has seen his jurisdiction narrowed by the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals, which on feb. 11 struck down the government's policy of requiring railroad workers in major accidents to submit to drug or alcohol tests
roger horn, father of one of the 16 victims of the chase accident, was with riley when he found out about the court's decision, which is being appealed
to him, it was more than a policy reversal,'' riley said. ``it was almost a statement that everything he'd suffered in the past year has been in vain.''
but the railway labor executives' association, an umbrella group for 20 unions, said the court ruling affirmed its position against testing without ``reasonable suspicion.''
the association also opposes riley's call for direct government sanctions on rail workers
ed wytkind, spokesman for the executives' association, said unions fear employees would be punished for accidents occurring in complicated settings where management may be at least partly responsible _ perhaps because it did not offer adequate training
the bottom line is that the fra has been using the drug testing issue and employees' liability as an excuse to skirt its obligation to enforce existing statutes the way congress intended,'' wytkind said. update with haaretz not saying if report was commissioned and greenbaum refusing to answer questions. pickup 29th graf pvs ``three vessels...''</note>
israeli soldiers sunday killed two arabs in clashes in the west bank. palestinian organizers called for stepped up protests to coincide with the visit of u.s. secretary of state george shultz this week
the army said soldiers shot and killed the arabs in separate confrontations in the west bank city of nablus and the deir ammar refugee camp. one was killed after he stabbed a soldier, the army said
palestinian reports said 20 arabs were wounded by army gunfire, but the army confirmed only three of the shootings
the army initially reported a third arab shot and killed in nablus but later retracted the statement. nablus hospital officials said the man, ahmed abu salhiye, in his 50s, died of a heart attack after being overcome by tear gas
the latest deaths brought the number of palestinians killed by israelis since the protests began dec. 8 to 61, according to u.n. figures
officials in the economy ministry said the government has spent $330 million to finance the crackdown on the protests. israel's 1988 budget is $31 billion
defense minister yitzhak rabin rejected demands that he issue specific guidelines to soldiers to curb the use of excessive force against palestinian protesters. rabin said during a cabinet meeting such guidelines were useless because he could not anticipate all situations soldiers might face
rabin denied reports by the sunday times of london that he commissioned two psychologists to report on the effects the army crackdown in the occupied territories has on soldiers
i have not ordered any reports, and i didn't receive any,'' rabin told israel radio
psychologists who compiled the report said brutal behavior among troops has become widespread and that some officers are issuing illegal commands, ordering random beatings
a leaflet distributed sunday urged palestinians to show ``national outrage in the face of the shultz visit.'' the leaflet, signed by the ``united national leadership of the uprising,'' called for a week of strikes and demonstrations
shultz is tentatively scheduled to arrive thursday, bringing with him a plan he hopes will reignite the stalled peace process
the leaflet called for a day of solidarity monday with those killed, wounded or arrested in the disturbances, a national hunger strike tuesday, general strikes wednesday and thursday, demonstrations friday and a defiance of curfews saturday
let us increase the occupation's political, moral and economic losses and remember that the vietnamese won their war against the americans not only with guns but also through the struggle of their peasants,'' the leaflet said
shultz plans to use jerusalem as his base for several days, making short trips to jordan, syria, saudi arabia and egypt
the americans also have discussed the shultz visit with local palestinians, said a u.s. official, speaking on condition of anonymity
watt cluvarius, a deputy to assistant secretary of state richard murphy, met with a group of about 10 palestinians from the west bank and gaza strip on saturday, according to arab and american sources
the palestine liberation organization on friday ordered west bank and gaza palestinians not to talk with shultz. but dr. yasser obeid, one of those who met with cluvarius, said the participants hoped plo leader yasser arafat would change his mind
we hope that such a meeting will happen,'' obeid said, adding that cluvarius explained details of the u.s. plan
the u.s. official said saturday's meeting was part of regular american contacts with palestinians, and if some wanted to meet shultz he probably would accommodate them
in the west bank city of nablus, soldiers shot and killed a palestinian after he stabbed a soldier, the army said. doctors at ittihad hospital identified the victim as ramez abu amara, 18
the army said the soldier was injured, but did not elaborate
in the west bank refugee camp deir ammar, soldiers fatally shot a protester during clashes, the army said. hospital officials identified the victim as kamal mohammed fares, 24, and said he was shot in the chest
nablus hospital officials said they treated 17 arabs for gunshot wounds, but the army said it could not confirm the reports. the army said soldiers shot and wounded three palestinians in clashes in the gaza strip city of khan yunis
psychologist charlie greenbaum said the crackdown has damaged the morale of soldiers who frequently are given what he called illegal orders
the army is breaking the law and its own norms, commanders are giving orders to smash property, break arms and legs and beat people, and not just to disperse demonstrations,'' greenbaum told the haaretz newspaper
haaretz said greenbaum and his colleague, dan bar on, served the military establishment, but did mention whether their report was commissioned by and delivered to the army
when contacted by the associated press, greenbaum confirmed that the haaretz quotes were correct, but refused to answer questions
greenbaum said the army must provide specific and legal guidelines. ``if it doesn't do so, it places the officers and soldiers in an impossible situation,'' he was quoted as saying
three vessels of the u.s. sixth fleet arrived in haifa for a regularly scheduled visit to last about a week
rear admiral john k. redy, commander of the three vessels, said the visit was not connected to the kidnapping last week in lebanon of american marine lt. col. william higgins. but he said the force would be ready to take action if necessary. him'</head>
authorities found a man's decomposed body at a house occupied by children and other relatives, some of whom claimed the deceased man was ``doing much better'' and would awaken after his dealings with god
i understand they were seeing a voodoo man,'' pickens county coroner herbert latham said of the deceased man and his relatives. he said the man had been dead about three weeks when the body was found
pickens county sheriff david abston identified the dead man as jessie james latham, 42, not related to the coroner. abston said latham recently returned to alabama from new york
l.c. keasler, director of the pickens county department of human resources, said agency workers went to the mobile home feb. 14, but were refused entrance. the agency workers returned wednesday with authorities and discovered the body
this was a weird case,'' the coroner said sunday. he said that when the body was located, the dead man's relatives ``tried to convince me that he was still alive, that god was dealing with him, that he was fine.''
the coroner said the body ``was just dried up.'' he said an autopsy was performed before the body was buried saturday at a local cemetery
the coroner said that although no foul play was suspected, he was awaiting hospital records from new york before announcing the cause of death. he said the deceased man was apparently aware he was suffering from a fatal disease and was seeking help
the county workers had gone to the home in the first place because an anonymous caller from new york had said he was sick and that someone should see that he was taking his medication
abston said that when latham returned to alabama from new york, he was picked up at the tuscaloosa airport by his sister, catherine latham, who took him to a motel in reform. the two stayed there for two weeks
dilip bhakta, the motel manager, said he never saw latham, but asked latham's sister to leave the motel feb. 2 ``because of the smell.''
she never would let anyone come in the room and would meet our maids at the door to get materials,'' bhakta said
bhakta said the odor from the room ``was very strong _ very offensive'' and that there were several complaints about it from other guests
ms. latham said she took her brother on jan. 22 to a man in hale county who advised that he drink goat milk with some pills he gave him. she said she took her brother to the trailer residence on feb. 2
the nine occupants of the trailer included two infants and several teen-agers, the coroner said
ms. latham dismissed the claim that her brother was treated by a ``voodoo doctor.''
abston said the woman told him that her brother was alive when he was moved and did not die until the day authorities found his body in a bedroom of the trailer
he was pretty well decomposed at the time and the odor all around the trailer was pretty strong,'' the sheriff said. ``some of the kids playing in the yard were wearing face masks, like in an operating room.''
asked if there were any supernatural elements or voodoo involved in the treatment, ms. latham told the tuscaloosa news on saturday: ``i don't like to use that word. i'm not working for the devil _ i work for god
all i could do was minister to him. he's in god's hands now.''
four days after a ruptured pipeline spilled a toxic chemical into the city's water supply, restaurants were allowed to reopen sunday morning
local industries were expected to resume operations sunday night, mayor fred singer said
an estimated 100,000 gallons of toluene leaked wednesday from a ruptured sun co. pipeline near tiffin in northern ohio, causing 5,000 evacuations and polluting the sandusky river, which supplies water for the city of fremont
on thursday, singer declared a water emergency, ordering schools and businesses to close
the city's 22,000 residents were asked to conserve water, since the city could store only 4 million gallons in its storage tanks, but additional water had to be trucked in saturday
it's fixed,'' singer said sunday after officials set up a process saturday that removed the chemical from the water
singer said the city began pumping limited amounts of water from the ballville dam around 1 p.m. saturday after a 13-hour-long purification process convinced officials of the ohio environmental protection agency and the city water department that the water was safe to drink
bud davis, a spokesman for sun pipe line, said cleanup crews will remain in fremont for several weeks to continue random testing of the water, ground and air for toluene
the pipeline, one of hundreds of underground pipelines that crisscross ohio, carried toluene a toledo refinery to another refinery in marcus hook, pa., where it is used as a gasoline octane enhancer. plans</head> shultz-sakharov meeting. no pickup</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze claimed ``good progress'' sunday in daylong talks on arms control, human rights and regional conflicts
but a soviet foreign ministry spokesman sharply criticized the u.s. nuclear rebuilding program in western europe
the spokesman, gennady gerasimov, said the modernization program in nato countries clashed with the new u.s.-soviet treaty to scrap intermediate-range missiles
gerasimov said building new missiles with a range less than 315 miles was ``incompatible with the strengthening of european security.''
the u.s. state department spokesman, charles e. redman, dissociated the u.s. government from the soviet criticism
otherwise, both sides gave extremely upbeat appraisals of the shultz-shevardnadze talks, he said
they both agreed without any hesitation whatsoever that the atmosphere was excellent throughout the day, that they were businesslike, and they both agreed we made good progress across the range of issues,'' redman said
shultz took an hour off to meet with noted soviet dissident andrei d. sakharov, who wished him well in pressing for human rights reforms. shultz called the 1975 nobel peace prize winner ``an inspiration'' and a ``model and symbol'' to the world
they met in sakharov's seventh-floor apartment. sakharov said serious soviet reforms were under way but the country had not made enough progress yet on human rights or on afghanistan
he was sent into internal exile in gorky for almost seven years in 1980 for speaking out against the soviet military intervention in afghanistan
the treaty to ban u.s. and soviet missiles ranging from 315 to 3,125 miles was signed by president reagan and mikhail s. gorbachev at their summit meeting in december in washington. the treaty is now before the u.s. senate and the supreme soviet for approval
gerasimov said the soviets were eager to see the treaty placed in force and had begun withdrawing short-range missiles from east germany and czechoslovakia. but he rejected assertions by u.s. officials that the soviets were holding back on a date for the next summit meeting until the treaty was approved
we never stated directly that there is some sort of link,'' the soviet spokesman said
reagan and gorbachev agreed to meet in moscow but did not set a date. redman said the two sides were considering ``the general time frame of mid-may or early june.''
redman said holding a summit did not depend on completing another treaty to halve the superpowers' arsenals of long-range bombers, land-based missiles and submarines
negotiations in geneva have slowed down over ways to verify the cutbacks and over the u.s. program to develop an anti-missile defense in space
shultz discussed verification procedures with shevardnadze. a joint statement to be issued after talks monday with gorbachev. shevardnadze is expected to deal with the problem and also compliance with the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty, which the soviets say prohibits much of the u.s. ``star wars'' program
earlier, at the opening of the talks, shevardnadze staked out an active role for the soviet union in the u.s. drive to set up arab-israeli peace talks
shultz has questioned whether the soviets are eligible, given their record on human rights and lack of relations with israel
but shevardnadze said the soviets intended to be more of a factor
the issue of soviet participation is one of the key items on shultz's agenda during his talks in moscow
the soviets broke relations with israel after it defeated egypt, then a soviet ally, in the 1967 mideast war. however, a small group of soviet diplomats was sent to israel last year to take care of some consular matters
prime minister yitzhak shamir of israel has resisted soviet participation in the search for a middle east settlement. in addition to not having relations with israel, the soviets generally support arab positions
the official tass news agency issued a mostly favorable review of the first day of talks between shultz and shevardnadze, declaring that the officials sought ``first of all ways to utilize the potential'' created at the washington summit in december
shultz also pledged the united states would not give up the struggle for a better kremlin record on human rights, including emigration
we are never content until all these cases are resolved in the proper way. no matter how discouraging it may sometimes seem, we will never give up,'' the secretary said in brief remarks at the home of consulate chief max robinson
vera zieman, the 11-year-old daughter of a jewish couple that has been refused permission to emigrate for more than 10 years, gave shultz a photo of herself with him at a previous meeting and signed it, ``from a lifelong refusenik.''
on another subject, a senior u.s. official who spoke on condition of anonymity said shultz would seek soviet support for ``an early vote'' in the u.n. security council to impose an international weapons embargo against iran
the soviets joined with the united states last july in a resolution that called for a cease-fire in the iran-iraq war. but they have held back from enforcing the resolution with sanctions
andrei d. sakharov told u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz on sunday the soviet union has not made enough progress on human rights or afghanistan to host a human rights conference, but reforms are under way
shultz visited the physicist and 1975 nobel peace prize winner at his seventh-floor apartment on a busy moscow street to underscore the reagan administration's concern about the soviet human rights record
but sakharov, who spoke to reporters for about 10 minutes after the 55-minute meeting, said shultz also questioned him about arms control and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms
the soviet union wants to host an international conference on human rights, but western countries are resisting the idea because of soviet violations of human rights
as a precondition for such a conference, i see the liberation of all prisoners of conscience, and the complete end of the war in afghanistan,'' said the 66-year-old sakharov, who spoke to reporters on the sidewalk outside his apartment building
sakharov helped develop the soviet hydrogen bomb in the 1950s but increasingly turned his attention to human rights activities in the 1960s and 1970s. he won the nobel prize for that work, but was exiled to the closed city of gorky in january 1980 for speaking out against the soviet military intervention in afghanistan in december 1979
gorbachev said feb. 8 that the soviet union could begin withdrawing its soldiers from afghanistan on may 15 if u.n.-sponsored peace talks in geneva are successful
sakharov, dressed in a parka and fur hat, told reporters that his first meeting with shultz was a ``great honor'' and provided him with valuable information. he excused himself after a short statement, saying he had just recovered from the flu and could not stay outdoors longer
shultz visited the apartment with assistant secretary of state rozanne l. ridgway, chief arms negotiator max kampelman, u.s. ambassador jack matlock and state department spokesman charles e. redman
a u.s. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sakharov's wife, yelena bonner, served tea to the group in sakharov's living room. matlock served as translator, the official said
asked by reporters about the meeting as he stepped into his car, shultz said it was an ``inspiration.'' he then left for talks with soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, whom he met earlier in the day
sakharov said shultz asked him what the soviet union must do to comply with the 1975 helsinki agreement's provisions on human rights. sakharov said it was ``very important'' for the soviet union to change legislation ``which makes punishment for one's convictions possible.''
on arms control, sakharov said he reminded shultz that he stood for ``maximum restraint'' on the u.s. strategic defense initiative, or ``star wars'' program for a space-based shield against nuclear attack
that issue is a stumbling block in talks that may lead to an agreement to halve their arsensals of long-range nuclear weapons
he said he valued ``very highly'' the treaty eliminating medium-and shorter-range nuclear missiles that gorbachev and reagan signed in washington dec. 8
sakharov told shultz the gorbachev's effort to restructure soviet society is a ``deep phenomenon'' and ``very serious,'' he said
sakharov has been less active in the dissident movement since returning from exile in december 1986, but occasionally speaks out on issues such as human rights, nuclear power and more openness in soviet history. he has returned to his work in the soviet academy of sciences. cairo, scheduled meetings, details. pickup 4th pvs: `dudin said ...'</note>
a senior u.n. official said sunday that palestinian unrest in the occupied west bank and gaza strip has created a new urgency for arab-israeli peace efforts
what has been going on in the occupied territories has created a new situation,'' said u.n. undersecretary-general marrack goulding, who arrived in cairo on the last leg of a regional tour
he told reporters in amman, jordan, earlier sunday that the protests, which began dec. 8, underlined ``the pressing need for progress towards an in-depth negiation for a just and lasting settlement
and i think it has brought home to all concerned that everyone has got to make a major effort,'' he added
goulding's two-day visit in egypt is his last stop on a tour that took him to tunisia, lebanon, syria and jordan. he visited israel last month
the u.n. envoy was scheduled to meet with foreign minister esmat abdel-meguid for talks on regional developments, egypt's state-run middle east news agency said
the official jordanian news agency said that marwan dudin, acting foreign minister of the occupied territories, told goulding in amman earlier in the day that israeli forces had killed 108 palestinians in the unrest, far more than the 61 deaths reported by the united nations
dudin said israeli forces had injured more than 3,000 arabs
mr. dudin gave me a list of names and ages, locations and dates, which i haven't had a chance to look at yet,'' goulding said. ``but we won't be carrying out a u.n. investigation as such.''
dudin's ministry is in charge of jordanian affairs in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured from egypt and jordan in the 1967 middle east war
most of the estimated 900,000 arabs on the west bank and some of the 600,000 in the gaza strip are citizens of jordan
goulding's visit comes a few days before u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz is scheduled to arrive in israel. shultz is expected to discuss recent u.s. suggestions to grant limited self-government to palestinians in the occupied territories as a step toward a final arab-israeli peace settlement
in some places, i encountered a sense of satisfaction that the united states is becoming active again on this issue, and there is obviously great interest in what secretary shultz is going to say,'' goulding said
but he added, ``i cannot claim to have encountered a great deal of optimism.''
a shot fired from an army watchtower near the irish border killed a young civilian sunday, according to a military statement that expressed regret at his death
witnesses said 23-year-old aidan mcanespie was shot in the back while walking to a regular weekly gaelic football game in aughnacloy, county tyrone, near the border with the irish republic
the dublin government immediately requested details of the shooting, which comes at a time when relations between britain and the irish republic have been severely strained
the royal ulster constablulary said a soldier at the vehicle checkpoint was in military custody and the shooting was under investigation
an army statement said it ``deeply regrets'' the death, which it said occurred when a weapon was fired from an observation tower at the permanent military checkpoint near the village
mcanespie, who lived in aughnacloy, was said to have worked at monaghan in the irish republic, according to press association, the british domestic news agency
relations between britain and ireland have been severely strained recently after two british decisions concerning sectarian warfare in the predominantly protestant british province of northern ireland
britain's court of appeal upheld the convictions of six irishmen sentenced to life in prison for two irish republican army bombings that killed 21 people in 1974. the court rejected arguments that new evidence undermined the confessions and forensic findings that sent them to prison
the ira is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland and unite the province with the irish republic, which is predominantly roman catholic
britain also decided last month not to prosecute any northern ireland police officers connected with the police shootings of unarmed roman catholics in an alleged ``shoot-to-kill'' policy against irish nationalist guerrillas
mayor edward i. koch says he is giving up his campaign to boycott manhattan movie theaters that charge $7 admission because moviegoers weren't going along
it's clear to me that moviegoers distressed with the higher prices are nevertheless willing to pay them, having no alternative other than to boycott, which they have not been doing,'' the mayor said sunday through his spokesman, lee jones. ``boycotts without mass support don't prevail.''
the mayor's 46-day boycott targeted 44 theaters that had raised admission prices from $6 to $7
koch says that next weekend he'll probably see his first $7 movie since the boycott began, jones said
joanne zyontz, leader of a group calling itself boycott $7, said her organization will continue its effort
we were happy to have the mayor's voice in our fight but we will not drop the battle at this point,'' ms. zyontz said. ``if we ignore the $7 ticket, next year it will be $10.'' station</head> name to yitzhak and to correct his title to defense minister, sted prime minister</note>
the cbs affiliate in the washington area, wusa-tv, mistakenly began its ``face the nation'' broadcast sunday with last week's preview of the new hampshire primary
commentator lesley stahl started the show with, ``welcome to `face the nation,' this is lesley stahl in new hampshire,'' and spoke of what would happen in last tuesday's primary
the error was not detected until more than five minutes into the show
at that point, republican presidential candidate pat robertson was talking about prophecies concerning the ``forces of evil'' in the world and an embattled israel. the tape was abruptly cut, and the show picked up with ms. stahl in mid-sentence asking israeli defense minister yitzhak rabin about israeli forces being out of control in the west bank
diane digit, wusa publicity manager, said as soon as engineers realized they were mistakenly running last week's show, they switched to a tape containing the correct broadcast
cbs affiliate stations around the country tape the weekly show from a feed transmitted by the network's new york office, she said
roadblocks used to bar florida fruit because of a feared citrus canker outbreak probably will be maintained to discourage shipments, despite a threatened lawsuit, a texas official said sunday
at this stage of the game, florida hasn't attempted to send any citrus fruit in by any of the roadblocks we've got out there and we don't anticipate that they will,'' said mike moeller, deputy texas agriculture commissioner
a roadblock on interstate 10 near orange, texas, was closed sunday because of the lack of activity
the state declared a 30-day emergency quarantine on florida citrus after the u.s. department of agriculture lifted a ban that was leveled following a 1984 citrus canker outbreak in florida
texas citrus growers and agriculture officials barred the florida fruit from the state, saying the risk of canker, which causes defoliation and mars fruit, still existed. roadblocks were set up along i-10 and interstate 20, and officials vowed to destroy any florida fruit shipments
florida citrus growers, meanwhile, have threatened a federal lawsuit against the state
moeller said he expects action on the suit will be delayed until a hearing thursday in mcallen
at that time florida and the usda will have an opportunity to come in and attempt to document whether or not we've got a canker problem,'' he said. ``we don't anticipate that florida will attempt to run the blockade anytime before that hearing.''
a british school teacher has been kidnapped in northwestern pakistan, the british embassy said sunday
geoffrey langlands, in his 70s, was reported to have been kidnapped as he was driving to peshawar from the north wazirestan tribal area saturday
jeremy moody, press attache at the british embassy, confirmed that landlands had been kidnapped but had no details of the abduction
langlands is an old man and devoted his life to pakistan. i'm surprised he was kidnapped,'' moody said
he said the embassy was doing everything possible to find out what happened and secure his release
abductions are common in the tribal regions
langlands taught at razmak college in razmak and has been headmaster there since 1978. he has also taught at aitcheson college in lahore to the southeast
press reports said langlands' pakistani assistant, gul khajan, was also kidnapped, but was freed later
a pan american jet and a british caledonian aircraft, carrying a total of 222 people, nearly collided over the southeast coast of england on sunday, the british airline said
an air traffic controller was later suspended _ standard procedure according to the civil aviation authority, which said the incident is under investigation
it is the second near-collision in southern england in two weeks and the latest in a series of incidents this year that have raised concern about safety among the controllers
british caledonian said its ba 1-11, carrying 70 people, was about 25 minutes out of london's gatwick airport bound for amsterdam when its pilot saw the pan am boeing 727 on ``a converging course'' just below and slightly less than one mile away, near southend, essex at 9 a.m
the american airliner with 152 people aboard was headed for london's heathrow airport from oslo, norway
as far as the b-cal captain is concerned, he did not have to make any alteration to course and had the other plane in sight at all times,'' said a british airline spokesman, unidentified in keeping with british practice
he noticed that although there was a potential conflict, the pan-am aircraft changed its heading,'' the spokesman said
press association, the british domestic news agency, said the american plane altered its course on instructions from air traffic control after a potential disaster was realized
british caledonian said its pilot filed an ``air miss'' report and that the pan am pilot was also filing a report
aviation authority officials said they did not know exactly how far apart the two planes were
aircraft are supposed to be three miles apart horizontally and 1,000 feet vertically
one air traffic official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it appeared the incident happened when one of the two planes descended below its cleared altitude
we are not sure at this stage which one,'' the official said
an aviation authority spokesman, speaking anonymously in keeping with british practice, said: ``our preliminary findings indicate that it was not a serious air miss, but it's difficult to say what the separation was at the moment.''
he said controllers were suspended until an investigation has ``ruled out any gross error by air traffic control.''
two weeks ago a british airways lockheed l1011 and a balkan bulgarian tu-54 with a total of about 500 people on board were involved in a near-collision over the kent coast
two air traffic controllers were suspended and transport secretary paul channon ordered a special inquiry into the circumstances of that incident
israeli foreign minister shimon peres acknowledged sunday that he wrote to attorney general edwin meese iii in 1985 about a proposed iraqi pipeline, but said the note only indicated that he wanted to discuss the matter with secretary of state george shultz
peres, who was israel's prime minister at the time, previously has denied writing to meese that he supported the $1 billion, 540-mile pipeline project, which was never built
appearing sunday on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley,'' peres said he had sent meese a handwritten note regarding the project during the summer of 1985
i was told about the idea of laying a pipeline from iraq through jordan up to elat, which will add, in my judgment, more security to the whole region and that israel could have enjoyed oil for a lesser price,'' peres said
once i was told, i wrote to meese and i said that if this is the case, i would like to meet secretary shultz, a man for whom i have the highest regard, in order to discuss it and talk it over. that was the content of my letter,'' he said
peres has said meese sent him a handwritten letter in which the attorney general directed him to deal with then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane instead of shultz
the los angeles times reported earlier this month that meese told peres to bypass shultz because of a potential conflict of interest. shultz used to be an executive with bechtel corp., the huge san francisco construction firm which had submitted a bid to build the pipeline
independent counsel james mckay, who is conducting a criminal probe of meese, is investigating the attorney general's role in the pipeline project
meese has said his involvement in the project was ``entirely lawful, proper and responsible.''
at issue in particular is a 1985 memo sent by attorney e. robert wallach to meese describing the proposed project and mentioning planned payoffs to the government of israel and peres' labor party to ensure that israel would not attack the pipeline
wallach, a longtime friend of meese, had been hired by swiss businessman bruce rappaport, who had been enlisted by bechtel to help with the project due to his close ties to israeli government officials
federal law prohibits u.s. citizens from bribing foreign officials and states that the attorney general may take legal action to stop a violation if it appears that one is about to occur
rappaport has said he did not intend to pay bribes and that the payments would be standard business procedure and would come from profits from the pipeline or discounts on the oil
peres has denied repeatedly that anything of value was offered or accepted by him or his labor party in connection with the pipeline. he repeated that denial sunday
meese has said that he doesn't recall reading the portion of the memo mentioning payments, but said, ``i do not believe that it fairly implies that a violation of law was committed or contemplated in connection with the pipeline.'' apparently from world war ii. pulled up in boat's nets. no pickup</note>
a mine apparently left over from world war ii sank a french trawler in the english channel on sunday when it exploded in the boat's fishing nets, but all four crew members were rescued safely, officials said
an official at the cross-ma search and rescue headquarters in cherbourg, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the boat la minette hit the mine early sunday morning about 30 miles north of the normandy coast
a nearby trawler rescued the crew members and brought them back to port-a-bessin, their home port, 25 miles northwest of caen
another official at cross-ma said authorities believed the mine was one of many remaining after the june 6, 1944 allied assault on german defenses in normandy
the official, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said fishing boats drag up world war ii-vintage mines or shells about once a month, but explosions are rare
president corazon aquino recalled sunday that when ferdinand marcos was preparing to go into exile, she reluctantly allowed him to stay overnight at u.s.-run clark air base
but mrs. aquino said on her weekly radio show that she had refused to let the ousted president go to his home province
mrs. aquino also said she had been told of the coup plot against marcos that led to the ``people power'' revolution feb. 22-25 1986 but she did not believe the planners would go through with it
mrs. aquino said sunday night that the role of the u.s. embassy during marcos' final hours as president was ``making arrangements for marcos to leave the country.''
marcos has claimed he was kidnapped by u.s. authorities and tricked into boarding a plane, thinking he would be flown to ilocos norte, his home province in the northern philippines
but mrs. aquino said u.s. ambassador stephen bosworth called her the evening of feb. 25 to say the marcoses would be flown to clark
after the marcoses reached the base, bosworth called her again and asked if they could stay overnight at the base and then fly to ilocos norte for a rest, she said
i said no, he can rest in clark, but he has to leave first thing in the morning. and so that was the agreement, and that was why marcos and his family flew the next day to honolulu,'' she said
mrs. aquino invited listeners to join a ``chain for peace'' during second anniversary celebrations thursday along a road dividing the two military camps where the revolt occurred. deteriorated; picks up 4th graf, `baby john ...'; subs 6th graf, ``baby evelyn ...' to delete now-redundant first reference to ms. rockwell. subs grafs 10-11, `under loma ...' with date protocal adopted, clarify that babies kept on respirator a maximum 7 days; picks up 12th graf, `if the ...</note>
a brain-dead baby was taken off life-support machines after no recipients could be found for his organs, but another anencephalic baby remained on a respirator sunday, officials said
the boy known only as baby john, born tuesday and declared brain-dead thursday, had been kept alive in hopes that his organs could be transplanted in a pioneering program established by loma linda university medical center
the infant was removed from life-support saturday after doctors seeking a liver for four patients rejected his organ because it had deteriorated over a 36-hour period. no candidate with the same blood type was found for his heart, which stopped beating after he was removed from a respirator
the deterioration of the liver affected all the baby's organs, hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell said. ``when one organ begins to fail, the other organs begin to fail.''
baby john was the controversial program's first u.s. baby. another couple had hoped to enroll their child in the program, but the infant was stillborn on dec. 22
evelyn keys, born saturday with the same fatal birth defect in san antonio, texas, was flown to loma linda and placed in the transplant program for anencephalic infants _ babies born without most of their brain
baby evelyn is resting comfortably this morning. she shows some signs of brain stem deterioration but has not yet met all criteria of total brain death,'' ms. rockwell said sunday
anencephalic babies live only briefly. loma linda wants to establish a practice of sustaining such babies so the organs can be used for transplants after brain death occurs
baby evelyn, the first child of judy keys, 22, and airman todd keys, 21, stationed at lackland air force base, was born with only a brain stem
sustaining anencephalic infants for use as organ donors has raised an ethical debate, and loma linda is the first hospital in the united states to develop a medical protocol allowing the practice
under loma linda's guidelines, approved dec. 18, an anencephalic baby will remain on a respirator no longer than a week
if the baby is declared brain dead during that time, he or she becomes a potential donor. the rules require that two physicians not associated with the potential transplant recipient agree on a finding of brain death
after the week is up, the baby is removed from the respirator and allowed to die naturally, whether brain death has been declared by that time or not
several thousand anencephalic babies are born in the united states each year. their brain stems sustain basic functions such as breathing for a short time, but death occurs within hours or days of birth
ethical problems raised by the practice of sustaining anencephalic babies include the questions of whether such infants feel pain and whether it is ethical to prolong a life when it does not benefit that patient
last october, a brain-dead anencephalic girl was flown from canada to loma linda where her heart was successfully transplanted into the chest of newborn paul holc
the medical center, a seventh-day adventist hospital, has specialized in infant heart transplants. thirteen babies under the age of 4 months have received new hearts there. nine have survived
the center, 65 miles east of los angeles, became well known in 1984 when dr. leonard bailey unsuccessfully transplanted the heart of a baboon into an infant called baby fae
a woman convicted of involuntary manslaughter in the death of her baby on an airliner has been paroled after serving 120 days of a five-year sentence
julie killeen, 22, of san francisco pleaded guilty in october and was sentenced by platte county circuit judge john yeaman
yeaman placed ms. killeen on probation earlier this month, but declined to say why. california authorities will supervise her probation
ms. killeen's daughter was born june 30 in the lavatory of a miami-bound airliner during a 45-minute layover at kansas city international airport, authorities said. the baby died of suffocation
ms. killeen told police she dumped the baby's body in a trash can after the plane arrived at miami international airport so that her father wouldn't know she was pregnant. she also said she thought the baby was stillborn
a maintenance worker found the infant girl's body in the miami airport trash can. figures, supporters celebrating, rally canceled. pickup 10th graf pvs ``kyprianou, 55,...''</note>
a communist-backed millionaire narrowly defeated his veteran conservative opponent sunday to become president of cyprus in his first political campaign
i see this as a victory for cyprus,'' said george vassiliou, 56. during his campaign he promised that as head of the greek cypriot government he would push for reunification talks with the turkish side of the divided mediterranean island
vassiliou urged restraint by supporters, but isolated street brawls broke out between his backers and those of conservative glafcos clerides in nicosia, the capital
jubilant leftists set fire to clerides posters and banners, broke several shop windows and stoned cars outside a right-wing club
in unofficial final returns vassiliou garnered 51.63 percent of the vote and clerides 48.37 percent in the first closely contested election since independence from britain in 1960
clerides, 68, and vassiliou knocked out incumbent spyros kyprianou in a first round of balloting in the greek cypriot sector on feb. 14
vassiliou called off a pre-dawn election rally, telling the associated press: ``there is no victor or vanquished. we should all work together for the good of cyprus.''
he said he would make no immediate policy statements
clerides told state-run television: ``the cyprus people have chosen vassiliou as a new president. despite the small difference, there is no doubt he won the election.''
more than 90 percent of the 363,000 voters turned out to vote in the runoff. with 325,062 valid ballots counted from sunday's election, vassiliou had 167,834 and clerides 157,228.voting was compulsory for all those 21, and there were several thousand ballots ruled invalid
kyprianou, 55, had sought a third five-year term on a platform of no negotiations with the turkish side of the island unless 30,000 turkish troops and 65,000 turkish mainland settlers withdrew from the turkish-occupied north
rauf denktash, president of the turkish cypriot breakaway state established in northern cyprus in 1983, has offered to meet the new president in preliminary negotiations aimed at breaking the 3-year-old deadlock in peace talks sponsored by the united nations
cyprus has been divided since 1974, when the turkish army invaded the eastern mediterranean island following a short-lived coup by greek cypriot extremists favoring a union with greece
turkey seized the the northern third of the island and forced about 180,000 greek cypriots to flee to the south. turkish cypriots declared their own republic in 1983, but turkey is the only country to recognize it
the separation of the island has been the dominant issue in the election. clerides and vassiliou both said they would hold talks with the other side
clerides, a veteran negotiator who has held inconclusive talks with denktash in the past, promised to form an all-party national unity government to handle peace talks
vassiliou also stressed unity, but rejected the coalition proposal as unfeasible. he offered instead to appoint ministers of ``wide acceptance'' with no party affiliations
the new president will be sworn in next sunday
after the first-round defeat of kyprianou, the campaign developed into a direct left-right battle between vassiliou and clerides
clerides charged that vassiliou's independence was a sham, and that his election would result in communist domination
to bolster his national unity plank, clerides resigned as leader of the pro-western democratic rally party to run in the second round as an independent
vassiliou's camp charged clerides of being a ``right-wing, anti-labor reactionary.'' he was also accused of harboring fascist elements involved in the 1974 coup, which briefly overthrew the island's first president, the revered late archbishop makarios, and sparked the turkish invasion
the race was thrown open on thursday when kyprianou, the leader of the centrist democratic party, told the 91,000 people who voted for him, about 27.3 percent of the total, that they could choose either clerides or vassiliou
clerides topped the first round with 33.3 percent of the vote, followed by vassiliou with 30.1 percent
the turkish cypriot minority of 150,000, concentrated in the north, votes separately for the leadership of its breakaway state with its own constitution
if the u.s. congress approves new non-lethal aid for the contra rebels it will be ``erasing the word peace,'' president daniel ortega said sunday
in a two-hour speech at the opening session of the national assembly, ortega said the united states ``continues to propitiate and finance the war against nicaragua and despite the vote of congress against that aid, this chapter has not closed.''
he said president reagan will look for a way to obtain more financing for the contras by calling the assistance humanitarian aid
if the north american congress approves that type of financing, it would be erasing the word peace that it wrote when it voted against the funds, and would be putting (in) the word `war,' '' he said in the speech, broadcast over a government national radio network
that is the little game of congress, a congress where many interests, particularly egotistical, are involved and which is playing with life, hunger, security and the self-determination of the nicaraguan people,'' he said
reagan lost his bid in a house vote feb. 3 for a $36.2 million aid package that included about $3.6 million for weapons and ammunition, along with additional millions for military logistical support for the rebels fighting the leftist sandinista government
democrats prevailed in that vote, 219-211, after the party's leadership promised wavering members that there would be a later opportunity to vote on a package of contra aid that included only food, clothing, medicine and shelter
a group of democrats, together with one or two republicans who voted against the president's proposal, have been meeting to draft such an alternative
ortega claimed in his speech that the u.s. embassy in managua is financing opposition groups ``including the communist party.''
deputies from the communist party and two other opposition parties did not attend the assembly session
among the invited guests were uruguayan vice president enrique ernesto tarigo vasquez and the rev. roy bourgeois. the roman catholic priest was sentenced to 10 months in jail for trespassing during a demonstration at an air force base in florida where nicaraguan rebels reportedly were being trained
in the speech, ortega said 26,500 people have been killed since the war began in 1981 and 23,882 others wounded. other sources have said unofficially in the past that more than 40,000 have died
the war, he said, has cost the country $3.6 billion
in 1987 alone, he said, damage to the economy from the war totaled $376 million, more than the country's exports of $270 million
despite the war, he said, the economy expanded at an inflation-adjusted rate of 1.7 percent. it contracted 0.4 percent in 1986
ortega said consumer prices soared a whopping 1,347 percent last year, compared to 657 percent in 1986
the government recently unveiled a new program to try to control the runaway inflation rate, introducing a new cordoba currency, boosting prices of basic goods, increasing salaries and cracking down on speculators
ortega also praised the strategic weapons agreement between the united states and the soviet union
those agreements tell us that if understanding is possible at those levels, it may be easier for there to be understanding at other levels, and particularly in places where there are conflicts as in nicaragua,'' he said
two firefighters were suspended for allegedly manhandling and threatening a fire official because of the graduation of black and women rookies in the racially troubled fire department
the fire commission on saturday suspended anthony serpa, a 12-year veteran, for six days and walter glynn, an 18-year veteran, for four days, as part of a plea bargain. both will lose up to $1,500 in pay, officials said
the two, who allegedly were drunk at the time of the incident nov. 10, also will be dispatched to a different station daily for the next eight months as part of the agreement
the incident in a bar came at a time of department tensions prompted by the hiring and recruitment of minorities and women. incidents such as the discovery of a swastika near the desk of two minority firefighters led to a call for an fbi civil rights investigation and the resignation of chief edward phipps
the ``very heated confrontation'' occurred after more than a dozen firefighters had been drinking following a station banquet, said capt. michael mckinley, who led the department's investigation
training division chief fred postel and training capts. elmer ballard and alberto da cuhuna entered the bar. the men told postel that ``he was letting people by in training who weren't qualified,'' mckinley said
clearly, they were way out of bounds'' in the incident in which they threatened postel, poked him in the ribs, cursed and manhandled him when he tried to leave, mckinley said
the department withdrew charges of violence, disobedience, insubordination and acts detrimental to the fire department's welfare, he said. update with dukakis comments at white house; picks up 15th graf pvs bgng, `gephardt, in'</note>
sen. albert gore jr., seeking to come on strong in his native south, renewed his attacks sunday on democratic presidential rivals richard gephardt and michael dukakis. and republican bob dole ridiculed the vice president for pulling his campaign out of south dakota, demanding: ``where's george bush?''
south dakota and minnesota _ with campaign contests set tuesday _ drew a cluster of gop and democratic contenders over the weekend
gop presidential hopeful pat robertson combined politicking and preaching sunday at a church dedication in spartanburg, s.c.. he told 4,000 cheering supporters that the country must return to the religious foundation ``upon which this country is laid.''
the government does not give freedom. that comes from god,'' the former television evangelist said. ``we give the government what freedom we want to, not the other way around.''
gephardt, who has made trade issues a campaign cornerstone, said he was undaunted by word that his house colleagues were planning to scuttle his trade amendment, which calls for sanctions against countries that maintain large trade surpluses with the united states
we're going to dump it because it's bad policy,'' rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., a member of the house-senate conference committee working on a compromise trade bill. but the missouri congressman, in watertown, s.d., vowed: ``i'm going to fight for my amendment.''
gore, who sat out the iowa caucuses that gephardt won and staged only a limited effort in new hampshire where dukakis triumphed, blasted the two in a television interview, continuing a round of attacks he kicked off at a dallas debate on thursday
the tennessee senator, appearing on nbc-tv's ``meet the press,'' defended his aggressive tactics by paraphrasing harry truman
i'm not giving them hell _ i'm just telling the truth and they think it's hell,'' gore said
gore, who has been attacking gephardt for reversing positions on some issues, picked up the theme again sunday
it's not a case of just having one or two or three issues where he has changed 180 degrees. there is a long, long list of issues. you can't tell whether the views he is enunciating today are the ones he will have tomorrow,'' gore said of the missouri congressman
he said dukakis, as governor of massachusetts, has not had ``a single day's experience in foreign policy, which shows in some of the statements he's made.''
that drew a swift reaction from the dukakis campaign. ``al gore's never had a day of experience balancing a budget or building an economy,'' said leslie dach, dukakis' communications director
dukakis, who hopes to make the white house his home, attended a black-tie dinner there sunday night and was also to pay a visit monday, when he and other members of the national governors' association meet with president reagan
on his way into the white house, dukakis quipped to reporters, ``i'm just looking the place over, that's all.'' asked where he hoped to be next year, dukakis replied, ``i hope right here
gephardt, in south dakota, was also anticipating taking up residence at 1600 pennsylvania avenue. ``when i'm president, you're going to have someone who understands the problems of south dakota,'' he said at a train depot in aberdeen
democrat paul simon, stung by a second-place finish in iowa and a third-place showing in new hampshire, courted labor backing in lead, s.d. later, at mount rushmore, he posed with the carved visages of four presidents as a backdrop
there's one visible defect,'' he joked. ``abraham lincoln wore bow ties all the time.'' simon's bow ties are his trademark
south dakota, which has a primary on tuesday, and minnesota, which holds caucuses the same day, were fertile campaign ground on sunday
hart, who garnered almost no support in iowa and new hampshire, visited south dakota's pine ridge indian reservation, where he and his wife, lee, joined in a friendship dance with oglala sioux children. hart told a crowd at a tribal building the united states should honor treaty commitments to indian tribes
a poll in sunday's editions of the minneapolis star tribune suggested dole was the favorite among minnesota republicans and dukakis among democrats. but the newspaper said the poll was not designed to be an indicator of the candidates' likely performance, because it was not confined to likely caucus-goers
dole campaigned sunday in wyoming, which holds caucuses march 5 _ three days before super tuesday, when 20 states, most of them in the south, have primaries and caucuses
bush, in the face of a strong dole effort in south dakota, decided last week to withdraw from the state _ a fact the kansas senator made much of in a string of appearances on sunday
george bush's decision to turn his back on america's heartland is the mark of a regional candidacy that cannot win,'' dole said in casper, wyo. ``where is george bush? he may run from the west and the midwest, but he can't hide in the south.''
in other developments:
_ a poll published in the houston chronicle and the dallas morning news suggested the state's march 8 primary could prove to be a tight race among democrats. dukakis drew the support of 27 percent; 21 percent were unsure; 16 percent favored jesse jackson, 15 percent backed gephardt, 11 percent supported gore, with seven percent choosing hart and 2 percent favoring simon
among republicans, 66 percent favored bush, while 12 percent supported dole; 11 percent favored pat robertson, and 10 percent were unsure. in the poll, 736 voters were interviewed feb. 17-18, and the margin of error was 4 percentage points
_ robertson, asked for comment on evangelist jimmy swaggart stepping down pending an investigation of allegations of sexual misconduct, said he was ``running so hard for president i really haven't had a chance to think much about it.''
_ jackson, in philadelphia, picked up the endorsement of mayor wilson goode and rep. william gray iii and appealed for donations to buy air time in the super tuesday states. ``we have a message, but we need money to tell our story,'' he said
a drunken youth penetrated security devices designed to protect the royal family and was arrested about 200 yards from buckingham palace, scotland yard said early monday
the yard, headquarters of the metropolitan police, said the incident occurred sunday morning. it said no further action was planned against the youth, who was released after being cautioned for being drunk and disorderly
the yard declined to give the youth's name, address or age. it also would not detail how he got into the royal mews, which serves as stable and garage for queen elizabeth ii's 30 carriage horses, coaches and cars
he was arrested in the mews, about 200 yards from the palace
the mews is normally entered from buckingham palace road through a huge pair of doors set in a high wall topped with spikes, barbed wire, alarms and remote control cameras
the palace said the queen was not at buckingham palace at the time of the intrusion
she was at windsor castle, 21 miles west of london, where the royal family often prefers to spend weekends
security at 650-room buckingham palace and its 45 acres of grounds was improved after an unemployed drifter, michael fagan, climbed a drainpipe in 1982 to reach the queen's bedroom, sat on her bed and spoke to her before he was nabbed
a jury found fagan innocent of stealing a bottle of californian wine which he drank during a break-in at the palace earlier in 1982. he was never charged with breaking in to the palace because it was regarded as trespassing, a civil offense, and the palace wouldn't take him to court
a committee of arab league foreign ministers said it would act to support palestinian protesters in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
the seven-member committee, which met for the first time since it was established last month, issued a statement saturday night saying it would take ``urgent measures to assure the maximum support for the uprising of the palestinian people.''
the statement did not describe the measures, but said they would be applied ``on the arab and international level.''
foreign minister ahmed taleb ibrahimi of algeria was chairman of the meeting saturday. also represented were syria, jordan, iraq, tunisia, saudi arabia and the palestine liberation organization
more than 60 people have been killed in clashes in the israeli-occupied territories since the violence began dec. 8
the government will repay $500 million in loans from the world bank ahead of schedule, the finance ministry said monday
officials said the ministry plans to pay back the loans within the first half of this year, but has not set an exact date
the ministry officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the decision was in response to the bank's request for an early partial repayment. south korea now owes the bank $3 billion in loans
buoyed by strong exports amd a surging current account surplus, south korea repaid about $9 billion in public and commercial loans last year, reducing its total debts to $35.6 billion by the end of the year
south korea's current account surplus in 1987 more than doubled to $9.78 billion from $4.61 billion a year ago
current accounts measure trade in merchandise and services plus some other international transactions
british actor dudley moore, who chased bo derek in ``10'' and staggered to fame as a lovable lush in ``arthur,'' married actress-model brogan lane on sunday, his agent said
moore, 52, proposed to miss lane, 28, on valentine's day, agent lou pitt said
moore met her six years ago on the set of moore's film ``six weeks,'' according to publicist paul bloch in new york. they were reintroduced three years ago at a restaurant and have been together since. it is her second marriage, his third
they were married by a justice of the peace in a short ceremony at the little church of the west chapel, pitt said
moore was due back in los angeles on monday for rehearsals of the operetta ``the mikado'' with the los angeles opera, pitt said
the two hope to star in a film together in the future and are looking for projects,'' bloch said
moore's previous wives were english actress suzy kendall, to whom he was from 1968 to 1970; and american actress tuesday weld, his wife from 1975 to 1980, with whom he had a son
members of the ruling kenya african national union party test a controversial ballot-by-queueing system monday when, for the first time, they nominate candidates for general elections
under the new system, which the party introduced in 1986 to stop corruption and give members a bigger voice, they will nominate an estimated 750 candidates to contest march 21 general elections for parliament
thousands of other candidates are standing for seats on urban, rural and district councils
in previous elections, scheduled every five years, candidates were nominated by three people _ the party chairman, secretary-general and treasurer. president daniel arap moi also is president of kanu
by law, kenya is a one-party state and kanu must approve all candidates. some 4.3 million of the 20 million people are party members eligible to queue during monday's nominations
the secret ballot will be used at the general elections, in which all citizens aged over 18 years and registered to vote can take part. there are 5.5 million registered voters
some voters will not have the opportunity. candidates who win more than 70 percent of votes at monday's party nominations automatically go to the 200-member parliament
church leaders, lawyers and a few politicians have criticized the regulation and the new system, where voters must stand in a line behind their candidate
results of monday's nominations will be published at the end of february, when the party also is holding presidential nominations. but nobody is expected to challenge moi, who has ruled kenya for 10 years since the death of its first president, jomo kenyatta
the nation became independent from britain 25 years ago
the coast guard has called off its search for a single-engine plane carrying three people that was lost from radar screens off the florida coast
the cherokee warrior was a half-mile offshore on a trip from fort lauderdale to stuart when it disappeared thursday at 8:30 p.m., officials said. stuart is about 75 miles north of fort lauderdale on florida's east coast
the coast guard searched 1,800 square miles from west palm beach to vero beach on friday and again saturday before suspending the effort
pilot lou pettorini of hollywood and passengers peter potter and terry hendrickson, both of seymour, conn., were flying to stuart for a dinner party, said jim phillips, owner of the aircraft. news digest: moscow _ shultz; jerusalem _ israel; beirut, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap; baton rouge, la. _ swaggart; undated _ political rdp; wash _ governors.</note>
china reaped a $1 billion bonanza from weapons sales to iran last year, but is not expected to block an iranian arms embargo the united states is seeking in the united nations security council, u.s. officials said
the most recent u.s. intelligence estimates show that iran received up to 65 percent of its armaments from china last year, said the officials, speaking on condition of anonymity
american experts were quoted four months ago as saying chinese arms to iran were flowing at a rate of $1 billion a year, and the officials said that figure appears to have held up through the end of 1987
after sitting on the sidelines in iowa and falling short of his aim in new hampshire, albert gore jr. has two weeks to show that he too is a real contender for the democratic presidential nomination
gore, the tennesse senator who has made much of his southern roots, long ago crafted a southern strategy for winning the democratic presidential nomination that is 100 percent dependent on achieving a breakthrough on one day
that day, march 8, looms large now that the race for the nomination has moved to his turf. twenty states hold democratic delegates contests then, including every state of the south save one
house trade negotiators plan to jettison rep. richard gephardt's retaliatory trade amendment from the house-passed trade bill because it threatens to scuttle the legislation, according to congressional leaders
but as a courtesy to the presidential contender from missouri, house conferees will wait until after the march 8 super tuesday primary elections before abandoning the proposal which is a central part of the house bill and of gephardt's presidential campaign, suggest key lawmakers
the gephardt provision will be dropped. we're going to dump it because it's bad policy,'' said rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., chairman of the trade subcommittee of the house ways and means committee and a member of the house-senate conference committee hammering out a compromise trade bill
panama paid high-powered u.s. lobbyists hundreds of thousands of dollars since 1985 to polish its image, government records show. among the lobbyists: a long-time associate of president reagan and a public relations executive with ties to lt. col. oliver north's private network
stuart spencer, reagan's long-time political advisor; m.b. oglesby jr., former white house assistant for legislative affairs; public relations executive francis gomez; and jamie whitten jr., the son of rep. jamie whitten, d-miss., are among those who have registered with the justice department at one time as agents of panama under the foreign agents registration act
records indicate lobbyists' contracts have been allowed to lapse, and raul st. malo, a spokesman at panama's embassy, said the government no longer employs any american lobbyists to promote panama. ``we are doing that ourselves at the moment,'' he said
a supermarket chain has found a way to slash the price of a little item that almost everyone buys and always at full price: u.s. postage stamps
the huge safeway chain is selling booklets containing $4.40 worth of stamps for $4 in the baltimore, washington and richmond areas
there are two catches: sales are limited to one per family per store visit and the stamps come inside a booklet of price-off coupons, which only adds to the bargain for coupon clippers
one of the nation's leading medical journals is headed for court in what may be its most serious editorial controversy _ the publication of an anonymous article by a doctor who described committing a mercy killing
the cook county state's attorney's office wants the name of the doctor, but the journal of the american medical association, citing a state free-press law, says it will be in court monday seeking to quash the subpoena
letters to the journal have been about evenly split on whether jama should have printed the anonymous essay
ed kowas has a lot of friends in mendocino, even though he wasn't very honest with them during his more than three years in town
they don't seem troubled that the local radio talk show host's name is really leon edmond kowalski, that he concealed his past, or that he's under a federal indictment and plans to plead guilty to a charge of income tax evasion
i don't think anybody's crazy about the irs,'' snapped supporter paula creasey of nearby albion. ``i'm sympathetic toward ed; he's done a good job on his talk show.''
the future of the city's all-male clubs, the prestigious gathering places for business and relaxation, is about to be placed in the hands of the u.s. supreme court, until recently a masculine sanctum itself
the high court will be asked tuesday to decide whether the clubs must admit women. members say they are havens of tradition; opponents say they are bastions of bigotry
for the old boys of the `old boys network,' it is time to wake up,'' said marcella maxwell, outgoing chairperson of the city's commission on human rights
official corruption linked to the drug trade is spreading around latin america, giving an anxious edge to longstanding predictions the illegal traffic could damage the region's political stability
because the people who produce and deal in cocaine, marijuana and heroin are so wealthy, the law enforcement agencies entrusted with the fight against them are often outmatched
indeed, bolivian president victor paz estenssoro estimates cocaine brings in $600 million each year to his nation, compared to $500 million for all legal imports combined
president corazon aquino, after weathering coup attempts and other political turmoil, begins her third year in office thursday more secure in power than at any time during her administration
but many who saw the feb. 22-25, 1986, uprising against president ferdinand marcos as the beginning of a new era in philippine politics are disappointed that dreams of social progress and reform remain unrealized
the coalition that propelled mrs. aquino to power _ reformist soldiers, human rights activists, the church and business groups _ has been shattered in the bickering that followed. pickup; also moved on general newswires</note>
the new owner of the new york post spent sunday talking with advisers about how to improve the prospects for survival of the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper, his spokesman said
one post employee called it ``the $22 million question'' _ whether multimillionaire businessman peter kalikow, aided by financial concessions by the post's unions, will be able to stem the tabloid's flow of red ink
equally intriguing was whether the real estate developer would tone down a sometimes sensationalistic style of journalism that has titillated, outraged, amused and generally entertained readers for more than a decade
kalikow will take over the post for $37.6 million on march 7, pending rank-and-file ratification of the concessions and verification by his accountants of the details
the sale of the paper by owner rupert murdoch cleared its final hurdle early saturday when leaders of the newspaper's 10 unions agreed to the $22 million in concessions to keep it alive. union members were expected to ratify the agreements this week
now kalikow has to do is figure out how to turn around one of the biggest money losers in the newspaper business
the post lost about $17 million before taxes last year, and about a quarter of its advertising in the last few months
its circulation has dropped from 700,000 to 500,000, partly because of a retrenchment in areas outside metropolitan new york
kalikow spent the day talking to advisers about ways to improve the post's prospects, according to howard j. rubenstein, his spokesman
the 45-year-old businessman, estimated to be worth about $500 million, has approved a $2 million promotional campaign for the newspaper and is scheduling luncheon meetings with leading advertisers and community and business leaders, rubenstein said. he also plans meetings with mayor edward i. koch and gov. mario cuomo to discuss his plans for the post
despite kalikow's many other business interests, ``he's going to be a very active owner,'' rubenstein said
under his contract with murdoch, kalikow promised to operate the paper for at least one year
rubenstein said kalikow was considering making the post strictly a morning paper, and denied that kalikow was leaning toward an afternoon-only paper with a smaller circulation and a higher price
despite its down-scale reputation, a $1 million marketing study commissioned by kalikow ``shows the paper already appeals to a fairly well-to-do audience,'' rubenstein said
kalikow is widely thought to want to back away from the paper's emphasis on stories of sex, crime and scandal. the post will remain a tabloid, but ``there will be a change in format,'' rubenstein said. ``there'll be changes in headlines, in the front page, in the emphasis of the paper.''
but, rubenstein added, the paper's new owner ``still wants it to be feisty and provocative.''
the specifics, he said, were being worked out by kalikow and frank devine, who is staying on as executive editor
the chairman of allegheny international inc. insists the consumer products company will continue business as usual even though it has filed for reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws
the pittsburgh-based company and some of its subsidiaries filed for chapter 11 reorganization in u.s. bankruptcy court on saturday
the company has total debts of around $845 million, while its assets are estimated at $735 million
i'm confident ai will emerge a stronger and more viable company,'' allegheny international chairman oliver s. travers said in a statement
included in the filing for reorganization and protection from creditors are allegheny international; sunbeam corp., its principal subsidiary; almet-lawnlite inc., sunbeam's subsidiary; sunbeam holdings inc.; and chemetron corp
allegheny international said a $175 million line of credit has been arranged through two major new york banks
the credit line, the company said, provides enough cash to run the companies during the reorganization
the reorganization will enable ai to operate with the stability needed to continue the successful growth of its consumer products operations and improve its complex capital structure,'' travers said
chapter 11 provides the means to implement corporate restructuring and continue the company's profitable turnaround,'' said travers, chairman since 1986
the action provides court authorization for the company to continue normal operations, he said. ``it's business as usual at our facilities.''
travers said allegheny international sought court protection because its complex capital structure and excessive debt could not be refinanced and reorganized without court protection
sunbeam and almet-lawlite are profitable, travers said, and wouldn't have had to file for protection if it weren't for allegheny international's complex financial situation
consumer products manufactured by sunbeam include small household appliances, electric blankets and barbecue grills. almet-lawnlite makes lawn and patio furniture
the bankruptcy filing does not affect sunbeam corp.'s consumer products operations in canada, mexico, venezuela and peru, according to the company. it also does not affect industrial and high-technology companies that allegheny international is in the process of divesting
since a change in allegheny international's management in august 1986, the company said it has sold 19 subsidiaries. the company said it also has reduced expenses and focused on its consumer products operations
last september, the securities and exchange commission charged the company with failing to record and to disclose perks given to former chairman robert j. buckley and other executives, including the use of company-owned residences and aircraft
allegheny international, prior to 1981, was known as allegheny ludlum industries. the company acquired sunbeam corp. that year for $534 million
when you're in charge of handling $7 billion in cash, sometimes a million or two can slip through the cracks, says ford motor co. money-manager malcolm s. macdonald
macdonald, assistant treasurer for the world's no. 2 automaker, says he flew into a panic once when $5 million couldn't be accounted for
the trouble began when he asked a bank to send $5 million to the central bank of brazil. the bank sent the money to the central bank of bolivia instead
there was a period of time when i was concerned about my career prospects,'' he said
keeping track of the growing nest egg of one of the nation's most profitable corporations can lead to a lot of anxiety, macdonald acknowledged
i wake up in the middle of the night sweating,'' he said
macdonald watches over more than $7 billion of ford's $10 billion-plus in cash and marketable securities
the money he watches is the money ford keeps on hand to pay its workers and its bills and to finance acquisitions. the rest of ford's liquid assets are handled by ford of europe
ford, which earned an automotive industry record $4.6 billion in 1987, entrusts more than 20 percent of its total assets to macdonald, who invests cash while making sure there's enough on hand to pay operating expenses
macdonald and his 26-person staff have to be careful how they invest the money, because the automaker must be able to get to it at all times
all our investments must be liquid. if mr. (bruce) blythe calls us up one day and says `i need $1 billion on march 30 to complete an acquisition,' we can't say `gee, that's going to be kind of tough. we bought these bonds, and we can't sell them yet,''' macdonald said
blythe directs ford's diversification planning
the guidelines that macdonald and his staff follow in investing ford's cash allow them to buy only high-grade securities and prohibit them from playing the stock market
on oct. 19 we were very grateful for that policy. there is plenty of risk in the car business without trying to get rich in the securities business,'' macdonald said
ford tries to keep less than $10 million in its bank accounts overnight because banks pay limited interest on corporate checking accounts, he said. the biggest chunk of ford's money goes into u.s. treasury bills and other government and corporate bonds. involved in `warfare.' inserts 3 grafs after 6th graf pvs, `there's going...', with further comment from spokesman, picking up 7th graf, `negotiations began...'; also moved on general newswires</note>
talks between pan am corp. and the 4,500-member union representing reservation clerks broke off sunday. the union vowed to disrupt operations through ``guerrilla warfare'' but put off any strike
pan am officials said airline service continued without interruption even if there eventually is a walkout, and threatened to discipline any workers disrupting service. but the federal mediator involved in the negotiations said he was optimistic the two sides would return to the bargaining table
we can strike any time we want,'' said william genoese, director of the teamsters airline division. ``we're going to pick our strategic time.''
asked when that might be, genoese said, ``today, tomorrow, next week, next month ... when it hurts them the most.'' the union had originally set a strike deadline for 12:01 a.m. sunday
genoese said reservation clerks and other teamsters members would attempt to disrupt pan am operations through ``guerrilla warfare,'' starting immediately
there's going to be trouble on the job,'' he said. ``they're not going to correct anybody's errors, they're not going to help anybody, they're not going to do anything for anybody. ... there's no more talks as far as we're concerned. we are at war with them, complete warfare.''
but a pan am spokesman, jeff kriendler, called genoese ``the jerk'' and his threat ``completely ridiculous.''
whereas the leadership may be at warfare with pan am, the rank and file are completely loyal to the company,'' kriendler said. ``it is not in their hearts to turn their backs on their customers.''
any workers taking part in that warfare would face ``discipline in the severest form,'' he added
negotiations began late saturday night at the request of a federal mediator, and continued for six hours past the midnight strike deadline. when talks broke off sunday morning, teamsters leaders said that union members _ reservation clerks, customer service agents and other clerical staff _ would continue to work
the talks resumed at 3 p.m. at pan am headquarters in manhattan, but recessed about a half-hour later when the company rejected the mediator's call for arbitration, according to genoese
the federal mediator involved in the negotiations, walter c. wallace, said after the talks broke off that he had asked both sides to re-evaluate their positions
the federal mediation board ``will stay in touch with the parties, and there will be a resumption of negotiations at an early and appropriate time,'' wallace said
i have been involved in negotiations where there have been shootings and bombings ... and i am still involved in negotiations'' with the antagonistic parties, he said
the labor dispute involves pan am's attempts to cut costs by $35 million through concessions by the teamsters. the ailing airline needs labor concessions totaling $540 million over the next three years, company officials have said
asked about the major points of contention, pan am spokesman jeff kriendler said, ``let's say that the company long ago established a $35 million objective of achieving cost reductions. what is negotiable is how we reach the $35 million figure.''
the company does not view the amount itself as negotiable, kriendler said, but the union maintains that it is
the company has vowed to maintain operations with replacement workers in the event of a strike. the transport workers union voted friday not to support a teamsters' strike, and pilots, flight attendants and flight engineers were not expected to honor picket lines
the teamsters represent workers at airports in boston, detroit, chicago, seattle, san francisco, san diego, los angeles, honolulu, houston, washington, new york and the florida cities of tampa, orlando and miami. the vast majority of the workers are employed in new york and miami. spokesman; subs 9th graf pvs, `a proxy ...' to conform; also moved on general newswires</note>
the new management team at united press international will meet on monday with representatives of the wire service guild to discuss the change in leadership at the money-losing news service
dan carmichael, a negotiator and guild spokesman, said sunday that upi's new president, paul steinle, asked to meet with guild officials about the transfer of control to world news wire group inc
the union ``wants to see upi remain an integrated, quality, competitive general international news service,'' carmichael said sunday
following the meeting, dr. earl w. brian, 45, the chairman of wnw, and steinle plan to hold a news conference to discuss the transition
efforts to reach brian and steinle, who assumes direct operational control of upi, were unsuccessful sunday. telephone numbers for the two were not available. calls to the washington hotel where wnw spokesman dwight geduldig was staying were not immediately returned
mario vazquez rana, a mexican publisher who paid $41 million to acquire upi from chapter 11 proceedings in u.s. bankruptcy court in june, announced friday that he had sold control of the company's stock to the wnw
vazquez rana granted wnw ``irrevocable proxy'' to operate upi for at least 10 years ``in exchange for present and future financial considerations totaling more than $55 million,'' upi said in a statement
under the arrangement, vazquez rana gave up all management and financial obligation for upi
a proxy represents a transfer of voting power represented by the ownership shares, but not the shares themselves. no stock changed hands, geduldig said saturday
under an earlier agreement with the guild, vazquez rana cannot sell his interest in upi without first giving the union the right of first refusal
the proxy arrangement enables wnw to take control of upi without buying it, but brian said in an interview in sunday's new york times that he intends to acquire the news agency and will meet with the union to discuss how that might be done
brian, who also is chairman of financial news network, the 24-hour cable television service, was an unsuccessful bidder for upi in 1985 and waged a vigorous legal challenge to vazquez rana's efforts to acquire the company
brian, a former surgeon, was california's health and welfare secretary while president reagan was governor of the state. he created biotech capital corp., which changed its name last year to infotechnology inc
brian declined to commit himself to preserving upi as a general news service. union leaders have expressed concern it might be turned into a specialized service, concentrating, for example, on business news
i'm not going in with any commitment other than to turn this business around,'' brian told the times
he added that vazquez rana's statement that upi loses $1 million a month may prove to be a conservative estimate
