ating with british government, amnesty asking hangings be called off. pick up 8th graf pvs, dlamini's killing ...</note>
the ``sharpeville six,'' a group of blacks whose murder convictions have drawn protest at home and abroad, are scheduled to be hanged friday, one of their lawyers said monday
attorney prakash diar said an appeal for clemency was denied and the five men and one woman were notified they will be executed friday morning
the six were convicted in connection with the killing of black township councilor jacob dlamini in sharpeville, about 40 miles south of johannesburg, on sept. 3, 1984
evidence at their trial showed the six were not among those who actually hacked and burned dlamini to death
they were convicted under the doctrine of ``common purpose,'' which holds they were responsible for the killing by being part of the mob that gathered outside dlamini's home with the intent to kill him
human rights groups and government officials, both in south africa and internationally, have called for clemency
theresa ramashamola, 26, is the only woman on death row in south africa for what activists consider a politically motivated offense
britain's conservative party government expressed hope monday night that south africa will call off the hangings
lynda chalker, minister of state at the foreign office, told the house of commons, ``even at this late stage we sincerely and earnestly hope that the south african government will heed the united call of everyone for clemency in these cases.''
she said britain backed a united nations security council call for the sentences to be commuted
about 100 lawmakers of britain's opposition labor party signed a statement expressing ``total condemnation'' of the planned executions
amnesty international, the london-based human rights organization, appealed to south african president p.w. botha to spare the lives of the six
dlamini's killing came during riots which began a two-year outbreak of nationwide anti-apartheid protests that left more than 2,000 blacks dead
black activists frequently targeted black township councilors, considering them collaborators with the white-led government
the media workers association of south africa appealed to the government monday to ``demonstrate good will to the people of south africa in particular and mankind at large by sparing the lives of the sharpeville six.''
the scheduled execution date is three days before the anniversary of the sharpeville riots of march 21, 1960
sixty-nine blacks were killed when police fired on peaceful protesters demonstrating against the pass laws, which required blacks to carry identification documents while in white areas. the laws have since been repealed
the 1960 shootings raised an international storm of protest
by law and custom, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services. sted spokeswoman; subs 25th graf pvs, an abc, with tracking poll in tuesday's washington post</note>
bob dole declared monday ``it's not over'' for his republican presidential campaign despite indications of a big illinois victory for george bush, but democrat paul simon admitted ``i have no plans beyond tomorrow'' and the home-state primary he needs to win
with five presidential candidates racing around the state in a final day of campaigning, jesse jackson was buoyed by a poll suggesting he may have pulled even with fellow favorite son simon
on the eve of a significant breakthrough ... with your help, we the people can win illinois,'' jackson told a cheering crowd of about 1,800 in carbondale, ill. ``i tell you, we the people will win.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, lying third, sought a good enough showing to keep up some momentum from super tuesday. over and over on monday, dukakis hammered at simon's contention that the democratic convention will be deadlocked
it ``would be a disaster'' for the democrats to end the primary process without a nominee-to-be, dukakis said, with ``negotiating, dealing, people behind closed doors trying to decide who the nominee ought to be.''
dukakis apparently wasn't the only democrat wanting to avoid a brokered convention. democratic chairman paul kirk suggested monday he would try to rally uncommitted delegates behind whichever candidate is leading the field at the end of the primary season, if none has a lock on the nomination
kirk said in a telephone interview from new york that he didn't want to ``leave the impression that kirk's going to be the broker'' but said he would be ``in the middle'' of efforts to avoid hurting the nominee with a battle just before or during the convention
the problem for dole was much more immediate than the conventions, months away in the summer. the kansas republican was looking for a way to keep his campaign alive in the face of a string of bush victories
it's not over for bob dole,'' he told the executives club of chicago
later, at a news conference, dole repeated his determination to continue beyond tuesday: ``i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going.''
the kansas senator said he had ``made some inroads'' against bush in illinois, but that there had not been enough time to stop bush's surge after a 16-state win last tuesday
you want to elect momentum or elect the better candidate?'' he asked the executives club audience. ``maybe it's going to take a couple of weeks for everything to sort of slow down.''
but the illinois outlook for dole was not good
a chicago tribune poll said bush was the choice of 62 percent of the likely gop voters in illinois, with only 28 percent for dole
such a strong showing could give bush a big chunk of the 82 republican delegates at stake in illinois. added to his current total of 705 delegates, it could give him more than 60 percent of the 1,139 needed to win the nomination at the gop national convention in new orleans in august. dole has 165
despite the numbers, bush told a reporter that suggestions he has locked up the nomination are premature
i feel the speculation has gotten ahead of the story,'' bush said as he flew on air force two from chicago to springfield, ill. however, when asked if he were surprised that dole was staying in the race, he replied: ``i'm not sure i understand what he's doing.''
on the democratic side, simon was facing the reality that he has to win the illinois primary to keep even his stripped-down campaign alive until the democratic national convention in july
i have no plans beyond tomorrow,'' he said in chicago. ``i have to win and i will win. but obviously michigan and wisconsin come next.''
and second place isn't good enough
a strong second isn't very strong,'' simon told a reporter. if he does end up in second place in either delegates or the popular vote in illinois, he said, ``i'd have to reevaluate.''
one poll published monday in the chicago tribune suggested simon faces the possibility of a second-place finish
the survey, conducted friday and saturday, said 32 percent of likely democratic voters supported jackson, 29 percent backed simon and 20 percent said they would vote for dukakis. rep. richard gephardt of missouri was the choice of 5 percent and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had the backing of 4 percent
the poll, conducted by peter hart research associates, interviewed 500 people and had a potential margin of error of 5 percentage points
an abc news-washington post tracking poll published in tuesday's editions of the post gave simon the lead with 39 percent support to jackson's 34 percent among very likely democratic voters. dukakis had 17 percent with gore and gephardt far behind. the potential sampling error in the survey, conducted saturday and sunday, was plus or minus 6 percentage points
going into the illinois primary, dukakis held the lead in the associated press delegate count, with 463 to 424 for jackson. gore had 353 and simon just 36
a total of 173 delegates are at stake on the democratic side in illinois
one dukakis goal is to win some of those delegates, a difficult task given the complicated nature of the state's ballot. voters not only cast ballots for presidential candidates, they also vote directly for delegate candidates. thus, a vote for dukakis in the ``beauty contest'' portion does not necessarily mean a vote for him in the delegate selection process
another goal, dukakis aides said privately, is to narrow the democratic field. mentioning the polls showing dukakis drawing his last-minute support from simon's voters, the governor's aides said they would be delighted to see jackson beat simon, believing it would drive the senator from the race
republican pat robertson was to be in washington on primary day, where he planned to meet with the visiting israeli prime minister, yitzhak shamir. the robertson campaign characterized it as a meeting of ``two old friends.'' 3rd graf pvs, `she felt ...'</note>
katharine hepburn, whose outspoken suppport of women's reproductive rights is a family tradition, made a rare public appearance monday night when planned parenthood honored her and her late mother at a gala affair
the 79-year-old miss hepburn received a standing ovation from 1,100 guests at the waldorf-astoria hotel for the black-tie event, titled ``celebrating two generations of individual courage
it's a frightfully important subject,'' the actress said of women's rights to abortion and birth control. ``and i'm damn lucky to have had a mother who waked me up at an early age'' to the importance of ``doing things for other people.''
attired in a black pantsuit, miss hepburn said, ```when a girl becomes pregnant should she be forced by law to have this baby? she's 13. she doesn't want it. she can't support it. her family doesn't want it. it would seem to me that she should be allowed to have an abortion.''
miss hepburn was ``enthusiastic'' about the party, said winston forrest, vice president of planned parenthood federation of america
she felt her mother deserved the honoring,'' he said
the black-tie event is to benefit a planned parenthood fund to honor miss hepburn's mother, katharine houghton hepburn
proceeds from the dinner, priced at $500 to $1,000 a ticket, will be dedicated to miss hepburn's three priorities: keeping abortion safe and legal, preventing teen-age pregnancies and preserving family planning for the poor
her mother, an early supporter of birth control, worked alongside planned parenthood founder margaret sanger more than 70 years ago
mrs. hepburn, a member of the houghton family that founded corning glass, testified before the u.s. senate in the 1930s on the need for birth control, particularly for poor women, forrest said
she maintained that ``a rich woman could get the information and access to birth control but the poor woman could not,'' he said
she died in 1951 at the age of 73
miss hepburn became involved in planned parenthood in 1981. the group's president, faye wattleton, recruited the actress ``to take on the legacy her mother had established by volunteering to write letters and be spokesperson for reproductive rights and abortion rights for women,'' forrest said
he said her involvement has brought the organization an additonal 200,000 donors and supporters
more than 50 handicapped people demonstrated outside the department of transportation on monday to protest what they said are federal policies that result in inadequate mass transit services for disabled people
some protestors chained themselves to the doors of the dot headquarters and vowed to stay until officials agree to improve bus service for handicapped people
members of americans disabled for accessible transportation (adapt) gathered from around the country to protest the department's decision to appeal a january ruling that transit agencies must provide services to the handicapped regardless of cost
in the ruling, u.s. district judge marvin katz in philadelphia struck down a transportation department regulation requiring the nation's transit authorities to spend no more than 3 percent of their budgets on the disabled
the demonstrators timed their protest to coincide with a three-day meeting of the american public transit association, which represents local agencies that provide bus and subway service
timothy cook, a philadelphia attorney who represented adapt in the lawsuit, said the present system of allowing transit agencies to decide what services to provide to the handicapped ``gives individual states the option to discriminate.''
cook said that in philadelphia, handicapped residents must phone five to seven days in advance to get an accessible bus to pick them up
they should be able to use the next bus coming along,'' cook said. ``many transit authorities simply don't want funny-looking people on the bus with normal people.''
transportation secretary jim burnley said monday the department is ``fully committed to providing mass transportation to people with disabilities.''
the panama canal, still one of the hemisphere's most important pieces of real estate, has allowed ships to move between the atlantic and pacific without interruption through nine months of political unrest
nearly 13,000 vessels a year avoid the long voyage around cape horn, the southern tip of south america, by traveling 50 miles from sea to sea through the ``big ditch'' that opened in 1914. more than 140 million tons of cargo move through it every year
the panama canal treaties signed in 1977 commit the united states to turn over complete control of the canal and military installations to panama by midnight dec. 31, 1999
gen. manuel antonio noriega, commander of the defense forces and the man in charge in panama, claims washington wants to renege on the treaties and continue ``occupying'' the canal indefinitely
he says the reagan administration is waging a smear campaign to try to replace him with an administration it can manipulate. noriega was indicted in florida last month on charges of involvement in smuggling colombian cocaine into the united states
although the canal remains an emotional topic of debate, its strategic importance has declined in the past 30 years
dennis mcauliffe, administrator of the panama canal commission, says that is because the united states has improved and extended its military forces
during and after world war ii, through the 1950s, the major port system was new york and sealift through the canal was about the only way to reinforce presence in the pacific, but now there are major u.s. naval forces in both oceans and major ports on the west coast,'' he said
there is less of a need to transport capital ships through the canal, and airlift capacity has increased tremendously.''
traffic through the canal brings the commission about $320 million a year in tolls
supertankers and the largest bulk carriers are too big for the three sets of locks that raise and lower vessels 85 feet, but 93 percent of the world's ships can get through, said richard wainio, chief of the commission's economic and marketing division
the panamax is still the world's most popular cargo shipbuilding design,'' he said, referring to the largest vessel the canal can handle. a panamax vessel has a beam width of 106 feet. the locks are 110 feet wide
nor is the canal concept outdated. the united states, japan and panama began a study last year of the feasibility of building another. its conclusions are expected in 1992 at the earliest
for the united states, the strategic value of what used to be the panama canal zone is enhanced by the presence of the southern command, involving about 10,000 american soldiers and 20,000 dependents, which is responsible for u.s. military operations in latin america
it operates half a dozen bases along the canal and has its headquarters in quarry heights, adjacent to balboa
during their long tenure, the americans built replicas of their own towns. communities of white wooden houses on tree-lined streets named in english still can be found in the 10-mile-wide area that had been the canal zone
mcauliffe said this week that day-to-day coordination between his commission and panamanian port authorities is ``easy, fluid and very effective.''
this month, there had been several bomb threats, which he called ``an irritant,'' and the commision flew in large quantities of cash because of panama's banking crisis to cover the paychecks of canal employees. the latest checks were handed out monday
under sanctions imposed last week, the reagan administration is withholding monthly payments to panama of about $6.6 million for canal operations and putting the money in escrow
fifty years after the nazis closed the world's first museum of jewish art in vienna, a private exhibit of jewish ritual objects has been drawing large crowds of visitors
some 800 items displayed at the ``judentum in wien'' (``jews in vienna'') exhibit housed by the museum of the history of vienna are all loans from a private judaica collection, regarded by art historians as one the most important private collections of jewish life
according to max berger, owner of the collection, most of the drawings, paintings, sculptures, medals, coins, manuscripts and handicraft on show were in danger of being destroyed or lost after austria's annexation by nazi germany in 1938
berger, a viennese businessman who survived a nazi concentration camp, pieced together his collection over years and this is the first time it has been shown in public
the exhibit displays mementoes of jewish life from the early 18th century until present, focusing on vienna as an important center in the history of european jewry. museum officials said it is the first step toward opening a permanent jewish museum here in the next two or three years
about 6,000 jews live in vienna today, compared with 200,000 who helped make this city a capital of science, culture and the arts before world war ii. they included sigmund freud, gustav mahler, stefan zweig, arnold schoenberg and hundreds of others
some 65,000 austrian jews perished in nazi concentration and death camps during the war
the exhibit is divided into eight sections, including ritual objects and hebrew writings, the jewish year and life, the history of the viennese jews, zionism, anti-semitism and persecution and jewish contributions to art and culture
it's the first time that the most important private judaica collection in europe is displayed for the austrian public after the war,'' karl-albrecht weinberger, a curator who helped set up the display, said in an interview
by march 3, the exhibit had been visited by some 30,000 people
on saturdays and sundays we have up to 500 visitors a day,'' weinberger said, adding that recently austrian school authorities advised schools to come and see the exhibit as part of their history classes
more young austrians gradually have been educated about the nazi past and the holocaust in the two years since the first disclosures that president kurt waldheim had covered up his wartime past as a german army lieutenant in the balkans
weinberger said the exhibit was planned before waldheim became president
the most valuable objects displayed are a silver-and-gold torah crown made in austria in 1810 and a torah plaque made in 1806 of gold-covered silver
the oldest display is a torah curtain made around 1700 of red velvet laced with silver threads
weinberger said the first jewish museum in the world opened in vienna in 1895, with a very big collection of jewish art
the nazis dismantled it in 1938. while some items were lost or destroyed, others were taken by the germans to prague where they planned to open a big anti-semitic jewish museum. the museum never materialized but some objects have remained in the prague jewish museum which opened after the war
asked if the austrians ever asked the czechs to return the items held by the vienna museum, weinberger said they never did
it's difficult to prove what objects belonged to the jewish vienna museum as all catalog were destroyed during the war,'' he said
a cracked fuel line threw a metric wrench into a plan by honda to become the first japanese automaker to transport its u.s.-built cars back to japan for sale
the auto carrier green bay, built in japan last year, was examined by repair crews monday, a day after it slipped quietly back into port here with its cargo of 540 u.s.-built accords and 100 honda motorcyles
the ship's owner, central gulf lines of new orleans, declined to comment, but honda spokesman shin tanaka in detroit said a fuel line crack forced the ship's return
he said honda motor co. ltd. was postponing from march 22 to april 8 a gala reception to welcome the vessel at narashino port, east of tokyo. if necessary, he said, the cargo will be moved to another ship from the green bay, which has made several successful trips for honda since it was completed oct. 29 by mitsui engineering &amp; shipbuilding ltd
the ship departed march 7 with much fanfare, after tetsuo chino, president of honda north america inc., drove the first car on board and held a news conference with sen. bob packwood, r-ore
francois l. elmealeh of the port of portland's marine marketing department said the problems with the ship didn't threaten the cargo or crew
i think it's an embarrassment more than anything,'' elmealeh said. to update with washington post-abc news poll showing simon with strong lead; picks up 10th graf pvs bgng, `i would'</note>
sen. paul simon shrugged off new poll results suggesting his lead in his home state had diminished to a tie with jesse jackson, but conceded sunday that his democratic campaign was hampered by not having the money to buy television ads in illinois
obviously, not to have paid media hampers me in illinois,'' simon said as he campaigned in the city's chinatown neighborhood. ``but the only way i could have paid media would be to use up the resources and obligate the matching funds that are coming.''
that would have left simon unable to afford television advertising in wisconsin, new york and other states with contests upcoming, he said
frankly, i'm not in it just for illinois _ otherwise i'd go on paid media. ... i want to win the nomination _ not buy the nomination,'' he added
but the results of a chicago tribune poll to be published in monday's editions suggested simon's campaign was faltering in illinois, despite his record as a state representative and u.s. senator
the poll of 500 registered democrats indicated 32 percent supported jackson, 29 percent backed simon and 20 percent favored massachusetts gov. michael dukakis. however, the poll, taken for the tribune by peter d. hart and associates, has a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points, making the race a dead heat
the poll, taken friday and saturday, updates one taken earlier last week that showed simon leading with 35 percent, followed by jackson with 30 percent and dukakis with 18 percent
simon still insisted he would carry his home state on tuesday, saying, ``i think the people of illinois are going to make a sound decision.''
and his optimism appeared to be supported by a poll for the washington post and abc news which was published in monday's editions of the newspaper
that poll showed simon holding a strong lead with 42 percent, jackson 33 percent, dukakis 14 percent, sen. gore of tennessee 4 percent, rep. richard gephardt of missouri 3 percent and others and undecided, 4 percent. the poll was based on telephone interviews friday night and saturday with 287 illinois democratic voters who were likely to cast ballots. the margin of error was 6 percent
i would add that four years ago there wasn't a single poll that showed me ahead and i won,'' simon said, referring to his upset victory in a u.s. senate race against republican incumbent charles percy
meanwhile, dukakis, who has assaulted simon's campaign with a blitz of last-minute television advertising, accused simon of ``doing a disservice to the democratic party'' by talking up the likelihood of a brokered presidential convention in atlanta
i think the notion of a brokered convention would be an absolute disaster,'' dukakis said sunday
the reality is we're not going to have a first-ballot nominee,'' simon countered. ``and those brokered conventions have produced candidates ... like franklin roosevelt, harry truman and john f. kennedy, and it turned out quite well for the american people.''
it's been nearly three years since a toddler's visit to a doctor sparked what has become the marathon trial of margaret kelly michaels, a former day-care teacher accused of sexually abusing her students
ms. michaels, 26, resigned from the wee care day nursery in maplewood in april 1985 after working for six months. a few days later, a boy, now 7, told a nurse taking his temperature rectally that ms. michaels did the same to him
the school was closed soon afterward, and by december 1985, ms. michaels had been indicted on 235 counts of sexually abusing 31 3-to 5-year-old students
the charges have since been reduced to 20 students. closing arguments in the trial, which began nine months ago in superior court in newark, are expected to begin tuesday
the prosecution contends ms. michaels performed sexual acts on the children, forced them to perform sexual acts on her, engaged them in nude sex play and threatened further harm if they told of the abuse
ms. michaels, who once aspired to be an actress, has been free on $25,000 bail and living with her family in pittsburgh since january 1986
all but 128 charges of abuse have been dropped because of lack of evidence and recent higher court rulings that clarified what testimony is admissible in child sex abuse cases
we'll all be glad when it's over,'' ms. michaels' attorney, harvey meltzer, said last week. ``we are very, very optimistic she'll be acquitted on all charges.''
assistant prosecutor glenn d. goldberg said, ``we feel there is no reason to disbelieve the children's testimony about what happened.''
the boy who went to the doctor three years ago testified via closed-circuit television last june that ms. michaels once took his temperature and that of two friends using a rectal thermometer
the boy's mother testified earlier he told her in april 1985 that ms. michaels used a rectal thermometer daily on children
the mother and son were among about 120 prosecution witnesses. in all, 19 children testified via closed-circuit television from judge william f. harth's chambers. ms. michaels took the stand earlier this month, and was one of 22 defense witnesses
the defense has argued there was not ``the time, space or opportunity'' in the bustling environment of the school for ms. michaels to commit the alleged offenses
but the prosecution said ms. michaels, whose duties included supervising napping children, created opportunities. they contend she sometimes took children, without permission, to a remote music room and played the piano during sex games
the defense also says the children were prompted in their allegations by investigators, psychologists and prosecutors. experts for the prosecution testified children cannot be ``brainwashed'' and could not have made up the stories
the prosecution also said ms. michaels' presented a false image of herself
as a four-year drama student, a lot of what she was doing on the witness stand was an attempt to appear spontaneous when in fact it was not spontaneous,'' goldberg said
but metzler said: ``what we have is a very, very large jigsaw puzzle that the jury must complete. ... we are going to show there are pieces missing from the puzzle. then it's up to the jury to determine if the missing pieces amount to a reasonable doubt.''
after 15 years of entertaining readers around the world, humorist russell baker says he has written his last ``sunday observer'' column
i did it for 15 years. that's a long time to write a column with three weeks' lead time,'' baker said sunday. ``columnists tend to hang on too long. i wanted to call it quits before that.''
baker, who announced his decision in a farewell column in the new york times magazine, plans to continue his weekday column for the times and work on a book
baker's daily and sunday columns are distributed to about 400 newspapers across the united states and about 100 foreign papers, according to kevin delaney of the new york times news service. the weekday column appears twice a week
i'll still be doing the daily column, probably longer than i should,'' baker said. ``i'm 62 years old. you begin to run out of steam.''
courtney gibbs, the newly crowned miss usa, says she's tone deaf and can't dance, which is one reason why she entered the pageant: it has no talent requirement
the miss america pageant has a talent division, and i really don't have a talent that fits into any category,'' the 21-year-old ms. gibbs was quoted as saying in this week's people magazine
ms. gibbs, texas' fourth-consecutive winner of the pageant, said she hopes her talent is ``speaking, because i want to go into broadcasting, but you can't do that for three minutes in front of the judges
i mean, i was a model for seven years, but i don't think they'd understand me modeling clothes for three minutes.''
officials in this small, south-central pennsylvania community are waiting for actor clint eastwood to make their day by paying a 10{-year-old speeding ticket
eastwood, who is also mayor of carmel, calif., was driving west along the pennsylvania turnpike in a frend's new black ferrari on oct. 23, 1977, when he was clocked going 69 mph in a 55 mph zone, police say
district justice marion l. morgret of everett said recently he stopped sending eastwood collection letters and warnings eight years ago. he had the citation placed in his ``dead'' file
eastwood, known for his tough-guy roles in such films as ``dirty harry'' and ``sudden impact,'' was fined $53 and ordered to pay $10 in costs
the actor's agent, lenny hirshan, said eastwood was on location in san francisco shooting a movie and could not be contacted
jimmy carter has vowed to support nigeria's drive to eradicate guinea worm, a debilitating parasite that permanently disables 12,000 nigerians annually
the former u.s. president, who arrived sunday on an overnight visit to this west african nation, pledged the support of global 2000, a private, non-profit institution founded during his 1977-81 presidency. the atlanta-based organization funds health and agriculture projects in the developing world
nigeria is the most heavily afflicted country in africa. if we can succeed here we can reach our goal to totally eradicate guinea worm'' by 1995, carter said during a meeting with the nation's health minister, dr. olikoye ransome-kuti
it is estimated that 2.5 million nigerians contract the disease each year through contaminated drinking water
eunice kennedy shriver has been selected to receive the 1988 laetare medal, one of the most prestigious awards given to american catholics, the university of notre dame announced
the university's president, the rev. edward a. malloy, said recently mrs. shriver will be honored for her work as founder and chairwoman of special olympics international
inscribed on each laetare medal is the slogan, `truth is mighty and will prevail,' '' malloy said. ``last summer, while hosting the international special olympics games, the notre dame community saw anew an ancient christian truth: christ comes most often in the stranger's guise.''
mrs. shriver, a native of brookline, mass., is the fifth of the nine children of joseph p. and rose fitzgerald kennedy, and the sister of the late president john f. kennedy
the directors guild of america has honored bernardo bertolucci with his second directing award for ``the last emperor,'' in what could bode a triple-crown award season for the italian movie director
bertolucci, who in january won a golden globe for directing ``the last emperor,'' picked up the dga award saturday night in ceremonies held jointly at the beverly hilton hotel and in new york
an academy award next month would make it a bertolucci sweep. only three times in the 40-year history of the dga award has it failed to coincide with the academy award winner for best director
the last time was in 1985, when steven spielberg's directorial colleagues gave him the nod for ``the color purple,'' while the academy of motion picture arts and sciences didn't even nominate him. the oscar went instead to sydney pollack for ``out of africa.''
other top dga winners saturday were will mackenzie, who received the tv comedy directing award for an episode of nbc-tv's ``family ties'' called ```a' my name is alex''; and marshall herskovitz, who won the nighttime dramatic series award for his pilot for abc-tv's ``thirtysomething.''
bernard rudofsky, an architect and social commentator, has died at age 82
rudofsky died of cancer saturday at new york university hospital
he wrote on a variety of subjects, ranging from the relationship between the body and clothes to how streets are used in cities
rudofsky's books and museum exhibitions influenced not only architecture but fashion, interior design, urban planning and food
he was our most perceptive and outspoken critic of human habits and habitations,'' said the chief editor of interior design magazine, stanley abercrombie
rudofsky first made waves in 1944 with an exhibition at the museum of modern art entitled ``are clothes modern?''
the exhibition, which examined the incompatibility of the human body and clothing, showed one of his contributions to fashion, the ``bernardo sandal,'' a curved piece of leather with straps
twenty years later, rudofsky had an exhibit at the museum of modern art called ``architecture without architects'' on vernacular architecture _ the design of buildings built in societies, sometimes ancient or primitive, that he believed were without pretensions
rudofsky, who was born and educated in vienna, received a master's degree in architecture and engineering and a doctorate in technical sciences at the technical university. he practiced architecture for several years in italy
he has lived in new york since 1935
his books included ``streets for people,'' in which he examined how streets are used in cities around the world, and ``the unfashionable human body,'' which looked at the relationship between the body and clothing
rudofsky taught at yale university, the massachusetts institute of technology, the royal academy of fine arts in copenhagen and waseda university in tokyo
he is survived by his wife, berta. taylor's role in evening's events, picking up 5th graf pvs, `as the...'.</note>
amid the glitter and glamour of elizabeth taylor and a parade of other celebrities, a gala benefit sunday raised $2 million for aids, which organizers said made it the largest private fund-raiser for the disease ever
that's so much money ... i mean that's so incredibly much money, and the things that money will do!'' said ms. taylor. ``we're talking about living or dying. and it's getting closer and closer to all of us. ... we want to do something about it
the government can help to a certain point. dollars can help to a certain point,'' she said
the evening's total was about $2 million, said james figetakis, an associate of ms. taylor's publicist, chen sam
ms. taylor chairs the american foundation for aids research, which will receive part of the funds. she served as hostess and chief drawing card at the gala
as the finale swung into full force sunday night, a steady stream of stars in sparkling jewels and dresses began arriving at the fontainebleau hilton hotel here. they expressed gratitude they could contribute in the battle against aids
it's really an honor for me to be here,'' actor matt dillon said. ``it's a real problem everywhere, not just in america, but all over the world. anything i can do to help is why i'm here.''
i think it's about time south florida got involved in the fight against aids,'' said miami vice star saundra santiago. ``i'm very happy to be here to support this.''
other stars on hand included lauren hutton, cheryl tiegs, ben vereen, marlee matlin, donna summers, grace jones, margaux hemingway, eddie albert, susan anton and van johnson. organizers say they hope the benefit will serve as a model for similar fund-raising efforts elsewhere
we've had the most private funds raised (for acquired immune deficiency syndrome) at this one function than any other place in the country,'' said event spokesman charles cinnamon. ``we want it to be the prototype for the rest of the country.''
despite a lack of corporate sponsorships, which had been expected to raise some $500,000 of the initial $3 million goal, tickets to the ``grand finale'' at the hotel here sold out and private donations were giving the fund drive an added boost, organizers said
stars and guests were invited sunday to attend about a dozen black-tie parties from miami to palm beach, being held at the homes of local celebrities and prominent community leaders for $2,500 a plate, before converging in miami beach for the finale
the aids benefit was spearheaded by the community alliance against aids, a fund-raising arm of the university of miami school of medicine. proceeds from the event were being split between the university's aids programs and the american foundation for aids research, a non-profit group chaired by ms. taylor, which supports research and education
in palm beach, celia lipton farris raised at least $137,000 in advance ticket sales for a private party being held in her home with ms. taylor and some 300 guests. during the event, ms. farris, a former child star and widow of a wealthy industrialist, announced she was giving an additional $1.1 million, figetakis said
funds raised in palm beach will go toward the comprehensive aids program, an organization in west palm beach and belle glade that cares for aids victims
other private dinner parties were being held in the homes of singer julio iglesias, theatrical producer zev bufman and david paul, chief executive officer of centrust bank, among others
with super tuesday behind them, the presidential candidates are looking toward the next big tuesday on the calendar _ june 7, when the california and new jersey primaries offer the last big bloc of delegates to be allocated before the national conventions
there are other big primaries in coming months, including illinois, pennsylvania and new york. but none offers a larger one-day delegate total than final tuesday, as it's been dubbed
montana and new mexico also will hold primaries june 7
for democrats, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, jesse jackson and tennessee sen. albert gore bunched in the lead, the late primaries on opposite sides of the country now loom as potentially decisive
on the republican side, where a big super tuesday victory last week made vice president george bush his party's likely choice, the june 7 primaries are expected to be much less crucial
a day after super tuesday, both dukakis and gore announced they would soon make campaign stops in new jersey and california. jackson, too, is building organizations in both states
california democratic party chairman peter kelly says the super tuesday result ``almost guarantees that the race will come down to california, and california will have a say in picking the nominee.''
in new jersey, democratic sen. bill bradley said, ``new jersey takes on real importance. we are, with california, the final two tests.''
california voters will select 205 democratic delegates in the primary, and 109 more will be chosen in post-primary meetings. along with 22 pre-selected ``super delegates,'' the state will send the largest single delegation to the convention with 336 members
new jersey democrats will select 71 delegates in primary voting. they'll join with 38 more picked by party leaders, and nine super delegates for a total of 118
to win the nomination, a democratic candidate will need 2,082 delegates. dukakis now leads the field with 460, followed by jackson with 424 and gore with 353. missouri rep. richard gephardt totals 145 delegates, followed by illinois sen. paul simon with 36
some party leaders say it will be nearly impossible for any of the three leaders to gather enough wins between now and june to win the nomination on the convention's first ballot. dukakis, the front-runner, would need to win more than 60 percent of the delegates remaining available
but final tuesday wins could give any candidate an unchallengable advantage in the final stretch
if you can go into the convention just coming off of (a win in) new jersey, it's momentum,'' said rep. james florio, d-n.j
california independent pollster steve teichner said results from the two primaries also have the potential to sway several hundred uncommitted super delegates from around the nation. those delegates, members of congress and other party leaders, will go to the national convention legally unpledged
in 1984, walter mondale and gary hart battled for the democratic nomination right up until the california and new jersey primaries
hart won in calfornia, but mondale _ who took new jersey and several smaller states that day _ emerged the overall victor. target</head>
red lights don't stop george bush. the vice president's limousine glides along under state police escort, with cars pulling over to make way. traffic signals are ignored; the curious crane their necks
bush is hoping tuesday's illinois primary will be just as smooth a ride
although heavily favored to win the state's republican contest, with 82 delegates at stake, the vice president nonetheless has been spending 12-hour days on the campaign trail
but on the stump his targets are no longer republican rivals like bob dole, the kansas senator he crushed in the primaries of super tuesday. instead, bush is aiming his rhetoric at democrats
i've never seen such a gloomy bunch,'' bush said of the democrats, as he spoke to 500 people at a republican party dinner here. ``everything they said about our country is negative _ midnight in america.''
bush, by contrast, is upbeat. he ought to be _ he's so far ahead of dole that the chicago tribune has quit polling on the republican side
at a stop in a campaign office in libertyville, bush and gov. james r. thompson, who has been accompanying him around the state, made phone calls to try to round up votes
we're putting the hard sell on,'' bush said into the telephone. ``we're at the grass-roots stage now.''
at stop after stop, bush delivers his message _ along with a series of one-liners
he said his success on super tuesday ``gave new meaning to the words southern comfort.'' he tells crowds he's got the support of the ``james gang'' _ thompson, illinois secretary of state jim edgar and cook county sheriff james o'grady
his standard speech includes pledges to trim the deficit in four years through tight spending, and to be tough with the soviets
he says he expects criticism from the democrats over the iran-contra affair _ he got some sunday, from albert gore jr., who said bush had never fully explained his role in the matter
bush, who says he has answered all questions about the matter except his private advice to the president on secret arms sales, said he wasn't worried about democrats harping on iran-contra
they'll raise it,'' he said. ``of course they will. so what?''
the democrats, he said, lack knowledge of foreign affairs
i can't wait to debate any one of those democrats on foreign policy. none of them have had any experience except when they had breakfast at the international house of pancakes,'' he said
he touches on the matter indirectly, perhaps, when he warns voters to expect to find a few warts
i might make a mistake here and there,'' bush said, ``but i've had enough experience i wouldn't do it like yogi berra did. they asked yogi what went wrong when the mets lost a few ball games. he said `we made the wrong mistakes.'''
you've got to think about it,'' bush said. ``anybody's going to make mistakes.''
in the bleachers at st. viator high school in arlington heights, scott bieda, 30, held his 1{-year-old daughter and nodded in agreement
i like what i hear,'' he said. ``those are the issues that are important to me: bargaining from strength and tackling the deficit. but you can say anything now. the proof is in the pudding. we'll see what happens if he gets in.''
a mass resignation of arab policemen has displayed the muscle of the plo and posed a security dilemma for israel and palestinians alike in the west bank and gaza strip
a national police spokesman, yehoshua goldapfel, on sunday said that 450 of the 850 arab police in the occupied territories ``have asked to leave the force.'' he left open the possibility more would depart
the police control crime and direct traffic, but they are not used to quell arab rioting in the occupied lands, now in its fourth month
arab officers in bethlehem said all 70 arab policemen would be off the job today at the city's headquarters office for the southern half of the west bank. as a shift ended at noon sunday, newly retired officers drifted from the station in jeans and jackets into the central manger square. a dozen israeli soldiers in riot gear stood watch beside a phalanx of huge tour buses
i will be left without a job, without income,'' said traffic officer mohammed abu ghayada, who spent 12 of his 36 years on the force. he said he might try driving a taxi
the people have decided, and we go with the decision of the palestinian people,'' said policeman fadl najajri, a 15-year veteran and a father of nine
the walkout was triggered by a communique issued march 10 by the palestine liberation organization and clandestine local leaders of the violent protests against israeli rule of the west bank and gaza strip
the message was driven home for some officers by the march 8 stabbing death of a palestinian policeman in jericho accused of cooperating too closely with israeli authorities
the killing in jericho made me decide very quickly,'' said a 33-year-old policeman who gave his name only as ramis
the national police commissioner, david krauss, told israel radio on sunday: ``there's pressure on them from the outside and a system of threats. but each one of them is organizing his friends, and we'll deal with them.''
he did not specify how
the resignations threaten to open wider cracks in israel's territorial administration, which employs 18,000 arabs and is an important buffer between israelis and the already rebellious palestinians
it is a precedent for many more civil servants to resign,'' said bethlehem mayor elias freij
forty tax collectors in the gaza strip quit last week under pressure from underground organizers
rioters in the village of qabatiyeh on feb. 24 lynched an alleged israeli collaborator who opened fire on a crowd nearing his house and killed a child
authorities punished qatabiyeh by banning visits of family members from abroad and forbidding the town's major export of stone to jordan
authorities also demolished houses of people accused of involvement in attacks on alleged collaborators
such methods will be used against villages and groups we know are involved in attacks on people who are considered to be collaborators or people who are cooperating with authorities,'' said a senior military spokesman
but he also admitted on sunday that israel ``cannot provide 100 percent security'' to all people who work with authorities
police spokesman nahum mendel on sunday termed the police resignations ``a big problem,'' and said authorities discussed offering pay raises to keep veteran officers
several arab officers said israeli superiors had offered to double their pay, now $400 to $500 a month, if they would stay. all said they refused
arab businessmen also are worried by the disappearance of local protectors
the authorities will not bring any israeli police to this area. there will be no law here,'' said rabah abdeen, owner of a plastics factory and a gasoline station in bethlehem
an israeli spokesman in the bethlehem head office said police in ramallah, 10 miles north of jerusalem, were unable to respond to a major traffic accident on sunday
i feel abandoned when out of 80 people at the station, only six of us were left,'' the ramallah district commander, miko bachar, said on israel television. he said all six were israeli officers
freij also said the resignations ``will vastly affect the process of the courts in the west bank,'' which together with those in the gaza strip handle about 200,000 cases a year, mostly traffic-related
the bechtel group, inc., a giant construction company which for years quietly built billion-dollar projects in the middle east, is receiving unwanted attention from a grand jury investigation of attorney general edwin meese's role in a failed mideast pipeline deal
the aborted deal, to build a pipeline from iraqi oilfields to the jordanian port of aqaba, was part of what bechtel president alden p. yates called a ``project development scheme'' to boost business in a bad market
falling oil prices were devastating the international construction business in 1984 when bechtel began to draw up engineering and financing plans for the $1 billion pipeline
it didn't work for geopolitical reasons,'' yates said in a telephone interview from bechtel headquarters in san francisco
independent counsel james c. mckay is focusing on a possible bribery conspiracy involving israeli officials, bruce rappaport, a swiss businessman involved with bechtel in the deal, meese and e. robert wallach, a close friend of meese hired by rappaport to garner administration backing for the project
secretary of state george p. shultz, who was president of bechtel before joining the reagan administration in 1982, recused himself from any role in the pipeline negotiations, opening the way for meese to become the pivotal cabinet official in the deal. former defense secretary caspar weinberger, who served as bechtel's general counsel under shultz, appears to have played no role in the deal
in addition to the unwelcome publicity over the pipeline deal, bechtel continues to have problems of a different nature, the same ones that drove it into the politically risky aqaba pipeline deal
lower oil prices, the dearth of nuclear projects and debt in the developing world have curtailed bechtel's trademark leviathan deals
people characterize us as not willing to take on little projects, but that's not true any more,'' said yates
bechtel's business jumped from $7.6 billion in 1980 to an average of $13 billion annually 1981-83, and back down to $8.6 billion in 1984. it has fallen more gradually since then, forcing the company to seek new markets
bechtel's ``mega projects,'' those costing above $50 million, have dropped from 96 in 1983 to 73 in 1986
yates declined to discuss the specifics of the pipeline case because it is under investigation, but he said it fit into a larger pattern under which bechtel officials sought to spot potential jobs, prepare engineering reports and arrange financing for prospective clients
along these lines, bechtel since 1985 has been studying the possibility of building a second panama canal, said yates
the iraq-jordan pipeline was a `project development scheme,''' said yates. ``in the old days, an oil company would send out a request for a project, and we would do it. now we doing project development, looking at the stuff way upstream.''
in the pipeline deal, bechtel sought out a partner in rappaport, who owns oil refineries and tankers, and asked him to secure promises from israeli officials that they would not attack the pipeline, said company spokesman al donner
wallach, hired by rappaport, wrote a memo to meese on sept. 25, 1985, saying that rappaport had confirmed an arrangement with israel's then-prime minister shimon peres that ``israel will receive somewhere between $65-$70 million a year for 10 years out of the conclusion of the project
what is also indicated to me, and which would be denied everywhere, is that a portion of those funds will go directly to labor,'' wrote wallach, in an apparent reference to peres' labor party
meese and his lawyers deny that the wording referred to a bribe _ the allegation the special prosecutor is investigating
iraqi officials informed bechtel in a letter dated dec. 31, 1985, that they were dissatisfied with security arrangements and that the deal was off, said donner
other deals have gone bad for bechtel. new orders fell from $13 billion in 1980 to $3.5 billion in 1986, the most recent year for which full statistics are available. and the payroll is down from a high of 45,000 to fewer than 18,000, according to company officials. they declined to provide profit figures
the company still prefers massive projects, but has expanded into such new areas as computerized factories, space and weapons technology and toxic waste cleanup, said yates
if you can do a $1 billion job, it is easier than doing ten $100 million jobs,'' he said in a succinct statement of the bechtel credo
bechtel still pulls down its share of big jobs worldwide
its engineers are involved in the $9.6 billion project to build the eurotunnel under the english channel. bechtel also is building a $3.3 billion tunnel project in boston and a $2.7 billion project to develop a new central terminal at new york's kennedy international airport
nine-year-old celeste has big brown eyes and long brown hair. she also has no mother, no father, no little brother and almost no hope
all in all, she's been one of the lucky ones,'' says anita septimus, head of social services at the albert einstein college of medicine, which runs the nation's largest pediatric aids clinic
celeste is among a growing number of children who are victims of congenital aids. they must pay with their future for a parent's past _ a problem that becomes more common as the disease enters the heterosexual population
both of celeste's parents were intravenous drug users who contracted aids; her mother died in 1983, her father died last year. celeste and her brother were infected in the uterus. he died christmas eve
every two weeks, to assist and extend her fragile life, celeste is given treatments of gamma globulin, blood serum that contains a high concentration of antibodies
she is the oldest youngster of more than a dozen treated there. some, less than a year old, are born to die; others face years of battling the disease and the cruel ostracism that often surrounds it. in either case, the prognosis for such children remains invariably pessimistic, specialists say
we have never seen anybody who has beaten the disease,'' einstein's dr. larry bernstein said recently. ``i think you get to a certain point and hope you can stay there, not deteriorate further.''
recent state health department figures indicate the potential number of aids-infected newborns is growing at a startling rate. one in every 61 babies born in new york city last november carried antibodies to the aids virus, which means they had been exposed to the virus
about 40 percent of these children will develop acquired immune deficiency syndrome in some form; 25 percent to 30 percent of those children will be dead before their second birthday. most of them were born to mothers who used drugs intravenously
dr. stephen joseph, the city health commissioner, put the number of children born in the city with aids antibodies last year at about 600; for 1988 the projection is 1,000. between 1980 and 1986, the total was only about 250 children
in fact, aids babies were cited as the reason for the first increase in new york city's infant mortality rate since 1974
one reason for the spurt is the large number of addicts in new york city. intravenous drug abusers make up almost half the city's aids population while in san francisco and most other cities with large aids populations, most sufferers are homosexual
but even in massachusetts, a state not known for large outbreaks of aids, one in 476 child-bearing women tested positive for aids antibodies, according to a study reported recently in the new england journal of medicine
nationwide, there were 865 cases of pediatric aids reported as of feb. 29, with 111 diagnosed in just the first two months of the year. altogether, 518 children are known to have died of aids
the bronx municipal hospital day care center, the nation's first day care facility for aids-infected children, opened in june 1986 to help out; septimus said another is planned for einstein
sixty-five percent of the einstein kids live in foster homes, she said. but some have spent so much time in hospitals, in broken homes or at arm's length from a terrified society that social skills like speaking have not been properly developed
in fact, they say the children remain innocent victims to the end, never realizing they were born without much of a chance
some of the older kids have a sense of it, but even the ones who are older have physical delays _ an 8-year-old with the intelligence of a 5-year-old,'' said bernstein
but we don't have that many older kids, so we don't know.''
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,433.51 points, down 110.22 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on monday
come on everybody _ let's do the conga!'' was the rallying cry for more than 120,000 people who lined up at little havana's calle ocho festival and danced into the record books
about 1.5 million people were jammed along 23 blocks of eighth street (calle ocho in spanish) on sunday when gloria estefan and the miami sound machine set about forming a conga line
is everybody ready? let's conga,'' said ms. estefan as her band began playing their hit ``conga.'' people began to grab the shoulders in front of them and sidestep to the latin beat
there's no way it could fail. as soon as the music plays, we just grab on to somebody and hang on,'' said nuvia valdez, who showed up early to take part in the historic strut
when it was over, anna nicholas of the guinness book of world records confirmed a record line of 119,986 dancers, shattering the old mark of a 10,442-person chain formed last august in canada. the computer-assisted count was made by volunteers at 30 observation posts
it may seem like a conga line is an inane thing, but it represents a lot more,'' ms. estefan said. ``because this community is so diverse, getting along and having a street party of this magnitude really says a lot about our city.''
the festival began as a block party 11 years ago to showcase miami's cuban culture
there are gadget lovers. there are cat lovers. there are people who love home improvement projects. if enough people fall into all three categories, the maker of the electronic cat door is in luck
reilor inc. of horsham, pa. is showing off its product here at the annual national home center show, which started sunday
the cat door comes with a coded collar key so only the owner's cat can enter. the door can be programmed to open from only the inside or only the outside, or from both sides. it's available at pet stores for $120-$150, said shelley daniels, a spokeswoman for the show
an estimated 36,000 retailers are expected to attend the show, sponsored by home center magazine of lincolnshire
the magazine says it did a recent survey of 1,561 homeowners across the country that found 93 percent of those households undertook at least one home improvement project last year
u.s. homeowners seem willing to tackle almost any type of home improvement imaginable,'' said john berry, an official of vance publishing corp., the company producing the show
the reigning drama of 1980 was not so much the carter-reagan campaign but the interminable hostage crisis in tehran. the two became intertwined, and as jimmy carter gave up his presidency, 52 americans were being returned to freedom
the pain's gone; the weight's lifted,'' dorothea morefield exulted as her husband ended 444 days of nerve-wracking captivity
we can all drink to this one,'' ronald reagan said
cut to 1988. another presidential campaign is in high gear and a new set of americans is held captive in the middle east. this time around, the hostages are bound and blindfolded far from the political limelight; the hope is that obscurity will diminish their value
for terry anderson, tuesday will mark three full years as hostage. it has been 1,094 days since anderson, returning from a tennis game, was shoved at gunpoint into a waiting car
anderson is an old friend, your basic boy-next-door, off to see the world in a foreign correspondent's trench coat. he has an enviable talent for finding the story and telling it straight, whether in detroit or johannesburg or beirut
we spent our salad days together in ap's detroit bureau; he filed the state broadcast wire and lived out towards ann arbor with his family and a wonderful collection of japanese etchings. from michigan, he became ap's chief middle east correspondent by way of tours in japan and south africa
in 1984, anderson and i had lunch in washington and he caught me up on the dangers and satisfaction of reporting the complex story of lebanon. i told him we called it ``wartornlebanon'' as if it were one long word. he laughed
now he is a part of the wartornlebanon story, longest held of some two dozen westerners missing in the sad city of beirut
i was out pricing washing machines on saturday, march 16, 1985, when a radio newscast said an american reporter had been kidnapped in beirut. i figured it might be terry anderson, and it was
i figured he might be free by monday, and he wasn't
who would have thought a year would go by, or two, let alone three?
that his baby would be born and he wouldn't know? she would turn one, learn to walk, learn to talk, and he wouldn't know. last spring she turned two. is she a terrible two? is she eating her vegetables? he wouldn't know
the washing machine is three years old and anderson is still the property of shiite kidnappers, currency in a geopolitical ordeal that has killed two american hostages and threatens the remaining eight. terry waite, who negotiated tirelessly for all the western hostages, now shares their fate
in march 1986, we marked the first anderson anniversary in a church on new york avenue. it was an optimistic gathering; perhaps freedom was just around the corner. rarely had a hostage been held so long; we hoped he was holding up
jesse jackson, who knew anderson celebrity-to-reporter, delivered a call for peace and brotherhood and deliverance
hostage relatives expressed frustration, and more
there have been so many times that i was frightened they would do something to them,'' anderson's sister, peggy say, said of the six americans then in captivity. another hostage relative, sue franceschini, said, ``i'm on automatic pilot most of the time, but we made it through the holidays.''
her brother, rev. lawrence martin jenco, would be released in 1986, but for others, more holidays would pass and more americans would be taken
the second anderson anniversary was marked at a second church, up 16th st. from the white house. the iran-contra story was out and it was clear that the hostages were key pawns in a multi-level ``arms for hostages'' intrigue. optimism? not so you could notice
the third anderson anniversary is upon us and wednesday we gather in a third church, this time for a candlelight and olive branch ceremony in georgetown. the pain, not gone. the weight, not lifted
no one knows how anderson will mark the day. he was last heard from in a videotape on christmas eve, day 1,012
jonathan wolman is ap's assistant bureau chief in washington
standing before an only mildly interested crowd at a county fair in florida last week, democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr. introduced himself
i am the only active farmer in this race for president,'' he said, stirring as good an applause as he got for the rest of his speech
the 39-year-old harvard-educated senator from tennessee, perpetually clad in a blue suit, could be accused of stretching it a bit with that statement
true, home is a modest farmhouse hard by the caney fork river at rural carthage, tenn., set amid the gore family farm operation. gore, though, has hardly made his living working its soil
but his statement, often repeated, is emblematic of gore as a man of varying backgrounds and worlds who has so far been able to balance them all
gore made the leap to the top tier of democratic presidential candidates last week in the super tuesday primaries. he won six states, five in the south plus nevada, and accomplished his aim: to use the biggest ever regional primary to jump-start a presidential campaign
he faces the task now of backing up his claim of being more than a regional candidate
while he is competing in the illinois primary tuesday, his hope is to advance as the primaries move across the north, arguing that he is the white alternative to gov. michael dukakis, the delegate leader. he depicts dukakis as a massachusetts liberal who, if nominated, could cause another landslide democratic loss
now that the campaign has moved out of the south, gore can be expected to rely less on his rural background than on his urban background. he has one of each
gore is the son of a veteran tennessee politician. albert gore sr. spent 32 years in congress, first in the house and later in the senate, before losing his seat in 1970
gore jr. was born and educated in washington, d.c., and attended the elite st. albans prep school in washington and then harvard. his wife, mary elizabeth or ``tipper'' as she is better known, was a high school sweetheart in washington
he was the all-american boy: bright, honors student, played basketball and football. he was accustomed to seeing the powerful of washington and can tell stories as a youngster of john kennedy and then-vice president richard nixon
yet like the congressman he would become, gore kept up his ties back home
as his father faced his final battle for re-election, and his opposition to the vietnam war threatened his seat, gore jr. joined the army and was sent to vietnam. he served as an army journalist
he returned to tennessee and a reporter's job at the nashville tennessean, hired by the publisher himself. he entered both divinity school and law school, not completing either. he quit law school after two years when the house seat his father once held came open
returning to washington as a house member himself, in 1976, and as a senator in 1984, gore's eastern background served him well
he was singled out early on by some monied, establishment democrats as a young man on the move, a potential presidential candidate
he was well connected and worked hard. he immersed himself in the arcane, technical ins-and-outs of issues such as arms control, medical technology and the space program
as a campaigner, gore draws on his various backgrounds. in the south he told country-lawyer jokes and talked about hypnotizing chickens _ one of the rural arts he claims to have mastered
but he also won the endorsement of the new republic magazine, whose editor was a former teacher of his at harvard
gore has also moved among nashville's country music crowd. he campaigned with country singer johnny cash, and rubbed elbows with hard-living country rebel hank williams jr. yet his wife tipper has led a campaign against raw lyrics in rock music, a campaign that has stirred opposition from some parts of the entertainment and music industry
the gores have four children, ages 5 through 14, who live and go to school in suburban washington. gore sometimes brings along one or more of his children on campaign trips, without their mother, including 5-year-old albert
gore will turn 40 on march 31. if elected, he would be the youngest president ever, following the oldest. he often makes the comparison to young john kennedy following the elderly dwight eisenhower in 1960
despite a voting record decidedly more liberal than some of tennessee's other representatives, gore won election to the senate overwhelmingly four years ago when republican howard baker declined to run again
whenever a questioner challenge's gore's claim to be a moderate, or his credentials as a son of the south, gore recalls that 1984 election. gore won 61 percent of the vote, running ahead of even ronald reagan, who got 58 percent of tennessee's vote. campaign</head>
to judge from the vitriolic campaign, salvadorans have a choice between thieves and murderers when they cast their ballots in legislative and municipal elections next sunday
tough campaigning has been common in el salvador in the years when civilian politics has prevailed over the exercise of power by force of arms
but this time around the denigration of opposing parties' candidates and institutions has eclipsed most attempts to inform the electorate of proposals for resolving this tiny central american country's tremendous problems
at stake are all 60 seats in the legislative assembly and the mayorships and councils of 262 municipalities nationwide. about 1.9 million of the country's 5 million people are eligible to vote
the governing christian democrats are expected to lose their majority in the assembly and such a defeat would turn president jose napoleon duarte's last year in office into an uphill climb
the election campaign is poisoning the country, deepening resentment and hate and putting even farther off the reconciliation of a divided people,'' said rafael moreno guillen in his column in la prensa grafica, the nation's most widely read paper
monsignor gregorio rosa chavez, auxiliary bishop of san salvador, said in his homily sunday: ``we would like to be able to say that the politicians offer a clear alternative to the violent methods that affect innocent people. but the political forum has likewise been converted into a war of insults.''
the party expected to make the biggest gains is the republican nationalist alliance, or arena, an ultra-rightist group. prominent christian democrats have conceded they have little chance of retaining their majority
adolfo rey prendes, the front-runner for the christian democratic presidential nomination, predicted at a recent news conference that his party would lose eight of its current 33 seats in the assembly. presidential elections are scheduled for next year
rey prendes attributed the decline to ``the natural erosion of support experienced by a party that governs in difficult times.''
el salvador is suffering in its eighth year of a civil war that has killed about 65,000 people, displaced 500,000 and ravaged its economy
the leftist guerrilla alliance battling the u.s.-supported government has denounced the elections as a farce and declared the voting will not be allowed to proceed in the northern and eastern regions under rebel control
el salvador receives more u.s. aid than any country in the western hemisphere. economic and military aid last year was more than $500 million
the military said last week it could guarantee voting in 244 of the 262 municipalities. defense minister gen. carlos vides casanova said 40,000 troops will be deployed to guard against any guerrilla attempts to disrupt the voting
eight parties _ all centrist or rightist _ are presenting candidates, but only three are competing nationwide. left-of-center parties declined to participate, citing lack of security for their candidates
rightist death squads killed several thousand leftist union and political activists in el salvador in the early 1980s. human rights groups say the squads remain intact, and the roman catholic church recently denounced what it said was an increase in the number of politically motivated murders
arena and its founder, retired army maj. roberto d'aubuisson, have been linked to the death squads since the party's formation in 1982
at a recent christian democratic campaign rally in panchimalco, six miles south of san salvador, speakers repeatedly referred to d'aubuisson's group as ``torturers'' and ``killers.''
arena, for its part, calls the pdc _ the christian democratic party's initials in spanish _ the party of the corrupt
arena, which has 13 legislators in the current assembly, is not expected to win an outright majority. but most observers believe it will win almost as many seats as the christian democratic party
that could leave the national conciliation party _ the third group competing nationwide _ with the balance of power
the rightist national conciliation party was formed by the military and governed for nearly 20 years before a 1979 coup. it formed an alliance with arena in the 1985 legislative elections
but the national conciliation party, in an effort to portray itself as moderate, eschewed the alliance this time around. ``against the death squads and the thieves, pcn,'' has been its slogan in this campaign
the farabundo marti national liberation front, which groups five rebel organizations, said in a communique last month:
the country has lost its sovereignty (to the united states) and democracy does not exist. rather there is a new kind of military dictatorship with a civilian facade. without independence, no election is legitimate.''
stocks closed lower and the dollar fell against the japanese yen in tokyo on monday as dealers' expectations for u.s. trade figures due out on thursday grew more pessimistic
the dollar closed at 127.23 yen, down 0.57 yen from friday's close of 127.80 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 25,433.51 points, down 110.22 points, or 0.43 percent, from friday's close
dealers said the dollar fell due to speculation that figures for the united states' trade deficit for january would be higher than previously expected
traders on the stock market were also waiting for the u.s. trade figures, according to an analyst with a major brokerage who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``trading was not so heavy in the first section, aside from some heavy industrials, steel and electricals,'' the analyst said
the record high subsidies paid out by the agriculture department all went to farmers, right? not quite, says the general accounting office
in the last three fiscal years, according to gao, net cash outlays for farm price and income support programs totaled about $67 billion. of that amount, farmers got about 80 percent, or $53 billion
the gao, an investigative agency of congress, provided a breakdown of recent farm program costs in a report requested by rep. bill alexander, d-ark
the gao divided the record fiscal 1987 cash outlay of more than $25.8 billion into two parts: about $23.5 billion in ``commodity specific'' expenditures such as deficiency payments, loans and storage payments, and $2.36 billion in ``non-commodity specific'' items, including export programs, conservation payments and operating expense
overall, four commodities _ corn, wheat, dairy and cotton _ account for most of the program costs registered by the department's commodity credit corp. in fiscal 1987, for example, when the total was $25.8 billion, corn and other feed grains accounted for $12.2 billion; wheat, $3.44 billion; dairy, $2.34 billion; and cotton, $2.14 billion
the gao report said that of the $25.8 billion total in fiscal 1987, farmers received $20.6 billion
while farmers received most of the support program's outlays, it is unknown how much of those outlays went to individual farmers versus farmers organized under some other business structure,'' the report said. ``farmers organize, operate and receive the support program outlays as any one of various business entities.''
the report added that those entities can include individual proprietorship, partnership, association, cooperative, corporation, trust or estate. moreover, investigators said they were told that usda does not maintain records of farm program outlays by the various types of farm businesses
farmers receive the support program outlays as producers of the supported agricultural commodities regardless of their business structure,'' the report said
about $3.9 billion went to non-farmers in fiscal 1986. those included ``commercial operators engaged in farming-related activities, or to other recipients who may or may not be farmers'' for a variety of reasons, including direct purchases of commodities, storage and handling, transportation, and claims under export guarantee programs
operating expenses and related administrative costs added $2.3 billion to the 1987 total. but the 1987 operation of ccc also include around $1 million in proceeds from sales of commodities, with that amount credited against the other outlays
the census bureau says farmers should remember to return their survey questionnaires describing 1987 operations
although the form was due on feb. 1, the bureau said it recognizes that some may be running late. besides, the law requires it
use your best estimates if you don't have the information in your records,'' the commerce department agency said. ``return your forms to the census bureau even if you did not grow any crops, or have any livestock, poultry or other agricultural products in 1987, so the bureau can correct its records.''
officials said if help is needed, call the census bureau's toll-free number, 1-800-233-6132. indiana residents should call 1-800-233-6135
you may also obtain help from local offices of the cooperative extension service, soil conservation service, agricultural stabilization and conservation service, farmers home administration, and vocational agriculture teachers,'' the agency said
the federal law requiring farmers and ranchers to respond to the census ``also protects the privacy of their reports,'' the bureau said
government trade figures show u.s. agricultural exports in the first three months of the 1988 fiscal year were on target with agriculture department projections
the value of shipments in the first quarter of the year that began oct. 1 was estimated at $8.46 billion, up 10 percent from the pace of a year earlier, according to the department's foreign agricultural service
department officials have forecast 1987-88 exports at $32.5 billion, up from $27.9 billion in 1986-87
the actual volume of shipments in the first quarter was reported at 36.2 million tons, up 11 percent from a year earlier. for the year, those are expected to total about 142.5 million metric tons, up from 129.2 million tons in 1986-87
strong wheat sales to the soviet union and china, strong corn sales to the soviet union, south korea and japan, as well as improved soybean sales to brazil, strengthened export volume,'' the agency said in a recent trade report
some 34.4 million crimes were committed in the united states in 1987, the third straight year of stable crime levels, according to a government survey
since 1980, violent crimes have fallen from 33 per 1,000 u.s. residents to 28, thefts from 83 to 68 per 1,000, and household crimes from 227 to 168, the bureau of justice statistics said in a report sunday
crime levels overall rose a statistically insignificant 0.9 percent last year from 34.1 million in 1986
total crime has remained stable during the last three years'' and remains at a 14-year low, according to bjs director stephen schlesinger
there were 5.5 million violent crimes in 1987, up 0.4 percent from the previous year. thefts totaled 13.45 million last year, up 1.7 percent from 1986. household crimes of burglary, larceny and auto theft totaled 15.4 million, up 0.4 percent from the previous year. only motor vehicle thefts grew significantly, by 15 percent to an estimated 1.6 million
some criminologists had been predicting continued declines in crime levels for a few more years, based on the fact that the most crime-prone age group continues to shrink in size. those researchers predict an increase in crime in the early 1990s as the children of parents born during the post-world war ii baby boom move into the 14- to 24-year-old age bracket in significant numbers. the crime-prone 14- to 24-year-old age group totaled 42.5 million in 1986, down nearly 4 million from the 1979 peak
one factor that could have caused the decline of crime rate in the early 1980s to stabilize may be increased use of serious drugs, said alfred blumstein, dean of the school of urban and public affairs at carnegie-mellon university in pittsburgh
illicit drug use among criminal defendants is high and seems to be on the increase, justice department officials said last month at a news conference
another possibility, blumstein said, may be that people now in their late teen years are disproportionately from a low-income population, which traditionally has shown more involvement in the crimes measured by the national survey
some lawmakers say they think a group of congressional aides used bad judgment in attending a secret meeting in january with palestinian leader yasser arafat
it was very foolish,'' rep. larry smith, d-fla., said last week after the meeting became public. ``that was the wrong thing to do.''
the two-hour meeting with arafat, arranged by the national council on u.s.-arab relations, took place in baghdad, iraq, a few weeks after congress passed legislation closing the palestine liberation organization offices in the united states on the grounds the plo supports terrorism. arafat heads the plo
ronald w. cathell, executive director of the council, said the meeting was constructive because it gave the congressional aides a chance to see arafat in the flesh and conduct a ``candid, forthright'' discussion with him
in response to a question from one capitol hill staff member, arafat told the group the man he admired most in history was saint peter because the disciple of jesus ``conquered rome by winning the hearts'' of f the staffers. he said they could be subjected to reprisals
people with knowledge of the free trip said those who went to iraq worked for sens. mark hatfield, r-ore.; john heinz, r-pa.; j. bennett johnston, d-la., david karnes, r-neb; and reps. edward f. feighan, d-ohio; robert torricelli, d-n.j.; helen bentley, r-md.; douglas bereuter, r-neb.; william clay, d-mo.; james inhofe, r-okla., and robert lagomarsino, r-calif
all but one of the aides on the trip attended the arafat meeting, a state department official said, speaking on condition he remain anonymous
several aides who traveled to iraq refused to talk about what happened in the meeting, and would only discuss the trip if their names were not used. after the arafat meeting, group members realized the significance of their action and made a pact to keep it secret, one said
rep. robert g. torricelli, d-n.j., said he was upset when he learned an aide had seen arafat without his permission
she acted independently, and i had no knowledge of this meeting nor would i have approved it, and i remain very disturbed about it.'' the staffer no longer works for torricelli, but left for personal reasons unrelated to the meeting
feighan, however, was unconcerned. he said his assistant ``was not on any official trip and he was traveling in a personal capacity.''
but several capitol hill staffers who deal exclusively with foreign policy _ the middle east in particular _ said they never would have accepted the invitation in view of u.s. policy
the meeting was ``extremely unwise when as a matter of law american officials are not supposed to negotiate with the plo,'' said michael van dusen, staff director of the house foreign affairs subcommittee on europe and the middle east
the policy _ imposed by congress _ prohibits officials in the executive branch from negotiating with the plo until the group recognizes israel's right to exist
but the policy does not apply to congress, and a few lawmakers as well as staff members have met openly with arafat in the past. rep. nick rahall, d-w.va., for example, saw arafat in a bunker in west beirut in lebanon in 1982
torricelli complained that the u.s. embassy in baghdad failed to advise his aide about u.s. policy on the plo. but a state department official, refusing to be identified by name, said the u.s. ambassador had tried to dissuade the americans from meeting with arafat. no embassy personnel went to the session
the original agenda did not list an arafat meeting. once the group arrived in baghdad, cathell said he learned the plo leader was in town and broached the possibility of a meeting with the congressional aides
the staffers were never pressured to attend the meeting, cathell said. instead they were told, ``it's totally up to you,'' he said
one aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the group was given less than an hour's notice that a face-to-face meeting with arafat had been set
the national council seeks to promote understanding between americans and arabs, and receives its money from grants and private and corporate contributions. with sinatra appearance, quotes; deletes grafs 14-15 pvs, `berniece hourcade ...' to tighten. will stand for ams.</note>
the rat pack is back
frank sinatra, sammy davis jr. and dean martin, reunited for a 29-city, 40-show tour sunday night, brought their unique blend of fun times and good tunes to the old fans who loved 'em way back when and young fans who'd never had the chance
how long have i been on?'' deadpanned martin after walking absent-mindedly onto stage holding a cigarette and a glass of bourbon at the start of the sold-out concert
he then sang ``when you're smiling,'' changing the last word to drinking. to rousing applause and a few shouts of ``louder,'' he then sang ``bourbon from heaven.''
davis, flashing his trademark gold jewelry hanging in chains down his chest, was given a standing ovation for ``i've got to be me,'' his signature song
davis drew applause when he mentioned he'd been in show business 59 years and had been sober for three years
the crowd applauded enthusiastically when he performed songs such as ``candy man'' and ``what kind of fool am i?''
sinatra was the real crowd pleaser, drawing huge ovations from the packed house when he belted out such favorites as ``for once in my life,'' ``mack the knife,'' ``you are the sunshine of my life,'' and ``new york, new york.''
davis and martin rejoined sinatra for the closing finale, which featured a lot of kidding along with medleys of pop favorites from the last four decades
as far as we're concerned,'' said davis to sinatra, ``and i can say this for both of us, you're still the chairman of the board.''
martin added, ``yeah, you're still the chairman, we're still bored.''
the tour's opening show at the sold-out oakland coliseum also marked the 48th anniversary of sinatra's first stage show: a 1940 appearance at new york's paramount theatre with big band leader tommy dorsey
the three of us, we love each other, and we have more fun than the audience,'' martin said when the tour was announced in january
we're going to cities where none of those people have ever, never, seen anything like us.''
the 70-year-old joker vowed to get the audience laughing ``and then they will continue laughing while these guys sing.''
davis and sinatra, age 62 and 72 respectively, first appeared with martin at the sands hotel in las vegas in january 1960. they made frequent guest appearances in each others' shows and made a number of films together, including such box office hits as ``ocean's eleven,'' ``sergeants three,'' and ``robin and the seven hoods.''
alameda county supervisor charles santana and his wife, doris, were among the 14,500 fans at the concert, many of whom decked themselves out in evening and cocktail dresses and sports coats and suits. they said they have been fans of sinatra since the late 40s
mrs. santana said she was so devoted to her idol that ``my mother always said i was the one who made him famous.''
i've seen frank sinatra before, and i grew up listening to his music,'' said lydia cox, 26, of oakland. her 35-year-old brother, charles, said he came to watch the fun
this is a once-in-a-lifetime thing,'' he said. ``if i didn't see them now i'd never get another chance.''
the trio picked up the ``rat pack'' moniker after actor humphrey bogart used that label for a large group of entertainers that lived in the same area of beverly hills
for the last two decades, they've performed mainly in the glitzy showrooms of atlantic city and las vegas. sinatra has joked that the troupers wanted to go on tour so that ``people could see how bad we are.''
the idea of touring surfaced when the three longtime friends gathered at sinatra's house. it became possible because all three are under contract to bally corp
the shows, with top tickets going for $40, will be backed up by a 35-piece orchestra. home box office plans to broadcast a special on the show later
davis, martin and sinatra are among a growing number of aging superstars whose careers only seem stronger with age
comics danny thomas, milton berle and sid caeser recently appeared in a made-for-television movie, ``side by side.'' rodney dangerfield, mort sahl and jackie mason have all found themselves under contract for one-man shows
and then there's george burns, 92, who has a new movie coming out in april. he's booked to play the london paladium when he turns 100
in a recent interview for usa weekend, burns offered a few kind words for the rat pack: ``i'm sure those three kids will make it. i think sinatra has potential. he just has to build some confidence. all three will be big stars if they keep working at it.''
the ``together again'' tour continues in vancouver, b.c., on tuesday, seattle on wednesday, and chicago on friday and saturday
it comes as a small but meaningful reward to peggy say that the people in her hometown are rallying behind her call to remember the hostages in lebanon
there were many times when it seemed people didn't want to hear about how her brother, journalist terry anderson, was still being held. there was the stinging criticism that maybe she was somehow to blame for his prolonged captivity
it's different now. her brother's defiant expression is seen on posters in the stores and restaurants of this rural upstate town 40 miles east of buffalo
the posters say: ``remember terry anderson on the anniversary of his captivity, march 16, 1988. please wear a yellow ribbon and pray for the hostages in lebanon.''
prayer services, a rally and a candlelight march down main street are scheduled to mark the beginning of the fourth year of captivity for the 40-year-old anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press
this is the first time we've gotten this kind of support,'' said mrs. say. ``people just assumed that the government's quiet diplomacy was the answer. now, i think they realize it isn't working.''
many of this week's activities in batavia, where anderson grew up, have been organized by the rev. thomas vickers, pastor and friend of the say family. vickers asked florists to donate ribbon to decorate downtown. while most of the town's seven florists agreed, one shop provided more than 2 miles of yellow ribbon
inside john hamel's flower shop are thousands of yellow bows, hung on garlands, that are being handed out to residents who request them. hamel said that it was ``just a small thing'' he could do to help
a nun at notre dame high school has made a huge greeting card that will be on display at the genesee country mall beginning saturday so that residents can sign it. it will be sent to lebanon
mrs. say's daughter, melody brewington, said the turnout for an observance of the anniversary last year was disappointing. this time the response has been overwhelming, she said
mrs. say will not be here, but at the holy trinity church in washington, d.c., for a service for hostage family members
i wish i could be here, too,'' she said. ``there has been such an outpouring of concern. it would please terry so much to know that people really haven't forgotten him.''
there are 22 foreigners, including nine americans, missing and believed held by moslem fundamentalists in lebanon. anderson has been held the longest
from ex-hostages and other sources, mrs. say has learned that her brother is being held alone in a windowless room, fighting the boredom and loneliness of his solitary existence. he is often blindfolded and has been beaten and harassed
mrs. say has been tireless in calling for more to be done for the hostages
if they (the hostages) are no longer important to the people of america or this administration, then (the captors) will think they have to make a political statement by executing them. that's what waits for them if all of us don't keep them alive in the public eye.''
jesse jackson likes to say he has the ``poor campaign with a rich message,'' but he may have to alter that slogan a bit if his fund-raising trends continue
jackson's mail consultant mal warwick said that while jackson is not in the league of other multi-million-dollar presidential contenders, the response to his mail solicitations is so overwhelming that warwick has had to increase his 12-person money-counting staff to 30 over the past two months
it is too early to tell how jackson's strong showing in the super tuesday states will affect his contributions, warwick said. but he added, ``money has been coming in so far ahead of projections that we are struggling to keep up with it.''
the mail results have grown steadily since last fall, when about $150,000 per month was coming in, said campaign treasurer howard renzi. that increased to about $270,000 in january
and in february, the month when primaries and caucuses began, $400,000 of the $750,000 the campaign raised came in through the mail, renzi said
we're starting to approach the time where we'll have the financial wherewithal to be more competitive,'' he said, adding that a good part of the money raised by mail is going back into the mail program to develop a bigger base of contributors
jackson still has a long way to go to catch up with democratic money leader michael dukakis, who had raised some $15 million by the end of january, including federal matching funds, to jackson's $3.3 million
jackson has made much of the fact that he has done well despite being outspent by as much as 30 times in states where his opponents put on heavy media campaigns
but his sophisticated mail program is producing results that were unheard of in jackson's 1984 campaign, when taking a collection at revival-style rallies was his most frequent fund-raising approach
warwick runs a state-of-the-art direct mail and telemarketing operation, utilizing lists of names purchased from other mail soliciters to determine which categories of people would be most likely to give to jackson
we're using every technique in the book,'' he said, and sending mail to a broad spectrum of progressive democrats. the mail includes everything from postcards to sophisticated packets and questionnaires through first-class mail
in addition to the mail, jackson's campaign chairman willie brown, influential speaker of the california state assembly, said there will be a series of concerts to raise money in the weeks to come. brown, one of the most successful fund-raisers in california politics, also said this week he will try to extract $1 million from the state's ``bleeding hearts'' whom he said should be giving money to jackson
warwick said about one mailing per week goes out, ranging in size from 5,000 pieces to previous contributors, to 400,000 pieces in a search for new donors
the results we are obtaining are as strong as anything i've ever witnessed in all my time of direct mail fund-raising,'' warwick said
warwick's berkeley, calif., firm, changing america, inc., handled direct mail for the presidential campaign of gary hart last year before hart dropped out of the race the first time, and has several liberal organizations as clients
one ``dear fellow american citizen'' letter from jackson was sent to white liberal democratics in affluent west los angeles. in what the industry calls the ``involvement'' approach, it included an ``issues survey'' asking the reader's opinion on jackson's key issues
another mailing that went out after the feb. 8 iowa caucuses highlighted jackson's 8 percent showing in a state with a 1.4 percent black population as evidence that he has support outside the black community, contrary to what ``so called political experts'' had claimed
warwick said that since names on his mailing lists are ``overwhelmingly non-black,'' white people obviously are contributing to jackson
for us to get the results we are getting means he has very substantial support among white mail donors,'' he said
warwick would not be specific on the rate of return for the amount of mail sent out, but said it was ``much better'' than the 1 percent to 1.5 percent return that is typical for so-called prospecting mail, in which new donors are sought out
super tuesday's muddled democratic results could give california and at least one prominent california politician a bigger share of the political spotlight
since democratic contenders jesse jackson, michael dukakis and albert gore jr. emerged from the round of contests on march 8 tightly clustered in the delegate race, more attention is being paid to the late contests, such as california's june 7 primary
and california assembly speaker willie brown, the flamboyant national chairman of jesse jackson's presidential campaign, is waiting in the wings for what could be a key role
the importance and influence of brown, the consummate deal-maker and power broker of the california legislature over the past decade, is growing with the prospect of a brokered democratic convention
if jackson ultimately falls short of winning enough delegates for nomination, every extra delegate he wins increases the chances of a deadlocked convention _ and the chance that jackson and top advisers like brown will have a say in deciding who is the nominee
if it comes to that, democrats will again be facing the quandary of trying to make enough concessions to jackson to keep his supporters while not conceding enough to alienate other constituencies _ creating a situation in which brown's negotiating skills could be especially important
brown has said repeatedly that he isn't maneuvering for a brokered convention, but rather for a jackson victory
the jackson campaign wants the nomination,'' brown told sacramento reporters last week. ``we may well determine the democratic nomination with the california vote. probably jackson is the favorite at the moment (in california).''
but brown's first choice for the nomination was new york gov. mario cuomo, and he signed on with jackson only after cuomo declined to run
brown has repeatedly and heatedly denied speculation that he took the jackson campaign chairmanship to be in a position to deliver jackson votes to cuomo at a deadlocked convention, saying that he is supporting jackson because he believes he is the best candidate and can win
brown isn't the only california politician coming in for attention where the presidential race is concerned. california gov. george deukmejian is frequently mentioned as a possible running mate for the gop nominee
but deukmejian has a democratic lieutenant governor who would take over if he stepped aside. that would diminish the republican support in california he would otherwise be expected to add to a national ticket
deukmejian himself has said he would ``absolutely, unequivocably, not under any circumstances'' accept the nomination
even if offered the opportunity, i would not be able to do it, and i would not,'' he says
deukmejian refuses to speculate publicly on why he keeps being mentioned as vice presidential material when he's made it known he's not interested
one of his advisers, speaking on condition of anonymity, says: ``it's just window-dressing. they all want a westerner on their lists, and he's the biggest name out here. but they all know the situation, and that he's serious when he says he isn't available.''
north dakota democrats have begun a two-week process of picking the delegates who will attend the state convention and eventually cast ballots for president
rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis have maintained the most active campaign offices in the state, said george gaukler, chairman of the state democratic party
democrats in the state hold 53 district conventions, which began sunday and will continue until march 27, to select delegates to the state convention in fargo. convention-goers will cast their ballots for president on april 16, the third day of their four-day convention
delegates to the national convention in atlanta will be chosen based on their presidential preference. straw polls of the presidential race will be taken at each district convention, according to the party
state sen. allen richard, gephardt's state campaign coordinator, said, ``we'll be working hard at creating gephardt preference caucuses at the district conventions.''
we feel his moderate message on agriculture and trade is more in line with the thinking of north dakotans,'' he added
ellen austin, state coordinator of the dukakis campaign, said dukakis volunteers will also attend district conventions
our committee has felt all along that he was leading in this state, and we still feel he's the leader,'' she said. awards</head>
comedian bill cosby won four people's choice awards and the movie ``fatal attraction'' won three from an admiring public that also bestowed honors on cybill shepherd, dolly parton and whitney houston
this is particularly special for me,'' said miss shepherd, named favorite female television performer for her role in abc's ``moonlighting'' despite a shortened role last year due to her pregnancy with twins
when you're out of the limelight, you're pregnant with twins and gain 45 pounds and you go through this enormous change, it always goes through the back of your mind, `are they going to forget?'
it's really nice to know they didn't forget.''
the public chose the winners in the 14th annual people's choice awards, broadcast sunday night by cbs-tv
winners were determined by a gallup poll of 5,000 people older than 12, a statistical representation of nearly 196 million people
cosby was named favorite male tv performer for the fourth-consecutive year and favorite all-around male entertainer for the third. he also won a new award _ all-time favorite tv star _ while his top-rated nbc-tv series, ``the cosby show,'' won its fourth comedy program award
nbc's ``l.a. law'' was the favorite tv dramatic program
three men and a baby'' won for comedy movie and ``fatal attraction'' for dramatic motion picture. its leads, michael douglas and glenn close, were picked top motion picture performers
i want to thank you as my favorite father, and a supporter,'' douglas told his father, kirk douglas, who presented the award
i got so nervous when i got up i didn't thank the people,'' miss close said afterward. ``and that's what makes it so special. it's just a cross section of people who have nothing to do with the industry.''
clint eastwood was chosen all-time favorite movie star, an award presented by jimmy stewart
miss parton won favorite all-around female entertainer, and favorite female performer in a new tv program for abc's ``dolly.''
it's always nice to be recognized,'' she said backstage. ``this has been a hard year and i've been working really hard on this tv show. it's really nice to know the people are on my side.''
kenny rogers won his eighth award as male musical performer, tying with cosby, burt reynolds and barbara mandrell as an eight-time winner of an individual category
in other awards, oprah winfrey dethroned johnny carson as favorite television talk show host, miss houston was the favorite female musical performer, the group bon jovi was chosen favorite rock group, and barbra streisand was the favorite all-time musical star
john ritter was the favorite male performer in a new television program for abc's ``hooperman,'' while kirk cameron of abc's ``growing pains'' and keshia knight-pulliam of ``the cosby show'' tied for favorite young tv performer
the top new tv dramatic program was ``thirtysomething'' on abc, while nbc's ``a different world'' and ``my two dads'' tied in the new tv comedy category
in a new category, the all-time favorite song was ``somewhere my love (lara's theme)'' from the 1965 film, ``dr. zhivago.''
in chatham, a middle-class black neighborhood of brick bungalows and neat lawns, people like clevie williams are pulling for jesse jackson and proud of his democratic presidential bid
you can't talk to nobody in chatham unless it's about jesse,'' said williams, 66, a retired army master sergeant. ``they have a belief they can help him become the democratic nominee for president.''
on the tree-lined streets of chatham on the predominantly black south side, jackson's strong showing in the super tuesday primaries filled many with hope that maybe, just maybe, a black could be elected president of the united states of america
most people who paused to talk about jackson's chances said they would vote for him and his slated convention delegates in tuesday's illinois primary election
every vote counts,'' williams said. ``all i can say is he's got a chance. he's got as good a chance as he'll ever have.''
like many black neighborhoods across the financial spectrum, chatham is jesse jackson country. it's a community of about 40,000 people where the median family income was nearly $19,000 in the 1980 census. most people have jobs and many own their homes, mainly one- and two-story brick bungalows with an average value of $39,200, the census found
i would describe chatham as a rock-solid black middle-income community and one that has been that way for probably 20 years,'' said martin goldsmith, chicago's director of community development planning
jackson's work over the years with operation push, the civil-rights group he founded, and his two presidential campaigns have won the respect of many residents, said housewife jessie blissitt, 50
he's done a lot for black people,'' she said. ``he's someone we look up to. he speaks out for what really concerns black people. we've sort of been shoved aside by all the other candidates
because we are a minority, i don't know if he actually could make it to the presidency,'' ms. blissitt said. ``but i'm glad he's running if for nothing more than to show black kids they can do it, to give them a goal to strive for.''
several people shared her pessimism about whether the nation's white majority would elect a black president
people i talk to say he won't make it, due to the fact of his color,'' said donald crawford, 47, an apartment-building janitor
crawford said he planned to vote for jackson because he likes his background as a preacher and thinks his bid for the presidency shows ``guts.''
one thing about him being black, he wasn't born with a silver spoon in his mouth,'' he added. ``he knows the feeling.''
garrett manuel, also a janitor, paused as he weeded shrubbery in front of an apartment building and grinned as he thought about jackson's super tuesday success
i was surprised, but i really liked that. it made me feel good,'' said manuel, 61. ``most people i've talked to _ they really think he's going to win. and everybody i've talked to said they were going to vote for him.''
but elizabeth jones, 66, a retired tax examiner, said she was torn between jackson and sen. paul simon, the state's other favorite son
both candidates seem honest, straightforward and committed to their principles now, she said, but ``all of them are full of you know what.''
they promise you one thing and do another when they get in,'' she said
jesse jackson made an impressive showing in democratic caucuses in his native south carolina over the weekend and now takes aim at tuesday's primary in his adopted illinois
a record turnout estimated at 45,000 people attended the south carolina precinct caucuses saturday. when the meetings were over, it appeared the greenville native would collect 23 of the state's 48 national convention delegates
fifteen of the delegates apparently will be uncommitted while six will go to tennessee sen. albert gore. the state also has four super delegates which were not at stake in saturday's meetings
we the people have won south carolina,'' jackson told a crowd of about 400 supporters gathered saturday night at greenville technical college. ``this is a campaign of hope. each victory adds another to win.''
on sunday, campaigning in chicago, jackson said he expected his south carolina victory would give him momentum going into the tuesday primary in illinois
the south carolina delegate estimates were based on reports from 93 percent of the state's 1,788 precincts. carol kahre of the state democratic party said it could be a couple of days before all the numbers are in
the problem now becomes the county party priorities are preparing for their county conventions,'' she said. state officials must ``beg a lot'' to get the numbers in, she said
jackson, gore and gephardt all campaigned in the state in the days before the caucuses
clearly jesse jackson and the undecided are the big winners in south carolina,'' gephardt said while campaigning in detroit
gore's state campaign chairman, state rep. bob sheheen, d-kershaw, claimed that gore's finish above dukakis and gephardt ``is a significant victory.''
i thought if we ran neck and neck with the uncommitted that would be a great achievement,'' he said, adding he expects the gephardt campaign to fold before the state convention giving gore a chance to pick up more uncommitted delegates
the state organizer for dukakis, belton zeigler, said the campaign didn't spend much money in the state and ``whatever we get is gravy in the caucus campaign.''
bill prince, the state campaign coordinator for gephardt said ``we're going to make our stand in michigan.''
he expressed hope that a strong showing there later this month would allow the congressman to pick up some uncommitted delegates at the south carolina state convention next month
earl black, a university of south carolina political scientist, said the record turnout was due to jackson's organizing and gore's strong showing on super tuesday
with south carolina jesse jackson's home state, there was a very strong incentive in the black community,'' he said
some of it was due to gore's showing on super tuesday,'' black added. ``some democrats felt there was a candidate out there they could support.''
before super tuesday, gore was way back in polls in the state and he covered a lot of ground in just a few days, black said
but it's hard for him to claim a victory when he comes in behind the undecided,'' black added
the high road to dublin for a 130-member high school band from michigan led through a chicago hospital, where a schoolmate is recovering from bone cancer surgery
the belding high school band members, who raised $1,000 apiece to march in dublin's st. patrick's day parade and celebrate the irish capital's 1,000th anniversary, traveled 200 miles by bus sunday to o'hare international airport. before departing, though, they made a side trip to serenade 17-year-old eddie mikek
their instruments were being packed aboard the plane, so the musicians who gathered in the lobby of the university of chicago's wyler children's hospital and sang
because eddie is fighting cancer, they sang the belding fight song, and because he is their friend, they sang the band's theme song, ``friends.''
eddie's not a band member but he is a good friend,'' said band director bob stiles. ``we just want to remind him that he's one of us and show our love and concern.''
about 95 belding parents also were on hand to surprise eddie as he emerged from an elevator in his wheelchair
there wasn't a dry eye in the whole building,'' said eddie's mother, janice. ``he didn't know they were coming, and it took him a minute or two to figure out what was happening. then he started crying like all the rest of us.''
that's the kind of town belding is,'' she said of the small apple-growing community 30 miles east of grand rapids. ``we know almost everyone there and we consider them all friends.''
eddie was diagnosed as having bone cancer dec. 10, a day after his 17th birthday, mrs. mikek said. before his illness, he had been an active high school junior, too busy helping at his parents' grocery store and working a part-time job at a hardware store to have time for extracurricular activities like athletics or the band
for a while after his diagnosis, he was able to attend school several days a week between chemotherapy treatments, mrs. mikek said, but schoolwork had to stop when he came here for surgery
the family had to sell their store, ``because we knew we wouldn't have time to run it with all the trips to chicago,'' said mrs. mikek in a telephone interview from the ronald mcdonald house, where she stays when she is visiting eddie
everybody was here for the serenade,'' said mrs. mikek. ``my husband, edward, our 18-year-old son, our 7-year-old daughter, our 5-month-old baby and even john and val rayborn, who run the hardware store where eddie worked. seeing them is what really got to him.''
on march 4, doctors at the hospital removed a tumor from eddie's left leg and implanted part of a femur. they also installed a mechanical knee joint. the relatively new surgical technique, called limb salvage, avoids amputation, and should allow eddie to walk normally in the future, mrs. mikek said
he'll be in the hospital about another two weeks, and then will begin physical therapy,'' she said. ``all he wants right now is to be able to walk again, and everything's on hold until he does.''
attorney general edwin meese iii says he still regards as a friend the man whose memos have made him a target of a criminal investigation into a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline project
meese also denies that he untruthfully played down his involvement in promoting the project with then-israeli prime minister shimon peres
a memo by longtime meese friend e. robert wallach says that on oct. 16, 1985, meese, peres and wallach had a ``three-way discussion'' of the project at the israeli embassy in washington
on sunday, james rocap, one of meese's lawyers, said ``wallach's account totally exaggerates'' the discussion ``in order to impress his client,'' swiss oilman bruce rappaport, a partner in the pipeline project
rocap said it is a ``cheap shot'' and ``stupid'' to suggest that the memo contradicts meese's earlier portrayals of his contacts with peres as limited
in a statement issued feb. 1, meese said that his total involvement with peres on the pipeline consisted of ``only two contacts ... each was brief, limited, and neither was initiated by me.''
meese said that the washington post, which first disclosed the memo in its sunday editions, is ``taking a small fact that's well known and trying to blow it up into a new news story.''
the memo discussing the meeting had not been previously reported prior to the post article
wallach was paid $150,000 by rappaport and when wallach went to meese about the project, the attorney general referred him to the national security council
he is my friend,'' meese said of wallach in remarks sunday on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.''
mr. wallach has never asked me to do anything that was wrong,'' meese said. he said ``a lot of people are taking a very simple situation'' and ``they're trying to make a big deal out of it.''
independent counsel james mckay is investigating meese's role in the pipeline as a result of a memo written to meese by wallach mentioning planned payments to the israeli labor party in a bid to protect the project in iraq from israeli attack
meese says he doesn't recall the portion of the memo dealing with the planned payments
wallach directed that the $150,000 he received from rappaport be placed in an account under the control of w. franklyn chinn, an investment adviser for both meese and wallach. the $150,000 ended up being pooled with funds from meese in several stock trades
meese's initial $50,000 investment grew to $95,000 with profits from the stock deals, but the attorney general denied in his television appearance that he profited from the $150,000. he said he was not aware at the time of the payment from rappaport to wallach
meese predicted that he would be exonerated in mckay's probe and said ``i shouldn't step aside because if honest public officials can be hounded out of office by partisan political attacks ... then no one as a public official is safe.''
another memo by wallach, also described in sunday's post, recounts a meeting in new york involving peres, wallach, the israeli ambassador to the united states and then-national security council aide david wigg. wallach said the meeting lasted about 15 minutes and that the four discussed two proposed letters for peres to sign, the first committing israel not to disrupt the iraqi pipeline and the second dealing with the possibility of using u.s. foreign aid to israel as insurance
peres has said in the past that he recalls having met wallach only twice, on social occasions with others present
peres eventually signed a later version of the first letter, but he said he could not act on the second letter without additional consultations in israel. the pipeline project collapsed shortly thereafter, for want of an insurance package which the iraqis demanded in the event israel destroyed the pipeline
the justice department saw legal obstacles to using israeli aid money as part of an insurance package
scientists at sandia national laboratories have cast aside a popular theory and developed a new method to dramatically boost the speed of solving complex problems with parallel computers, which work on many parts of a problem at the same time
we have achieved results that most computer scientists thought impossible a couple of years ago,'' said john l. gustafson, a sandia computer scientist
sandia announced sunday that gustafson and other scientists at the lab had broken records for speedups, a measure of the increased speed at which a problem can be solved on a multiprocessor parallel computer, compared with a single processor from the same system
single data processors, like those in home computers, solve problems one step at a time, in sequence, like balancing a checkbook
parallel computers use many processors linked together so they can share the load, each working on a different piece of a problem at the same time, like a lot of people each doing one page of a checkbook
the theory applied to parallel processing had predicted speedups of 50 to 100 times. but the sandia scientists achieved speedups of more than 1,000 times
edwin barsis, director of computer sciences and mathematics at sandia, said in an interview that large-scale parallel computing could be used in such areas as defense work, weather forecasting or solving large economic problems
barsis said the sandia scientists basically ignored a popular belief in computer circles based on a speedup theory dubbed amdahl's law
amdahl's law says that no matter how many processors might be linked in parallel, the problem-solving speed could be increased at most by 50 to 100 times that of a single processor because the increase would be limited by the small portion of any computer program that cannot be chopped up and run in parallel
sandia scientists decided to jump ahead and work with 1,000 or more processors at the same time. ``after you think about it for a while, you think it's obvious,'' barsis said
the idea is that you have to get all the processors to work together,'' barsis said. ``you have to make it so they don't get bogged down in communication (with each other) rather than computing.''
specialists in the field said sandia's findings appeared very significant
all the speedups sound very, very good for me. they sound very significant,'' anoop gupta, professor of computer science at stanford university, said in a telephone interview friday. ``but i would have to know more details. on the whole, however, they sound very good.''
we think it's a very exciting result,'' bill gear, head of the department of computer science at the university of illinois, said saturday
gear is president of the society for industrial and applied mathematics and managing editor of the siam journal of scientific and statistical computing
he read the sandia paper on the breakthrough, submitted for publication in the journal, last week. ``normally, from the time it (a paper) comes in until it appears in print, it may be two years,'' he said. ``we're going to try to publish it in july.''
the sandia scientists developed mathematical and computational methods, or algorithms, tailored to handle large scientific problems
the problems were worked out on a parallel supercomputer called an ncube-ten, made by ncube corp. of beaverton, ore
sandia has the only ncube-ten, which uses 1,024 processors. it is less than 3 feet on a side but is the largest computer in the world in numbers of processors operating in parallel and in the 7.7 billion bytes, or characters, it can move per second, sandia officials said
gustafson, along with fellow sandia scientists robert benner, gary montry and david womble, achieved speedups of 1,020, 1,019 and 1,011 on three full-scale scientific application problems, the officials said
we have come almost all the way to the theoretical limit for a 1,024-processor machine,'' benner said
note holders are balking at accepting less than 50 cents on the dollar as part of a plan to bail out the troubled first city bancorporation of texas inc., federal officials say
the $1.5 billion rescue plan _ which would be the second largest government bank bailout in history _ calls for $970 million in federal assistance, a $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by chicago banker a. robert abboud, and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets
but alan whitney, director of communications for the federal deposit insurance corp., said sunday that holders of first city's debt securities are reluctant to go along with the plan. he said it would require the note holders to settle for less than the face value of the notes
the amounts offered to the note holders ranged from 35 cents to 45 cents on the dollar, he said
according to whitney, abboud told federal regulators during weekend meetings in washington that not enough of the note holders have agreed to sell at those prices
the agreement provides that we have to have a 90 percent response to that tender offer, and mr. abboud advised us that that level has not been reached,'' he said
whitney said he didn't know how far the tender offers were from the 90 percent level and added that the note holders have until tuesday afternoon to respond
the fdic is working with mr. abboud and his investor group to handle first city on an alternate basis should the tender not be successful,'' he said
whitney stressed that people with accounts at the bank will be protected. he said fdic will use its powers ``to assure stability in first city banks and in the banking system.''
however, he would not disclose what alternatives would be considered to the abboud plan which first city shareholders approved march 4
whatever alternative way we'll come up with will ensure stability for first city and for the banking system as a whole,'' he said. ``the fdic has statutory authority to handle imminent or potential failed bank situations in various ways. ... we'll deal with that on tuesday, not to say that they'll have an announcement on tuesday.''
the fdic's $970 million pledge to first city is the largest such government rescue of a bank since the 1984 federal bailout of continental illinois bank and trust of chicago
first city grew quickly during the texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate loan losses when oil prices plummeted. for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss
it has assets of $11 billion and operates 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota
under the abboud plan, abboud would become chairman of the board and chief executive officer upon consummation of the deal. the proxy statement sent to shareholders before they approved the plan predicted the new company would become profitable almost immediately after spinning off the poorly performing assets
gold opened in london today at a bid price of $441.80 a troy ounce, up from $440.50 late friday
reports that iran may be planning to install silkworm anti-ship missiles on a tiny island in the southern persian gulf add a new element to a much-publicized threat that some u.s. naval officers say has been greatly overrated
military sources in washington said surveillance had detected evidence that crude missile launch pads were being built on abu musa, an outcropping long used as a base for armed speedboat attacks on gulf shipping by iran's revolutionary guards
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said there was still no sign of the missiles being installed. nor did they speculate on what purpose the chinese-built weapons might serve if located there
but missiles on abu musa would extend the so-called ``silkworm envelope'' along iran's coast bordering the strait of hormuz by about 100 miles, ``doubling the arc'' of the present threat, a u.s. source said
it would put the missiles, which have a maximum range of 50 to 60 miles, within easy reach of the main shipping channel leading to and from the hormuz passage, as well as a populated stretch of the arab coast
five of the seven united arab emirates port cities _ dubai, sharjah, ajman, umm al qaiwain and ras al-khaimah _ are 50 miles or less from abu musa
gulf-area diplomats and shipping executives expressed alarm early last year when it was disclosed that tehran was deploying mobile silkworm batteries along the hormuz, the only outlet from the oil-rich gulf to the open sea
iran was said to have successfully test-fired several of the missiles at an old ship's hulk. subsequent reports have said iran possessed as many as 100 silkworms, apparently supplied by china, although beijing has publicly denied the sales
senior american officials made it clear from the outset that any iranian use of the weapon would be met with swift retaliation
then-defense secretary caspar weinberger said that while washington did not contemplate ``pre-emptive strikes,'' even the activation of a silkworm's target-tracking radar would be seen as a hostile act, to which the u.s. navy would respond
iran's subsequent reluctance to even threaten to use the missiles in the strategic hormuz has caused u.s. naval officers to view the threat with increasing skepticism
the convoys of u.s.-flagged kuwaiti tankers continue to have protective air cover while passing through the ``envelope,'' but some warships now sail with crews at less than a full ``battle stations'' alert status, de rigeur when the operation began last july
of course we can't rule the silkworms out as a potential threat, but in my opinion it's been overrated _ right from the start,'' a u.s. navy intelligence officer said several months ago
other american officers have said the silkworms in the hormuz are probably the least of their worries in sailing through the gulf
more imminent concerns include iranian speedboats and most of all, another mistaken iraqi air strike such as that which wrecked the missile frigate stark, killing 37 americans, last may 17
one senior officer said he would not discount the idea of some ``crazies'' firing a silkworm in defiance of orders, but believed the danger from a planned attack was virtually nil
as long as we maintain our retaliatory assets in the arabian sea, that isn't going to occur,'' he said, referring to the u.s. aircraft carrier _ currently the nuclear-powered enterprise _ permanently stationed outside the gulf
the iranians aren't about to fire one of those things (silkworms) at a warship or a ship under navy escort. they know what would happen if they did. they'd be taken out in minutes,'' he said
friday's report of silkworm-related activity on abu musa came just as the only u.s.-flagged ship ever hit by a silkworm was sailing past the island
the 81,283-ton sea isle city, one of the 11 kuwait-owned tankers reflagged with the stars and stripes for protection from iranian attack, was heading out of the gulf in a navy convoy
it was the first trip for the ship since it was devastated by a silkworm last oct. 16 while anchored at kuwait's main offshore oil terminal. that missile, and a handful of others launched from iran-held territory in iraq's faw peninsula, are the only ones that tehran's forces are known to have fired
the silkworm, officially designated hy-2 by the chinese, is a variant of the 30-year-old soviet styx missile. the cumbersome, 20-foot-long projectile flies just above the water at subsonic speed, homing on its target by radar
although the weapon is crude by modern standards, its 1,000-pound warhead can cause severe damage. u.s. naval officials called the hit on the sea isle city a lucky shot, but the tanker was out of service for nearly five months
if military strongman gen. manuel noriega steps down from his post as head of the defense forces, the united states, and not panama's fledgling opposition, will have brought it about
u.s. sanctions freezing panamanian assets have dealt a serious blow to the military regime of noriega, who is indicted in the united states on drug trafficking and other charges
but the opposition has done little to further the process
president eric arturo delvalle tried to fire the general late last month but instead was booted out of office himself and went underground, still recognized by washington as panama's head of state
delvalle's wife, mrs. mariela diaz de delvalle, said last week that her husband was considering asking the united states for military intervention
the opposition grouped under the civic crusade, an assortment of political parties, private groups and businessmen's associations, has tried to stir up a protest movement against noriega but failed to rally enough popular support for large street demonstrations
only those with rifles can overthrow noriega,'' said an opposition businessman who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``those with rifles here (the defense forces) or those with rifles over there (the united states). the opposition has no weapons.''
noriega loyalists in the legislative assembly forced delvalle out on feb. 26, the day after delvalle, encouraged by the united states, tried to dismiss the general
the u.s. determination to force noriega out of office has brought the country to the brink of economic collapse. shortly after delvalle was dismissed the u.s. federal reserve, which provides the dollars panama uses as its currency, withheld shipments of cash to the panamanian central bank
then the united states froze all other panamian government assets in the united states and stopped monthly payments for operations of the panama canal
the result was a money crunch that left the panamanian government unable to pay its employees in cash and forced banks to remain closed for the past 11 days
the government is working out barter deals with supermarkets in an attempt to overcome the crisis, but business has come to a standstill
unless something happens soon, people will have to take to the streets to search for food,'' said winston robles, managing editor of the opposition newspaper la prensa, which the government closed down feb. 25
noriega has been hanging on thanks to the loyalty of his colleagues in the military's top ranks
many of them, like himself, come from middle-class families
in office since 1983, noriega is ideologically and politically an heir to gen. omar torrijos, the officer who rode a crest of panamanian nationalism and concluded the agreement that set a timetable for total panamian control of the panama canal by the year 2000
noriega uses defense forces, the only armed authority in panama, the way a politican would use the party to whip up support in small towns where the soldiers build roads or perform other civic jobs
he has established a very close relationship _ even more than friendship _ between the defense forces and the people,'' said boris moreno, director of the government's national information service. ``the political opposition here cannot overthrow noriega.''
the political opposition is made up of badly organized liberal parties whose leaders spend much time criticizing each other. the best organized party is the christian democrats led by ricardo arias, who is in miami because he was refused entry into panama two weeks ago
the christian democrats led the opposition alliance in 1984 and refused to recognize the election results that put in nicolas ardito barletta as president. they claimed noriega rigged the vote
it was the first election in 16 years in panama. the last popularly elected regime lasted 11 days in 1968. barletta was forced out, following a disagreement with noriega, and delvalle, who was then vice president, took his place. the next presidential elections are scheduled for may 1989
eloy o. aguilar, the mexico city bureau chief, has been covering the region for the past eight years
a star-studded aids benefit led by elizabeth taylor raised $2 million for education and research, and organizers hope the gala will be repeated elsewhere
we've had the most private funds raised (for aids) at this one function than any other place in the country,'' benefit spokesman charles cinnamon said of sunday's ``an extraordinary evening with elizabeth taylor and friends.''
we want it to be the prototype for the rest of the country.''
the series of $2,500-a-plate south florida dinner parties fell short of its $3 million goal, although its ``grand finale'' of champagne and dessert at the fontainebleau hilton hotel was sold out
ms. taylor urged the crowd, which included brooke shields, marlee matlin, margaux hemingway, zsa zsa gabor, ed asner and lynn redgrave, to do more
go out there and get your next-door neighbor involved,'' she said. ``put your money where your mouth is
we're talking about the living who are dying, and it's getting closer to all of us,'' ms. taylor said, likening fear of the disease to the tenacles of an octopus. ``how do you cope with those families who reject their beloveds ... (aids victims) need compassion and understanding. people may say money can't buy compassion, but money can buy health.''
the fund-raiser featured a dozen black-tie parties from palm beach to miami beach, all given in the homes of celebrities or community leaders
before the finale swung into full force with a stream of stars in sparkling jewels and dresses filling the posh beachfront fontainebleau, ms. taylor received $1.1 million from celia lipton farris of palm beach
that's so much money ... i mean that's so incredibly much money and the things that money will do!'' said ms. taylor
ms. taylor, who became involved with aids issues in 1984, chairs the non-profit american foundation for aids research, a research and education group that will share the benefit's proceeds
work at hospitals! be volunteers! ... your lives are not endangered,'' a teary-eyed ms. taylor told her guests. ``i have talked to, kissed and embraced and held in my arms, children, boys and girls, who have died in my arms and i'm still here.''
besides the gift from ms. farris, the total raised was boosted by a $300,000 donation by the wohl family foundation of miami
the community alliance against aids, a fund-raising arm of the university of miami school of medicine, led the benefit and will share the proceeds with ms. taylor's group
celebrities at the parties said they were pleased to join the fight against acquired immune deficiency syndrome
it's really an honor for me to be here,'' actor matt dillon said. ``it's a real problem everywhere, not just in america, but all over the world. anything i can do to help is why i'm here.''
the truth is aids is a problem of all citizens,'' actor eddie albert said. ``i consider it a part of my selfish responsibility to be here. i'm not immune to this thing any more than anyone else.'' crippling storm</head>
snow-clogged roads plagued motorists today from the eastern great lakes region to nebraska and other plains states where road crews were digging out from the region's worst blizzard in decades
the storm fizzled as it moved east, but still left 1{ feet of snow on the ground this morning along the windy wisconsin shore of lake superior and more than 20 inches in michigan's upper peninsula
for all practical purposes, it just kind of died as it moved into canada out of lower michigan,'' said pete reynolds, a forecaster with the national weather service's severe storms forecasting center in kansas city, mo
the only significant snowfall right now is near the lakes due to the lake effect,'' he said early today
three sisters were killed sunday evening south of waunakee, wis., when the car they were riding in collided with a pickup truck on a snow-slick road, authorities said. the accident brought to six the number of deaths blamed on the storm since it hit the midwest on thursday
we have been bombarded with accidents,'' said don olson, a state trooper in detroit, where expressways were glazed with ice sunday night. ``it's very treacherous.''
marquette county in upper michigan had 80 weekend traffic accidents, and all but major roads remained blocked by snow even though crews were working 12-hour shifts, state police sgt. paul numikoski said sunday
four inches of new snow was measured at sawyer air force base near marquette. south of lake erie, a heavy snow warning was posted through today in northeast ohio
cold canadian air pushed south in the wake of the storm. high temperatures today were expected to be much colder than normal for the season from the lower great lakes to the central gulf of mexico coast, and as much as 30 degrees colder than usual in the ohio and tennessee valleys
the storm had closed long sections of major highways in wyoming, the dakotas and nebraska
the last interstate to be reopened was i-90 across western south dakota, which was finally fully cleared late saturday, said todd seaman, a state transportation department engineer in rapid city. at the worst of the storm about 260 miles of it was shut down
fifteen-foot drifts were reported along i-90 in the kadoka area, and seaman said snow had drifted to the top of overpasses
crews in dawes county in northwestern nebraska, where more than 30 inches of snow fell in some areas, were having trouble breaking through snowdrifts up to 10 feet high, and some ranchers couldn't reach their cattle, county commissioner waymann wild said
this is probably the worst we've had since 1949,'' he said. the county was hard-hit last year, ``but nothing like this.''
about 700 snowbound travelers who had crowded the small town of kimball, neb., since thursday were told sunday that roads were still not in good shape but they could leave
to the north, in south dakota's black hills, hungry, snowbound skiers had to dig their cars out of 7 feet of snow to leave terry peak lodge, manager bob ekeren said
two busloads of children who had been snowbound in isolated farmhouses in western nebraska since thursday got home safely saturday afternoon. the 21 children were being driven home from school when the blizzard caught their drivers by surprise, forcing them to seek shelter with farm families
four deaths in wisconsin and two in south dakota were blamed on the storm. policy</head>
in anticipation of israeli prime minsister yitzhak shamir's visit today, more than 3,300 people marched to the white house and rallied near the offices of abc news for two opposing causes
more than 3,000 people carrying palestinian flags and chanting slogans marched to the white house on sunday to protest israeli policies in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
they condemned u.s. policy toward israel, chanting, ``reagan, shultz, you will see _ palestine will be free.''
the demonstrators called on the white house to freeze u.s. aid to israel and asked for a moratorium on military aid to israel until the israeli government supports and participates in the peace process
shamir, who strongly opposes a u.s. peace plan for the middle east, is due to arrive in washington today for talks with president reagan and secretary of state george p. shultz
meanwhile, about 300 pro-israel demonstrators rallied near the offices of abc news to protest the network's coverage of the clashes between israeli soldiers and arabs in the occupied territories
speakers urged the crowd to write or call the network to protest the coverage, while organizers sought signatures on petitions calling upon the media ``to report the entire story.''
a british producer says he has lined up 70 witnesses, including some who served with kurt waldheim in world war ii, to give evidence at a televised ``trial'' of allegations the austrian president was involved in nazi atrocities
the list includes some of waldheim's subordinates and superiors when he was an officer in the german army from 1939 to 1945, says jack saltman, who is producing the show for broadcast on u.s. and overseas television in june
it took a lot of persuasion to get some of them to do it,`` saltman said in a recent interview
the production will be the of result nine days, beginning april 13, of filming lawyers as they examine witnesses as if they were in a court of law, before a panel of retired jurists, including shirley hufstedler, a former u.s. education secretary and federal appeals court judge
the program, which will run four hours, will end with the judges' decision on whether there is probable cause that waldheim acted contrary to the international laws of war. accuracy</head>
rep. les aspin plans to deliver a speech on the floor of the u.s. house today that says the air force is ``part of the problem'' in the guidance system for the mx missile, but the service maintains the weapon is reliable and accurate
the text of the speech by the wisconsin democrat, who is chairman of the house armed services committee, was made available sunday
aspins says his panel's investigation of the 10-warhead weapon shows there are still problems in producing the missile's inertial measurement unit (imu), or guidance system
aspin has previously criticized northrop, which is building the imus at a hawthorne, calif., plant
documents recently received by the house armed services committee show that while northrop is undeniably having its difficulties, the air force is part of the problem,'' according to the congressman's latest criticism of the mx
he says the document, obtained from persons whom he did not identify, show that the service considered accepting one imu without inspecting it, and also protested the use of a process exempting small componentns from testing
an air force spokesman, capt. jay defrank, said, ``we stand by the imu's reliability and accuracy. we've answered many of the charges in his statement. there is nothing new there.''
yasser arafat, chairman of the palestine liberation organization, says the u.s. closing of the plo's observer mission at the united nations would negatively affect american credibility and u.s. interests
arafat, in an hour-long boston globe interview published today, also said the first casualty of the decision by the u.s. congress and the reagan administration to close the mission will be secretary of state george p. shultz's middle east peace plan
arafat, speaking mostly in english, said in the interview sunday that ouster of the plo from the united nations is against international law. he also said it will teach every nation that they ``may face the same treatment if they have a difference of opinion between their country and the american administration.''
the plo leader, wearing a military-style uniform and a winter hat, is in algeria for a two-day meeting with president chadli bendjedid, the newspaper said
the interview came one day before israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir was arriving in washington on a four-day visit. shultz was hoping shamir would agree to attend an international conference to arrange self-rule for palestinian arabs on the west bank and gaza and then an overall settlement
however, shamir was quoted last week as saying the u.s. proposal was ``fraught with danger'' and incapable of bringing peace to the region
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz,'' shamir said, according to an account friday in the israeli daily newspaper haaretz
arafat said in the interview that shamir was ``giving this hard line because he wants a high price from the american administration'' (and) ``the first item on the list has been offered already,'' referring to the closing of the plo mission
arafat predicted that israel next will demand more weapons, more financial help and ``who knows, more agreements'' before conceding to talk about peace
arafat said he and bendjedid were discussing the algerian leader's call for a summit meeting of arab nations on the middle east peace issue. arafat said he expects the conference to be held the first week in april
asked about palestinian resistance to israel's occupation of the west bank and the gaza strip, arafat said, ``this is one of the most important positive signals in the palestinian revolution. grandfather, father, grandson _ all of them are in a revolution, and we are proud of them.''
here are some quotes from presidential candidates on sunday:

paul simon, on his lack of money for political advertising as some polls show him slipping before tuesday's primary in his home state: ``obviously, not to have paid media hampers me in illinois.''
bob dole, on george bush: ``i'd like george bush to tell us whether (panamanian gen. manuel) noriega was on his payroll when he was cia director.''
michael dukakis, on the prospect of a brokered convention: ``i can't imagine anything worse _ the idea of taking the right of the people to elect their president with their votes and putting it in some backrooms in atlanta.''
jesse jackson, on george bush as chairman of the presidential task force on drugs: ``to that continuous flow of drugs, mrs. reagan says no and george bush says nothing.''
albert gore, on the guilty plea by former white house national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane to misdemeanor charges relating to iran-contra: the reagan-bush administration violated the law in a brazen way.''
richard gephardt, whose campaign is faltering after a poor super tuesday showing: ``they say underdogs do well in michigan and in the united states. i think i'm going to win in michigan
george bush, on the democrats: ``i can't wait to debate any one of those democrats on foreign policy. none of them have had any experience except when they had breakfast at the international house of pancakes.'' selling tickest for up to $300.</note>
frank sinatra, sammy davis jr. and dean martin opened their 29-city ``rat pack'' reunion tour to a sell-out crowd of 14,500, proving they can still doo-be-doo-be-do it with the best
how long have i been on?'' a staggering martin asked the bandleader as the 35-piece orchestra warmed up for the first number, ``when you're drinking,'' a parody of the old ``when you're smiling.''
martin's cocktail lounge manner and slurred one-liners, with trademark cigarette and drink in hand, set the tone for an evening that brought young and old fans to their feet
sunday night's oakland coliseum show was the first of 40 performances on the tour, which is expected to generate $20 million and a home box office cable television special
martin, 70, davis, 62, and sinatra, 72, first appeared together at the sands hotel in las vegas, nev., in january 1960
martin joked his way through sometimes sentimental versions of ``everybody loves somebody (sometime),'' ``that's amore,'' and ``little ole wine drinker me.''
davis provided a powerful contrast to his seemingly sloshed co-star, winning applause when he announced that this is his 59th year in show business and when he told the audience he had been sober for the last three
i gotta tell you the truth. everybody backstage is being very cool,'' he said. ``i wasn't this scared when i lived at 147th street and 8th avenue in new york.''
davis, who recently underwent hip surgery, did not dance but won ovations for ``candy man,'' ``what kind of fool am i?,'' and ``bojangles.''
but it was sinatra who stole the show, opening the second half with a string of the songs that have kept him in superstar ranks for almost a half century
sinatra fans, young and old, went wild as ``old blue eyes'' belted out such favorites as ``what now my love?'' ``maybe this time,'' ``for once in my life,'' ``mack the knife'' and ``new york, new york.''
sinatra was then rejoined by martin and davis, who told sinatra, ``as far as we're concerned, and i can say this for the two of us, you're still the chairman of the board.''
yeah,'' quipped martin. ``you're still the chairman and we're still bored.''
the fans weren't bored, though
i saw frank 15 years ago in vegas and he's better than he's ever been,'' said karen chaix, 38, of alameda. her husband, dan, added, ``i'm sorry we didn't buy tickets for our parents.''
maureen pobuta, 33, of san mateo, said she went through ``heck'' to get her tickets, which sold officially for as much as $40 but were being scalped for up to $300. ``i've loved dean martin and sammy davis jr. ... i thought they looked great. for me, this is a once-in-a-lifetime thing.''
i've been buying their albums since i was a teeny-booper _ since the 40s,'' said tina mendez, who added ``there was no way'' she would have missed the rat pack performance. ``i will not drive without sinatra in the tape player.''
the ``rat pack'' moniker, from humphrey bogart, was given to davis, sinatra, martin, the late peter lawford and other performers who lived in the same area of beverly hills nearly three decades ago
the tour was born when the three longtime friends were gathered at sinatra's house, and became a reality because they are all under contract to the entertainment and casino company bally corp
the three are among a growing number of aging superstars to rekindle their acts. danny thomas, milton berle and sid caeser recently made a television movie, ``side by side.'' rodney dangerfield, jackie mason and mort sahl have all been contracted for one-man shows
the ``together again'' tour continues in vancouver, b.c., on tuesday, seattle on wednesday, and chicago on friday and saturday
later stops include minneapolis, milwaukee, detroit, pittsburgh, cleveland, cincinnati, washington, d.c., providence, r.i., phoenix, ariz., houston, dallas, new orleans, miami, atlanta, philadelphia, secaucus, n.j., uniondale, n.y., boston, richmond, va., buffalo, n.y., st. louis, kansas city, denver, plus cities in southern california
admirers of clarence darrow marked the 50th anniversary of the death of ``the attorney of the damned'' by tossing a wreath into the lagoon where his ashes are scattered and pledging to live by his example
about 100 people huddled together against the snow sunday on a bridge in a park on chicago's south side
darrow, a skeptic on matters of religion and the afterlife, said if there was anything to the spiritual world, he would return at 10 in the morning on each anniversary of his death, according to leon despres, a former alderman of the 5th ward, where darrow lived
for years after darrow's death, magicians and spiritualists gathered at the bridge to conjure up the lawyer's spirit _ but year after year they went away disappointed
those gathered at the bridge departed with a renewed sense of commitment to the ideals darrow stood for: justice and equality
for those of you who question life after death ... clarence is here in spirit today as we commit ourselves to follow the example of his life,'' said u.s. district judge prentice marshall
about a dozen attorneys, politicians, judges and ministers addressed the crowd in jackson park, a few blocks from darrow's home
in his 50 years as a lawyer, darrow defended ``the preconvicted, the powerless, those damned before they had a chance to have a fair trial,'' said herb kraus, a co-chairman of the clarence darrow commemorative committee
one of darrow's most famous clients was tennessee teacher john t. scopes, whom he aided in 1925 in what became known as the ``monkey trial.'' darrow, representing the american civil liberties union, defended the right for evolution to be taught in tennessee schools. though scopes was found guilty, his conviction was later reversed on a technicality
darrow also gained fame during the 1924 chicago murder case of nathan leopold and richard loeb, millionaires' sons accused of the thrill killing of 14-year-old bobby franks. darrow persuaded them to plead guilty and saved them from death sentences
darrow, who was born in kinsman, ohio, but spent most of his legal career in chicago, was one of the first to be called a labor lawyer
he resigned as the attorney for the chicago and northwestern railroad to represent labor's side of an 1893 railroad strike led by eugene debs
for the past 31 years, the commemorative committee has marked darrow's death on march 13, 1938, by throwing a wreath into the lagoon under the darrow bridge
darrow was and is a folk hero,'' said arthur weinberg, who recently published a biography on the lawyer. ``he was always a defender of the damned and a defender of the unpopular.''
a disagreement among supporters of jesse jackson has split the democrat's presidential campaign effort in northern indiana
jackson now has two campaign headquarters, both located in the same block of the same downtown street in gary. and although the campaign workers in each office are working toward the same goal _ the election of jackson in the may 3 primary _ they are functioning under different local campaign directors
the dispute boiled over late last week when jackson's state coordinator, the rev. thomas robinson of anderson, appointed the rev. f. brannan jackson of gary as campaign coordinator for northern indiana
robinson said he made the appointment because the man named by jackson's national campaign office to head the northern indiana effort, carlos tolliver of gary, had refused to communicate with robinson and could not reach out to other elected officials and voters
i did not appoint him and i am not going to unappoint him. but i'm appointing someone to get some things done,'' robinson said, adding that tolliver no longer spoke for the local campaign
however, tolliver insists that robinson has acted beyond his authority, and claims that he is the only authorized jackson representative in gary
top officials of the jackson campaign's national and state offices confirm that tolliver is the authorized head of the campaign in the 1st congressional district
president reagan has labeled federal funding for a planned biotechnology research park in central massachusetts that gov. michael s. dukakis often points to while campaigning for president a prime example of waste
reagan listed the $100,000 for the worcester, mass., project among $1.15 billion in ``pork'' he would have cut out if allowed to single-out projects from last year's massive congressional spending package
but dukakis aides defended the center, which is part of the governor's ``centers of excellence'' program designed to develop technologies of the future like photovoltaics, polymers and biotechnology
the centers of excellence program is another example of an innovative experiment hatched at the state level,'' said dukakis campaign spokesman steve akey. ``for too long washington has turned its back on these innovative approaches.''
in his campaign speeches dukakis has praised the state-supported centers as places where ``the best minds of industry, government and academia are coming together to chart the frontiers of science and technology and spawn new industries and new opportunities for good jobs and economic growth.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis has picked up an endorsement from a top labor figure
douglas fraser, former president of the united auto workers union, said sunday in his announcement that dukakis is the democrats' best hope for winning the november election
dukakis, who was taking the day off from campaigning, said the endorsement will give him momentum heading into the michigan democratic caucuses march 26
his (fraser's) endorsement will give a tremendous boost to my campaign. i think it shows that our campaign is truly a national campaign,'' dukakis said
on saturday, dukakis, the rev. jesse jackson and u.s. rep. richard gephardt made stops in michigan, meeting with plant workers, chatting with the chairman of the party's platform committee, taking a train ride and raising some money
the state department has quietly disbanded the group it set up more than two years ago to sell the reagan administration's widely criticized policy towards south africa
william ``jake`` jacobsen, the most recent director of the working group on south and southern africa, said the office effectively closed at the end of 1987
the decision not to continue the office resulted in part because south africa has waned as an issue attracting daily headlines in the united states, jacobsen said
by 1987 there were other issues,'' he said. ``there was the (persian) gulf, the middle east in general, the controversy involving iran,'' he said
the office, which at one point had a staff of about 20, was created in late 1985 as the administration pursued its policy of ``constructive engagement,'' _ attempting to pressure the white government in pretoria into eliminating racial segregation through diplomacy rather than sanctions
but congress _ against the administration's will _ approved sanctions in 1986, thereby undercutting ``constructive engagement.''
house members are preparing to consider a measure later this month that would impose a full economic embargo on south africa
jacobsen said the working group did a good job explaining the department's south africa policy. ``we got out the message ... people were much better informed in 1987 than in 1985.''
when the group was set up, it was never intended to be a permanent fixture, he said
he said the working group's staff traveled to over 45 states and gave more than 1,000 speeches to civic and business groups and met with reporters and editors from television stations and newspapers
the group was modeled after the department's office of public diplomacy for latin american and the caribbean. that operation was also shut down
irish eyes were smiling a bit more than usual as the city's marching hibernians celebrated st. patrick's day with a inside-joke
dressed in kilts and playing bagpipes, the irish pipers started off the annual parade sunday with a lively tune: ``scotland the brave.''
we do it to fool the guys who think we're scottish,'' said piper john flynn, who marched in a green jacket and gold kilt at the front of the parade
some spectators asked why bagpipes appeared at the irish celebration. piper, patrick o'shea, explained the irish war pipes are an old tradition
unlike the scots, the irish were kept from playing the pipes before most of ireland was freed from british rule, said o'shea, who has played the pipes for 45 years
winter lingered with below-normal temperatures covering most of the nation early today, and snow was predicted in many sections even though spring's only a week away
at 1 a.m. est, freezing temperatures were reported as far south as san angelo, texas, and in fort smith, ark., and crossville, tenn. late-night temperatures were mostly in the single digits and teens from wyoming and colorado across the northern and central plains to the upper great lakes region
snow showers, mostly light, extended sunday night from the upper and middle mississippi valley across the great lakes region and northern sections of the ohio valley to the northern and central appalachians. heavier snow was falling along the shores of lake superior and lake erie
a heavy snow warning was posted through today in northeast ohio. three to 4 inches fell sunday evening at thompson, ohio. an advisory for 1 to 3 inches of snow was in effect this morning over northwest pennsylvania
four inches of new snow fell sunday night near marquette, mich
heavy snow was forecast today over the northern rockies. winter storm watches were posted for this afternoon and tonight over western and central montana and northwest wyoming. up to a foot of snow was possible by tuesday morning in the mountains of montana and wyoming
rain showers fell in southern florida, where a downpour dumped more than an inch of rain on west palm beach in an hour early today
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 4 below zero at bismarck, n.d., to 76 at key west naval air station and fort myers regional airport, fla
the nation's high sunday was 87 degrees at fort lauderdale, north miami beach and west palm beach, fla
for today, snow showers were forecast from the great lakes region and the ohio valley across the northern and central appalachians; rain or snow showers over southern new england; and snowshowers across montana. sunny skies were expected over the nation's southern third, but with scattered showers and thunderstorms in south florida
much of the nation was expected to have highs in the 30s-50s. below-normal temperatures were forecast from the rockies to the atlantic, with highs only in the upper teens and 20s from the dakotas across the upper half of the mississippi valley, the great lakes region and the ohio valley. highs should reach the 60s and 70s over western oregon, california, southwest nevada, southern arizona, southern texas and the florida peninsula, with readings near 80 over parts of the desert southwest and south florida
other reports:
_east: atlanta 38 fair; boston 35 snow; buffalo 26 snow; charleston, s.c. 48 fair; cincinnati 24 snow; cleveland 25 partly cloudy; detroit 24 cloudy; miami 75 partly cloudy; new york 40 windy; philadelphia 35 fair; pittsburgh 25 snow; portland, maine 30 snow; washington 35 fair
_central: bismarck 6 fair; chicago 20 cloudy; dallas-fort worth 29 fair; denver 18 fair; des moines 14 fair; indianapolis 20 snow; kansas city 16 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 13 partly cloudy; nashville 31 cloudy; new orleans 49 fair; st. louis 25 windy
_west: albuquerque 29 fair; anchorage 34 partly cloudy; las vegas 43 fair; los angeles 55 fair; phoenix 53 fair; salt lake city 26 fair; san diego 54 fair; san francisco 48 fair; seattle 39 fair
_canada: montreal 25 cloudy; toronto 25 snow
religious leaders who were barred from holding an anti-apartheid rally led more than 2,000 people in a defiant church service at a cathedral that was surrounded by police vehicles
the government of south africa has signed its own death warrant,'' said the rev. allan boesak, president of the world alliance of reformed churches. ``no government can challenge the living god and survive.''
boesak's speech electrified a multiracial crowd at the sunday service and was punctuated by shouts of ``amandla!'' the zulu word for ``power.''
anglican archbishop desmond tutu, winner of the nobel peace prize in 1984 for his fight against south africa's system of racial separation, also spoke to the worshipers who packed the aisles of st. george's anglican cathedral
organizers said many people trying to go to the service were turned back at police roadblocks on highways leading to central cape town
the church service was arranged after police prohibited a rally that had been planned at the nearby university of the western cape
police also banned the 5-day-old committee, whose members included tutu and boesak, that was sponsoring the rally
the cape town service and others in major cities were called to protest government restrictions on opposition groups and the detention of thousands of people without charge during a 21-month national state of emergency
law and order minister adriaan vlok on sunday warned the white-led government would ``take the necessary steps'' against clergymen who took up the cause of 18 black opposition groups banned in a crackdown last month
if teaching the gospel of jesus christ is going to lead me into trouble, tough luck,'' responded tutu
referring to vlok's warning that clergymen should preach the ``true christian message rather than revolution,'' boesak said:
if you had read the bible you would not have spoken such utter nonsense. ... the fight for justice is the christian message.''
in another development, tutu wrote an article in today's editions of the new york times calling on the united states, england and west germany to cut diplomatic ties with south africa unless it meets three demands
first, the state of emergency must be lifted,'' he wrote. ``second, last month's restrictions against our peoples' organizations and leaders must be lifted. third, detainees ... must be tried in open courts or released.''
boesak, who reported receiving two death threats in the past two weeks, told worshipers sunday, ``it does not matter whether they ban us, threaten us, or kill us in jail _ the church of south africa has decided we have work to do
we must tell (president) p.w. botha, `your days are over,' '' he said
tutu told the service, ``if it is revolution to say, `i work for a south africa that is truly democratic, where black, white and yellow and green can walk together hand in hand,' then friends, i am for that.'' conference at 11:30 a.m. est, governor may comment after 1 p.m. est.</note>
the university of minnesota's president has resigned, citing controversy over the $1.5 million renovation of his official residence, eastcliff, and the $200,000 remodeling of his campus office suite
over the past few weeks, you and i have lived with stories about eastcliff renovations and repairs,'' kenneth keller, president for three years, told a news conference sunday night at the 55,000-student big 10 school
the stories have not been good ones,'' he said. ``i bear a key responsibility for it. ... i am profoundly embarrassed and profoundly sorry for it.''
after repeated assertions recently that he planned to stay in office, keller, 53, said he now believes he cannot overcome the controversy. he said he was informing the university's board of regents he would step aside as soon as they arrange for an interim replacement
the regents never gave formal approval for the mansion renovation, which was orginally supposed to cost $400,000, a recent report by the legislative auditor's office said
the report said the involvement of keller and his wife, university attorney bonita sindelir, in the renovation led to some of the additional costs
among the most embarrassing expenditures were those for a mahogany desk and credenza for keller's office that the legislative auditor said cost $17,445. keller has offered to pay for the office furniture
i have said recently that i thought i could learn from the mistakes of eastcliff, improve the management of the university where it's needed, and get on with the important job of completing `commitment to focus,''' keller told the news conference sunday night
commitment to focus'' is keller's controversial $35.2 million plan to improve the quality of the university while reducing undergraduate enrollment
i have also said that if i felt my presence would hurt more than help in accomplishing that task i would step aside,'' he said, adding, ``as painful as it is for me to say, i now believe that to be the case.''
after he read a brief statement, keller left without responding to questions
regent chairman david lebedoff and gov. rudy perpich were expected to comment on keller's announcement today, spokesmen said sunday night
the st. paul pioneer press dispatch, quoting sources it did not name in today's editions, said perpich and keller met privately sunday for about 90 minutes and that perpich had indicated before the meeting that he was prepared to ask keller to step down
perpich spokeswoman patrice vick would confirm only that a meeting occurred
according to the newspaper's sources, perpich was highly irritated when he learned last week that the university had amassed a reserve fund of more than $50 million
keller's critics in the legislature called it a ``slush fund.''
legislative auditors who revealed the existence of the $50 million fund said it was under the control of keller and other top university officials and that some of the money was used on the house renovation without approval of the board of regents
spending on the mansion was revealed in news media reports in early february. keller then went to hawaii on a vacation, angering lawmakers who thought he should have stayed available to answer questions about the remodeling
keller, a new york city native, came to the university in 1964 as an assistant professor in chemical engineering and materials science, and became a department head in 1979. northeastern iran, iranian shelling of southern iraq. trims. no pickup.</note>
iran and iraq fired long-range missiles into each other's capitals today as the so-called ``war of the cities'' flared again after a two-day lull. iran said at least 20 people were killed in tehran
on the battlefield, iran said it attacked mountainous northeast iraq and downed an iraqi warplane. iraq said iran continued shelling border towns
iran's official islamic republic news agency said six rockets exploded in residential areas of tehran today, killing at least 20 people and injuring 50
iran said it fired two missiles today into ``the dens of corruption'' in baghdad. the news agency, monitored in nicosia, said the missiles were aimed at ``military and economic centers'' in baghdad
baghdad radio, also monitored in nicosia, said one iranian missile crashed into a residential district of the city of 5 million around noon, killing some civilians. it gave no figures and made no mention of a second iranian missile
the iranian missile hit as oil and energy ministers from 20 arab countries gathered in the capital of baghdad for the opening of a four-day meeting on improving cooperation in energy and mineral resources. it was not known how far from the conference hall the missile exploded
the iraqis say they have shot seven missiles into tehran since sunday to avenge iranian shelling of iraqi towns over the weekend that killed at least 21 people and wounded 79
the official iraqi news agency said iranian shellfire continued to hit the southern port city of basra, the nearby city of qurnah and the northern city of halbajah today. it reported ``many civilians,'' including women and children, killed or wounded in a barrage that hit schools, houses and stores
iran's islamic republic news agency said revolutionary guards launched a new assault in the northeastern sulaimaniyeh region of iraq early today ``to avenge enemy missile attacks on residential areas.''
quoting a military communique, the agency said the iranians stormed iraqi positions despite bad weather, inflicting ``heavy casualties'' and capturing several peaks in the gerdhelkan range
irna said iranian anti-aircraft gunners shot down an iraqi warplane during the fighting as it attempted to strafe iranian positions
it was the third iranian assault in northeast iraq reported in 24 hours
irna reported earlier that more than 800 iraqis were killed or wounded in attacks in the darbandikhan and khormal regions on sunday when its forces seized 15 square miles of iraqi territory and 12 ``strategic heights'' in the sulaimaniyeh area, 160 miles north of baghdad
the iraqi news agency quoted a military communique as saying iraqi warplanes flew 141 combat missions against iranian troop concentrations and other military targets sunday. it said helicopter gunships flew 85 missions
baghdad radio reported today that an iraqi naval force sank a ``large maritime target along with its occupants'' near the iranian coast on sunday night. it gave no other details
sunday's missile attacks ended an unofficial two-day truce in the war of the cities. hundreds of civilians were killed in tehran, baghdad and other cities in both countries during a 12-day missile duel that had ended friday. tehran is 290 miles from the border, while baghdad is 85 miles away
an air france jumbo jet made an unscheduled landing at the u.s. air base at thule in northern greenland because of a bomb threat, greenland's military command said today
the boeing 747 en route to tokyo landed at thule late sunday night after the paris headquarters of the french national carrier received an anonymous telephone threat saying there was a bomb on board
the 396 passengers were evacuated without incident and given shelter in the base's movie theater
after a four-hour search of the airliner and all the baggage, it was allowed to resume its flight via anchorage, alaska
the death toll from a cyclone earlier this month in mozambique has risen to 100, the national news agency aim reported today
cyclone filao struck march 1 and damaged large parts of the port city of quelimane and surrounding rural areas in zambezia province
the news agency last week reported the cyclone had killed 57 people. it said today the toll rose as more information was received from remote areas
the cyclone destroyed 1,000 homes, leaving an estimated 4,500 people homeless, aim said
a man who embezzled $350,000 from a fertilizer factory in eastern china was executed, an official daily said today
the overseas edition of the people's daily said jiang zhengguo, chief of the finance section of the wujin chemical fertilizer factory in changzhou city, was executed sunday after an court rejected his appeal
the report said jiang embezzled the money from march 1983 to april 1987 by listing false construction expenditures and forging receipts. he was sentenced to death by a lower court last november
the chinese government in january announced tough new rules for punishing economic crimes of corruption and bribery. the rules stated that those who gain more than $13,500 through corruption should be given prison terms of not less than 10 years, and serious offenders should be sentenced to death
there have been at least four reported cases this year of embezzlers being executed, usually by a bullet to the back of the head
high-level talks began today between the united states and south africa on a plan to end fighting in angola and namibia, officials said
the talks between u.s. assistant secretary of state chester crocker and south african foreign minister roelof ``pik'' botha are open-ended and no details will be released until they end, said mari botha, botha's press secretary. it is the first meeting between the leaders in two years
state department spokeswoman anita stockman said saturday in washington that the crocker-botha meeting will provide an opportunity ``to reassess south africa's willingness to proceed toward a settlement involving total cuban troop withdrawal from angola and namibian independence.''
ms. stockman also said the meeting would give the united states a chance to ``register concern'' about recent developments in south africa
the united states has complained about anti-dissent measures in south africa in the past few weeks
she said a state department working group arrived in angola on wednesday to explore the possibility of further talks on getting the estimated 40,000 cuban troops out of the country as part of an overall settlement
on sunday, angola's foreign ministry said angola and cuba presented proposals to the u.s. officials for a southern africa peace accord including a timetable for the withdrawal of cuban troops from southern angola, and an eventual full pullout
since he took office in 1981, crocker has tried to negotiate a withdrawal of cuban troops from angola in return for south african withdrawal from neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia
the cuban troops have been battling a powerful guerrilla force, the national union for the total independence of angola, or unita. the guerrillas are supported by south africa and the united states
on sunday, unita leader jonas savimbi said south africa has told him it will begin direct talks with the angolan government in a bid to end angola's 13-year-old civil war. he gave no indication when such talks would begin
tens of thousands of skiers remained trapped in three alpine ski resorts today after avalanches killed 10 people and injured at least 20 over the weekend
it was the worst winter-sport death toll for a single weekend in austria in decades
roads to the famed resorts of lech, zuers and stuben were snowed in for a third straight day, and high winds prevented helicopters from reaching the three high-altitude towns
among those stranded in lech were the former dutch queen, princess juliana, and her husband prince bernhard
they were supposed to leave on saturday, but have been stuck here since then,'' said a receptionist reached by telephone at the hotel post, where the dutch royalty were staying
but they are enjoying the winter sports and taking it all with good humor like everyone else here,'' she said, speaking on condition of anonymity
officials said thousands of the skiers, most of them vacationing west germans and scandanavians, could remain stranded until tuesday because of the heavy snows and continued danger of avalanches
it is possible roads will be opened this afternoon, but it is too early to tell,'' eric brumer, a local official, told austrian radio
but it is too early to tell whether the danger (of avalanches) will drop enough,'' he added
the road to st. anton was reopened today after seven people were killed and at least 20 injured in the resort town on sunday
five vacationing swedish skiers and two austrians were killed in st. anton early sunday when two successive avalanches rolled down the steep mountains that tower above the resort and buried several chalets, authorities said
three others were killed in separate avalanches on saturday, bringing austria's weekend winter-sport death toll to 10
the accidents followed the death last weekend of a close friend of britain's prince charles, who was killed in the swiss resort of klosters by a snowslide that narrowly missed charles
the avalanches destroyed four houses, damaged several other buildings and buried the only train tracks leading into the mountainous resort
innsbruck police said authorities would not release the names of victims until their next of kin had been notified
the exact number of those injured in the incident was not clear, but several people were taken by helicopter to hospitals in innsbruck and nearby zams, according to a police official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
police said the single road that connects st. anton to the outside world remained closed, but that the train traffic to the resort had been resumed
st. anton, set at 4,118 feet in the arlberg region of western austria, is one of this alpine nation's oldest and best-known ski resorts
scattered shootouts and a bombing left four people dead and eight wounded in beirut, police said today
police identified the slain as two officers from the lebanese forces, the christians' main militia, an officer of druse warlord walid jumblatt's progressive socialist party militia and a palestinian guerrilla
in the latest violence, a shiite moslem attorney was critically wounded today when a time bomb exploded on a window ledge outside the bathroom of his west beirut apartment as he was shaving, police said
nimeh hamieh, a former chairman of lebanon's bar association, was rushed to the barbir hospital by neighbors, police said. they declined to speculate on the motive for the assassination attempt
the two lebanese forces officers were killed sunday by bodyguards of president amin gemayel's 18-year-old son, pierre, in a quarrel in a traffic-jammed street in the christian port of jounieh, 12 miles north of beirut, police said
police said the shooting sharpened tension between the lebanese forces and gemayel's rightist phalange party militia, which controls the metn province in the christian heartland northeast of beirut
the two sides have been vying for dominance of the christian community, whose control of the government, army and parliament triggered the civil war with lebanon's moslem majority that began in 1975
the druse militia officer was killed sunday evening in an ambush by militiamen of justice minister nabih berri's shiite amal movement in the rashaya district in the foothills of mount hermon in south lebanon, police said. they said the druse officer's escorts fired at the ambushers, wounding two of them before syrian troops drove up to stop the shooting
police said a palestinian guerrilla from a syrian-backed group was killed and another wounded in a midnight shootout sunday with supporters of palestine liberation organization chairman yasser arafat in the bourj el-barajneh refugee camp in south beirut
three lebanese army soldiers and a woman were shot and wounded by a drunken gunman sunday as they were lunching at a seaside restaurant in the christian town of halat, 25 miles north of beirut, police said
the syrians maintain 25,000 troops in north and east lebanon under a 1976 arab league peacekeeping mandate
they also have a 7,500-strong force in moslem west beirut seeking to restore law and order after years of militia anarchy
the thieves will celebrate, traffic violators will celebrate, that's what it means.'' _ israeli police minister chaim bar-lev, commenting on the protest resignations of 450 of the 850 arab police officers in the west bank and gaza
god made the world in seven days and we have changed it in seven days.'' _charles a. giansanti, a gallaudet university chemistry professor, on the protests that prompted the appointment of the school for the hearing impaired's first deaf president
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz.'' _ israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, commenting on the u.s. peace proposal for the middle east
a moderate earthquake shook the soviet republic of kirgizia, the official news agency tass said. it was the third temblor in central asia in less than a month
no injuries were reported in the quake sunday, but older buildings near the epicenter in the kochkork area sustained slight damage, tass said
the earthquake registered 5 points on the soviet scale at its center and 2 points in the republic's capital of frunze, 200 miles northeast of the area hit 12 days ago and 450 miles northeast of the area jolted 24 days ago
on the 12-point soviet scale, a 5-point earthquake is considered capable of shaking buildings, furniture and cracking windows and plaster
the march 2 quake measured 5.5 near its center in the namagan region of uzbekistan, kirgizia's neighboring republic to the southwest. the feb. 20 quake was centered 100 miles east of dushanbe, the capital of tadzhikistan, which borders kirgizia to the south. neither of the earlier quakes caused damage or injuries, according to tass
kirgizia has a population of 3.2 million and is bounded to the east by china. belgrade, changes dateline. pickup 3rd graf pvs ``gorbachev is...'' adds byline.</note>
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev today began a five-day official visit to yugoslavia, a communist nation suffering from high inflation and unemployment and a $20 billion foreign debt
the soviet communist party general secretary, accompanied by his wife, raisa, landed in belgrade in a special aeroflot ilyushin jet that flew directly from moscow
yugoslavia's top party and government leaders were on hand at the airport to greet the gorbachevs
gorbachev is the first soviet leader to visit yugoslavia since the may, 1980 death of josip broz tito, who pulled his nation out of the soviet bloc in 1948 to pursue a non-aligned foreign policy and a once-vaunted system of worker self-management in the economy
that system looks increasingly frail as yugoslavia battles 170 percent inflation and 15 percent unemployment and struggles to repay its foreign debt
last year, yugoslavia's communist leadership faced unprecedented worker unrest, with more than 1,500 strikes adding to the traditional problems of keeping this ethnically diverse nation together
the system of self-management by which workers nominally run yugoslavia's enterprises will be one topic on gorbachev's agenda at meetings today with belgrade's communist leaders, assistant foreign minister ilija djukic of yugoslavia told reporters in belgrade on sunday
asked whether the yugoslavs would discuss recent ethnic tension in the soviet union with gorbachev, djukic said this was moscow's internal affair ``and we shall certainly leave that to their own resources.''
he added, however, that gorbachev would have an opportunity to see for himself how yugoslavia, a diverse nation of six republics and two autonomous regions, deals with ethnic, linguistic and economic differences
gorbachev's drive for more openness on social problems and economic reform in the soviet union has been called into question recently by mass demonstrations by armenians in the southern soviet union
at least 32 people died when ethnic tension between the largely christian armenians and their moslem neighbors, the azeris, boiled over into fighting in the azerbaijan city of sumgait two weeks ago
gorbachev will not be visiting kosovo, the yugoslav region most plagued by ethnic tension between ethnic albanians, and serbian and montenegrin minorities. but he will get a look at the economic diversity of yugoslavia, visiting factories in the relatively flourishing northernmost republic of slovenia and the adriatic port of dubrovnik as well as in belgrade
the visit to slovenia may also give gorbachev a look at the way his country could develop if the kremlin leader's three-year drive for more democracy under communism gains further impetus
slovenia has the most liberal newspapers of yugoslavia's free-wheeling, state-controlled press, and young people there have emulated west european counterparts in pushing strongly for greater ecological concern, a ban on nuclear power and an end to compulsory military conscription
a windshield-washer was in critical condition today after a motorist who did not want his windshield washed cracked the man over the head with a baseball bat
police spokesman sgt. maurice howard said 47-year-old eldred leitzse of the bronx started to wash the windshield on a light green mercedes stopped at the light at about 7 p.m. last night
the driver of the car, one of three men in the car, apparently did not ask for the wash and did not want it, howard said. he stepped from the car and hit leitzse over the head with a bat, howard says
windshield-washers in new york often are poor people who approach cars at stoplights and offer to wash their windows for a small tip. occasionally the washers refuse to stop unless paid
harlem hospital administrator edward titus said leitzse was in critical but stable condition this morning
no one has been arrested and no other details were immediately available
a texas woman who was locked in a custody dispute with her former husband hired a team of retired u.s. army commandos to get her daughter back from jordan, according to a published report
kathy mahoon of dallas was given custody of the girl by a u.s. court when she and her jordanian husband divorced, the philadelphia inquirer said saturday. the husband abducted the girl, lauren mohammed ali bayan, and took her to jordan, the newspaper said
ms. mahoon, unable to get her daughter back through legal channnels, hired a firm of former army commandos to take the girl away from her father, mohammed ali bayan, the newspaper said. bayan claimed legal custody of the child under jordanian law
corporate training unlimited, a firm in fayetteville, n.c., specializing in ``hostage rescue training,'' plotted and carried out the seizure for expenses and a hefty, undisclosed fee, the newspaper said
although company president donald feeney denied the story, other well-placed sources described the company's role, the inquirer said
ms. mahoon now is in hiding with her 7-year-old daughter, while the state department is fielding protests from jordan about americans' role in the dispute, the newspaper said
the rescue attempt began at 8:30 a.m. jan. 28 in jerash, north of amman, sources close to the participants told the newspaper. the abduction began when j.d. roberts, a one-time army delta force hostage rescue specialist, hailed and stopped a school bus by waving a note in arabic
while roberts pinned the shocked driver to his seat, ms. mahoon embraced her child and swept her off the bus, smacking a teacher who tried to block their escape. they fled in a white datsun and switched cars before crossing the border into israeli-controlled territory, the newspaper said
when his daughter first disappeared, bayan said she had been abducted by three americans and published newspaper advertisements seeking information
sameer salem, a jordanian friend of bayan's, told the associated press that bayan had returned to jordan in the fall of 1987 after selling a dallas restaurant called the country skillet. bayan had legal custody of lauren under jordanian law, salem said
the raid embarrassed the u.s. embassy because embassy officials knew about the operation but did not alert jordanian authorities, the inquirer reported
jordanian authorities reached by the ap said the girl left jordan legally because she had an american passport. jerash police accused some u.s. embassy officials of taking part in the operation, but police in amman denied the abduction incident took place
no state department press official was available sunday to comment on the report. there was no listing for corporate training unlimited in fayetteville, and no listing for mahoon in dallas
according to a brochure obtained by the inquirer, corporate training unlimited, consists entirely of ``delta force and special operations qualified personnel.''
its founders left the military in 1983 amid allegations that they had claimed expenses from both the state department and the army for guarding vips at u.s. embassies in central america, the newspaper said
state department investigators now want to know whether credentials issued to the company's founders while in the military were used in the jordanian incident, the newspaper said
the afghanistan peace talks resumed today, one day before a soviet-set target date for a settlement. there were unconfirmed reports pakistan was about to decide whether to sign an agreement with the soviet-backed kabul government
we will announce something today,'' pakistan's chief representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, told reporters as he arrived for a new meeting with u.n. mediator diego cordovez. he did not elaborate
there was no confirmation of published reports quoting prime minister mohammad khan junejo of pakistan as saying his country will make a final decision today on whether to sign the proposed settlement
the head of the afghan delegation, foreign minister abdul wakil, was scheduled to meet cordovez today in keeping with the pattern of the talks held indirectly because pakistan does not recognize the kabul government
pakistan has been speaking for the guerrillas, which are excluded from the talks and do not formally recognize the u.n.-sponsored peace process
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said last month that moscow would bring home its estimated 115,000 troops starting in mid-may if a settlement was signed march 15 _ tuesday
but sources close to the negotiations have said they do not consider the date a rigid deadline
soviet troops have been in afghanistan, helping the government fight moslem insurgents, since december 1979
noorani seemed to make plain today that he expected the talks to continue for at least several more days. he said he wanted to ask cordovez what the program would be ``for the next few days to finalize'' the peace package
they are a few points remaining'' before the settlement is ready for signature, he added. details have not been published
the latest round began march 2 and is already the longest since the negotiations began nearly 6 years ago
pakistan's negotiating position is jeopardized by a reported rift in the alliance of seven guerrilla groups over plans to send representatives to geneva if a transitional government will replace the existing one
pakistan argues that only a broad-based government can oversee implementation of the agreements and ensure the safe return of more than 5 million afghan refugees from pakistan and iran
the soviet union and kabul have fiercely rejected that demand, saying the future government was something to be decided by the afghans themselves and was not subject for discussion at geneva
mayor raymond l. flynn headed back to boston from ireland today to be with his sick mother, lillian flynn
flynn arrived in ireland on sunday for a planned week-long stay but was taking the first available flight back, said raymond dooley, city director of administrative services. flynn had planned to celebrate st. patrick's day in dublin
dooley said flynn's brother, dennis, telephoned the mayor in galway to tell him their mother's condition had worsened. dooley said mrs. flynn had been ill for a few months, but he declined to comment on the nature of her illness or her condition
mrs. flynn is in boston city hospital
singer dennis day remained hospitalized in critical condition today after injuring his head in a fall at his home last week, a hospital official said
no change was reported in day's condition during the weekend and he remained in critical and unstable condition today, said a nursing supervisor at st. john's hospital
day, 71, fell at his bel air-area home wednesday and complained of a severe headache in the emergency room. he underwent surgery after tests showed bleeding in the brain
day was diagnosed last july as suffering from amyotropic lateral sclerosis. the progressive nerve disorder, also known as lou gehrig's disease, causes a loss of muscle control
day, who was born eugene denis mcnulty in new york city, began his career with comedian jack benny in 1939. an accomplished irish tenor, day also was known for playing the innocent foil to benny's irascible character on television and radio
the bodies of three irish republican army members killed by british troops in gibraltar were headed to northern ireland today for funeral services and a possible st. patrick's day burial
families members and a roman catholic bishop called for calm at the funerals of the ira members, who british authorities linked to a planned car bombing
police on both sides of the border were expected to mount a huge security operation to prevent paramilitary displays beside the coffins during today's 100-mile journey by road to belfast, and at the funerals later this week
sinn fein, the legal political wing of the ira, said a chartered plane carrying the bodies of mairead farrell, 31, daniel mccann, 30, and sean savage, 24, was to fly today from gibraltar, the british fortress colony in southern spain, to dublin
the cortege was to travel directly from dublin airport to british-ruled northern ireland, police said
sinn fein said the ira members will be buried in belfast's milltown cemetery on wednesday or on saint patrick's day on thursday, when the funeral processions likely would be swollen by hundreds of sympathizers
st. patrick's day, honoring ireland's patron saint, is celebrated by catholics across the island
cahal daly, a roman catholic whose diocese includes belfast, said sunday he hoped both police and mourners will display ``a desire to avoid confrontation.''
in a statement, the families of the three dead men appealed to the security forces ``to permit us the dignity to bury our loved ones in peace.''
the three guerrillas were unarmed when they were shot and killed march 6 by soldiers believed to be members of the special air services, an elite british regiment
the shootings triggered rioting in catholic districts of belfast for much of last week, and provoked protests that the three should instead have been arrested. the british government said the soldiers believed their lives were endangered
two days after the shootings, spanish police discovered a car packed with 145 pounds of czech-made explosives in marbella, 30 miles from gibraltar. britain said the guerrillas intended to blow up the car during a military ceremony in the colony
the ira, outlawed in britain and ireland, is fighting to drive the british out of northern ireland and unite the protestant-dominated province with the catholic irish republic
since the political and sectarian violence erupted in northern ireland in 1969, at least 2,628 people have been killed
ira funerals have in recent years brought bloody clashes between nationalists and massed ranks of police seeking to prevent gunmen firing shots over the coffins, the ira's traditional salute to its dead. the practice is banned
a man who parachuted from a 50-story downtown building is a member of a group that requires such jumps, police said
the parachutist dropped onto a car a week ago and fled before police could collar him
but since then, he was traced through the license number of a getaway car and identified as a canadian, said police sgt. gerald rogers
the man, whose name rogers would not release, belongs to a group called building, antenna, span and earth club, or base. members are required to parachute from a building, antenna, a bridge and a cliff or mountain
they don't live long,'' said rogers. ``it seems utterly crazy that someone needs that much excitement in their life.''
he said it was much safer to parachute from an airplane than from a fixed object
the officer said police traced the license number of the jumper's getaway car to a south side chicago man, who admitted he helped in the escape. rogers also refused to identify the accomplice
rogers said he has not contacted the parachutist, who lives in quebec and is a truck driver. but his accomplice told police that the canadian wants to reimburse the owner of the bmw, musiliu alagbala of chicago, for the several hundred dollars worth of damage to the car, rogers said
alagbala said sunday he was amazed and angered by the incident
i've seen things like that in the movies, but i'd never thought it would happen to me,'' he said
if the parachutist returns to chicago, he may be charged with criminal trespass for being on the roof of the leo burnett building without permission, rogers said. the suspect also may be charged with criminal damages for the dents in the car, he said
we are not going to extradict him. if he doesn't come forward, ultimately we might put a warrant out on him,'' he said. 03-14 0644</first> failing to get on ballot. corrects number of mayoral elections in 10th graf to 1,008, sted 10,008. picks up 12th graf, `barco, in .. .'</note>
a young lawyer, who was once kidnapped because he campaigned against drugs, has been elected mayor of bogota in the first mayoral elections in colombia's history
security at the polls sunday was tight throughout this country racked by violence from extremist political factions and from powerful narcotics traffickers
one of the alleged leaders of colombia's biggest drug organization even tried to run for city council in the town of armenia
but carlos lehder rivas failed because colombian law demands that candidates sign up in person. lehder is in jail in jacksonville, fla., facing drug charges there and in miami
andres pastrana, 34, the son of former president misael pastrana, became bogota's mayor and will be one of the youngest men to take that important political post. several bogota mayors have gone on to become president
pastrana is a rising star in the conservative party, and his election represents a setback for president virgilio barco's governing liberal party
pastrana was the only conservative party candidate for mayor in bogota. the feuding liberal party put up three candidates
voters heeded barco's plea to fight bullets with ballots in the election, which was called as a concession to leftist guerrillas
for the past 169 years, the president, always from either the liberal or conservative parties, had appointed governors who in turn named mayors
there were 1,008 mayors elected sunday. colombians also elected city council, state assemblies and governing bodies for remote territories without sufficient population to become states
in the bogota race, juan caicedo, a former president of the colombian association of businessmen, came in second place. with about 50 percent of the vote in bogota counted, pastrana had 122,107 votes and caicedo had 94,322, the national elections office said in a news release sunday night
by late sunday night the elections office said the liberal party had won 405 of the mayoral races, the conservative party 379 and the leftist patriotic union 13. coalition candidates representing several parties had won 104 mayoral posts, the elctions office said
barco, in a speech televised nationwide saturday night, said voting would be a way to reject the wave of violence that has swept colombia
more than 1,700 people were killed in the past year in fighting between leftist guerrillas and government security forces and by right-wing death squads and drug traffickers
on sunday, soldiers and police guarded voting places and patrolled cities and towns. the campaign was one of the bloodiest ever in colombia, with leftist guerrillas and right-wing death squads killing five mayoral candidates and 19 city council candidates. hundreds of other political activists were slain
leftist guerrillas kidnapped 14 mayors in the two weeks before the election. the rebels let them go after warning each to do more for the poor
pastrana, who called for stronger action against the multibillion-dollar cocaine and marijuana trafficking in colombia, was kidnapped by drug traffickers in january. a week later, police acting on a tip, raided a farmhouse where he was held. pastrana had not been harmed
colombian officials sometimes pay with their lives for challenging drug traffickers, who are among the wealthiest men in the nation
one group, the medillin cartel, is said to be responsible for 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the united states. lehder is charged in miami with being one of its leaders
in 1984, justice minister rodrigo lara bonilla was killed, and in january attorney general carlos mauro hoyos was gunned down. officials suspect drug traffickers in the deaths because both men fought narcotics. with 2nd execution skedded in louisiana; subs 6th graf pvs, ``darden said xxx, to clarify, note that execution skedded on 7 days notice; note language in 12th graf ``authorities say...'' lead prospects uncertain.</note>
convicted killer willie jasper darden again faces execution this week after outlasting six death warrants and becoming a symbol of the national conflict over capital punishment
his appeal was pending today at the florida supreme court in tallahassee in advance of a scheduled tuesday morning execution at the state prison here
gov. bob martinez, the only official outside the courts who could intervene, said last week he saw no reason to back off the death warrant he signed tuesday
meanwhile, in angola, la., wayne robert felde was scheduled to die shortly after midnight for the murder of a shreveport police officer 10 years ago
felde had claimed he was suffering from post-war stress syndrome as a result of his experiences in vietnam and asked for the death penalty at his trial, implying he would kill again. his lawyer, millard farmer, refused to say if an appeal was being pursued
darden maintained his innocence in an interview published sunday
if i'm executed tuesday, it won't change the facts one bit,'' he told the new york times. ``all that will happen is that i will be an innocent dead person instead of an innocent live person.''
darden said he's convinced his latest execution was scheduled with only seven days' notice ``to keep me from getting too much public attention
since january, i have received close to 2,000 letters from around the world,'' he said in the interview
soviet dissident andrei sakharov and the london-based human rights organization amnesty international are among those who have spoken out in support of darden
backers have said he has been on death row for 14 years because of a racist legal system that denied him a fair trial
but police in three florida counties consider him a suspect in at least five killings in addition to the 1973 death of james turman, for which darden received the death sentence. those cases remain unsolved and darden has never been charged in them
according to a report sunday in the tampa tribune, police in hillsborough, pinellas and polk counties say darden began his spree by beating a woman to death with his hands
authorities say he then strangled a woman with her stocking, battered a woman to death with a tire iron and finally shoot his victims in the face with a short-barreled .38-caliber revolver after they had been forced to perform oral sex on him
all the slayings police suspect darden of occurred in 1973 while he was on furlough from avon park correctional institution, where he was serving a six month to 20 year sentence for breaking into the home of a 70-year-old st. petersburg woman in 1968, beating her and attempting to rape her
the 54-year-old darden has outlasted more death warrants than any other florida inmate, and has been on florida's death row, the nation's largest, longer than all but one inmate
the dispute over his case centers on whether darden has an alibi as a result of statements from a minister and a woman placing him away from the scene of the turman killing. law enforcement authorities say evidence shows the killing occurred an hour too late for darden to have an alibi
in louisiana, felde was scheduled to die shortly after midnight cst
in 1978, after being picked up on a drunkeness charge, felde pulled a gun as he sat in the back seat of a police car and fired it into the back of the driver, police officer glen tompkins
as part of his defense, he claimed he was suffering from post war stress and exposure to agent orange. in his appeals he also claimed he had inadequate defense counsel during his trial
gov.-elect buddy roemer, who was to take office this afternoon, said he had no plans to stop the execution
hilton butler, warden of the state penitentiary at angola, said felde's sisters visited with him sunday and would be back at the death house today where the execution will take place
butler said that felde has asked for pizza, fried shrimp and ginger ale for his final meal
pro-iranian militants marking the third anniversary of a car bombing that killed more than 80 shiite moslems have threatened to launch new terrorist attacks against the united states
we should not forget that america is behind all the massacres and crimes,'' said sheik hassan nasrallah, a senior official of hezbollah, or party of god, at a mass rally in south beirut's bir el-abed district on sunday. excerpts of his speech were published by beirut newspapers today
we have war and we have terrorism to use against america to defend the interests of the moslems and the oppressed,'' nasrallah said. ``we are always ready to teach the wild beasts in the world a lesson.''
the iranian-backed hezbollah has accused the cia of masterminding the march 8, 1985, car bombing in bir el-abed with the help of the army's intelligence branch. it charged that the bombing was aimed at assassinating hezbollah's spiritual guide, sheik mohammed hussein fadlallah
hezbollah is believed to be the umbrella for underground extremists holding many of the 22 foreign hostages in lebanon, including nine americans. the longest held hostage is terry a. anderson, 38, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press, who was kidnapped on march 16, 1985
fadlallah also spoke at sunday's rally, charging the device that went off near his residence was ``made in america.''
he declared: ``america, which accuses us of terrorism, is the master of terrorism throughout the universe.''
he vowed that guerrilla warfare against israel will be escalated
we consider our movement a supplement to the palestinian uprising in the occupied territories,'' fadlallah said, referring to three months of rioting by palestinians in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
hezbollah leads the islamic resistence front, which has claimed responsibility for numerous attacks against israeli troops and their militia allies in israel's self-designated security zone in south lebanon
a robbery suspect who claimed he had aids and threatened to bite the first police officer that came near him was put into a patrol car alone and towed to a police station, a department spokesman said today
richard simmons was taken out of the patrol car by emergency medical service personel wearing protective gear, said sgt. maurice howard
simmons, 27, was taken to roosevelt hospital for psychiatric evaluation and was classified as emotionally disturbed, he said
the incident started sunday morning when simmons, dressed in a wig, makeup, a shirt and jeans, tried to rob a passer-by, the spokesman said
simmons took a small amount of money from the pocket of 19-year-old david murphy, howard said. murphy fought back and two police officers intervened, handcuffing simmons and putting him in the back of a patrol car
after he was in the car, simmons began ``cursing and kicking,'' howard said
he said he had aids, that he was going to die and that he would take them all with him,'' howard said. ``then he threatened to bite the first officer who came near him.''
police locked simmons inside the car and summoned a tow truck, howard said
simmons was charged with one count of attempted robbery
robin hood fans have put an end to a tourism brochure that says their hero and maid marian never met, good-natured little john was a grouch, and robin may have stolen from the rich just to line to his own pockets
i would like to see the authors of this brochure locked in the dungeons of nottingham castle,'' said the sheriff of nottingham, royce young, on sunday. legend says robin hood, the medieval bandit who supposedly stole from the rich to give to the poor, repeatedly outwitted young's ancient predecessor
howls of protest from robin hood fans and deflated tourism boosters led city officials to withdraw the glossy 45-cent brochure. it had been compliled by historians and published by the city council for distribution at a tourist information center
malcolm barker of the robin hood society, who took up the cudgels on the outlaw's behalf, charged: ``the city fathers have done a disservice to their own city.''
barker said he didn't claim that the story, as perpetuated by hollywood, was true. he said he simply objected to being robbed of a legend that also brings tourist riches to nottingham
the brochure took a skeptical academic line on the outlaw who, according to legend, lived in sherwood forest with his merry band of men in the 12th century. city council spokesman tim jones said the brochure put robin hood ``in historical context.''
the brochure said robin hood, in the earliest tales, was a highwayman who robbed travelers in neighboring yorkshire. he was in business strictly for himself
the brochure also says robin's true love, maid marian, was introduced into the legend through a 13th-century french poem, and robin's rotund lieutenant, friar tuck, was probably an amalgam of two characters from different parts of england
nottingham, a city of 290,000 in northern england, can hardly be accused of neglecting the legend. its main beltway is called maid marian way, and two rival consortiums are planning robin hood exhibition centers for the city
in addition, hordes of tourists annually visit the sherwood forest center, where they see displays of medieval lifestyles and gaze at the oak tree where the merry men may or may not have relaxed after a hard day's archery
speakers were heckled with shouts of ``nazi'' and ``traitor'' and shoving matches broke out as rival factions of american jews clashed during a rally to support a peace plan for israel's occupied territories
actor richard dreyfuss was escorted from sunday's roxbury park rally by police after hecklers shouted him down as he tried to speak in favor of a peaceful solution to clashes between israelis and palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip
other speakers included feminist betty friedan, yael dayan, daughter of the late israeli gen. moshe dayan, and several rabbis
despite a number of scuffles, police said there were no injuries or arrests
i was raised in the temple and the jewish community to see the difference between right and wrong,'' dreyfuss said as he tried to address the crowd of about 400, which included many immigrants from israel
if he would spill some of his blood like me and my brothers, then he would have a right to speak out like this,'' countered bobby frankel, a veteran of the 1956 sinai campaign. ``we're against people who don't know what they're talking about.''
the rally was organized on the eve of today's visit to the united states by conservative israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir
shamir has expressed opposition to an american plan for an international conference to arrange self-rule for palestianian arabs on the west bank and gaza, then an overall settlement. israel conquered the territories during the 1967 six-day war against jordan and egypt
sunday's confrontation began as 200 or so counter-demonstrators, whose ranks included orthodox jews and militant jewish defense league leader irv rubin, circled the rally's original group, then crowded around the stage
a good jew is a jew, in my opinion, who sticks to the state of israel through thick and thin,'' rubin said. ``they (the peace plan's supporters) are tearing the jewish community apart. they're using their celebrity status to beg and plead and cajole the prime minister of israel to accept this suicide plan.''
millions of chinese peasants have hit the road in recent weeks to seek their fortunes, creating a transportation crisis along the country's railways, an official report said
armed police have been called out to maintain order at railway stations heaving under the mass of travelers while some passenger trains are carrying more than twice their capacity, china's domestic china news service said in an article appearing in hong kong on monday
some are going to the northwest for construction, some are going to the northeast's daxinganling forest for lumbering, others are going gaungdong province (in the south) to farm and still others are going to large cities as housekeepers,'' the news service said
at the beijing station, the report said, ``people can be found everywhere sleeping in the open.'' in zhengzhou, the capital of central henan province and a railroad hub, more than 10,000 people were said to be waiting at the station for tickets
the news service recounted the woeful tale of one passenger who stood for more than 30 hours on a train trip from anhui province to the far-north city of harbin. at one point he lifted his swollen foot only to find the tiny space immediately seized by a traveler squeezed next to him
nearly 4 million people ride the rails daily, the report said, without saying how much of an increase that represents
most of the travelers are peasants looking for work, the report said. the exodus from rural homes began with the arrival of warmer weather following last month's lunar new year holiday
poor peasants always have sought their fortune in big cities, but the situation has become a problem in recent years because of recent economic reforms that ease travel restrictions and permit labor markets
the railroad situation hits its most critical on the third, sixth and ninth days of each month, which are considered propitious days for travel, the news agency said
although authorities are taking several steps to ease the situation, such as increasing passenger trains, the transportation crisis is expected to continue, the report said
in an earlier report, sichuan radio said march 2 that 100,000 travelers were trying to leave chengdu, the capital of central sichuan province, every day for their hometowns, by rail
a few passengers, heedless of admonitions, have stormed their way onto the trains by breaking the windows,'' the report said. ``at the same time, trains leaving chengdu station for destinations outside sichuan are seriously overloaded to the extend that it is impossible to open the doors or supply drinking water.''
a zoo polar bear injured a man with a history of mental problems who entered its cage, and police shot the bear to death, authorities say
the 28-year-old man, whose identity was not released, was treated at a hospital for a gash on his head and was put under emergency detention by police after the sunday morning incident
police said it was unclear why the man climbed into the bear's cage, but that the man told doctors he did it to ``give his brother strength,'' and that people ``need a show of courage.'' the ``brother'' reference was unexplained
vilas zoo director david hall said the intruder had to scale a wall or climb through a moat to reach the the 7-foot-4, 900-pound bear, named chief
i'd say it's a one in a million chance that you get out of a polar bear's den alive when a polar bear is in it,'' hall said
a jogger who heard shouts flagged down a motorist, who alerted police
the jogger, robert nelson, 47, said the ``bear was standing above the person, licking him, playing around with him. the man wasn't screaming. he wasn't doing anything. i thought he was dead.''
police officer michael puls fatally wounded the bear with a 12-gauge shotgun after yelling at it and firing shots in the air in an attempt to scare it. puls said he shot the animal after it began to drag the man to its cave
hall said chief, the only polar bear at the municipal zoo, was considered one of the largest in captivity. it had been with the zoo for about 13{ years
he was a good show and everyone liked him,'' hall said. ``but you can't compare his to a human life. all of us in the zoo profession know that a human life takes precedent.''
police said the sunday incident was the third time this year that emergency detention procedures had to be used to detain the man. those procedures are used when a person is considered a danger to themselves or others. congressman</head>
a 12-year-old girl's anti-drug poster has brought her praise from first lady nancy reagan and rep. richard ray, d-ga
tomiko womack, a sixth-grader at rigdon road elementary school, got a letter from mrs. reagan on feb. 29, praising her for encouraging fellow students to ``just say no'' to drugs. she received a similar letter from ray on march 4
i was very surprised when i got the letters,'' tomiko, a straight `a' student, said. ``i feel greatly honored and will treasure them forever.''
the letters referred to a poster titled, ``how drugs affect our nation,'' which tomiko entered in the muscogee county social science fair on march 4-5. knowing that both mrs. reagan and ray were active in the fight against drugs, tomiko wrote letters inviting them to attend the fair
after she received mrs. reagan's letter, she added it to her poster, which won first place in the sociology category
i came up with the subject because drug abuse is a nationwide problem, especially for young people, and i want to do something about it,'' tomiko said
a british engineer sentenced to life imprisonment for alleged espionage left libya today for a reunion with his family after his prison term was commuted, the foreign office said
james abra, 59, was freed sunday in tripoli, the libyan capital, after serving almost two years. he was headed for malta to meet family members. it was not known when abra would return to britain
abra was arrested at tripoli airport on june 20, 1985, and accused of passing classified information to his employer, a british electronics company, plessey co. he was convicted of spying in april 1986 and sentenced to life in prison
abra's czech-born wife radislava, 58, died of a heart attack last july after a fire at their home in hitchin, 32 miles north of london
jana, the libyan news agency, has said col. moammar gadhafi has declared an amnesty for jailed foreigners. the foreign office said the italian embassy, which looks after britain's interests in libya, had submitted abra's name for consideration
britain broke diplomatic relations with libya in april 1984 after a london police woman was fatally shot during a libyan dissident demonstration. britain said she was killed by a libyan shooting at demonstrators from inside the embassy
israel and hungary opened diplomatic offices in each other's countries today, but a hungarian official said full ties await resolution of the arab-israeli conflict
hungary isn't a superpower and therefore her ability to negotiate in the dispute is modest,'' visiting hungarian foreign ministry representative jeno jyenis said on israel radio
but we support all efforts to promote a solution to the conflict,'' he said. ``the restoration of full diplomatic ties between israel and hungary depends on a resolution of the conflict between israel and the palestinians.''
the renewal of diplomatic links between the two countries comes 20 years after all soviet bloc countries except romania severed ties with israel to protest its occupation of land in the 1967 middle east war
poland became the first east bloc country to renew low-level ties with israel last october. the soviet union also re-established direct diplomatic contacts with israel and sent a consular delegation there in july
to promote the new ties between hungary and israel, an israeli interest section office was opened in the swiss consulate in budapest, and a hungarian interest section was opened in the swedish consulate in tel aviv
in 1986, trade between the two countries equaled $22 million, according to israeli figures. hungary sells israel money, jam and furniture, while israel exports light bulbs and phosphate to hungary
in addition, about 15,000 israeli tourists visited hungary last year, while about 2,000 hungarians visited israel, according to israeli figures
federico sisneros, the national park service's oldest ranger who spent his life caring for the san gregorio de abo mission, has died at age 93
sisneros died saturday of heart failure
sisneros' family owned the land on which the 17th-century spanish mission stands and donated the property to the state in the late 1930s. it was a state monument for many years and became part of salinas national monument in 1981
sisneros was the mission's caretaker while abo was a state monument and was named a ranger when it became part of the national park system
it'll always be abo on paper, but to the ones who worked with him, it'll always be `fred's place,''' said salinas chief ranger glenn fulfer. ``his father had told him to take care of the mission. it was more or less a legacy given down to fred to take care of abo.''
fulfer said sisneros worked for many years ``for hardly any wages at all.''
fred was the type of fellow that the love of the site outweighed the importance of money,'' he said
sisneros was born in 1894 in a house near the indian ruins at the abo mission. he and his wife, guadalupe, lived in a house a few yards from the ruins
sisneros was honored by the national park service in 1981 with the superior service award for making a significant contribution during most of the 20th century
he received an honor award in 1986 from the national trust for historic preservation at the group's 40th annual meeting
his story drew national attention over the years. he was interviewed by charles kuralt of cbs news and was featured in major newspapers
fulfer said sisneros had asked to be buried at the mission. the national park servce has authorized his grave to be located there. testimony</head>
one member of the senate's iran-contra committee and its chief counsel said today they doubt any ``bombshell'' implicating vice president george bush will emerge from the testimony of former national security adviser robert mcfarlane
nevertheless, sen. george mitchell, d-maine, and counsel arthur liman said they feel the arrangement was correct that led to mcfarlane's plea of guilty on friday to misdemeanor charges that he nad misled congress
mitchell and liman, interviewed on the ``cbs this morning'' program, said they expect mcfarlane's testimony will be helpful in the prosecution and indictment of others involved in sales of u.s. arms to iran and the diversion of profits to the contra rebels fighting the sandinista government in nicaragua
mcfarlane said sunday that even though he has promised to cooperate with independent counsel lawrence walsh, he is unable to provide any new information
in saying i expect to testify, it's neither for nor against really anyone,'' mcfarlane said on abc-tv's ``this week with david brinkley.'' ``it's to say what i've already said on the record and there's nothing new that i know of to change what's there. and as far as i know that's all there is.''
asked why walsh would want him, mcfarlane responded:
i suppose that he wants to hold everyone who did something wrong accountable and he's ceratainly done that with me, but it isn't a matter of being able to embellish what i've already said.'' but both men say they think indepedent counsel lawrence walsh made the right decision to allow mcfarlane to plead guilty to lesser charges than committing perjury to congress
interviewed today, liman said, ``i think that the mcfarlane plea was an obstacle to be cleared by the independent counsel and i would expect him to take other action soon.''
mitchell, although saying he agreed that mcfarlane's testimony is not likely to produce new information, said that ``his testimony will be useful, i believe, according to the special prosecdutor, in testifying in any future trials that may occur
i think judge walsh really was not seeking so much his cooperation as the principle that there was no justification for lying to or misleading congress in the iran-contra affair,'' added liman
mcfarlane pleaded guilty to the four counts by falsely assuring lawmakers that members of his staff, specifically lt. col. oliver l. north, had not been involved in private efforts to arm the nicarguan rebels during a statutory ban on direct u.s. aid to the contras
each of the four counts carries a maximum penalty of one year in prison and a $1,000 fine
as part of the plea agreement, mcfarlane agreed to cooperate with walsh's inquiry into the secret sale of u.s. arms to iran and the diversion of profits to the contras
mcfarlane, who resigned as president reagan's national security adviser in december 1985, traveled to tehran in may 1986 with north on a mission to deliver spare missile parts and persuade iranian officials to help obtain the release of u.s. hostages in lebanon
the grand jury that walsh impaneled 14 months ago is preparing to return indictments in the next several weeks
south african military forces will not leave angola unless cuban troops also depart, according to a report in today's washington times
the south african forces will remain in angola until the 40,000-member cuban force departs, south african president p. w. botha said in an interview with arnaud de borchgrave, times editor
in the past, south africa has said its forces were operating in angola in order to keep guerrillas out of namibia, a south african controlled area adjacent to angola, the article noted
angolan officials, meanwhile, have reportedly given the united states a timetable for withdrawl of the cuban troops, but made that pullout conditional on departure of the south africans
botha told de borchgrave that he has reasons to believe that the soviet union is ready to cut its losses in africa and is pressuring cuba to withdraw its forces
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev believes his predecessors miscalculated the chances for revolution in africa, botha said. now, he said, the soviets are anxious to cut down on the high cost of arming and propping up poor nations
botha said that he doesn't think the soviet union wants to ``ditch'' angola, but rather is ``shopping for a compromise.''
if he is a wise man, botha said of gorbachev, he will take this opportunity to get out of southern africa
of the united states, meanwhile, botha said the u.s. seems to be playing domestic politics with the economic sanctions it has imposed on his country
the sanctions have thrown thousands of blacks out of work, while forcing his country to become more self-reliant, botha said. he said the end result is merely for the united states to lose what influence it has in his country
a 7-year-old canadian girl who shares a birthday with ronald reagan has learned from the u.s. president that several other important people in history also were born in february
it was wonderful to learn that you and i share a mutual birthday,'' reads a typewritten letter signed by reagan to kaliopi triantafyllakis
february is also the month in which george washington and abraham lincoln were born. i hope you make it a part of your birthday to learn more about these two great presidents who played such important roles in shaping our nation,'' the letter said
the letter was in response to a birthday card the elementary school student sent reagan, who was 77 on feb. 6
the white house response received friday also included a glossy photo of reagan and wife nancy, and a 32-page booklet about the reagan years in the white house
kaliopi said she first heard a couple of years ago that she and reagan, who was born in 1911 in tampico, ill., shared the same birthday
actually, i think it was very nice of him to take the time to write her a letter,'' said kaliopi's mother, kathy
oh mom,'' injected the youngster, ``he didn't write it, his secretary did.'' seven arabs. changes byline.</note>
the army said soldiers shot and wounded seven arabs in a clash today, and arab residents said troops closed one of the west bank's largest food markets as israel stepped up economic sanctions against the occupied territories
arab reports said 150 arab policemen in gaza announced their intention to quit, joining hundreds of officers who have turned in their badges in the west bank. israeli authorities acknowledged some resignations but gave no number
the resignations followed the slaying of a jericho policeman who was accused of collaborating with the israelis. undergound plo leaflets have demanded arabs stop working for israeli occupation authorities
scores of tax collectors resigned earlier
an army spokeswoman said a violent demonstration took place in yamoun, six miles northwest of jenin. she said soldiers fired at the legs of demonstrators because the troops believed their lives were in danger. seven arabs were wounded and the village was placed under curfew, she said
the palestine press service reported 12 arabs were shot in clashes with soldiers, 10 in yamoun and two others in jenin. hospital officials declined comment, citing a newly enforced army ban on speaking to reporters
the united nations says at least 91 palestinians have been killed since anti-israeli rioting began dec. 8 in the occupied territories
in apparent response to the resignation campaign, israel continued its economic sanctions, including a ban on the shipment of gasoline and other fuel to service stations in the west bank
uri hakak of the israeli-owned padesco co., which supplies fuel to 50 west bank gas stations, said drivers were afraid to make deliveries after two tank trucks had been attacked and burned
a truck carrying 20,000 liters (5,000 gallons) of oil is like a napalm bomb. the drivers are afraid to travel,'' he said
soldiers closed the regional fruit and vegetable market in jericho, 22 miles northeast of jerusalem. arab merchants said 70 trucks carrying tomatoes, peppers, cauliflower, lemons, oranges and apples were turned away
we started to sell about 8 a.m. when the soldiers came and forced us to close,'' said one merchant, who was sitting next to crates of fruit covered with tarpaulins and carpets
the merchant said arab farmers drove to other areas of town and tried to set up informal markets. but he said soldiers chased them away
saeb erakat, a najah university political science professor who lives in jericho, said israeli authorities wanted to break the back of the palestinian strike with economic pressure
the military government is trying to tell the people who is boss. they want to hurt the people economically. jericho is an agricultural city. to order the market closed in the morning amounts to killing it economically,'' said erakat
a senior official in the army-run territorial government said there had been a ``shift in focus'' from the disturbances in the streets to civil disobedience
in this context, maybe we are going to take some steps (in response) to the economic steps they take,'' added the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
a dozen heads of arab chambers of commerce from throughout the occupied territories met in jerusalem. they called for a halt to ``all methods of collective punishment and the withdrawal of the israeli army from the cities and population centers.''
they also demanded an end to ``attacks on shopowners and their shops.''
an arab chamber of commerce official who insisted on anonymity said the ban on fuels means palestinianss will have difficulty restocking their heating tanks, that bakeries will have trouble baking bread and that farmers will not have fuel for the irrigation pumps
prime minister yitzhak shamir, meanwhile, arrived in washington for an eight-day visit and said he is ``always open to new and constructive proposals,'' to bring peace to the middle east
shamir, who opposes a u.s. peace plan for the region, said he will give the reagan administration a qualified reply to the american proposal to hold peace talks by may 1
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir said today he is ``always open to new and constructive proposals'' to bring peace to the middle east, but urged the united states to base negotiations on the 1978 camp david agreements
shamir, arriving on an overnight flight from tel aviv, indicated in his statement at andrews air force base that he will give the reagan administration a qualified reply to the u.s. proposal to hold peace talks by may 1
secretary of state george p. shultz escorted shamir to his hotel in downtown washington and talked with him for a half-hour over coffee. defense secretary frank c. carlucci is making a similar courtesy call later in the day
in his arrival statement, shamir appealed for understanding. ``in our search for peace,'' he said, ``the united states has always been helpful, open and indispensable.''
he said ``violence, terrorism and war are endemic'' in the middle east and the area ``is littered with broken agreements.''
shamir said the camp david agreement, which led to a peace treaty between egypt and israel in 1979 but failed to resolve the palestinian issue, ``should serve as our guide'' in the current search for a negotiating formula
he said if past accords were ignored ``future agreements will be meaningless.'' the camp david agreement called for self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the israeli-held west bank and in jordan. jordan and the palestinians did not participate in the talks, which ended in failure in 1981
under that agreement, a temporary arrangement would last five years, setting the stage for negotiations on an overall arab-israeli settlement in which all options, including statehood, would be open
shultz has proposed a three-year interim arrangement, with the final negotiations to begin by the end of this year
we are always open to new and constructive proposdals, with our positive reaction to your useful ideas,'' shamir told his american hosts
the israeli leader made no mention of the international peace conference shultz also proposed. his statement suggested he will attempt, during four days of talks here, to persuade shultz to make some changes in the proposal shultz also has presented to jordan
the u.s. position is that israel should relinquish at least some of the land it captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 six-day war in exchange for arab recognition
shamir is committed to palestinian autonomy under the 1978 camp david agreement signed by the united states, egypt and israel, but he is reluctant to cede the lands on which 1.5 million palestinian arabs live under israeli control
before leaving for the united states, shamir said sunday that he would not call for a government vote until after his trip
after i come back with a summation of my talks with representatives of the american government, the cabinet will meet immediately and i think we'll have a decision on this subject,'' shamir said on israeli radio. ``it's a matter of about a week.''
shultz urged shamir last week to consider the ``ticking demographic time bomb'' of the rapidly growing palestinian population. at a congressional hearing, shultz suggested israel had much to gain by territorial compromise
he did not say who would take over the land _ the palestinians or jordan, which occupied the west bank from 1950 to 1967. egypt held gaza during the same period
the palestine liberation organization, designated by the arab countries as the palestinians' sole legitimate representative, has vowed to dismantle israel as a jewish state
shultz and defense secretary frank c. carlucci planned separate courtesy calls today on shamir after his overnight flight from israel. the tough bargaining begins tuesday with shultz and continues wednesday with president reagan at the white house
the trip was planned before palestinians on the west bank and in gaza began staging protest demonstrations. as of sunday, 91 had been killed in three months of bloody clashes with israeli forces
shamir wrote shultz in january offering to grant palestinians living in the territories self-rule on all matters except security and foreign affairs. in a letter last week to critical u.s. senators, shamir reaffirmed his commitment to the camp david formula
it provides for negotiations on an overall settlement after five years of palestinian autonomy. all options, including statehood, would be open
we have sought peace relentlessly, but our arab neighbors, except egypt, still have to prove in deeds that they are willing to negotiate peace with us,'' shamir said
shultz proposed his plan for negotiations to shamir and israeli foreign minister shimon peres, to king hussein of jordan, and to presidents hafez assad of syria and hosni mubarak of egypt. so far, none of the governments has responded formally
however, shamir was quoted last week as saying the u.s. proposal was ``fraught with danger'' and incapable of bring peace to the region
the only word i agree with in the u.s. plan is the name shultz,'' shamir said, according to an account friday in the israeli daily newspaper haaretz
shultz has requested a decision by all sides by about mid-march. his ``deadline'' coincided with shamir's visit
israelis supporting and opposing the u.s. plan staged separate demonstrations over the weekend, with an estimated 40,000 turning out to back the american proposal and some 200,000 demonstrating against it
a shelby county judge today ruled that secretary of state evan bayh meets the constitutional five-year residency requirement to be governor
in a 10-page ruling, shelby circuit judge charles d. o'connor concluded the democratic gubernatorial candidate didn't lose his indiana residency when he worked as an attorney in washington, d.c., in 1983 and 1984
republicans had argued that bayh, who leads public opinion polls in the governor's race, lost his indiana residency when he moved to the district of columbia to work for the law firm of hogan and hartson
but o'connor concluded that bayh always intended to return to his home state and never established formal residence elsewhere
personal presence (away) from one's place of domicile is insufficient to change one's domicile,'' o'connor wrote. ``one must move to another place with the intent to make it his home and without the intention of returning to his home as such.''
the judge's decision came after a one-day trial friday on bayh's lawsuit seeking a declaratory judgment that he meets the constitutional requirement to be governor
bayh filed the suit in february after republican gov. robert d. orr instructed the gop-controlled state election board to investigate bayh's eligibility
the election board last week delayed its probe to allow the court to rule. the election board and orr already have called for any lower court decision to be appealed to the state supreme court
o'connor concluded that bayh repeatedly expressed his intent to return to his home state and considered his stint in washington as only a brief episode of professional development
o'connor noted that bayh, the son of former sen. birch e. bayh, voted regularly in indiana and kept his ties to the state democratic organization
bayh, 32, faces opposition from former kokomo mayor stephen j. daily in the may 3 democratic primary
lt. gov. john m. mutz is unopposed for the republican nomination to succeed orr, who is barred by the constitution from seeking a third straight term. bgng ``but a chicago...</note>
democratic presidential hopeful michael dukakis said today the days of brokered conventions ``are gone forever'' as he made his final plea to illinois voters to abandon favorite son paul simon and vote for him
the politics of smoke-filled rooms and selected leaders deciding who our nominee is going to be went out years ago,'' dukakis said on a final day of campaigning before tuesday's illinois primary
the massachusetts governor did not mention simon by name, but his reference was unmistakable. simon, short on cash and far behind in the chase for delegates to the democratic national convention, says he is running in his home state to play a role at a brokered convention in atlanta
dukakis declined to answer directly when a reporter asked him at an early-morning news conference whether a vote for simon was a vote for a brokered convention. he replied by saying he hoped the voters would pick the candidate they believed would make the best democratic nominee
he also said he couldn't think of ``anything worse for our party than to go through weeks and weeks'' after the end of the primary season ``with speculation as to who's dealing with whom, who's negotiating with whom.''
dukakis told reporters he believes he has made ``significant gains'' in recent days in illinois. public opinion polls indicate that simon's support has begun to slip with another favorite son, jesse jackson, challenging him for the lead and with dukakis gaining support as well
dukakis' aides, speaking privately, say they would be pleased if jackson edged out simon for a popular-vote victory, hoping that would persuade the senator to quit his campaign
in the separate election for 187 delegates, dukakis' aides concede he is unlikely to win more than a handful in illinois, if that
dukakis made his comments at a news conference on a cold and windy elevated commuter railroad station. the governor, who prides himself on riding the subway to his statehouse office in boston, greeted commuters and chatted with railroad employees during a 20-minute train ride
dukakis made these same arguments on sunday
this nomination is not going to be decided by six guys sitting in a back room in atlanta,'' he said as he polished off a day of ethnic campaigning at a fund-raiser in a greek restaurant
his comments were a variation on his made-for-illinois television ad which lashes out against a brokered convention
the ad doesn't mention paul simon by name but the reference is clear, since the illinois senator skipped the 21 super tuesday contests last week and says he is remaining in the race so he can participate in a brokered convention
the massachusetts governor set out on his illinois stretch run as polls offered conflicting evidence on the race. an abc news-washington post poll published today in the newspaper gave simon the lead with 39 percent support, jackson 34 percent, dukakis 17 percent
but a chicago tribune poll for publication today gave jackson 32 percent support compared with 29 percent for simon and 20 percent for dukakis. those results suggested that simon's support has begun to slip and jackson and dukakis have begun to edge up
dukakis is the leader in delegates in the democratic nomination race. his strategy in illinois has been to suggest that he has the best chance to win the nomination and a vote for the favorite sons would lead to a brokered convention this summer
some people would like to turn back the clock, to go back to the days when the voters didn't really pick their nominee,'' says the announcer in dukakis' television commercial. ``they say you must turn over that power to them at a brokered convention.''
the continental express plane that crashed near durango on jan. 19, killing nine, was flying a time-saving airport approach over rough terrain that only can be used with federal permission, a safety board official said
the flight pattern is one of many possible causes being considered for the crash, said alan pollock, a national transportation safety board spokesman
we've already looked at the approach,'' pollock said. ``we've ruled nothing out. it's one of the many pieces of the jigsaw puzzle.''
the special approach procedure took the aircraft toward the airport from the northeast, rather than from the southwest as other airlines approach, pollock said
la plata county airport manager ron dent said the approach takes the plane over slightly rougher terrain but saves about 15 to 20 minutes per flight
in this case, their legs from denver to durango would be reduced 30 to 40 miles, saving them quite a bit of flight time, fuel, etc.,'' faa representative david laschinger said in a copyright story broadcast sunday by kmgh-tv
dent said the northeast approach is not published in flight manuals and it is illegal for pilots to use the pattern without federal aviation administration approval
kmgh-tv reporter dave minshall said trans-colorado has had permission to use the special approach at durango for a couple of years. he said representatives of trans-colorado and continental airlines declined to comment about the report
soon after the crash, braniff and american west airlines applied for and received permission to fly the landing approach used by continental express, dent said
pollock said investigators plan to compare that landing pattern with the southwest approach. ``we'll be asking how this pattern differs from the other, if there's anything in this approach that could be a problem and how long trans-colorado has been flying it,'' he said
trans-colorado leases planes and crews to rocky mountain airways, a continental airlines subsidiary that operates in colorado as continental express
continental express flight 2286, carrying 17 people, had been given clearance to land at the durango-la plata county airport when it crashed 10 miles east of durango
the pilot, co-pilot and seven passengers died. many of the eight passengers who survived waded through waist-deep snow to get help
the ntsb released a toxicology report friday showing that pilot steven s. silver had a small amount of cocaine in his bloodstream and urine when he died in the crash
dr. merrit birky, an ntsb chemist at washington, d.c., said it would be inappropriate for him to comment on the significance of the finding. says</head>
iran has been forced to sharply increase imports of refined petroleum products because iraqi air raids have badly damaged some of its refineries, the middle east economic survey reported today
the attacks also have forced iran to ration gasoline for the first time
the weekly oil industry newsletter said west germany's laripax company chartered the 284,298-ton liberian supertanker patria to carry 1.8 million barrels of gas oil to the iranian port of bandar abbas from rotterdam
it said two shipments totalling 900,000 barrels of gas oil were delivered to iran earlier this month. gas oil, a refined fuel heavier than kerosene, is often used as a diesel fuel
iran, a major oil producer, has been importing around 300,000 barrels a day of refined products for 18 months because iraqi air strikes have reduced its refining capacity
the newsletter said that a big refinery on tehran's southern outskirts was badly damaged in an iraqi air raid feb. 27 and its output of 220,000 barrels a day curtailed
that attack triggered a renewed ``war of the cities'' between the two countries, at war for 7{ years, with both sides lobbing long-range missiles into each other capitals
the survey said another refinery in the northwestern city of tabriz was only working at around half its normal capacity of 80,000 barrels a day
iran's refining capacity of around 1.3 million barrels a day is believed to have been slashed by as much as 66 percent since the war began
the iraqi air force has been concentrating on hitting iranian oil industry targets, the mainstay of its economy, since 1984
the newsletter estimated that despite these attacks, iran is producing around 1.9 million barrels a day and exporting around 1.5 million barrels a day through the persian gulf
industry sources said the iranians are driving to expand their refining capacity. the isfahan plant has been upgraded to a capacity of 280,000 barrels a day
the iranians also are moving ahead with plans to build new plants at arak in western iran and bandar abbas on the gulf coast. they would have a combined capacity of more than 250,000 barrels a day that would restore iran's refining self-sufficiency
iran's domestic consumption is estimated at around 700,000 barrels a day. falters</head> updated abc-post poll figures, picking up in 7th graf pvs, barring a; cuts last 3 grafs</note>
paul simon, about even with jesse jackson in new illinois polls, said today ``i have to win and i will win'' in tuesday's home-state primary. the republican contest was looking like another george bush runaway
one poll out today said jackson was pulling ahead of simon in the battle of illinois favorite sons, while another showed simon maintaining his advantage. but the percentages separating them were within the polls' potential margins of sampling error
both showed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in third place, trying to cut into the home state support of his two democratic rivals and claim some of the state's 187 democratic delegates
a poll published today in the chicago tribune said 32 percent of likely democratic voters supported jackson, 29 percent backed simon and 20 percent said they would vote for dukakis. rep. richard gephardt of missouri was the choice of 5 percent and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had the backing of 4 percent
the poll, conducted by peter hart research associates, interviewed 500 likely voters on friday and saturday and had a margin of error of 5 percentage points
an abc news-washington post poll, conducted saturday and sunday and published today in the newspaper, gave simon the lead with 39 percent support to jackson's 34 percent among very likely democratic voters. dukakis had 17 percent with gore and gephardt far behind. the potential sampling error was plus or minus 6 percentage points
simon, who is counting heavily on a victory on tuesday, said as he campaigned at a commuter-train stop today that he had to win. ``a strong second isn't very strong,'' he said
dukakis, also campaigning in chicago, said today that the days of brokered conventions ``are gone forever.'' he was making his final plea to illinois voters to abandon simon and support his own presidential bid
gore greeted workers during a shift change at a factory in rockford, ill., and said, ``i think we're going to do better than people expect here.''
barring a major upset, bush was expected to pick up the lion's share of the 92 gop delegates at stake on tuesday and deliver another blow to senate minority leader bob dole's fading candidacy. the tribune poll showed bush the choice of 62 percent of gop voters, compared to just 28 percent for dole
as it became more apparent that the vice president was locking up his party's presidential nomination, he became the target of more criticism from republican and democratic rivals
he certainly has a lot of baggage,'' jackson said of bush
i'd like george bush to tell us whether (panamanian gen. manuel) noriega was on his payroll when he was cia director,'' said dole
in a speech at northwestern university law school, gore focused on the iran-contra affair and said, ``we still don't know what george bush's role was.''
presidential politicking was picking up in two other states
gephardt was holding a rally in flint, mich., which holds democratic caucuses on march 26 to choose 138 convention delegates. the missouri congressman, jackson and dukakis all were in the state over the weekend
dukakis was joined in detroit by mayor coleman young who said: ``i am not endorsing anybody but i intend to vote for governor dukakis.'' young was one of the few black elected officials not allied with jackson
in north dakota, democrats began a two-week process of selecting delegates to a state convention in april at which national convention delegates will be allocated
jackson was the big winner saturday in south carolina's democratic caucuses. he received 54 percent of the vote and 23 delegates. gore got 18 percent of the vote and six delegates, while 15 others will be uncommitted
dukakis with 460 and jackson with 423 are the leaders in the democratic delegate race, according to the associated press tally
simon said he was being hurt by the lack of money to buy television time
obviously, not to have paid media hampers me in illinois,'' simon said as he campaigned in the city's chinatown neighborhood. ``but the only way i could have paid media would be to use up the resources and obligate the matching funds that are coming.''
simon insists that no democrat will have the nomination in hand when the party convention convenes in atlanta in july and that he will have as good a chance as anyone to come out a winner at a brokered convention
i think the notion of a brokered convention would be an absolute disaster,'' said dukakis, during a campaign stop in a hispanic neighborhood in chicago
i can't imagine anything worse _ the idea of taking the right of the people to elect their president with their votes and putting it in some back rooms in atlanta,'' he said
simon fired back that dukakis was showing ``a touch of arrogance.''
he said, ``mike has been wrong on other things and he's certainly wrong on that.''
dole was interviewed on the cbs show, ``face the nation,'' and said that regardless of the outcome in illinois he would continue his campaign
sooner or later, the voters in one of these states are going to say, wait a minute, we're about to nominate a candidate who can't win in november,'' he said. ``again.''</note>
i. king jordan said today his appointment as the first hearing-impaired president of gallaudet university, the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf, is a victory for students and the deaf community across the country
what it means to the students, it means to the deaf community at large and that's _ it opens up new horizons for deaf people,'' jordan said on abc-tv's ``good morning america.''
jordan, dean of the school's college of arts and sciences, was selected by gallaudet trustees on sunday after what began as an isolated campus protest last week turned into an international forum on deaf rights
students had sought a deaf leader to serve as the school's eighth president, but last week the board of trustees selected elisabeth ann zinser, a hearing woman who did not know sign language
a week of protests shut down the campus as students called for the appointment of a deaf president and the resignation of board of trustees chairwoman jane bassett spilman, who had come under fire for her handling of the crisis. sunday night, seven days after their protest began, the students were victorious on both counts
officials announced the appointment of jordan, 44, to replace zinser, who resigned friday, and the resignation of spilman, who also hears normally and
had chaired the board for six years
she will be replaced by philip w. bravin, one of four deaf members of the board
i took this step willingly,'' spilman said. ``in the minds of some, i've become an obstacle to the future of the university. i am removing that obstacle.''
jordan, who had endorsed zinser's presidency at mid-week but later retracted his backing, today praised the students' efforts
i think that they really honestly believe that they were motivated in a positive way to do positive things, and the outcome has been very positive,'' said the new president. ``it's our responsibility now as administrators, me and phil bravin, to make sure we channel that energy in a positive way.''
jordan, who also appeared on ``cbs this morning,'' said the students realize ``this was something very special. there's not going to be an opportunity for this kind of movement again.''
the battle cry was, `deaf president now;' it has become, `deaf president forever,''' he said
student protest leader jerry covell said sunday that the demonstrators' actions mark ``the first time we've ever shown the world what we want, and that we can get it.''
god made the world in seven days and we have changed it in seven days,'' said charles a. giansanti, a deaf chemistry professor, after the decision was announced
bravin said the board would form a task force to study its own composition in reponse to student demands that deaf people comprise a majority of the 20-member panel. there also will be no reprisals against student protesters, bravin said
gallaudet, which offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in 30 fields, receives 75 percent of its $76 million budget in federal funds. a house education and labor subcommittee plans to conduct hearings tuesday into the school's bylaws governing presidential selection and composition of the board
zinser resigned two days after rep. david bonior., d-mich. and a member of the university's board, hinted that the federal aid could be in jeopardy unless a deaf president were named
deaf groups and schools around the country had supported the students' demands, as had a majority of the gallaudet faculty
jordan, 44, was a finalist for the position when zinser was selected last sunday. before becoming dean in 1986 of gallaudet's largest undergraduate department, jordan served as a psychology professor at the school
after students learned of jordan's appointment, they attempted to put into perspective a struggle that had captured worldwide attention
this is not the end; this is the beginning,'' said bridgetta bourne, a protest leader
this is where we start from now. we have gained this, and we will never have deafness work against us again,'' she said
the only u.s. manufacturer of injectable polio vaccine has stopped shipping the drug to california physicians after learning it was being used as an experimental aids treatment
connaught laboratories' vice president david j. williams said the company would like to cooperate in such a treatment but is prohibited by the u.s. food and drug administration from supplying physicians with the vaccine for anything other than its intended use _ to prevent polio
some doctors in california have been working with aids patients, using our injectable polio product,'' williams said. ``as soon as it came to our attention, we were required to contact the fda to determine if they had all the approvals.''
he said the physicians did not have the required approvals, so connaught halted the shipments
a spokeswoman for the fda said an ``investigational new drug application'' should be submitted to the fda and studied to be sure experiments are conducted properly and that dosages would not adversely affect patients
the risks have to be weighed versus the benefits,'' she said
the old injectable salk vaccine is no longer the preferred polio vaccine in the united states, having been replaced by an oral vaccine. it has shown promise for aids patients, relieving some cancer lesions, herpes infections, swollen lymph nodes and fatigue, a california researcher reported
the old, killed-virus vaccine can only be supplied by connaught
dr. allen allen, a california researcher and co-developer of the experimental treatment, said physicians wonder what will happen now to patients who have shown improvement after receiving the injections for as long as two years
patients with cancers are getting better and doctors can no longer give them treatment. most are close to running out,'' he said friday, adding that the physicians planned to meet to form a plan of action
allen said studies on more than 50 patients have shown the vaccine ``produces clinical benefits after six weeks.''
allen said that it's up to connaught, not the doctors, to submit the necessary applications to the fda, and alleged that the pennsylvania lab has financial reasons for not releasing its vaccine
what they want to provide is a new vaccine which they have a patent for, opposed to the old salk vaccine which is in the publc domain,'' he said
williams said the company did receive a patent in november for an improved injectable polio vaccine for global use, but he insisted connaught is not pushing one over the other for experiments on aids patients
we started working on the new vaccine in 1979-80, probably before aids was a household word,`` he said. 5th graf pvs, gore's campaign</note>
sen. albert gore jr. portrayed himself today as a needed alternative to the three democratic candidates leading him in polls one day before the illinois democratic primary
gore greeted workers during a shift change at a factory in rockford, ill., and said, ``i'm very encouraged'' about tuesday's primary, although he and his aides acknowledged on sunday that he was far behind
i think there are an awful lot of voters here in illinois who want an alternative to the kind of approach offered by michael dukakis and paul simon and jesse jackson. i offer a different kind of approach,'' gore said today
gore on sunday had turned his focus to republican george bush and said the vice president's response to the iran-contra affair amounted to: ``gee whiz, that's great, let's go ahead.''
the tennesseean resumed his illinois campaign after a weekend break, returning to a state where polls show him stuck in single digits far behind favorite sons simon and jackson, and also trailing rival michael dukakis
gore's campaign bought what deputy campaign manager larry harrington called ``a decent or modest amount'' of television airtime in illinois. it was thought to be in the range of $200,000 to $300,000 over the past week. but harrington downplayed expectations, saying gore's only aim was to be ``in the fray'' in illinois
we never put any serious organizational effort into illinois,'' harrington said. he cited jackson's and simon's strength and the timing a week after last week's super tuesday round of primaries that catapulted gore to the top tier of democratic presidential contenders
gore delivered a forceful attack on the vice president and the reagan administration for the iran-contra affair in a long question-and-answer session with students at northwestern university law school
he pointed to the guilty plea by former white house national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane to misdemeanor charges relating to iran-contra as confirming ``the reagan-bush administration violated the law in a brazen way.''
we still don't know what george bush's role was,'' gore said
gore said the administration's sale of arms to iran in a bid to free hostages would have been ``hooted'' down as ``nuts'' if congress was consulted. ``we didn't have that opportunity, but george bush had that opportunity,'' he said
he evidently said, `yeah, gee whiz, that's great, let's go ahead,''' gore said
gore voiced sympathy for simon, the illinois senator whose white house bid is on the ropes in illinois, for a television ad being aired by dukakis. it says a vote for simon is in effect a vote for a confused race and perhaps a brokered convention
gov. dukakis's commercial tries to lump him in with back-room politics of a kind paul simon has not been associated with,'' gore said at a news conference
gore continued to depict himself as a more electable alternative to dukakis and his other rivals but did not dwell on them in a series of speeches in the chicago area. but asked about dukakis by the law students, gore said he would respond ``with relish.''
he repeated his contention that dukakis lacks necessary foreign policy experience and said dukakis has wrongly stated that there is no ``underclass'' in america _ the tennessee senator asserting that children trapped in a cycle of poverty do make up such an underclass. and he faulted dukakis for shortcomings as a campaigner
i think he's not yet found his voice to articulate his message beyond the `massachusetts miracle,''' gore said, referring to dukakis' claim that he helped turn around his state's economy
i don't think he has succeeded in offering a clear vision of what he would do as president,'' gore said
gore said his decision to spend friday night through sunday morning in washington did not reflect an abandonment of his hopes for illinois. he said he spent much of the time raising money by telephone, and said his fund-raisers have collected as much as $150,000 a day since last tuesday
but acknowledging the polls in illinois, gore said: ``there are two favorite sons here; i understand that.''
thousands of nurses at hospitals across britain held strikes, rallies and marches today in a last-minute attempt to get the conservative government to allocate more money to the national health service
bus services were halted or slowed on dozens of routes as crews at some some london transport centers walked out in sympathy, said london regional transport spokesman graham white
in london, where about 500 nurses mounted picket lines at 15 hospitals, nurses delivered a cake with a message to chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, who will unveil the budget in parliament on tuesday
we hope we will get a bigger slice of the budget,'' said 19-year-old student nurse sue hogg
prime minister margaret thatcher's government, expected to make substantial tax cuts, has ruled out a big increase in the service's $41 billion budget
mrs. thatcher has ordered a review of the service and plans to encourage more britons to take out private health insurance
outside the capital, strikes were ``fairly limited,'' according to the confederation of health service employees, one of two health unions sponsoring the protest
the third major union, the royal college of nurses, has a no-strike code of principle
overall, 515,000 nurses work in britain
in northern ireland, a british province, 10,000 nurses took part in protest marches. in wales, nurses presented a 60,000-signature petition to the health department
outside london, strikes were reported at two hospitals in manchester and one in cheshire, in yorkshire and wakefield, and at st. james general hospital and other hospitals in leeds
pickets or marches were held in brighton, bristol, nottingham, leicester, coventry, birmingham, and coventry
business inventories rose 0.4 percent in january, less than half the pace turned in during the previous month, the government reported today
the commerce department said the gain in inventories pushed them up by $3 billion in january to a seasonally adjusted $705.85 billion
the inventory increase came as total business sales were falling 0.7 percent to a seasonally adjusted $462.78 billion in january, reversing much of the big 1.2 percent december increase in sales
the january gain in inventories held on shelves and backlots followed an even larger 0.9 percent increase in december. the janaury rise was held back by a 1 percent decline in inventories held by retailers
this decrease reflected primarily a 3.3 percent drop in the backlog of unsold cars as dealers offered new incentive programs to spur lagging sales
analysts had worried that a huge rise in unsold inventories during the final three months of the year would force production cutbacks and weak economic growth in the early part of 1988
but economists have recently modified their views somewhat, contending that the slowdown in growth in the early part of this year will not be as severe as they had feared
the 1 percent decline in inventories held at the retail level was accompanied by an increase of 1.6 percent in inventories at the wholesale level and a 0.8 percent rise in manufacturing inventories
the 0.7 percent overall sales decline was led by a 1.7 percent drop in sales by manufacturers and a 0.2 percent decline in sales at the retail level. sales at the wholesale level rose 0.4 percent in january
in an advance report on friday, the government said that retail sales in february had risen by 0.6 percent
the combination of falling sales and rising inventories pushed the inventory-to-sales ratio up from 1.51 in december to 1.53 in january. that means it would take 1.53 months to exhaust inventories at the january sales pace, still a ratio that is not considered abnormally high
company documents reveal that g.d. searle &amp; co. misled doctors and federal officials about safety characteristics of its copper-7 contraceptive device, according to lawyers for the plaintiff in a lawsuit
according to documents released last week by a federal court, searle apparently hid complaints about the copper-7 from the food and drug administration, lawyers said
eventually, an fda task force recommended that a federal grand jury investigate whether any laws were broken by searle's allegedly misleading reports on animal studies for a number of products, including the copper-7. no charges were filed
paul strain, an attorney for searle, said testimony and documents not yet made public will show the company did not mislead anyone
the copper-7 was a popular intrauterine device from 1974 to 1988, when searle withdrew it from the market citing the costs of lawsuits claiming it caused health problems. many american women continue to use copper-7 iuds and searle recently resumed manufacturing the device in order to fill foreign orders
the searle documents, produced for a may 16 trial in st. paul, became public last thursday on order of u.s. district judge robert renner. the judge rejected searle's arguments that the internal company memorandums be kept confidential because of trade secrets and other reasons
these documents can be characterized as the tip of the iceberg,'' said michael ciresi, a minneapolis attorney who represents esther kociemba, a melrose woman who claims to have been made infertile by the copper-7
once all the documents are disclosed (to the public), they will collectively establish without a doubt that the copper-7 causes (infection) and searle knew about it, but did not disclose it to doctors or to women,'' coresi said
nationally, there have been 17 trials over searle's copper-7, 14 of them decided in the company's favor
kociemba's case ``will be the first case tried against searle where the jury will be presented with evidence from searle's files showing what searle knew about the hazards of the iud, when they knew about them and what they did about them _ which was to conceal the information,'' ciresi said
strain said, ``we are confident when a jury hears all the evidence, reviews all the documents and, most importantly, hears from the doctors that they will conclude the copper-7 is a good iud that does not cause infection.''
a major issue will be whether copper-7's withdrawal ``tail'' string was a single strand of polypropylene incapable of transporting infection-causing bacteria into the uterus, as searle contends, or if it was made up of many tiny strands that could act as a tunnel for bacteria, as ciresi contends
one of the searle documents quotes a company official saying for the first time that, although the copper-7 string is considered a single line, it actually is a ``bundle of fused micro-filaments.''
a federal judge today denied for a second time lynette ``squeaky'' fromme's request for a no-contest plea to an escape charge and began calling a jury to hear the case against the manson disciple and would-be presidential assassin
fromme, who said she intends to act as her own lawyer, said she wanted to ``disperse with this case as simply as possible.''
fromme, 39, is serving a life sentence for a 1975 assassination attempt on then-president gerald ford. she escaped dec. 23 from the federal correctional institution at alderson and was recaptured about two miles away on christmas day after a massive manhunt
i admit committing the escape,'' she said. ``i was away for two days.''
fromme told u.s. district judge elizabeth hallanan that the case ``doesn't warrant a jury trial'' and professed herself ``willing to accept whatever sentence you hand down to me.''
but fromme failed today to ask for ``bench trial,'' which would have left the decision in the judge's hands without calling a jury
court officials said 50 potential jurors had been called to be questioned by fromme and assistant u.s. attorney j. kirk brandfess
fromme is a follower of charles manson, a mass murderer serving a life sentence in california
ford was unharmed when a secret service agent grabbed a semi-automatic .45-caliber pistol aimed at him by fromme on sept. 5, 1975
in san francisco 17 days later, ford escaped injury when sara jane moore fired a revolver at him. she eventually pleaded guilty and received a life sentence
in 1979, moore also escaped from the alderson prison, but was recaptured hours later about 25 miles away. she is now in a federal prison in pleasanton, calif. disease</head>
scientists at yale university are planning to transplant brain cells from aborted fetuses into patients with parkinson's disease in an effort to find a treatment for the crippling disease
doctors in mexico and sweden recently performed similar tests but physicians say it is too early to tell if they succeeded in reducing or eliminating the effects of the disease. the procedure has not been attempted in the united states
yale researchers say they are ready to try the procedure on humans after having tested it on monkeys
based upon the technical problems and what we have to do, i think there is a good chance we will be ready to do a human sometime within the year,'' said dr. d. eugene redmond jr., professor of psychiatry at yale and director of the neurobehavior laboratory at yale's school of medicine
redmond said in a recent interview the use of fetal tissue raises many ethical questions
those questions include how tissue should be obtained from aborted fetuses without violating the sanctity of human life, whether the method of abortion should be altered to preserve the tissue and if the technology could foster a new industry geared to the production of human cells for transplant
also at issue is how to obtain permission for transplant from a woman who aborts her fetus, or whether it is needed at all
abortion is a tragedy,'' redmond said. ``but as long as it occurs, i believe it is immoral to let tissue and materials go to waste if it can cure people who are suffering and dying.''
arthur caplan, director of the center for biomedical ethics at the university of minnesota, said only a few major medical centers should conduct brain-cell transplants
brain transplants is an environment in which charlatans, quacks and ripoff artists can flourish,'' caplan said
in his experiments, redmond and his associates have reversed disease-like symptoms in monkeys through grafting of fetal brain cells
parkinson's disease victims suffer from a lack dopamine, which transmits nerve cell messages to the muscles. the disease is often characterized by tremors, rigidity or loss of balance, and afflicts at least 350,000 people in the united states. noriega.</note>
the reagan administration would not say today whether it would try to extradite panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega on drug trafficking charges if he seeks asylum in spain
whatever arrangements he makes with another country are his business,'' said white house spokesman marlin fitzwater. ``we intend to follow the legal process.''
reagan has the legal authority to move to dismiss drug indictments against noriega. or, the united states could press for noriega's extradition and seek to prosecute him. fitzwater refused to clear up which legal course would be pursued
we don't have any comment,'' the spokesman said at a white house news briefing
officials in spain have said that government would be willing to grant asylum to noriega under certain conditions _ including the proviso that the united states would promise not to try to extradite him after he arrived in spain
reagan on friday called for noriega to step down and end his ``illegitimate'' regime. to force noriega's ouster, the administration has applied a series of sanctions against panama, including the withholding of about $6.6 million in payments relating to the operation of the panama canal
a masked man shot and wounded three saudi arabian diplomats in an ambush in the parking lot of lagos hotel, a newspaper said
a fourth diplomat escaped injury and pursued the gunman, the government-owned new nigerian reported. it said the assailant escaped over a nearby wall
the four saudis were fired upon as they left the eko holiday inn in a car at 2 a.m. sunday, the newspaper said. it said the gunmen apparently had been waiting for them
two of the wounded diplomats were in serious condition, while the third suffered a less severe wound, the newspaper said. their names were not made public
both police and the saudi embassy refused to answer questions about the incident
the new nigerian quoted police sources who said witnesses described the gunman as an arab
there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the shootings
a libyan diplomat was shot and killed in lagos in january. police said the diplomat was slain by robbers who were caught. government and police sources said they could not rule out the possibility that the libyan had been killed by chadians
jim bakker has returned to the pulpit for the first time in more than a year, preaching from a small wooden lectern to elderly, suntanned retirees at a trailer park in california
tammy faye bakker introduced her husband to the crowd of 225 campers at a service sunday in niland, calif., according to a report in today's editions of the charlotte observer
the campers were seated on folding metal chairs in a bingo hall that doubles as a chapel, with a folding metal table serving as an altar, the newspaper said
this has been a long, hard year for us,'' mrs. bakker said. ``it hasn't been easy ... i am very happy to introduce to you my husband. i would like to welcome him back to the place where he belongs, in the pulpit, ministering the gospel of jesus christ
jim bakker, defrocked in may after the sex-and-money scandal over ptl, chose the remote corner of the california desert to preach again because his uncle, charles ``lonnie'' irwin, is pastor of the park's lutheran congregation during the winter
curious campers began arriving an hour before the 9 a.m. service. thirty people who couldn't fit inside the building listened through window screens
one regular member of the congregation whispered to a friend: ``it's not just the ordinary congregation. it's just a big show. how many people came to worship, really? how many came to just look.?''
it has been nearly one year since bakker gave up his ministry at ptl, south of charlotte, admitting he had sex with jessica hahn and that money had been promised to keep her silent
bakker preached about friendship for 30 minutes, then grinned and hugged members of the congregation
i've always said over the years if i could give you a gift, the most important gift would be a good friend,'' bakker said during his sermon. ``that's besides jesus.''
bakker quoted again and again from the bible about the value of a good friend and god's commandment to love one's enemies
after bakker ended his sermon with a prayer, the congregation clapped. he and his wife then greeted everyone as they walked out the door. jeannie morgan, 63, of stanford, wash., looked ecstatic after she shook their hands
seeing the real thing and having it here is perfect,'' she said
poland, in an attempt to cash in on the popularity of polish-born pope john paul ii, has struck new gold coins with the papal image and will sell them in the united states for $8,800 apiece
it is the most precious coin issued by the polish national mint since world war ii
the state-run pap news agency said monday the coin is 12.6 ounces of pure gold and has a face value 200,000 zlotys, but will be worth 12 million zlotys
at the black-market exchange rate of 1,360 zlotys to the dollar, 12 million zlotys is about $8,800. pap said the coins would be sold for $8,800 in the united states
poland produced silver coins with the pope's image in 1982, prior to the second visit to his homeland of the former archbishop of krakow, karol wojtyla
the new coins were contracted by a u.s. company, and will be sold through coin dealers in the united states, said zbigniew marski of the national bank of poland. he declined to identify the u.s. company
it will be illegal to buy the coins in poland, even for dollars, pap said
after 18 months of review, the environmental protection agency has decided not to subject a common herbicide to special scrutiny of its cancer-causing potential
subsequent studies have failed to confirm that 2,4-d causes cancer, despite a 1986 finding by the national cancer institute that kansas wheat farmers who mixed their own 2,4-d more than 20 times a year stood an eight-fold greater chance of developing a cancer of the lymphatic system called non-hodgkin's lymphoma, an agency spokesman said
the study said home and garden users were not exposed to enough 2,4-d to cause concern
sold under dozens of trade names, 2,4-d _ short for dichlorophenoxyacetic acid _ is believed the fourth most widely used pesticide in the nation, with more than 39 million pounds of active ingredient sold in 1985
the great bulk of that is believed to be used for broadleaf weed control in wheat fields, though 2,4-d also is widely used on highway rights of way, on lawns and in forests
despite epa's decision, chemlawn inc., a major lawn care company, will not restore 2,4-d to its products until a special national cancer institute study of its employees _ of whom perhaps 3,000 used 2,4-d on 80 or so occasions per year _ is completed, said spokesman steve hardymon in columbus, ohio
hardymon said epa ``probably is right.''
but diane baxter, staff scientist for the national coalition against the misuse of pesticides, said of the decision, ``i think it's outrageous.''
epa, she said, appeared to have given great weight to animal studies showing no cancer-causing potential by 2,4-d
we only do animal studies when we don't have human studies,'' but in this case a good study of humans _ the kansas farmers _ was disregarded, she said
another chemically related herbicide, 2,4,5-t, ``was banned mostly because of birth defects (among humans) in the pacific northwest ... and that (study) is not anywhere near as hard to refute as the study nci did.''
epa spokesman al heier, confirming trade press reports of the agency's decision, said friday, ``it was a tough call.''
in addition to the animal studies that failed to show an effect, ``i think there are quite a few (human) epidemiology studies'' that also fail to confirm the cancer-causing ability of 2,4-d
chemlawn says it knows of at least five human studies that show no cancer effect from 2,4-d. the company did not detail those, but a pair of studies of farm and forest workers in new zealand is frequently cited
the first study found elevated incidence of non-hodgkins lymphoma and another cancer called multiple myeloma, but did not examine exposure to pesticides. the second study, however, found no excess risk of cancer as a result of exposure to chemicals of the 2,4-d class
the herbicide 2,4-d aroused suspicion because it can be contaminated with small amounts of chemicals related to the dioxins, though there are no u.s. reports, and only one abroad, of contamination with the most toxic form of dioxin. that form of dioxin is the most powerful cancer-causing agent ever tested in the laboratory
the contaminants of 2,4-d generally have only about 1 percent of the cancer-causing power of the most toxic dioxin
a u.s.-made f-16 jet fighter crashed into a mountain monday in northern norway during an eight-nation nato exercise, killing its norwegian pilot, the alliance announced
a helicopter-borne rescue team said the pilot, who was alone in the plane, apparently had no time to eject before the crash on hinnoeya island, according to the allied press information center
the weather reportedly was clear at the time, and the cause of the crash was unknown
in neighboring sweden on monday, a swedish air force pilot was killed when his ja-37 viggen fighter crashed during a training flight, the national news agency tt reported
the report said the swedish-made aircraft exploded on impact near frosoke in the southeastern province of smaland. the cause of that accident was under investigation
a vehicle carrying a swiss tv crew toppled down a sand dune in northern chad, killing a journalist and injuring five other people, the chadian embassy reported monday
the accident occurred sunday at bir miski, about 125 miles north of faya largeau
killed was alain doumier, a reporter. suffering minor injuries were cameraman claude pellaud, soundman roger vaucher and three chadians, the embassy said
the crew from television romande had been in the northern african nation less than a week on a trip sponsored by the united nations. it was reporting on development in northern chad, the scene of fighting in recent years pitting government troops against libyans and chadian rebels
the prospect of british soldiers staging war games on the falkland islands is making some islanders a bit uneasy about upsetting argentina, which still claims sovereignty over the tiny archipelago
less than a thousand troops are expected to be flown in thursday for the military exercise, a test of how quickly britain can respond to an island invasion
some islanders say they feel reassured by the 24-day drill, but others fear it unnecessarily provokes the argentines, who lost the war with britain over the islands in 1982
the situation between us and argentina is so delicate that these exercises are bound to be a cause of trouble,'' said islander nicola colbert
i can understand there are excellent possibilities for training down here, but i feel the exercise is not a very good thing from the point of view of our relations with argentina.''
but resident claudette ceballos supports the war games
i think the argentines are being a bit silly,'' she said. ``they are overreacting, as they always do. if they hadn't kicked up such a fuss, i probably wouldn't have given the whole exercise a thought.''
george betts, a boat captain, said argentina has no say in the matter
this place is british, and what happens to it is the problem of the british and us,'' he said. ``it has nothing whatsoever to do with the argentines.''
argentina has led a chorus of latin american protest against operation fire focus, as the exercise is named. britain has denied it is provoking argentina
but after initially refusing to say how many troops would be involved, britain has sought to allay the objections by announcing that only a force of fewer than 1,000 soldiers would be flown in
british authorities want to insulate the troops from the populace. maj. gen. neil carlier, commander of british forces on the islands, says contact will be kept to a minimum
the settlers, however, will be asked to report sightings of soldiers who might be playing the enemy's role during the exercise on the rocky, windswept islands, he told a news conference last week
carlier denied reports that farms would be used as targets of mock attacks, and said wildlife sanctuaries would be avoided
plans reportedly have been made for the half-dozen tourists presently on the islands to be fishing or bird-watching far from the action while operation fire focus is under way
the exercise technically began march 7, with mock intelligence reports being sent to london about enemy troop movements against the islands. it concludes march 31
in 1982, when argentina seized the islands, the absence of a runway capable of taking long-range aircraft meant britain had to respond by sea. it took weeks for a naval task force to make the 8,000-mile voyage
during that time the argentines dug in, and were dislodged only after a 74-day war that claimed the lives of 712 argentine and 258 british servicemen
britain has since spent $690 million on an airport in the islands that can accommodate troop flights in case of another attack
falklanders have grown used to the luxury of an airport that can get them directly to britain, and there have been some grumblings at the disruptions travelers are likely to suffer during the exercise
the communist world gets its first mcdonald's next week, and some people here are wondering whether its american hamburgers will be as popular as the local fast-food treat, pljeskavica
the long-awaited opening of the restaurant on one of belgrade's main downtown squares will take place march 24, the yugoslav news agency tanjug reported, and it will offer big macs, fries and the other specialities familiar to mcdonald's customers in the west
the belgrade media have suggested that the success of the american restaurant depends on its acceptance by yugoslavians who are long accustomed to the hamburger-like pljeskavica
pljeskavica is made of ground pork and onions, and it is served on bread and eaten with the hands. it is sold at fast-food restaurants across the country and costs about a dollar
in fact, this is a clash between the big mac and pljeskavica,'' said an official of genex, yugoslavia's largest state-run enterprise that will operate the mcdonald's
john onoda, a spokesman at mcdonald's oak brook, ill., headquarters, said it was the first of the chain's outlets in a communist country
the next east european mcdonald's is scheduled to be opened in budapest, hungary, by the end of this year, said vesna milosevic, another genex official
negotiations have been going on for years for expanding the fast-food chain to the soviet union, but no agreement has been announced. border</head> inserts three grafs after 6th pvs, ``initial statements xxx, picnickers scattered, comment from mexico</note>
four armed mexican naval personnel who said they were pursuing drug smugglers apparently interrogated a group of american picnickers on a beach more than a half mile north of the u.s.-mexican border, authorities said
the four mexicans were arrested sunday night, said san diego county sheriff's sgt. bob ramirez
the four men, whose names were being withheld, interrogated a group of 10 to 15 u.s. citizens who were picnicking on the beach, said dale cozart, chief agent for the u.s. border patrol in san diego
it's a very serious situation,'' cozart said today. ``our investigation is not complete at this time, but it's possible the americans were being interrogated against their will.''
border patrol agents scanning the area in a helicopter spotted the four men dressed in mexican naval infantry uniforms and armed with fully loaded automatic rifles, cozart said. the weapons were standard military issue, he added
initial statements taken were that they were pursuing narcotics smugglers. but that has not been confirmed and there is no indication that narcotics were being smuggled in the area at the time,'' cozart said
local residents frequently picnic on the beach into the night, but cozart said authorities had not been able to speak to any of the picnickers because they scattered when the helicopter hovered overhead
the mexican men said they had been chasing two suspected drug or arms smugglers up the beach when they were discovered. the mexicans headed south and were intercepted before they could get across the border
in mexico city, spokesmen for the foreign ministry and the mexican navy said they had no information on the incident
the men were being held at the border patrol's san ysidro sector station, solely for investigation of immigration violations, he said
there is no doubt that the individuals knew they were in the united states,'' the agent said
he added that any other allegations, including possible weapons violations, would be considered at a later time
five sheriff's deputies were called to assist in the arrests, which occurred without incident, cozart said
state department officials as well as the mexican consulate in san diego and mexican military officials were notified of the arrests
the plo ambassador to the united nations declared today he will defy a u.s. order to close his mission and said that if his office is closed, israel should be excluded from debates on the middle east
we have the right to stay here, we will stay here and we will stay where we are,'' zehdi labib terzi, the permanent observer of the palestine liberation organization, told a news conference here
the general assembly may reconvene this week in an emergency session to consider the confrontation between the united states and the 159-member world body, u.n. officials said
secretary-general javier perez de cuellar today was drafting a letter to protest the u.s. decision to close the plo's u.n. observer mission under a controversial anti-terrorism law
if somebody tries to kick us out, we will not respond,'' terzi said, adding he had no plans to leave the united states where his mission has operated for the last 13 years
the only way they will make me leave is to put me behind bars and take me away.''
the plo envoy also said that if the plo mission is closed, as ordered by the justice department, then the general assembly should deny israel the right to participate in u.n. debates on the middle east
if the palestinian people are not allowed to be here,'' he said, ``then out of a sense of fairness and justice, the other party to the conflict should not be here _ namely israel.''
terzi was responding to a u.s. justice department statement on friday that it would enforce the law to close the plo's u.n. observer mission by march 21
the united nations has strongly protested the u.s. move to enforce the law. it says the act violates the u.n. charter and the 1947 treaty by which the united states agreed to allow u.n. missions to operate
the plo is an invitee of the united nations
the general assembly convened in an emergency session two weeks ago and urged the united states to comply with international law and allow the mission to operate. it said it would convene again if the united states decided to enforce the act
president reagan demanded today that congress keep his ``star wars'' missile defense system alive, arguing that cutting the high-tech program because of domestic budget pressures would be ``irresponsible in the extreme.''
reagan, kicking off an administration campaign keyed to the program's fifth anniversary, charged that congressional cuts in his strategic defense initiative have ``set the program back one to two years.''
even though reagan has reached the point in his presidency where he has sent his last budget to congress, he pledged in an address to the institute for foreign policy analysis to see the program continued
and he lauded the technological advances that have been made, asserting that the program has ``progressed more rapidly'' than first thought possible
we will continue to research sdi, to develop and test it, and as it becomes ready, we will deploy it,'' reagan vowed
the president restated his belief that without the space-based missile defense, the united states will be left defenseless in the face of an advanced soviet space-weapons program
a recent report by the department of defense called `the soviet space challege' warns that the soviet space program points in one disturbing direction. ... the methodical pursuit of a war-fighting capability in space,'' reagan charged
because congress has made cuts for the past four years in administration sdi requests, ``we would be dangerously undeprepared,'' reagan asserted
there's been a tendency by some in congress to discuss sdi as if its funding could be determined purely by domestic considerations, unconnected to what the soviets are doing,'' reagan said, ``that is, to put it plainly, irresponsible in the extreme.''
the president argued that ``some in the u.s. congress'' have denied additional funds ``because they say sdi won't work. well, it won't if we don't develop it and test it.''
congress should realize that it is no longer a question of whether there will be a sdi program or not. the only question will be whether the soviets are the only ones who have strategic defenses while the united states remains entirely defenseless,'' reagan said
the pro-sdi campaign comes as congress has placed constraints on sdi testing and expenditures, and as soviet arms control negotiators in geneva attempt to crimp the u.s. effort amid negotiations on a u.s.-soviet treaty to slash strategic nuclear weapon arsenals by half
the president has rarely missed a chance to plug the u.s. effort. even at a light-hearted commemorative ceremony last week to honor notre dame's legendary football coach knute rockne, reagan's speech contained a passage referring to the ``dark side'' of the world's technological progress and arguing that his plan would solve the nuclear dilemma
he pointed to the millions of civilians and military killed in world wars i and ii, and said if a third worldwide conflagration occurs in the nuclear age, ``it's estimated that 90 percent of the casualties will be civilian.''
the president said sdi would ``point the way out'' of this problem
it's given us the promise of basing our security in the future on protection rather than the threat of retaliation. sdi offers a chance to reverse not only the nuclear arms build-up, but also to reverse the trend that in effect has put a lower and lower value on human life,'' reagan said
opponents of the program argue that it will cost untold billions and won't work, and that it will only encourage the soviets to abandon arms control efforts and increase their offensive weapons in order to best u.s. defensive systems
in the last fiscal year, the administration sought $5.7 billion for star wars, but congress allowed only $3.6 billion
capitol hill also banned the use of federal funds for any sdi tests that would violate a strict interpretation of the 1972 antiballistic missile treaty. pentagon officials including defense secretary frank carlucci have said no such tests are planned for the near future
while the soviet union has argued that the abm treaty forbids much research, testing and development of an sdi system, the reagan administration has insisted on a so-called ``broad'' interpretation of the treaty that would permit expanded sdi tests and development
reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev, at their december summit, in essence agreed to disagree for a time on the issue, saying in a joint communique they would observe the abm treaty ``as signed in 1972, while conducting their research, development and testing as required.''
u.s. and soviet negotiators in geneva have remained at odds over how to address the issue. total, and add redington's arrival, picking up 4th graf, unalakleet xxx</note>
the 70-year-old founder of the 1,150-mile iditarod trail sled dog race lost the lead again today when two other teams beat him to the bering sea coast after battling biting wind and drifting snow during the night
martin buser of big lake arrived at this eskimo village at 5:49 a.m. with 13 dogs in harness. defending champion susan butcher pulled in at 5:57 a.m. with 12 dogs
race founder joe redington lost the lead a second time somewhere between kaltag and unalakleet along the frozen yukon river. he arrived in unalakleet at 6:42 a.m. with nine dogs
unalakleet is 889 miles from the race's start in anchorage, and 269 miles from the finish in nome. from unalakleet, the teams run north along the barren, windswept coast. the next checkpoint is shaktoolik, 40 miles farther up the trail
redington had paced the race for more than 400 miles, and then lost the lead to buser on saturday along the yukon river. but in the dark outside kaltag, redington jumped back out front. buser had trailed redington out of kaltag by more than two hours
redington started the race with 15 dogs and had dropped six of them at checkpoints along the trail by sunday. race rules require mushers to arrive in nome with at least five dogs in harness
the race started march 5 in anchorage. the first musher to nome will collect $30,000 of a $150,000 purse; the next 19 finishers will split the rest. three of the 52 teams that started the race have dropped out
following the three leaders out of kaltag on sunday were four-time champion rick swenson, joe garnie of teller in fifth place, and herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref, who for days had held a close second behind redington, fell to sixth
american mushers from outside alaska were paced by robin jacobson of minnetonka, minn., in 15th place. john patten of grand marais, minn., was 22nd; frank teasley, jackson, wyo., 26th; terry adkins, mikado, mich., 34th; dan mceachen, snowmass village, colo., 29th; and stan ferguson, philadelphia, 46th
jacques philip, of thomery, france, led the foreign mushers in 14th place. horst maas, of lenz, austria, was in 23rd; peter thomann of tagish in canada's yukon territory, was 31st; ian mackenzie of bruce mines, ontario, 40th; brian carver of melbourne, australia, 44th; and lesley anne monk of worsthorne, england, 48th
farmers who prayed for rain during a devastating three-year drought have faced nearly four months of almost daily downpours, which threaten to wash away any chance of an agricultural rebound
the rains that began in november have caused widespread flooding in rural areas, swelling rivers, turning streets into streams, and virtually isolating some villages by knocking out phone lines and bridges
it also has severely hampered the recovery of farmers who five months ago were in the throes of drought, the agriculture minstry said monday
last week, eight soldiers drowned while fording a flood-swollen river in the eastern highlands. by the weekend, police said 66 people had been killed by lightning since the first storms broke
we're working all hours and weekends too,'' said temba munyarara, a handyman who works mainly in poor black suburbs. ``it's sad to see the damage that's being done but it's been good for me.''
it is in the countryside, where most of zimbabwe's 8.2 million people live, that floods threaten agricultural recovery after the long drought. about 70 percent of the population depends on agriculture for income
likewise, the bulk of the land-locked nation's export income comes from cash crops such as cotton, coffee, corn, sugar, tea and tobacco
last year, agricultural output fell 18 percent, or $180 million, as a result of drought
business trends, the standard chartered bank's monthly economic analysis, reported that the losses would be recouped with the onset of the regular rains
but the agriculture ministry's most recent crop and livestock report says that in most areas, further widespread rain will ``do more harm than good.''
cotton, peanuts and tobacco are being severely damaged, the report said, but it predicted that if the rains ease off, zimbabwe still can expect bumper harvests
the report also said ample water has been stored underground and in lakes and dams to carry zimbabwe through the coming dry season, which usually lasts from may to october
placido domingo and agnes baltsa are two opera stars who know how to put passion and drama into their singing even when they're not performing in a staged production
the tenor and the mezzo-soprano demonstrated their talents in a gala concert sunday night at the metropolitan opera. the benefit for the met pension fund was sponsored by the metropolitan opera guild and followed by a champagne supper, underwritten by merrill lynch and co
since most operatic love duets are written for tenors and sopranos, domingo and miss baltsa sang three duets of a more confrontational nature. their voices blended beautifully but made the sparks fly
they sang a dramatic scene from verdi's ``aida,'' in which amneris makes one last offer to radames _ take me and save your life. even on that basis, he turns her down
they sang santuzza angrily accusing turiddu of being unfaithful in mascagni's ``cavalleria rusticana'' and turiddu being angry back, lying and denying it
and, building to the most familiar but still the most spine-tingling, they sang don jose pleading with carmen to take him back in act 4 of bizet's ``carmen.'' when she turns him down, he stabs her to death. in that number, the chorus, facing the audience, was too loud. in staged performances, the chorus is behind the ``bullring'' at the back of the stage
domingo has a glorious voice for everything he sang. in a ``luisa miller'' aria, for instance, he was vocally always masculine and strong but could at the same time sound soft and tender in the quiet lines. he was completely equal to the verdi music but never overpowered it
miss baltsa's voice sounds dark in its low tones and light, almost white, in its top. there isn't a break in her register; her voice seems to shade gradually. in her first aria, from rossini's ``the lady of the lake,'' it was a bit disconcerting. then one became used to it. she used that shading and other vocal colors to strong dramatic effect, especially as carmen
she sang the title role in ``carmen'' at the met last season. this season the concert is her only appearance
domingo, who made his met debut in ``cavalleria rusticana,'' is singing in ``the tales of hoffmann'' and ``otello'' at the met this season
nello santi conducted. the orchestra played overtures by rossini and verdi and a mascagni intermezzo and sounded clear and fresh. the chorus, with the women in gowns of their choice, also sounded splendid in verdi's ``anvil chorus'' from ``il trovatore'' and ``va, pensiero'' from ``nabucco.''
an archaeological team has found pottery from a vessel that sank about 2,400 years ago in the mediterranean sea, a spokesman for the group said monday
divers found the wreck site buried in mud and silt in the crater of a submerged volcano near the island of isola panarea off northern sicily, said the spokesman for marine archaeological research for europe
one diver wrote in the team's log that the wreck looks ``as if the gods had been sitting down to a banquet, and then, for some reason, they had to dash off, overturning the tables in their haste and knocking down all the crockery,'' the spokesman said
the cups, plates, jugs, bowls and lamps are made of red clay and painted with a high-quality, black glaze, said the spokeman, who asked not to be identified
all that is visible on the seabed is a spread of pottery,'' he said. ``it is too early to judge with any confidence how much of the wreck survives
rebels derailed and ransacked a passenger train, killing at least five people, a government newspaper reported monday
the islamic information center newspaper focus, however, reported that 30 people died in the uganda people's army attack saturday near nagongera, about 140 miles east of the capital city of kampala
focus said the dead included civilians and eight government soldiers who were disarmed and shot to death by the rebels
the government-owned new vision newspaper said the attack took place on a newly reopened route
an unidentified passenger said the rebels initially asked passengers for money and clothes and left people in their underwear
the rebels are among more than half a dozen groups fighting president yoweri museveni's government. they say they are loyal to peter otai, defense minister under former president milton obote, who ruled from 1980-85
museveni seized power in 1986 after waging a five-year bush war. ^by mary campbell</byline>
placido domingo and agnes baltsa are two opera stars who know how to put passion and drama into their singing even when they're not performing in a staged production
the tenor and the mezzo-soprano demonstrated their talents in a gala concert sunday night at the metropolitan opera. the benefit for the met pension fund was sponsored by the metropolitan opera guild and followed by a champagne supper, underwritten by merrill lynch and co
since most operatic love duets are written for tenors and sopranos, domingo and miss baltsa sang three duets of a more confrontational nature. their voices blended beautifully but made the sparks fly
they sang a dramatic scene from verdi's ``aida,'' in which amneris makes one last offer to radames _ take me and save your life. even on that basis, he turns her down
they sang santuzza angrily accusing turiddu of being unfaithful in mascagni's ``cavalleria rusticana'' and turiddu being angry back, lying and denying it
and, building to the most familiar but still the most spine-tingling, they sang don jose pleading with carmen to take him back in act 4 of bizet's ``carmen.'' when she turns him down, he stabs her to death. in that number, the chorus, facing the audience, was too loud. in staged performances, the chorus is behind the ``bullring'' at the back of the stage
domingo has a glorious voice for everything he sang. in a ``luisa miller'' aria, for instance, he was vocally always masculine and strong but could at the same time sound soft and tender in the quiet lines. he was completely equal to the verdi music but never overpowered it
miss baltsa's voice sounds dark in its low tones and light, almost white, in its top. there isn't a break in her register; her voice seems to shade gradually. in her first aria, from rossini's ``the lady of the lake,'' it was a bit disconcerting. then one became used to it. she used that shading and other vocal colors to strong dramatic effect, especially as carmen
she sang the title role in ``carmen'' at the met last season. this season the concert is her only appearance
domingo, who made his met debut in ``cavalleria rusticana,'' is singing in ``the tales of hoffmann'' and ``otello'' at the met this season
nello santi conducted. the orchestra played overtures by rossini and verdi and a mascagni intermezzo and sounded clear and fresh. the chorus, with the women in gowns of their choice, also sounded splendid in verdi's ``anvil chorus'' from ``il trovatore'' and ``va, pensiero'' from ``nabucco.''
the partially severed forearm of a man hit by a subway train was reattached in less than 2{ hours by microsurgeons working in tandem with a team of orthopedic surgeons, authorities said monday
alex myrill, 36, of oakland, calif., is expected to regain use of the arm, said fred yaeger, spokesman at montefiore medical center
myrill told transit police he had been drinking and was intoxicated at the time of the incident, said al o'leary, a spokesman for the transit authority. he did not know what myrill was doing in new york city
myrill told detectives he does not remember falling onto the tracks, 0'leary said, adding that he was not the victim of a crime
the brakeman on a work train saw myrill and pulled the emergency brake but could not stop before the train rolled over the arm, he said. says</head>
both the united states and the soviet union are developing powerful microwave generators to assess the effects of such beams on their air, land and naval forces, according to a university researcher
h. keith florig, a radiation policy specialist at carnegie-mellon university in pittsburgh, says the sophisticated electronics used in u.s. and nato weapon systems could make them particularly vulnerable to attack
the biggest fear is that an enemy might use high-power microwaves (hpm) to jam or burn out the electronic hardware upon which many military systems rely. both strategic and tactical systems are possible targets _ missiles, re-entry vehicles, satellites, aircraft, tanks, radars, and communications and navigation equipment,'' florig wrote in the march issue of the ieee spectrum, a journal published by the institute of electrical and electronics engineers
he observed that ``because the forces of the united states and the north atlantic treaty organization depend more heavily on sensitive electronics in `smart weapons' and sophisticated radars than do soviet and warsaw pact forces, the west could be more vulnerable to microwave weapons.''
decisions on whether to deploy microwave weapons are still several years off, florig said
however, the pentagon said last year in its annual ``soviet military power'' report that the soviet union has completed enough research that ``no significant technological obstacles stand in the way of a prototype short-range tactical rf (radio-frequency) weapon.''
another defense department publication, ``the soviet space challenge,'' issued last november, said ``the soviets could test a ground-based radio-frequency weapon capable of damaging satellites in the 1990s.''
florig said there are ``obvious ethical issues'' involved in further development and deploying of microwave weapons, in view of their potentially fatal effects on troops
hpm weapons that merely stun the nervous system temporarily seem, like short-acting chemical agents, to be more humane than lethal force,'' he said. ``but hpm weapons that blind, burn or bake people to death are likely to be viewed as an abhorrent addition to the arsenal.''
the difference between a disabling and lethal microwave power level is largly one of range, florig said, adding that ``pulsed hpm weapons might be designed with pulse repetition rates too low to harm people but with enough peak power to burn out hardware.''
military facilities involved in high-power microwave research include harry diamond laboratories in adelphi, md., a unit of the army's electronics research and development command; the naval research laboratory in washington; the naval surface weapons center, dahlgren, va.; and the air force weapons laboratory at kirtland afb near albuquerque, n.m
research work also is being carried out at the lawrence livermore national laboratory, livermore, calif., and the sandia national laboratory in albuquerque
john rosado, acting director of the research and technology division at harry diamond laboratories, told a symposium of government and industry officials last august that ``the nature of warfare will be completely changed by the use of these weapons.''
devices capable of generating high-power microwaves include the magnetron and klystron, along with newer devices such as the vircator (virtual-cathode oscillator), gyrotron, free-electron laser and beam-plasma generator. all the devices function by converting the kinetic energy of an electron beam into the electromagnetic energy of a microwave beam
florig said in a telephone interview that ``the soviets have traditionally been strong in certain sources like the gyrotron. they may maintain a lead in some of those areas
but things are rapidly evening up, and the u.s. may currently be ahead in some areas. for the areas where intense computation is needed for design, the u.s. definitely has an advantage,'' he said
in his ieee spectrum article, florig noted that the microwave generator itself is only a small part of any high-power weapon system
a major challenge of hpm weapon design is to develop power supplies that are small and light enough to be used on mobile, airborne or space platforms,'' he wrote
at very high power levels, microwave weapons might even detonate missile warheads, bombs or artillery shells, in addition to burning out electronic components, florig said, while at lower intensities microwaves can trigger ``spurious signals'' that might jam or disable electronic circuitry
several crashes of the army's blackhawk helicopter since 1982 are thought to have resulted from radio frequency interference with their flight control systems when they were flying near ground- or ship-based radar or communication transmitters,'' he said
five thieves broke into a brink's warehouse and stole 25 cash boxes collected from a supermarket chain's automatic tellers, police said monday
the robbery sunday was partly filmed by a surveillance camera, but the fuzzy image failed to show the burglars' features, said police sgt. david rivero. technical experts were trying to enhance the film
the boxes had been collected saturday night, and because they had been used all day it was doubtful there was much cash in each box, he said
police and brink's of florida inc. officials were going through teller records to determine how much money was taken. when full, the boxes would have held an average of about $10,000
the camera showed five men breaking in the outside door of the warehouse early sunday. they made their way directly to the boxes, rivero said
the robbery was discovered when brink's employees showed up for work sunday morning, he said
the embattled president of the governing labor party stepped down monday after prime minister bob hawke criticized him for a possible conflict of interest
hawke called on veteran politician mick young to resign after young was widely criticized for accepting a post as consultant with qantas, the australian national airline
young earlier this year resigned his seat in parliament and his position as minister for immigration following a controversy over undeclared campaign donations made to the labor party by japanese-owned woodchip company harris-daishowa
a new party president will be picked april 7
a rare collection of early 1940s recordings of native south seas music which was found gathering dust in a widow's attic was presented monday to the library of congress
the collection, which went to the museum's american folklife center, includes 143 acetate disc recordings of music from the marquesas islands, tahiti, fiji, samoa, new caledonia, bali, java, madura and the kangean islands north of java. the recordings were made by sheridan and bruce fahnestock of long island, n.y., in 1940 and 1941
touring the south seas aboard a three-masted, 137-foot schooner, the brothers collected pacific bird specimens for the american museum of natural history in new york, updated nautical charts for the u.s. hydrographic office and recorded indigenous music for a family foundation in new york
the fahnestocks also made several shortwave radio broadcasts from the pacific that were carried live by the nbc network. a recording of one such broadcast by bruce fahnestock from fiji in 1940, taken from the library's collection of nbc transcriptions, was played at monday's ceremony
their ship, director ii, struck a shoal and sank near gladstone, australia, on oct. 18, 1940, without loss of life, but the fahnestocks returned to the pacific in february 1941 and chartered a sailboat to make new recordings and secretly gather intelligence for president franklin d. roosevelt in anticipation of war with japan
besides the 16-inch, 78-rpm discs, which the library of congress plans to clean and transcribe on tape, the fahnestock collection also includes five reels of color film, a ship's log and numerous letters and magazine and newspaper articles about the expeditions
the collection had been stored in the attic of sheridan fahnestock's widow, margaret fahnestock lewis of great mills in southern maryland until she decided to donate the materials to the library of congress in december 1986
it is the largest collection of pacific islands recordings ever acquired by the library's archive of folk culture, and the last known attempt to record a documentary of traditional cultures in that region before the mass disruptions of world war ii
the library's american folklife center, established in 1976, engages in scholarly research, preservation and presentation of folk culture traditions
a masked man fired on four saudi diplomats, wounding three, in the parking lot of a city hotel, it was reported monday
the four diplomats were fired on sunday as they left the eko holiday inn in a car, the government-owned new nigerian newspaper reported. it said the gunman apparently had been waiting for them
a fourth diplomat gave chase, but the gunman escaped over a wall near the parking lot, the newspaper said
no one has claimed responsibility for the shooting
president hussain muhammad ershad has declared that islam will be the official religion of bangladesh, but critics say the move is merely a ploy to prevent his ouster and woo the moslem majority
government officials on monday were caught off guard by ershad's announcement, made the day before to a moslem congregation in sarsina, 100 miles southwest of dhaka
ershad said the laws of bangladesh should conform to the moslem code of conduct
the day-to-day life of the nation must be guided by the tenets of islam and the ideals of prophet mohammed,'' he said
an official at the law ministry said he had no information on the change
we do not know what exactly the president wants to do,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
eighty-five percent of bangladesh's 105 million people are moslem, but the country has had a secular constitution since it gained independence from pakistan in 1971. minority religions are christian, hindu and buddhist
opposition parties, which have been calling since november for the president's ouster, opposed the change. parliament, which is controlled by ershad's jatiya party, is expected to debate the change in april
this is an illegal government and illegal parliament. it has no right to enact any legislation,'' said khaleda zia, leader of the bangladesh nationalist party. zia was referring to parliamentary elections earlier this month that were boycotted by opposition groups
the moslem fundamentalist party, the jamaat-e-islami, also opposed the move
a government which came to power illegally and is staying much against the wishes of the people can never do any good to islam, the people or the country,'' said ali ahsan mohammad mujahid, a jamaat leader
surenjit sengupta of the opposition awami league, said: ``this is yet another gimmick by president ershad to hang onto power.''
but wali ashraf, an independent member of parliament, said: ``such a legislation will only reflect the faith of the vast majority of the people.''
others believe the islamic law, with its stringent punishments, could curb crime and increase productivity
only three presidential candidates ran substantial television campaigns for tuesday's illinois primary, a sharp contrast to the frenzied multi-million dollar advertising buys that led up to super tuesday
the big spender in illinois was republican front-runner george bush, who bought about $400,000 worth of time
two democrats, michael du gore jr., were hoping for respectable showings short of victory in a state that is fielding two popular favorite sons
the dukakis campaign said it was spending about $250,000 while gore media expenditures were estikakis and albertmated at $200,000 to $300,000
the sparse media buys and tame ads were in contrast to the charges and counter-charges that marred the airwaves ahead of last week's far-flung super tuesday contests in 20 states
bush was running two advertisements in illinois _ one a biographical spot and the other showing him with world leaders and president reagan
the latter ad, used since the new hampshire primary last month, says there is a difference between presidential and congressional leadership. the point is to compare bush favorably to rival bob dole, the senate republican leader
however, dole's chances of winning the gop nomination plummeted after he lost all 17 gop contests last week, and he sharply cut addition to mounting the strong tv campaign, she said
on the democratic side, illinois sen. paul simon and jesse jackson of chicago were neck and neck as each sought a home-state victory. neither favorite son was running tv ads and simon conceded a lack of money for ads was hurting his prospects to beat jackson
polls showed massachusetts gov. dukakis in third place with tennessee sen. gore and rep. richard gephardt, d-mo., lagging behind
with the favorite sons in the race, obviously nobody expected us to win illinois,'' said dukakis spokesman steve akey. ``the objective is to be very competitive and to demonstrate that we can do well all over the country.''
to that end, dukakis was running three ads, including two he used for super tuesday _ a spot stressing his experience as a chief executive and another in which a union official says dukakis is not a ``shot-and-beer kinda guy'' but his economic policies put people to work
dukakis introduced an new ad saying the days of backroom dealing are over _ a response to simon's contention that there will be no first-ballot victor at the democratic convention and he still could secure or at least influence the nomination
some people would like to turn back the clock, to go back to the days when the voters didn't really pick their nominee,'' says the announcer in the dukakis commercial. ``they say you must turn over that power to them at a brokered convention. but you don't have to do this. on tuesday, you can pick the next president...''
gore was running a mix of three advertisements in illinois, all of them positive messages. one especially made for illinois says gore won six states on super tuesday by taking his case to the people, and asks illinois voters for their support
the other two ads, used throughout the south for super tuesday, have a populist thrust. one chides american companies for investing in jobs overseas rather than at home and the other says big chemical polluters, price fixers, corporate law breakers, greedy drug manufacturers ``don't want al gore to be president'' because he's fought them in the past
gephardt made a poor super tuesday showing and was skipping illinois to concentrate on michigan, which holds caucuses march 26. gephardt had used ads critical of dukakis and gore in the super tuesday states and both candidates came back with on-air ``attack ads'' to which gephardt couldn't afford to respond. transition. picks up 7th graf pvs ``in another development....''</note>
riot police used tear gas today to disperse about 600 teachers demanding their salaries and yelling ``noriega must go.''
strikes and disturbances broke out when some workers demanded cash instead of the bags of food the government today began distributing to public employees until it has the money for salaries
for the first time, the disturbances reached into the central business district
police, armed with rubber truncheons and tear gas grenades, forcibly removed the teachers, who were blocking traffic in front of the ministry of education. the teachers shouted, `we want out pay,'' ``books yes, arms no,'' and ``justice.''
the nation's military strongman, gen. manuel antonio noriega, its new civilian chief executive, manuel solis palma, and other top government officials ended an emergency meeting at 2 a.m. today. there was no immediate comment on what action, if any, they took to overcome u.s. economic sanctions aimed at bringing down the military regime
the government has said it does not have enough money to meet this week's public payroll of $33 million for its 130,000 public employees
horacio rodriguez, director of the ministry of farm and dairy products marketing, said his agency had prepared 12,000 of the bags of food for distribution this week
they contained basic staples of the panamanian diet such as rice, beans, flour, potatoes, fresh vegetables and beef
the ``dignity bags'' were being sold by the government for between $15 and $16 each. it was believed that officials were not demanding cash, and it was not clear how the workers were paying for the supplies
in another development, men in civilian clothes fired guns outside a church service in panama city on sunday and attacked a tv cameraman after roughing up a woman who was selling an anti-government newsletter. no one was injured
the attack came at the roman catholic church of christ the king, long a center of government opposition activity, as its pastor, the rev. xavier villanueva, was beginning a late-morning mass
solis palma, installed by the ruling military last month as minister in charge of the presidency, has been meeting with his chief advisors almost constantly since last thursday. sunday's meeting was the first time that noriega had been known to join them
meanwhile, noriega was said by a chief aide to be ``in excellent spirits, working very hard, always on the phone and maintaining his determination not to surrender.''
maj. edgardo lopez, the general's press officer, said noriega was telephoning other countries in search of financial assistance and received ``some very positive answers from some friendly governments.''
lopez declined to elaborate, but he added, ``this is a very complex situation that cannot be solved in 72 hours.''
noriega is under indictment in the united states on federal drug trafficking and money laundering charges
almost one in every five workers in this nation of 2.5 million people is employed by the government. while noriega's popularity has fallen recently, he has so far enjoyed at least the outward support of government employees
in washington, administration officials acknowledged sunday that the economic sanctions imposed by president reagan on friday were intended to make it harder for the panamanian government to pay the public employees
the timing of the sanctions ``was not a coincidence,'' said one administration source, speaking on condition of anonymity
reagan ordered the withholding of $6.5 million in monthly panama canal fees due panama this week and eliminated a trade preference the country has enjoyed under the caribbean basin initiative
earlier, the united states suspended all economic and military aid to panama and suppported legal efforts to freeze an estimated $50 million in official panamanian funds held in american banks
the legal action was taken by attorneys for eric arturo delvalle, who was deposed as panama's president on feb. 26 in a coup engineered by noriega. although delvalle has been in hiding ever since, he still is recognized by the united states as panama's legitimate president
the government ordered panama's 118 local and foreign banks closed temporarily on march 3, saying it could not provide them with enough money to cover withdrawals. there was no word sunday of when the banks would reopen
their closure has left the country in economic chaos, with businessmen and individuals unable to cash checks and hoarding precious dollars, which panama uses as its currency
in the attack outside the church on sunday, an associated press reporter and photographer said between 8 and 10 men dressed in civilian clothes fired handguns in the air and smashed the windows of automobiles parked outside the church of christ the king
no one was hurt in the shooting, but two of the gunmen struck an italian television cameraman and stole his video camera as he was filming the incident. the men threw rocks at other reporters on the scene
the conservative government has split over how to handle the surging pound in a dispute that has overshadowed tuesday's budget and its expected tax bonanzas for the wealthy
prime minister margaret thatcher's willingness to let the pound soar unchecked has thrown in doubt the future of her top treasury official, nigel lawson
the chancellor of the exchequer is so angry at mrs. thatcher overruling his policy of keeping sterling in line with the west german mark that he may make tuesday's annual budget announcement his last, published reports have said
lawson is ranked among britain's most able treasury officials since world war ii
the stark fact is that the prime minister and the chancellor are in open conflict over a crucial part of our economic policy,'' said john smith, finance spokesman for the main opposition labor party
government officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, acknowledged the split which one described as a ``healthy argument.''
the pound, meanwhile, continued a week-long surge, topping $1.86 in trading on monday, an eight-cent jump from a week ago
the government split was revealed in parliament last week when mrs. thatcher rejected bank of england intervention such as selling pounds or reducing interest rates to make sterling less attractive to foreign investors
mrs. thatcher believes that lower interest rates will encourage borrowing and fuel inflation, now at a low 3.3 percent
curbing inflation has been a cornerstone of her tight-fisted economic policies since she won power in 1979
lawson's strategy has been to keep sterling at around 3 marks. sterling traded monday at 3.08 marks
britain is not a member of the exchange mechanism of the european monetary system, which links eight other major european currencies, including the mark, in a stabilizing arrangement
bill martin, chief economist at stockbrokers phillips and drew, said that mrs. thatcher's stance has aggravated the problems caused by a high pound, which makes british exports more expensive
there is virtually no ceiling to the exchange rate at the present time,'' martin said in a television interview sunday. ``all round, our international trade performance is likely to suffer.''
britain's trade deficit, which soared by one-third to a record $2.8 billion in january, was worsening before the latest upsurge in sterling
lawson mustn't go,'' the respected financial weekly, the economist, said in a headline over an article which added, ``the main reason is that mr. lawson is good at his job.''
mrs. thatcher, accused by some critics of being increasingly authoritarian since she won a third term last june, is also at loggerheads with another senior member of her cabinet, education secretary kenneth baker
a leaked government document last week confirmed reports that she has told baker to rethink part of a planned overhaul of the state school and examination system
lawson, 56, an economist and former financial journalist appointed chancellor in 1983, was expected to unveil tuesday britain's first surplus budget for nearly 20 years
rank-and-file conservatives grumbled that the argument over the pound had clouded what many of them predicted would be a budget marking a high point of an economic strategy of restraining state spending
it would be much happier if this particular dispute had been kept private and, above all, kept private until after the budget was over and done with,'' said john biffen, a former leader of the commons who was dropped from the cabinet last year
higher-than-expected government revenues, boosted by tax receipts from higher wages and sales of state-owned assets, meant that lawson was expected to have a surplus of more than $5.5 billion on the $290 billion budget for the fiscal year ending march 31, 1989
lawson was expected to slash the top income tax rate _ payable on incomes over $76,200 a year _ from 60 percent to 50 percent or even lower
the basic tax rate _ at 33 percent when mrs. thatcher won power in 1979 _ was expected to drop from the current 27 percent to 25 percent
israel and hungary restored low-level diplomatic ties monday after a 20 year hiatus but a hungarian official said full ties await resolution of the arab-israeli conflict
an israeli interest section office was opened in the swiss consulate in budapest, and a hungarian interest section was opened in the swedish consulate in tel aviv
in budapest, foreign minister peter varkonyi received shlomo marom, the head of the israeli office. swiss ambassador paul wipfli was also present
twenty years ago all soviet bloc countries except romania severed ties with israel to protest its occupation of jordan and egyptian land in the 1967 middle east war
in october, poland became the first east bloc country to renew low-level ties. the soviet union also re-established direct diplomatic contacts with israel and sent a consular delegation to israel in july
hungarian foreign ministry representative jeno jyenis told israel radio that ``the restoration of full diplomatic ties between israel and hungary depends on a resolution of the conflict between israel and the palestinians.''
in 1986, trade between the two countries equaled $22 million, according to israeli figures
hungary sells israel jam and furniture, while israel exports light bulbs and phosphate to hungary
israeli figures indicate that about 15,000 israeli tourists visited hungary last year, while about 2,000 hungarians visited israel
dean martin, sammy davis jr. and frank sinatra start spreadin' the news in canada on tuesday after dazzling ``rat pack'' fans here at the start of their 29-city reunion tour
the three veteran showmen joked and sang with the same easy-going, cocktail lounge manner that has kept them in superstar ranks for decades as they performed the first of 40 shows in the oakland coliseum on sunday night
sinatra, 72, davis, 62, and dean martin, 70, were as much adored as applauded by the 14,500 fans from teen-agers to people in their 80s. the show sold out an hour after tickets became available weeks ago, and scalpers were getting as much as $300 for a $40 seat
martin opened the show, staggering and swaggering onto the stage with his trademark cigarette and cocktail in hand. after slurring his way through, ``that's amore,'' ``everybody loves somebody (sometime),'' and a string of one liners, he yielded to davis
the ``candy man'' proved he still can, rousing the crowd with ``what kind of fool am i?,'' ``bojangles,'' and ``i've got to be me.'' he also was cheered when he announced he gave up drinking three years ago
i've got to tell you the truth. everybody backstage is being very cool, but i wasn't this scared when i lived at 147th street and eighth avenue in new york,'' he confessed
but it was sinatra _ old blue eyes, the man, the voice, the chairman of the board _ that most fans had come to see, and they weren't disappointed as he powered his way through hit after hit: ``what now my love,'' ``for once in my life,'' ``mack the knife,'' and the song he called the national anthem, ``new york, new york.''
the trio then performed a medley of songs together, as women and at least one man dropped flowers on the stage
we bought tickets for ourselves because we knew we'll never see it again,'' said dan chaix of alameda, a 30-year-old fan who was considering flying his parents to another city so they could catch the show. ``i saw frank 15 years ago in vegas and he's better than he's ever been,'' said chaix' wife, karen
i thought they looked great. for me, it was a once in a lifetime thing,'' said maureen pobuta, 33, of san mateo. said bernice hourcade: ``i'd have died if i hadn't come tonight.''
after tuesday night's show in vancouver, british columbia, the ``together again'' tour moves to seattle on wednesday, then to chicago for two weekend shows. the tour is scheduled through october, with performances across the country. other dates are to be announced in southern california. picking up 8th graf pvs, ``hawkins testified that xxx; subs 17th graf pvs, ``on friday, the xxxx, to make 2nd reference to fields</note>
gov. evan mecham's lawyer sought a mistrial today as the governor's senate impeachment trial entered its third week, alleging that the state police have been intimidating witnesses and have made the trial ``fundamentally unfair.''
defense lawyer fred craft said that if the mistrial is not granted, his motion sought dismissal of the charge that mecham tried to obstruct an investigation of an alleged death threat
overt or subtle intimidation of witnesses who are to be called to testify in a proceeding is outrageous,'' the motion said. ``the conduct on the part of the department of public safety is so egregious that it renders this trial fundamentally unfair.''
the dps has denied attempting to intimidate witnesses, including terri fields, who was arrested friday, a day after she testified on mecham's behalf. she was arrested on a warrant that had been outstanding since january
mecham is accused of ordering dps director ralph milstead not to cooperate with an investigation of an alleged death threat by lee watkins, former head of state prison construction, against former top mecham aide donna carlson
at the time of the alleged threat on nov. 12, she was about to testify before a grand jury investigating an unreported $350,00 campaign loan to mecham. watkins has denied ms. carlson's allegations
the trial's presiding officer, frank x. gordon jr., said the motion would be heard by the senate tuesday morning
craft's motion cited ms. fields' arrest on a warrant for allegedly failing to attend an alcoholic anonymous meeting following a driving-while-intoxicated conviction. the motion also mentioned published reports of a warrant for the arrest of another prospective witness, christina johnston. the johnston warrant, for allegedly impersonating a state official while repossessing a vehicle, was never served
and, the motion said another defense witness, security expert antonio corio, changed his planned testimony on possible bugs in the governor's office after being seen getting out of milstead's car
outside, about 200 sign-carrying
outside the senate building, chanting slogans about the trial and ms. fields' arrest. the crowd cheered as craft approached the senate building, and he raised his fists into the air
meanwhile, testimony on the alleged threat continued today with former top gubernatorial aide max hawkins on the stand
hawkins testified that he was not attempting to protect watkins when he cooperated with watkins' attorney in planning a lie-detector test on whether a threat was made
watkins' attorney, dale anderson, testified last week that the conversation was taped so he and the polygrapher could have hawkins' exact language to use in preparing polygraph test questions for watkins
craft said the governor is expected to be the last defense witness and will take the stand late this week or early next week
on friday, hawkins testified that he considered the alleged threat to be ``a little spat, frivolous matter,'' and that he told mecham to forget about it and that the matter would go away
hawkins had talked with watkins and peggy griffith, a state official who testified that watkins threatened ms. carlson's life during a conversation with mrs. griffith
hawkins testified friday that watkins had told him he had said ms. carlson should keep her mouth shut about the $350,000 loan because ``there are a lot of people out there who are excitable and she could have harm come to her.''
months ago, hawkins told reporters he thought watkins' statement was ``good advice'' for ms. carlson
mecham told the house impeachment committee in january that he may have told milstead not to cooperate with the investigation, but insisted he was not adequately informed of the seriousness of the situation
watkins resigned his prison construction position after a past assault conviction was disclosed
on friday, the dps arrested fields, ms. griffith's secretary who had testified a day earlier that ms. griffith tended to exaggerate. ms. fields testified that she thought there had been no death threat
ms. fields was apprehended by dps officers and mesa police on a jan. 18 warrant for alleged failure to attend alcoholics anonymous meetings. she had been arrested on a charge of driving while intoxicated
the dps said friday's arrest came after one of its officers notified his superiors that she was wanted. craft termed the arrest an intimidation tactic by milstead, but dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt said milstead's only involvement was that he was told by officers that there was a warrant for her arrest
mecham, a first-term republican and perennial political outsider who won the governorship on his fifth try, was impeached by the house on feb. 5. in addition to the death threat allegation, he is accused of concealing the campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
a two-thirds' vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham. lawmakers also could decide to bar him from future office
some senators have said they want to seek a senate vote on whether to convict mecham after completing testimony on the death threat allegation. others oppose the idea, saying they believe all the evidence should be heard before the senate votes
mecham is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades and the first ever in arizona. effort</head>
critics of mississippi's 1890 constitution say it is anti-black and anti-business, but an unlikely coalition of blacks, business people and farmers may kill legislative efforts to rewrite the document
gov. ray mabus, who took office in january, said rewriting the constitution ``would show that mississippi is ready to take a step into the next century.''
my biggest argument is that the 1890 constitution is a document that's, in a lot of ways, gotten us into dead solid last place and that we really can't do any worse,'' said mabus, who incorporated the call for a new constitution into his successful campaign last year
the state house and senate have each passed a bill that would allow voters to decide in a november referendum whether the constitution would be rewritten in a convention. a conference committee is working out differences in the two bills
when considering the house bill, the senate deleted all convention restrictions, including a requirement that the new document include the right-to-work provision from the current constitution
it's extremely important to industry and workers'' that a new constitution include right-to-work, which forbids employers and unions from signing contracts that would require employees to be union members, said jerry mcbride of the jackson-based mississippi manufacturers association
a right-to-work statute was enacted in 1956 and added to the constitution in 1960
farmers have expressed concern that a new constitution would allow the legislature too much latitude in raising taxes. richard morgan of the mississippi farm bureau federation in jackson said he believes a current constitutional property classification provision that allows a lower tax rate for farm land ``would be overlooked.''
senators also deleted a provision for the governor to appoint 20 delegates in addition to those who would be elected from each of the 122 house districts
blacks, who represent better than 30 percent of the state's voters, have said they would oppose a convention without the gubernatorial appointments because they fear they would not be proportionately represented in delegate voting
mabus has said that if he is allowed to appoint delegates, he will geographically and racially balance the convention
black legislators have said they fear a convention might reduce the size of the legislature and make it more difficult for blacks to get elected, allow the state college board authority to close any of the state's eight institutions of higher learning, and cut the number of locally elected public officials
the college board recommended in 1985 closing mississippi valley state university, one of mississippi's three predominantly black universities, but legislators rejected the propsal
mississippi has the highest number of black elected officials in the nation. the house has 20 black members, and two blacks serve in the 52-member senate
black lawmakers said that while the original document may have been anti-black, they do not fear it now
the federal courts have removed many of the racist provisions,'' said state rep. hillman frazier, who is black
leslie mclemore, a political scientist and dean of the graduate school at predominantly black jackson state university, said he believes the current method of changing the constitution by amendment is a ``piecemeal way of overhauling a document that really needs to be rewritten.''
mclemore said if a convention is called, it will be ``extremely important that black people go out and vote.''
university of mississippi history professor david sansing is among those who favor rewriting the document. he said the old charter not only disenfranchised blacks, but poor whites as well with its poll tax and literacy requirement, although those provisions have been struck down by federal courts
that old constitution is inherently evil, so we can't modify it with amendments,'' said meridian car dealer and developer gil carmichael, who made rewriting the constitution the hallmark of unsuccessful campaigns for governor in 1975 and 1979 and for lieutenant govenor in 1983
the internal revenue service pledged support monday to a review of tax penalties that were assessed last year in some 27 million cases _ penalties that have been criticized as a special burden on the poor
at the opening of a public inquiry into the maze of 154 penalties the irs can impose, irs commissioner lawrence b. gibbs expressed the agency's own concern about the penalties, many of which were enacted by congress over the past seven years in an effort to increase compliance with the tax laws
a penalty system that operates based on the wrong principles may provide appropriate sanctions for some types of behavior and yet have an overall negative impact on taxpayer behavior because it is not perceived as fair,'' gibbs said
several witnesses at monday's hearing accused the government of using penalties to raise revenues, rather than to assure compliance with the laws
sen. david pryor, d-ark., chairman of a senate finance subcommittee that oversees the irs, cited the case of one business that underpaid employment taxes by 2 cents and was hit with a penalty of $400.29
we've created some sort of a monster here,'' pryor said. ``we're going to change that some way.''
gibbs and o. donaldson chapoton, assistant secretary of the treasury for tax policy, endorsed a thorough review of tax penalties. a review also was endorsed by the chamber of commerce, the national association of manufacturers and associations representing lawyers, accountants and other tax professionals
we certainly hope there's not any reaction ... by irs agents in the field ... that penalties should be used as means of raising revenue,'' chapoton said
the university of akron center for taxation studies said that when one penalty is stacked atop another, it indicates a goal of raising revenue
a major problem with penalties, said james w. childs, director of the university's tax clinic program, is that congress has not given the irs sufficient guidance on how penalties should be applied. as a result, he said, penalties often are applied to taxpayers who have neither the funds to hire a lawyer or accountant nor knowledge of how the system works
the low-income taxpayer has about as much knowledge of how to obtain abatement of a penalty through problems resolution (the irs' ``consumer advocate'') as he-she does of getting to the moon,'' said childs. ``abuses by high-income taxpayers have brought about a plethora of new penalties. unfortunately, the low-income taxpayer has been caught in this net.''
an even more basic problem, childs said, is the difficulty in reading irs tax forms in general. he cited a finding that instructions for form 1040ez _ the simplest tax form _ require an 8.45 grade reading level, compared to a 7.1 level to read the wall street journal
penalties in the tax law range from $1 for failing to file a statement on payment of dividends totaling less than $10 to a maximum of 25 percent of the tax owed for failing to pay on time to $10,000 for abetting a corporation in the understatement of its tax liability. in 1987, the irs assessed 27 million penalties totaling $14 billion and excused another 4 million for $4 billion
pryor criticized irs for the way it applies penalties against taxpayers who file what the irs considers frivolous returns. congress created the penalty, which can be as much as $500, to discourage taxpayers from using arguments such as self-incrimination to avoid a proper tax return
pryor said he has evidence the irs is imposing the penalty against those who write critical notes to the agency on their returns, even though the returns are completed and signed. he cited the much-publicized case of a montana woman who was hit with a penalty for such behavior and whose husband's life insurance policy was seized before a federal judge intervened
if that little old lady lived in arkansas or new jersey, would she get the same penalty?'' pryor asked gibbs. ``who makes those decisions?''
gibbs promised to check into the montana case but pryor quickly cautioned against it. ``i don't think she wants you to review her case and flag her return,'' the senator said
guards in a brink's armored truck foiled a robbery attempt monday when they returned fire on armed bandits who blocked a street on the city's outskirts with a truck and road grader, police said
five or six bandits opened fire on the armored truck from behind the roadblock and from a car, police said. but the guards shot back and forced the bandits to flee
there were no reports of injuries to guards or robbers
authorities did not disclose how much money was aboard the brink's securmark truck that was carrying the payroll for five or six businesses
the senate voted 83-0 monday to approve a 31-nation treaty curbing emissions of chemicals that destroy the high-altitude layer of ozone which makes life on earth possible
the treaty calls for a 20 percent reduction from 1986 emissions of the most active chlorofluorocarbon compounds, called cfcs, to take effect in 1993. there would be an additional 30 percent cut in mid-1998
participating countries also pledged to impose trade restrictions on products containing cfc compounds from countries not signing the treaty
major producing nations and the european common market agreed to the cuts last september in montreal under prodding from the united states, canada and the scandinavian nations _ countries that banned use of cfc compounds in aerosol sprays in 1978. the united states had sought a 95 percent reduction
european countries before that had argued that a ban on new production capacity would be sufficient to protect ozone. the soviet union, a major producer, won special provisions permitting that country to use the output of plants under construction and exceed the emissions limits temporarily. the soviets signed the treaty in december
the soviet exemptions, and similar provisions for developing nations, have led the environmental defense fund to conclude that the actual emissions reduction in 1998 could be only 35 percent instead of 50 percent
backers of the treaty hope it will serve as a model for international agreement to control the ``greenhouse effect,'' the expected warming of the earth caused by the growing concentration of several gases in the atmosphere, notably carbon dioxide from fossil fuel combustion
cfc compounds, first formed in 1929, are widely used in refrigeration, production of plastic foams and as solvents to clean computer equipment
the compounds may last 100 years in the atmosphere, eventually rising to the ozone layer, 15 miles to 25 miles above the earth's surface
the environmental protection agency has estimated that a 1 percent shrinkage of the earth's ozone layer will increase skin cancer by 5 percent or 6 percent
whether the ozone layer is shrinking is hard to determine because ozone normally fluctuates every year, with sunspots and volcanic eruptions influencing how much is formed. the national aeronautics and space administration is scheduled to report tuesday on whether the ozone layer is getting thinner
nasa researchers have said there might have been a decline of about 0.5 percent per year recently _ but that estimate was uncertain, and was being debated in a review group of 100 scientists from around the world
the treaty will not come into force until at least 11 countries, representing two-thirds of the world's production capacity for cfc compounds, have ratified it. the united states will become the second country, behind mexico, to ratify
the military is killing and terrorizing civilians under the pretense of fighting communism, and the campaign has gone unchecked by the government, a human rights group charged monday
task force-detainees, a group formed by the roman catholic church to monitor rights violations under ousted president ferdinand marcos, charged that the military began its spree two months ago in northeastern aurora province
it called for an investigation and claimed that atrocities included the feb. 11 slaying of roberto rivares, a leftist provincial leader who helped organize the group's probe
at a news conference, the group introduced a 6-year-old boy who said he was the only member of his family to survive a jan. 23 massacre. five others died
i saw soldiers shoot my father and mother, after which they turned to me and shot me in both legs,'' said ronaldo guzman, his legs in casts
the rights group also claimed more than 1,000 people had fled their homes in the town of dinalungan, about 120 miles northeast of manila, to escape military operations
it said the violence was being waged under the guise of battling the 19-year-old communist insurgency in the philippines
in the past, during marcos' time, we had military in the towns in the north but there was not this kind of strafing, massacre and burning of houses,'' said bishop julio xavier labayen. ``we're sitting on a powder keg.''
in a statement, the group said: ``task force-detainees hopes that president (corazon) aquino will not simply dismiss this violation as yet another `total lie' but instead will treat the matter with grave concern.''
mrs. aquino became president in 1986 after marcos was toppled from power
bienvenido amora, chief investigator for the government's human rights commission, said he would contact the group about the charges
we would have appreciated it very much if the task force-detainees had brought this matter to the attention of the commission on human rights so that the (commission) could proceed to investigate this case accordingly,'' he said
last week, the task force said its investigation showed 7,444 filipino civilians were arrested illegally last year, eclipsing the 5,967 arrests in 1985 under marcos. spokesman noel salazar said 672 of those detained in 1987 were tortured
the same day, amnesty international claimed similar atrocities in a report released in london
mrs. aquino branded the amnesty report ``one-sided'' and charged it had relied on task force-detainees for its information. she challenged both groups to provide evidence
a 31-year-old pacifist on monday entered the fourth week of a hunger strike to try to win an alternative to compulsory military service
in october, a military court sentenced michael marangakis to four years in prison on insubordination charges. on feb. 22, an appeals court reduced his sentence to 26 months
the 6-foot 5-inch woodcarver, who weighed 222 pounds, started his hunger strike the next day. he said he has lost 22 pounds since then and will take only fruit juice and milk every other day until the greek government establishes conscientious objection to military service
i won't eat until the government recognizes the right of the individual to act on the basis of conscience,'' marangakis said in an interview at avlon military prison 29 miles north of athens
military service is compulsory in greece, where it averages about 21 months. unlike some other european countries, greece offers no option to compulsory service, and objectors are routinely given long prison terms
legal experts say there are about 300 greeks imprisoned for refusing to serve in the military. almost all are jehovah's witnesses
marangakis belongs to one of the ancient eastern orthodox churches but says his pacifism is derived mainly from personal ideals rather than his religion
stelios nestos, one of marangakis' three attorneys, said that 11 other conscientious objectors had recently gone into hiding after they were called up. but marangakis presented himself to a military camp in drama, in northern greece, where he was called up in march 1987
marangakis said he was planning to appeal his sentence to greece's supreme court
a new law under debate in the greek parliament seeks to abolish prison terms for conscientious objectors but doesn't provide for alternative service. instead, conscientious objectors will be required to serve double time in the armed forces as non-combatants
but marangakis said he would refuse to serve as a non-combatant because it represents a form of military service
a year after he stepped down from his ptl television ministry because of a sex scandal, jim bakker returned to the pulpit at a trailer park in california
tammy faye bakker introduced her husband to 225 suntanned retirees at a service sunday in niland, calif., according to a report in monday's charlotte observer
this has been a long, hard year for us,'' mrs. bakker said. ``i am very happy to introduce to you my husband. i would like to welcome him back to the place where he belongs, in the pulpit, ministering the gospel of jesus christ.''
bakker, who resigned after admitting having a sexual encounter with church secretary jessica hahn, preached about friendship for 30 minutes, then grinned and hugged members of the congregation
i've always said over the years if i could give you a gift, the most important gift would be a good friend,'' bakker said
bakker's uncle charles ``lonnie'' irwin is pastor of the park's lutheran congregation during the winter
smell or no smell, bruce springsteen and the e street band are returning to tacoma
the tunnel of love express tour stops in tacoma on may 5 and 6, columbia records announced sunday
during his last appearance here in october 1984, one of his two shows was delayed a night after springsteen became ill, apparently from a virus. however, rolling stone magazine later reported that the boss and other members of the tour became sick because of tacoma's legendary stink
john morrison, promoter of the 1984 concert, said springsteen and his band left town the morning after the concert because of the smell
tacoma, home to a pulp mill and other industrial plants, long has been famous for its aroma
tony aliengena's solo adventure in an ultralight plane was a high for him, but aviation officials aren't sure whether the 9-year-old boy became the youngest pilot to solo
the san juan capistrano boy piloted the quicksilver gt ultralight airplane for 3{ minutes sunday in calm, sunny weather at oceanside municipal airport
it was smooth throughout,'' tony said
don taylor, who observed the flight as a representative of the national aeronautics association, conceded it was a solo flight but couldn't say how it might be classified by the naa, which certifies aviation records
the naa typically notes ultralight records for speed, distance and time, taylor said, but it might create a new category or just ``recognize'' tony's flight
the guinness book of world records lists the youngest solo pilot as cody a. locke, who flew a cessna 150 near mexical, mexico, in 1983 at 9 years, 316 days. on sunday, tony was 9 years and 295 days old
on march 30, tony and an instructor will take off for boston in a cessna 210, in an effort to become the youngest pilot to fly across the united states
for his role as an executive trapped in his 11-year-old son's body in the new release ``vice versa,'' boyish actor judge reinhold asked for help from a ``beverly hills cop ii'' co-star
reinhold studied the speech of 11-year-old fred savage
i had fred tape record all my lines, so i could go home and listen to all his inflections and stuff. the kid that i play is in such an incredibly new situation,'' the 30-year-old actor said
some people say that i just kind of walk through it, gawking,'' he said of his role in the movie, which was the nation's no. 2 box-office draw in its debut last weekend. ``but my feeling was that the kid was in this state of wonder about the situation he was in, you know?''
reinhold said he and fred ``hung out a lot.''
the neat thing about him is that he's incredibly bright but he's still a kid,'' reinhold said
bob dumas celebrated his 73rd birthday by playing that many tennis games to prove a point
why does jack lalane pull a boat through the san francisco channel on his birthday? we want to show people that we're proud of the fact that we take care of our bodies,'' dumas said sunday after he finished his 73rd game at pleasant view orchard park
the important thing is that when you get old, you're healthy. when you read about all these people in the obituaries that say they lived to 80, 85, they're just living out their heartbeats, just existing. ... old age is a privilege that's not granted to everybody.''
dumas, who teaches tennis and is a spokesman for holiday health clubs, has celebrated his birthday the same way for three years. he said he plays tennis at least once a week most of the year and every day in the summer
asked how he keeps going for 73 games, dumas said, ``i drink gatorade and eat granola.''
twelve-year-old tomiko womack won a letter of praise from nancy reagan and first place in a science fair for encouraging young people to avoid drugs
the sixth-grader had written to the first lady to invite her to the fair, where tomiko displayed her poster titled, ``how drugs affect our nation.'' she added mrs. reagan's reply to her poster, which won first place in the sociology category
tomiko got a similar response from rep. richard ray, d-ga., to her invitation
i was very surprised when i got the letters,'' tomiko said. ``i feel greatly honored and will treasure them forever.''
south africa's foreign minister said monday that angola has not presentated a plan for withdrawal of the estimated 40,000 cuban troops in that country and a timetable remains a central issue for regional peace
roelof f. botha was asked at a news conference about an announcement sunday by angola that it and cuba had given u.s. officials proposals for a southern africa peace accord including a timetable for cuban troop withdrawal. he replied: ``that is not correct.''
in washington, state department spokesman charles redman said monday the angolan proposal ``appears to break no new ground'' on the issue of cuba's military presence in angola
botha said the withdrawal timetable, along with who would supervise the pullout, ``is the issue that must be taken up.''
he spoke to reporters after a day of talks with chester a. crocker, the u.s. assistant secretary of state who specializes in southern africa, aimed at advancing plans for peace in the region
botha said they had ``extensive'' discussions of the situation in southern africa and ``the question of cuban withdrawal as a prerequisite for implementing a settlement in south-west africa-namibia. we discussed extensively the possibilities that exist in this respect.''
i've received interesting information,'' he added, and described the talks as ``useful'' but would not give details. botha said he and crocker might meet again tuesday, but that nothing was set
since 1981, crocker has tried to negotiate a withdrawal of cuban troops from angola in return for an end to south african control over neighboring south-west africa, also known as namibia. his last meeting with botha was two years ago
cuban troops help angola's marxist government fight the national union for the total independence of angola, or unita, a guerrilla force backed by south africa and the united states
in january, cuba declared a willingness in principle to leave angola but no deal has been negotiated
on sunday, unita leader jonas savimbi said south africa had told him it would begin direct talks with angola on the angolan civil war, which began with independence from portugal in 1975
asked about this at the news conference, botha responded: ``i have said that i have no problem in talking directly with luanda (the angolan capital) and to a large number of other african states.''
he denied reports that preliminary talks for such negotiations had been held. ``it's not necessary,'' he said. ``i could pick up a telephone and talk now.''
kundi payama, no. 2 man in luanda, repeated that angola was prepared to negotiate directly with south africa but also said previous direct talks on other matters had not produced results
i think we can negotiate with the south africans at any time as long as they deal honestly with us,'' he said, ``but not if (the talks) turn out to be just a tactic for gaining time.''
defense secretary frank carlucci was to ask his soviet counterpart at talks beginning tuesday in switzerland whether highly publicized changes in kremlin military doctrine mean reductions in soviet forces
carlucci, meeting tuesday through thursday with soviet defense minister dmitri yazov, will also discuss arms control, human rights, the proposed soviet withdrawl from afghanistan, and such dangerous military situations as a collision between u.s. and soviet warships in the black sea last month, a senior pentagon official told reporters monday
carlucci has said he doesn't want the meeting to pre-empt talks on reducing nuclear and conventional forces, but he does want to ask yazov about the emerging soviet doctrine of ``reasonable sufficiency.''
we would like to get an idea of where they are going,'' said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
we will be asking them if this (new doctrine) is ... truly a change in their policy and not just a public recitation,'' said the official. ``what changes in soviet equipment will we see? will there be a shift in force structure?''
over the years, we have seen quite a disparity (between) their nuclear doctrine and what force structure they have actually acquired,'' said the official
as early as 1977, then-soviet leader leonid i. breznev proclaimed that nuclear war was unwinnable. but the soviets continued to bolster their nuclear arsenal, adding mobile long-range missiles that u.s. officials say could dodge a u.s. strike. such a capability, they say, appears contrary to the doctrine of mutual assured destruction, implied by soviet statements that nuclear war is unwinnable and insane
as far as the new doctrine of reasonable sufficiency is concerned, said the pentagon official, ``we don't see any physical indication'' of change. ``that's why we want to ask them where to look.''
at the top of the american agenda, said the official, will be so-called ``dangerous incidents,'' such as the bumping incident in the black sea on feb. 12, as well as the slaying of a u.s. army officer in east germany in 1987 and the wounding of another last september
soviet spokesman gennadi gerasimov blamed the collision on two u.s. warships which passed within 12 miles of the soviet coast in what american officials called an assertion of the right of innocent passage from one body of international water to another
unlike the united states, which claims a three-mile territorial limit, the soviet union claims that its territory extends 12 miles beyond its shores. u.s. officials recognize that limit but insist on the right of ``innocent passage,'' in this case from one side of the crimean peninsula to the other
administration spokesmen said that two soviet vessels rammed the american ships
whatever the soviet objections to the presence of u.s. ships in their waters, the pentagon official said monday, ``ramming ships ... is hardly a proportionate and proper action ... people could get killed.''
the soviets have never apologized for fatally shooting u.s. army maj. arthur d. nicholson in east germany on march 24, 1985, although they did apologize for wounding army master sgt. charles l. barry, shot in the arm by a soviet soldier on sept. 16, 1987
carlucci hopes his meeting with yazov will lead to guidelines to prevent such dangerous incidents, including near-collisions between u.s. and soviet warplanes near one another's borders
obviously, both sides use their aircraft to investigate intruders and potential intruders,'' the senior pentagon official told reporters. ``but there are safe ways to do that.''
flying right in front of aircraft with erratic maneuvers, close fly-bys that come within inches, are dangerous practices,'' said the official
administration officials say that sometimes superpower interceptors fly close enough to an intruder's wing that the resulting air current forces the opposing aircraft away from the border
a recent near-collision involved a long-range navy surveillance airplane, a p-3 orion, and a soviet mig-23 flogger over the sea of japan on jan. 11. the soviet interceptor came within 15 feet of the orion, pentagon officials said
carlucci was scheduled to depart from andrews air force base near washington monday evening, arrive in the swiss capital of bern on tuesday, dine with yazov tuesday night, meet him twice wednesday and once thursday before returning to washington later that day
sikh extremists killed 21 people in punjab state, including a family of four, it was reported monday
police shot and killed balraj singh, a sikh radical wanted for several murders in patiala on monday, according to the state police control center in chandigarh
the deaths late sunday and early monday raised to at least 451 the number of killings blamed on sikh radicals this year
sikh militants have been fighting since 1982 for more autonomy or an independent homeland for the sect in punjab. the northern state, the country's richest agricultural area, is the only one of hindu-dominated india where sikhs have a majority
the united news of india reported that sardul singh, his wife and two daughters were shot to death early monday in jhander, a village in amritsar district. the gunmen burned the family's house to the ground before fleeing, it said
responsibility was claimed by the bhindranwale tiger force, one of more than a dozen radical groups in punjab. police said a note left at the scene said singh, a sikh, was being ``punished'' for extortion and looting, but they gave no details
eight other people were slain in amritsar district, including four hindus in dallin village, uni said
a retired sikh police constable identified as gajjan singh was shot to death in ludhiana district and two hindu men were pulled from a truck and shot down in jalandhar district, the news agency reported. both districts are in central punjab
a group of sikh militants riding a jeep sprayed bullets at a bus terminus in hoshiarpur killing six people on the spot, police in chandigarh said. the identitities of the victims were not immediately known
prime minister rajiv gandhi's government has been trying to stem the violence since last may, when it removed the state administration and put punjab under federal rule
on march 4, gandhi ordered five sikh high priests released from jail in an apparent effort to get them involved against terrorism. he dissolved the punjab assembly two days later, paving the way for militants to compete in anticipated elections
there have been no signs, however, that priests and other sikh leaders will move against the radicals
more than 25,000 people were taken into police custody monday as authorities moved to block a nationwide strike to protest corruption and official incompetence, officials said
nine opposition parties, including the communists, have scheduled the strike for tuesday to protest government corruption, failure to halt secterian violence and to demand better facilities for farmers and farm laborers
police in the southern state of madras took 25,000 people into custody to halt violence during the strike, a police officer in state capital of madras said
uni reported that 500 people were arrested in the eastern orissa state
it said state governments across india deployed additional security forces monday to guard important installations and to maintain law and order
besides the two communist parties, the major sponsor of the strike is the ``jan morcha'' or people's front, an umbrella group of disgruntled members of prime minister rajiv gandhi's govering congress party
the parties have accused the government of failure to contain sikh separatist violence in punjab where 450 people were killed by suspected sikh radicals this year
radical sikhs want to seceede from the indian union and turn the state of punjab into an independent sikh nation
opposition leaders have also accused gandhi of shielding members of his party from corruption inquiries involving foreign arms deals
the government banned more than 800,000 cars and taxis from the downtown commercial district monday to combat the city's acrid, eye-stinging smog
hundreds of policemen were stationed along three central arteries that form a triangle around the city's main shopping zone, blocking 45 streets
the ban is part of a campaign started in january to disperse a thick brown cloud known as the ``nefos'' that hangs over the city. scientists have blamed it on emissions from cars, diesel-powered taxis and aging buses
the cloud forms over the mountain-ringed athens basin when there are sudden changes in temperature, and pollutants are trapped in a still layer of air near the ground
under the new rules, trucks will be allowed in the downtown commercial district for four hours in the morning and 2{ hours in the afternoon to resupply shops. the area's 100 permanent residents were issued special permits for their vehicles
police lt. panayiotis stathatos, in charge of applying the measures, said there was a total traffic ban on 14 streets and a partial ban on 31 streets from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m
so far, we've had about a 60 percent success rate. a lot of drivers still don't know what streets have been blocked to traffic, so we are showing a little lenience to violators,'' he said
drivers face an $85 fine for illegally entering the one square-mile district near constitution square
another measure already in force bans half the city's private cars and half its 15,000 taxis from entering the 5-square-mile inner city area on alternate days. vehicles circulate there according to the last digit on their license plates
as part of the pollution-cutting campaign, the government has also abolished the traditional afternoon siesta in favor of a continuous workday for stores and ordered strict checks on industrial emissions
at least one group opposed monday's ban. ``it's created a mess. it was taken quickly, spasmodically and without sound planning,'' said panaghis stavrides, vice-president of the 1,600-member athens trade association
the latest traffic restrictions will last through may, when their effects will be evaluated
president reagan contended on monday that the star wars anti-missile program has progressed more rapidly than first thought and accused congress of being ``irresponsible in the extreme'' for cutting the budget of the futuristic defense plan
marking the fifth anniversary of his announcement that the united states would develop a space-based shield against nuclear missiles, reagan opened an administration drive to assure that star wars, as the strategic defense initiative is known, survives beyond his presidency
even though reagan has sent his last budget to congress, he pledged in an address to a group of scientists and business executives that sdi will continue its phased deployment
we will continue to research sdi, to develop and test it, and as it becomes ready, we will deploy it,'' reagan vowed
the president renewed charges that without star wars, the united states will be at the mercy of an advanced soviet space-weapons program
a recent report by the department of defense called `the soviet space challege' warns that the soviet space program points in one disturbing direction ... the methodical pursuit of a war-fighting capability in space,'' reagan said
because congress has made cuts for the past four years in administration sdi requests, ``we would be dangerously unprepared,'' reagan argued
reagan lauded a recent round of sdi tests in which a delta rocket released a satellite, as well as dummy and decoy warheads, into space. the satellite then tracked the objects, attempting to tell the mock warheads from the decoys _ an essential task of any anti-missile system. sdi is envisioned to be a combination of ground- and space-based weapons using lasers and other exotic technology
some of the difficulties they said were insurmountable have already been surmounted, much more rapidly and effectively than anticipated,'' reagan said, adding that the test ``showed a technical ability that some scientists ... had said could not be achieved so quickly.''
reagan contended that congressional curbs on administration sdi budget requests have ``set the program back one to two years.''
in the last fiscal year, the administration sought $5.7 billion for star wars, but congress allowed only $3.6 billion
opponents of the program argue that it will cost untold billions and add to the nation's burgeoning deficits. others contend it is technically unfeasible and will encourage the soviets to abandon arms control efforts and increase their offensive weapons in order to defeat u.s. defensive systems
there's been a tendency by some in congress to discuss sdi as if its funding could be determined purely by domestic considerations, unconnected to what the soviets are doing,'' reagan said, ``that is, to put it plainly, irresponsible in the extreme.''
the president argued that ``some in the u.s. congress'' have denied additional funds ``because they say sdi won't work. well, it won't if we don't develop it and test it.''
congress should realize that it is no longer a question of whether there will be a sdi program or not. the only question will be whether the soviets are the only ones who have strategic defenses while the united states remains entirely defenseless,'' reagan said
reagan's campaign comes as congress has placed constraints on sdi testing and expenditures, and as soviet arms control negotiators in geneva attempt to crimp the u.s. effort amid negotiations on a u.s.-soviet treaty to slash strategic nuclear weapon arsenals by half
capitol hill banned the use of federal funds for any sdi tests that would violate a strict interpretation of the 1972 anti-ballistic missile treaty. but pentagon officials, including defense secretary frank c. carlucci, have said no such tests are panned for the near future
the soviet union has argued that the abm treaty forbids research, testing and development of an sdi system. the reagan administration has insisted on a ``broad'' interpretation of the treaty that would permit expanded sdi tests and development
the u.s.-soviet contest over star wars sparked the breakdown in arms control negotiations between reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev at their iceland summit in 1986
at their last meeting in washington, the two agreed to disagree for a time on the issue, saying in a joint communique they would observe the abm treaty ``as signed in 1972, while conducting their research, development and testing as required.''
one of the west german siamese twins separated in an unprecendented operation in september is in stable condition at johns hopkins hospital after having swallowing and breathing problems, officials said
patrick binder's problems began sunday, said lisa hillman, spokeswoman at johns hopkins
the twins, now 13 months old, were joined at birth at the back of the skull. doctors worked 23 consecutive hours over labor day weekend to separate them
last month, titanium mesh was implanted in their skulls to fill in the open areas created by the separation
the twins had been scheduled to go home sometime in march. ms. hillman said she did not know how patrick's problems might affect that
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis made a final bid monday to drain illinois primary support from favorite son paul simon, saying that a brokered convention might bring disaster for their party in the fall
sen. simon, short on funds and far behind in the delegate chase, has said he is on the ballot in illinois because he wants to play a role at a brokered democratic national convention next summer in atlanta
citing published polls, massachusetts gov. dukakis claimed ``significant gains'' in recent days in his bid to catch simon and a second favorite son in the race, chicago civil rights activist jesse jackson
but his aides sent conflicting signals about his likely finish in tuesday's election. spokesman mark gearan said anything better than third place was unlikely. but mike bakalis, illinois campaign chairman for dukakis, said it was ``very possible'' the governor might slip into second place behind jackson, with simon falling into third
from the moment he began his campaign day with an early morning commuter train ride in chicago, dukakis spoke out against a brokered convention
at an airport news conference in springfield, he suggested it could damage democratic prospects of winning the white house
he said that to finish the primary season in june and then have democrats ``spend seven or eight weeks negotiating, dealing, people behind closed doors trying to decide who the nominee ought to be, while mr. bush, if he is the republican nominee, is kind of sitting there, smiling at all of this, i think would be a disaster.''
the last thing in the world we need is a brokered convention,'' he said as he hopscotched across the state in his chartered campaign jet
the last thing we need is six people in the back room at atlanta deciding who the nominee will be.''
dukakis never mentioned simon by name, even avoiding a direct answer when a reporter asked if a vote for the senator was a vote for a brokered convention
still, there was no doubt that the governor's criticism was aimed at simon
dukakis is in third place in the illinois polls, but some surveys show front-runner simon dropping with jackson challenging him for the lead and dukakis moving up to a closer third-place position
the same surveys indicate that dukakis is drawing his last-minute support from simon's supporters. dukakis' aides say privately they would be delighted to see jackson beat simon, believing it would drive the senator from the race
illinois sen. paul simon said monday he has no plans for his democratic presidential bid beyond his home state primary, which he said ``i have to win and i will win.''
a strong second isn't very strong,'' simon said as he greeted suburban commuters in the bitter cold at a downtown train station
simon said if he finishes second in the popular vote or in the selection of delegates, ``i'd have to re-evaluate.''
i have no plans beyond tomorrow,'' said simon, who was joined by his wife, jeanne. ``i have to win and i will win.''
jesse (jackson) and i will be the no. 1 and no. 2 finishers tomorrow, but the biggest competition is mike dukakis because of the huge amount of money he is spending,'' simon said
simon acknowledged that his ``finances are not great,'' but added, ``we have matching fund money that's coming in ... that will take care of our bank loans.''
he would not put a dollar figure on how much is left in campaign coffers
in a speech later in the day before a labor group in peoria, simon declined to explain his plans to re-evaluate in the event of a home-state defeat
i'm not going to go down that path,'' he told a crowd of about 100 local labor leaders. ``we're gonna win this thing.''
simon insisted he is still a major force, despite having less than a tenth of the delegates of each of the democratic front-runners
there are a lot of delegates yet to be chosen. at the convention there should be five of us with blocks of delegates,'' said simon, who is counting on a brokered convention
he said his blueprint for victory at a brokered convention is winning illinois, then collecting delegates in michigan, wisconsin, new york and ohio, and appealing to labor, educators and senior citizens to put togther a coalition to win the nomination
it's going to be a wide-open convention,'' simon told the labor hall crowd, who interrupted his 15-minute speech several times with applause
two white students linked to an attack on two black students have been banned from living on the university of massachusetts campus, a spokeswoman said monday
punishment was handed down late last week for three of the five white students accused in the feb. 7 attack of two black men who accompanied a white woman to a party
the beatings kicked off a six-day takeover of a university building last month by minority students
two of the five students, whose names were withheld by the university, had withdrawn from the university before disciplinary hearings. those two were evicted from their dormitory rooms by officials feb. 13 during a preliminary hearing
of the remaining three students, two were found guilty of violating the university's rules on assault and all three were found to have violated the university's rules on drinking
all three were ordered to undergo an alcohol education program and two were placed on disciplinary probation for the rest of this school year and the 1988-89 school year, said school spokeswoman jeanne hopkins
lawyers for the students were out of their offices monday and could not be reached for comment. the students have until march 30 to appeal
testimony in a show-cause hearing on whether criminal charges should be filed against the five and a sixth man, who was not a student, was to resume tuesday. saturday.</note>
pornographic actor john holmes, who made hundreds of sexually explicit films during a career spanning two decades, has died. he was 43 years old and reportedly had aids
holmes, a leading sex film actor of the 1970s and early '80s, died at 1 a.m. sunday at the veterans administration medical center in sepulveda, said his manager, adult film producer william amerson
the cause of death was not immediately known, amerson said sunday. the los angeles times, citing anonymous sources, reported earlier this month that holmes was gravely ill with acquired immune deficiency syndrome
the hospital refused to immediately confirm the death
holmes' death came weeks after police re-questioned him in the unsolved 1981 bludgeoning murders of four people in a laurel canyon home. holmes was acquitted of the murders during a 1982 trial in which jurors cited a lack of corroborating evidence
holmes remained in jail for 111 days after the trial for refusing to tell the los angeles county grand jury what he knew about the slayings. during his incarceration he said his life had been threatened by ``bad people with guns, bad breath and no sense of humor.''
he was released after testifying to the grand jury, but no one else was ever charged in the slayings, which remain unsolved
at the trial, the prosecutor alleged that holmes led the murderers at gunpoint to the house at the orders of a nightclub owner seeking revenge for a robbery
during this year's questioning, holmes refused to talk about the case, his attorney, mitchell egers, said two weeks ago
in his career, holmes made hundreds of sexually explicit films and thousands of peep shows. he was most notorious for his portrayal of the character ``johnny wadd,'' a detective
he also admitted after his trial that he had a $1,000-a-day cocaine habit that took the money he made from porn films
aids is transmitted through sex, shared hypodermic needles, tainted blood products and from pregnant women to their babies
a robbery suspect who claimed he had aids was locked in a patrol car and towed to a police station after he threatened to bite any officer who approached him, authorities said monday
raymond simmons, 27, was removed from the squad car by police wearing protective gear and taken to roosevelt hospital, where he was seen by doctors in the emergency room and released 20 minutes later, officials said
a hospital spokeswoman said she could not comment on simmons' condition because of confidentiality restrictions. police said he was classified as emotionally disturbed
aids is known to be transmitted through sexual contact, dirty needles, tainted blood, and from mother to fetus. there are no documented cases of the fatal disease being transmitted by biting, said gayle lloyd, spokeswoman for the federal centers for disease control in atlanta
the incident involving simmons started sunday morning, said police spokesman joseph mcconville. simmons allegedly grabbed money from a teen-ager's pocket and a fistfight ensued, mcconville said. police arrived, handcuffed simmons and put him in the squad car
as the officers interviewed the teen-ager, simmons, wearing a wig and makeup, ``started cursing and kicking in the rear of the radio car and told the cops he had aids and was going to die and would take them with him,'' mcconville said. ``he said he would bite first cop that came near him.''
police called emergency services officers, who are trained to deal with distraught people, and summoned a tow truck, mcconville said. the truck towed the squad car to the police station, where emergency services officers removed simmons, he said
simmons faced a charge of attempted robbery, police said
the first foreign mission under a new law to promote u.s. agricultural trade will go to indonesia and the philippines this spring, agriculture secretary richard e. lyng announced monday
exact dates will be negotiated with the countries, although lyng said the trip will be in mid-spring
the mission will include representatives from the departments of agriculture and state, and the u.s. agency for international development. three to six representatives of the private sector also will be selected for the trip to indonesia and the philippines
during my recent trip to asia, i discussed possible missions with the leaders and key agricultural officials of both countries,'' lyng said. ``we agreed that these missions would not only address the food needs of these countries, but would help develop customers for u.s. agricultural exports as well.''
the trips are required by the agricultural aid and trade missions act, passed by congress late last year. it specified that 16 missions be conducted in 1988, with eight to be completed by june
by offering specially designed packages of u.s. trade and food assistance, the goal of the program is to help the designated countries develop and to become larger markets for american farmers
three-time grammy-winner deniece williams, who had a hit with ``let's hear it for the boy,'' now will hear from one _ her new son
forrest matthew westering, born saturday at westlake community hospital, weighed in at 9 pounds, 3 ounces
mother and child are doing fine,'' said press agent bob angelotti, adding that the two will remain in the hospital for several days
forrest is the first child for the singer and her husband, brad westering, who were married in 1986
miss williams, 35, who has two children from a previous marriage, recently won her third grammy for best female gospel performance for ``i believe in you'' on the album ``water under the bridge.''
miss williams began her career as a backup singer for stevie wonder. she moved into the limelight in 1978 when she recorded a no. 1 single, ``too much, too little, too late,'' with johnny mathis
angelotti said miss williams is planning to go into the studio next month to record a new album. revolt</head>
two leftist leaders who were arrested after returning from exile were charged monday with trying to lead a communist revolution in turkey
nihat sargin, secretary-general of the turkish labor party, and haydar kutlu, secretary-general of the turkish communist party, have been held since they returned to their country from west germany in november
an indictment issued monday contended the two ``established a party with the aim of changing the constitutional order in turkey and indulged in clandestine activities to serve their purposes.''
if convicted, the defendants face prison terms totaling 275 years each
kutlu and sargin returned from exile shortly after their respective parties agreed to merge into a single turkish communist party. turkey's constitution and criminal code forbid the establishment of a communist party
kutlu, 44, and sargin, 62, also were charged with smuggling into the country illegal publications that contained articles allegedly insulting the president and the turkish government
kutlu and sargin have claimed that the indictments were based on statements they gave while being tortured
sargin wrote to premier turgut ozal on thursday, reiterating the torture allegations, newspapers reported monday
the indictment also accused 12 other turks of being members of the turkish communist party and demanded up to 12 years of imprisonment for each
tamil separatists raided a sinhalese village monday, killed 11 sinhalese civilians and seriously injured six others, military officials said
the raid was the latest in a series of attacks on sinhalese and tamil civilians by extremists in the northeast section of this island nation
on friday, 22 tamils were killed in an attack on a bus
government officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the attack took place monday afternoon on the galmetiya village, about 11 miles south of the northeastern city of trincomalee
we blame the tamil tigers for this attack and cannot give more details,'' one official said
he refused to speculate why the tigers may have attacked the village. during the past week, 67 civilians have been killed in revenge slayings in the eastern parts of sri lanka
in an attack on a bus and a village, tamil tigers killed 45 sinhalese civilians last week in the north eastern trincomalee district
on friday, a group of men wearing masks and black uniforms attacked a passenger bus near the horawapatans village, 28 miles west of trincomalee
eighteen passengers, all tamils, were killed and burned in the attack, and four more died in hospitals
police who arrested 15 sinhalese men said the bus attack was carried out by sinhalese extremists avenging earlier killings of sinhalese citizens
in batticaloa on monday, sri lankan police used tear gas to disperse about 2,000 people trying to march in support of a tamil woman on a fast for peace
witnesses said about 2,000 men, women and children tried to walk from ariampattai village, five miles south east of batticaloa, to the pillaiyar hindu temple where a 58-year-old tamil woman has been fasting
annamma david, who has not eaten since feb. 19, demands that the indian government call an unconditional cease-fire and begin negotiations with the tamil tiger rebels to end the fighting. the rebels have put up posters in the northern capital of jaffna calling for a week-long strike beginning tuesday in support mrs. david's fast
militant tamils have been fighting since 1983 for a separate state in northern and eastern sri lanka, where most tamils live
india has an estimated 45,000 soldiers in sri lanka to try to enforce an indian-sponsored peace accord signed last july to try to end the war
tamils, most of whom are hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population. they claim they are discriminated against by the majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and the military
india has become involved because it has 60 million ethnic tamils in its southern states
chinese and vietnamese ships exchanged fire monday near disputed islands in the south china sea, and each side accused the other of firing first, news reports said
radio press, quoting radio broadcasts from the two communist capitals, said the exchange took place near the spratly islands, a collection of islets and reefs claimed by vietnam, china and the philippines
the exchange prompted harsh denunciations from hanoi and beijing and threatened to escalate tensions between the two neighbors
china expressed ``great anger and strong protest'' over the incident in a letter delivered to the vietnamese embassy in beijing, according to radio press, which monitors broadcasts from communist nations in tokyo
the report, quoting a broadcast by radio beijing, said vietnamese vessels fired on chinese warships conducting routine patrols and research in the area. it said the chinese ships returned fire in self-defense
vietnam's foreign ministry accused china of distorting the facts. it condemned beijing for what it called an armed attack on two vietnamese cargo ships conducting ``routine operations.''
the statement said the ships incurred moderate damage and fired back in self-defense, according to radio press
japan's kyodo news service said it was the first armed confrontation between the two countries since bilateral territorial disputes have increased in recent months
rebels in northern ethiopia on monday claimed they destroyed two government army brigades, killing and wounding more than a thousand troops
rebel fighters captured tanks, armoured trucks and heavy artillery at the battle at gelebeda in northeastern tigray province on march 12, according to yemeni kedani, a spokesman for the tigre people's liberation front
however, his reports could not be independently confirmed. the ethiopian government rarely comments on rebel reports
kedani did not specify how many ethiopian army troops were killed in the gelebeda battle, nor did he say if there were casualties among the rebels
on march 7, kedani claimed the guerrillas killed more than 2,500 ethiopian soldiers and took control of three towns
kedani also charged that the ethiopian government was bombing civilian areas in tigray province. he said the bombing began immediately after ethiopian president mengistu haile mariam secretly visited the area in february
kedani's group is one of several in northern ethiopia fighting for independence from the addis ababa government
ground workers at the city's main airport walked off their jobs monday for the second straight day, forcing cancellation of half of alitalia's flights and delaying foreign carriers
about 600 alitalia workers at leonardo da vinci airport, including baggage handlers and maintenance crew, decided to strike for six hours
they were angered over a tentative contract agreement reached by government and union negotiators on sunday
union leaders criticized monday's walkout, the latest strike in a dispute that has plagued air travelers since the fall. unlike this walkout, most of the strikes have been called in advance to give travelers a chance to find other transportation
foreign carriers reported delays of about 30 minutes monday
consumers may see more turkeys later this year if march 1 indications are borne out
the number of turkey eggs in incubators was estimated at 32.1 million, up almost 4 percent from a year ago, the agriculture department reported
in february, 23.1 million new turkey poults were placed in flocks, a 2 percent increase from placements a year earlier, said the department's agricultural statistics board
the ship that left with much fanfare a week ago carrying the first shipment of u.s.-built hondas bound for japan has slipped quietly back to port for repairs
the return of the auto carrier green bay, which was built last year in japan, has complicated efforts by honda to become the first japanese automaker to ship its u.s.-manufactured cars to japan
a spokeswoman for the shipping agent said she had no idea when the vessel would depart again. june ainge, district manager for williams dimond &amp; co. of portland, said repair crews planned to examine the vessel monday
the japanese-built ship left portland last week with 540 accords and 100 honda motorcyles on board. sen. bob packwood, r-ore., and tetsuo chino, president of honda north america inc., participated in a news conference to mark the occasion. chino drove the first car on board
on sunday, the ship slipped in to the swan island drydock
ms. ainge refused to reveal details of the ship's problems or its return
francois l. elmealeh of the port of portland's marine marketing department said he didn't know the details of the ship's problems but that it was of a ``non-life-threatening, non-cargo-threatening nature.''
i think it's an embarrassment more than anything,'' elmealeh said
honda motor co. ltd. had planned a gala reception to welcome the vessel march 22 at narashino port, east of tokyo
the party's postponed, and we're not sure now when it will be held,'' said bret anderson, a honda public relations official in tokyo
on friday, the ship's captain decided to return to portland, and the vessel's owner, central gulf lines of new orleans, was notified
the wife of a convicted smuggler testified monday that she disliked her husband's job with alleged smuggler carlos lehder rivas, but wound up as paymaster for his crew
lehder, 38, is on trial on charges that he and others conspired to smuggling 3.3 tons of cocaine into florida and georgia from colombia via norman's cay in the bahamas from 1978 to 1980
the witness' husband, ed ward, has testified he was the pilot on most of those flights
emilie lassie ward said she met her husband in 1976 and became aware that he was involved in smuggling marijuana before their marriage that summer and confronted him with it
he told me he was smuggling marijuana. i didn't like it. i was very much in love with him and he rationalized it,'' she said
ward took her into his confidence as his ``what if'er.''
as he planned his smuggling operations, ``i would say `what if this happened'?'' she said
all the time, she said she was concerned
i was worried about him getting arrested and worried about him being killed,'' she testified
in 1978, she and her husband discussed lehder's offer to transport cocaine
i didn't like it. it was the fear of cocaine. i didn't know anything about it. it didn't seem like what he was doing was safe,'' she said
she said ward agreed to make 10 cocaine flights for lehder, but she said he quickly became disenchanted
ward, who was very organized, had to deal with uncertain time schedules and that lehder wasn't following the safety measures that ward insisted upon, she said
mrs. ward described her duties in the smuggling organization as counting and handing out the money to ward's crew
lehder, reputed to be one of the leaders in the violent colombian medellin cartel, is charged with conspiracy, possession of cocaine with intent to distribute, importation of cocaine and operating a continuing criminal enterprise
co-defendant jack carlton reed, 57, of san pedro, calif., is charged only with being a part of the smuggling conspiracy
texas lost another round monday in its battle to keep florida citrus out of the state when a federal judge refused to block those shipments
u.s. district judge filemon vela said he needed more time to study the state's request for a stay of a u.s. department of agriculture decision lifting a ban on florida citrus to other producing states
texas sought the stay until its suit against u.s. secretary of agriculture ricdard e. lyng could be heard. the state sued lyng on wednesday, accusing the usda of violating the adminstrative procedures act when it lifted the 3{-year quarantine on florida citrus
texas contends the usda did not provide an opportunity to comment on the decision as required by law
monday's hearing was the second time since texas sued lyng that vela denied the state's request for a stay of the feb. 11 usda ruling
vela gave texas five days to provide its evidence, from which he will make a ruling
texas officials say they want to keep florida citrus out of the state because they are not convinced an outbreak of bacterial citrus canker has been controlled in florida. the usda quarantined fruit from florida after the disease was discovered there in august 1984
canker, which comes in different strains, can cause defoliation of trees, lesions that make the fruit unmarketable and premature dropping of fruit from trees
assistant u.s. attorney jeanette mercado, representing the usda, argued taht texas has no standing to sue because a quarantine affecting one industry lacks general importance for the state's population as a whole
texas citrus mutual, a growers' organization, has joined the state in its lawsuit
we feel like that if we can get a federal court to address whether the usda violated their own administrative procedures, we think we'll prevail,'' said ray prewett, executive vice president of mcallen-based tcm
bobby mckown of florida citrus mutual said florida suspended shipments of fresh citrus to texas, california, arizona and louisiana on friday, pending the outcome of monday's hearing
we feel much encouraged and we're going to commence shipping today fruit from florida to the citrus producing states,'' mckown said
florida's primary interest in the texas market is in specialty fruits, such as tangeloes and honey tangerines, he said
texas officials are seeking to at least keep the fruit out of the rio grande valley, where the state's $65 million industry is concentrated in the three southernmost counties
last fall, the usda published a proposal to lift the florida quarantine, but on jan. 5 withdrew the proposal after new canker outbreaks were discovered
on feb. 15, four days after usda lifted the quarantine, texas imposed an emergency 30-day quarantine on fresh florida citrus, and set up highway roadblocks
a federal judge in austin overturned the texas quarantine march 1, ruling the federal regulation took precedence
a gulf coast area of florida infested with the aggressive asiatic strain of canker will remain under quarantine
charleston county schools are segregated and local school boundaries hamper integration, an expert witness said monday as the plaintiff's case in the seven-year-old federal desegregation suit neared a close
the schools are racially segregated,'' said william gordon, a professor of education at wright state university in dayton, ohio
gordon, armed with a thick black notebook containing results of a lengthy study of the schools, said the boundaries of eight local districts within the countywide district hamper both integration and good education
gordon took the stand as testimony resumed following a two-month break
the suit centers on a 1967 state law which consolidated the county schools under a countywide
the complaint by the u.s. justice department alleges that control of student and faculty assignments were retained by the local districts for racial reasons
gordon testified on behalf of the legal defense fund which has intervened on behalf of the families of several charleston county school children in the case
the justice department has completed its case and the legal defense fund is expected to wrap up its case by midweek. u.s. district judge sol blatt jr. is hearing the non-jury trial
the complaint asks that blatt find the local district boundaries unconstitutional and order steps to promote integration. blatt has ruled out busing as a possible remedy
gordon testified that about a third of the schools in the county can be identified as black, a third white and a third racially mixed. his guideline for determining a racially identifiable school is whether the black-white student ratio is more than 15 percent different from the black-white mix countywide
gordon said that of 35 schools that opened as identifiably white schools, 17 are still white. of the 20 that opened as identifiably black schools, 17 are still black
the system of local district lines means ``you take away good solid educational choices from those who should be making the decisions,'' gordon said. ``the boundary becomes the decision.''
educators should be making the decisions where children go to school, not boundaries,'' he added
he said adherence to the local boundaries has meant overcrowding in some county schools while others aren't being used to capacity
kansas sen. bob dole, saying he would lose people's trust ``if i cut and run the first bad news we get,'' said monday he has no plans to drop his presidential bid after tuesday's illinois primary even if george bush scores another big victory
i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going,'' dole said at a news conference
he acknowledged the possibility that a candidate might not understand when to get out
now if you're out there and you've been twisting in the wind for six or eight months and you're starting to smell a little, somebody has to cut the rope,'' he said
still, despite polls showing bush with a lead among illinois republicans of up to 34 points over dole, the senator said, ``we believe the bounce is starting to wear of a bit from super tuesday.''
he referred to the effects of last tuesday when bush won 16 primaries to surge far ahead of the rest of the gop presidential field
i think we've made some inroads,'' said dole when asked about his prospects in illinois. ``i don't think we've had quite enough time. it's a big state.''
he said a ``realistic estimate'' of his prospects would be 40 percent of the 82 delegates to be elected in the primary
dole said that when a decision is made about the future of his candidacy ``it will be made by bob dole.''
to emphasize his determination to fight on, dole planned to campaign tuesday in wisconsin and connecticut, two of the next battlegrounds in the race
hammering away at bush for refusing to participate in a one-on-one debate, dole said, ``why should somebody who's as far ahead as he is be afraid to stand up and debate issues with somebody he indicated doesn't have any leadership ability
i think it's a mark of weakness that he's unwilling with this big, big lead he has, to say, sure i'll take on bob dole any day of the week. why shouldn't he?
i may be a pushover. but i dare him to try it.''
in a speech to the chicago council on foreign relations, dole referred to ``the point where presidential advisers are peddling arms to the ayatollah while others hear no evil, see no evil,'' an obvious reference to bush
when dole was asked why he didn't attack bush more on iran-contra, he said, ``if i hit him, i get ronald reagan first and then they say, oh, oh, he's out there attacking ronald reagan
it's pretty hard to reach bush _ except by telephone.''
part of the stage collapsed at the beginning of an inaugural concert at a theater in southeastern brazil, injuring 55 musicians
about 100 members of the sao paulo symphony orchestra and the americana lyric theater had just begun performing the national anthem when rear tiers of the stage caved in, dropping some musicians nine feet to the floor
the incident occured march 4 in americana, a city 360 miles southwest of rio with a population of 122,000
many of those injured suffered broken arms and legs and dozens of instruments were damaged, the local jornal do brasil newspaper reported
it said the concert was being performed before an audience of 900 in the municipal theater, which had just been completed
another inaugural ceremony will be held thursday, the newspaper said
presidential candidate jesse jackson told hundreds of supporters monday that he would win the illinois primary, and not once did he mention rival sen. paul simon, whose hometown is only six miles away
on the eve of a significant breakthrough in politics in illinois ... with your help, we the people can win illinois,'' jackson told about 1,800 cheering backers, an equal mixture of blacks and whites of all ages
i tell you, we the people will win.''
according to a chicago tribune poll published monday, jackson is in a virtual dead heat with fellow democrat simon
but jackson didn't mention simon in his hour-long speech at southern illinois university at carbondale
instead, he reiterated that his candidacy represents a ``rainbow coalition,'' people of all races and age groups. ``our hope is sweeping the country,'' he said
we're running a poor campaign with a rich message,'' jackson said. ``stop drugs. save jobs. invest in our children. peace in the world.''
jackson told the crowd, on its feet through most of the speech, that the flow of drugs and drug use is the no. 1 problem in the united states
and he said that if elected president, he'd use the armed forces to fight drug trafficking
i don't want communist insurgencies from the left, and drug war lords from the right,'' said jackson, eliciting cries of, ``yes sir,'' and, ``amen.'' ``let's make america better and keep america strong.''
also, the chicago civil rights leader promoted fair prices for farmers, fair wages for workers, justice and peace
and jackson hammered away at u.s. companies that do business overseas, taking advantage of cheap labor while driving up unemployment in this country
jackson touted his managerial skills, noting that on the super tuesday campaign he spent only $100,000 in advertising, compared with his challengers who spent millions
once again, little david versus the financial giants,'' he said
i'm running the most cost-efficient campaign. i'm getting the most return on my investment,'' said jackson
the poll in monday's chicago tribune found 32 percent of the state's democratic voters supported jackson while 29 percent backed simon, and 20 percent favored massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
the poll, taken of 500 democrats likely to vote in tuesday's primary, has an error margin of plus or minus five percentage points _ making the jackson-simon race a dead heat. a sunday tribune poll had simon ahead
jackson reminded the crowd in carbondale of the civil rights struggle in the 1960s, and said a black man could be elected president if he cared about all people, as he said he did
i know just because you're born in the slum doesn't mean the slum is born in you, and you can rise above it,'' he said. ``pull your weight. let your presence be felt tomorrow.''
british agriculture minister john macgregor on monday questioned whether president reagan's administration means to end farm subsidies entirely
the administration has said it wants them phased out internationally by the year 2000. it also favors ``decoupling'' of subsidies from the prices farmers get for crops
macgregor told reporters that while he favored a substantial reduction in subsidies worldwide, removing them altogether ``is i think a debatable question because after all decoupling itself does involve subsidies and decoupling is in the american negotiating position.''
britain is one of the 12 countries in the european economic community, the main u.s. negotiating partner on issues of world farm trade. the other members are west germany, france, italy, ireland, denmark, the netherlands, belgium, luxembourg, spain, portugal and greece
frans andriessen of the netherlands, who is in charge of agriculture for the european community's governing body, the european commission, told reporters recently the eec disagrees with the complete elimnination of subsidies, saying they are needed to preserve small farms. he suggested that congress and u.s. farmers would not stand for complete elimination either
others in the eec have called the u.s. goal unrealistic. macgregor said andriessen both have pointed to recent efforts by the eec to hold down spending on farm supports
according to a study published last friday by fred h. sanderson, formerly in charge of food policy at the state department, in 1986 supporting farm prices cost consumers and taxpayers about $30 billion in this country and $63 billion in 10 of the community countries. spain and portugal are not included in those figures
macgregor said he could not estimate the pace at which these costs could be reduced
secretary of state evan bayh meets a constitutional residency requirement to be governor because he always intended to return to indiana during his temporary absences, a judge ruled monday
circuit judge charles d. o'connor said that bayh has been a lifelong resident of indiana and didn't lose that residency when he worked for a district of columbia law firm in 1983 and 1984
bayh, a 32-year-old democrat who leads public opinion polls in the governor's race, said he was ``gratified but not surprised'' by the decision
but david f. mcnamar, the special counsel for the gop-controlled state election board, said he plans to appeal the ruling to the indiana supreme court
i'm going to go ahead until someone tells me to stop,'' said mcnamar
o'connor accepted the arguments presented during friday's one-day trial by bayh's attorneys, who said bayh's intention to return to his home state meant that he met a five-year residency requirement
mcnamar said he wants to give the supreme court a chance to consider his argument that the framers of the state constitution wanted a potential governor to have been physically present for five uninterrupted years before election
bayh faces active opposition from former kokomo mayor stephen j. daily in the may 3 democratic primary. senate minority leader frank l. o'bannon also has filed for the primary
lt. gov. john m. mutz is unopposed for the republican nomination to succeed gov. robert orr, who is barred by the constitution from seeking a third straight term
a soviet launch of an unmanned spacecraft similar to the u.s. space shuttle could take place this week, with a crew of two possibly heading into orbit six months later, a knowledgeable expert says
nick johnson, an advisory scientist for teledyne brown engineering in colorado springs, colo., quoted unidentified european sources close to the soviet space effort as saying the launch could be thursday or saturday, the huntsville times reported sunday
the soviets have said it is `imminent,''' said johnson, who keeps close tabs on the soviet space program. ``the frequency of reports is climbing very rapidly. it could be late next week. like any new vehicle, problems can crop up.''
johnson has written four books on the soviet program and publishes the annual soviet year in space
analysts say the first soviet reusable shuttle flight will be unmanned, with a totally computerized orbital flight, re-entry and touchdown at a landing strip next to the launch site at the baikonur cosmodrome in central asia, the newspaper said
charles vick, an employee of the space and rocket center in huntsville and a part-time soviet space analyst, said the soviet shuttle will be attached to the new heavy-lift rocket named energia, which underwent its first test flight last october
the soviet shuttle strongly resembles nasa's shuttle, but while the nasa craft has the main liquid fuel engines in the orbiter, the soviet shuttle main engines are attached to the external fuel tank, vick said
he said it has small maneuvering thrusters in the tail as well as four jet engines that give it ``go-around'' capability on landing. the u.s. shuttle glides down without power and must land on the first try
vice president george bush, playing down suggestions that he is closing in on the republican presidential nomination, said monday ``the speculation has gotten ahead of the story.''
bush's imposing lead in delegates, gained in super tuesday primaries a week ago, left his opponents wondering where to turn to revive their campaigns. illinois may not be the place; polls indicate voters in tuesday's primary are strongly pro-bush
i feel the speculation has gotten ahead of the story,'' he told reporters aboard air force ii as he headed for the state capital
bush said he wouldn't get caught up in ``a lot of premature speculation about the future'' and whether his rivals would stay in the race. but asked if he was surprised dole said he would continue his candidacy, bush said, ``i'm not sure i understand what he's doing.''
bush said the aftershock of his super tuesday sweep ``seems to be more persuasive, have a heavier impact than we would have predicted.''
at a rally here, bush said the illinois primary will be a ``national referendum'' on his candidacy
i believe if i win it tomorrow, as i think i can, i really think i will be the next president of the united states of america,'' bush told about 400 supporters in a firehouse at the capital airport in springfield
if i win convincingly, if i win to exceed expectations, you can say that in the firehouse, right here, you met with, hopefully voted for, the next president of the united states.''
recent polls show bush with an overwhelming lead over his two remaining republican rivals, dole and former television evangelist pat robertson. bush told supporters not to take comfort from his standing in the polls because such surveys had been proven wrong before
bush also emphasized his ties to president reagan
this is the presidency,'' he said. ``it is different than anything else. i've stood side by side, through thick and through thin, with a president for whom i have great respect, ronald reagan.''
bush told reporters that he was not concerned about the re-emergence of the iran-contra affair as criminal actions begin. he said it had ``no relevance to what i'm doing.''
scavengers are competing with a pilot recycling program by picking up newspapers and cans put out by residents for special collection, officials say
it's easy pickings for these scavengers to come along and supplement their income,'' says patrick barry, a recycling consultant who designed the new program in chicago's beverly neighborhood
we've got so many people putting (recyclable) material out that it's easy to pick up a ton of newspaper in an hour,'' he said
he estimated the program was losing about $200 every seven days because the scavengers were helping themselves to about four tons of newspaper weekly
barry said the neighborhood program's revenues vary from week-to-week depending on the number of tons collected, hitting a peak of about $1,400 per week. so, he estimated that the loss would represent from 15 percent to 20 percent of weekly revenues
we've got two different recycling systems converging and it's not bad from a recycling point of view,'' barry said. ``but it cuts into the money for the program.''
barry, who also is a spokesman for the greater chicago recycling industry council, an organization of 400 recycling businesses, said scavengers operate all ovr the country
they're called alley entrepreneurs,'' he said. ``some of these people have developed shrewd operations. they're not always street people. some of them are sophisticated business people who are making enough money for a bare living,'' barry said
chicago has an estimated 1,500 scavengers, he said. they make anywhere from $30 to $150 a week sifting aluminimu cans, bottles and newspaperes from the 9,000 tons of garbage produced daily in the city, he said
the city's 20 privately run recycling centers pay an average of 40 cents a pound for aluminum and about 2 cents a pound for newspaper or glass, he said
some of (the scavengers) drive station wagons or pickup trucks on routes to bars and restaurants to collect aluminum cans and bottles,'' barry said
though scavengers work throughout chicago, a group of six to eight alley entrepreneurs is taking advantage of the five-week-old recycling program in beverly on the city's southwest side, he said
the beverly program, a city pilot project and one of seven neighborhood recycling programs, has attracted the most participation from residents _ and the most attention from scavengers, barry said
the resource center, a private, non-profit recycling business that runs the beverly program, says about 60 percent of the neighborhood's residents separate newspapers, aluminum cans and other recyclable material from their garbage and leave it at the curb in special blue boxes
resource center drivers pick up the trash daily, if they get there before the alley entrepreneurs
the scavengers usually raid between 6 a.m. and 8 a.m., said ken dunn, director of the resource center
one gentleman is a minister at a small church that doesn't support him well,'' dunn said. ``so he's devised a system to recycle materials from his congregation and he also, in his free time, collects out on the streets this way to supplement his income.''
dunn said the resource center has hired some of the alley entrepreneurs to drive recycling trucks, but others say the don't want such a formal job
barry said he hopes the city council will adopt a proposed ordinance that would make it illegal for unauthorized persons to take waste set out for special recycling collections. the proposal calls for fining violators from $100 to $500
trash scavenging is going to be a problem in areas with large low-income populations,'' barry said. ``they're trying to make 10 bucks to make it through to tomorrow. you can't fault them for that.''
president reagan on monday wished west german defense minister manfred woerner success in his future post as nato secretary general and thanked him for bonn's contributions to the alliance, a german official said
woerner in july will become nato's first german secretary-general, succeeding britain's lord carrington. he arrived sunday night for two days of meetings with u.s. officials, lawmakers and the media
in addition to white house meetings with reagan and his national security adviser, lt. gen. colin l. powell, woerner lunched with defense secretary frank c. carlucci and also met with secretary of state george p. shultz
reagan and woerner agreed that the north atlantic treaty organization summit at brussels earlier this month was a success and had strengthened the alliance, said a german official who talked to a reporter on condition he not be named
the source also quoted reagan as thanking woerner for the share of the common defense borne by west germany and praising bonn's reliability as a defense partner
before departing for europe late tuesday, woerner planned talks with several members of the senate and meetings with reporters
the pentagon notified congress on monday it had approved the sale of mk-48 torpedoes to canada
assuming there are no congressional objections, canada will be offered 13 of the torpedoes for roughly $16 million, the pentagon said
the ocean systems division of gould inc. in euclid, ohio, will serve as the prime contractor and the u.s. navy will be responsible for overseeing the transaction, the pentagon added
the government of canada needs these torpedoes for its oberon-class submarines,'' the pentagon said. ``these torpedoes can also be used on replacement submarines planned ... for the 1990s.''
the nation's first research center for head injury patients adjusting to their disability will be established at the state university of new york at buffalo, school officials said monday
while four other u.s. centers treat ``traumatic brain injury'' patients in the hospital, university officials said their center is unique because it will deal with the psychological, practical and social problems of returning to normal life
patients go back with their families, even if they didn't live there before. and now what do you do?'' said barry willer, co-director of the center and associate professor of psychiatry
the center will be funded primarily by a five-year, $3 million grant from the u.s. department of education, with $2 million more from funding of ongoing research
recent advances in emergency medical care, stemming from techniques developed largely during the vietnam war, have increased the number of those suffering from severe brain injuries, willer said. years ago people with severe brain injuries would have died
the $5 million grant is part of a national push from the federal government to help traumatic brain-injured patients, school officials said
the injury to white house press secretary james brady, who was shot in the 1981 assassination attempt of preside wouldn't have gone after them,'' hill said of pickens
homestake vice president richard w. stumbo took the bid seriously
you always take him seriously,'' stumbo said, adding he did not know if mesa's withdrawal was the end of its takeover efforts
homestake holds interests in oil and natural gas and mines uranium, silver and gold, as does newmont mining corp., another major gold producer targeted in an earlier, unsuccessful hostile takeover bid by pickens
new york-based newmont was approached last year by ivanhoe partners, a group led by pickens, which made a $2 billion hostile bid for control of the company
a delaware court blocked the move in october when it upheld a ``market sweep'' in which newmont's biggest shareholder, britain's consolidated gold fields plc, grabbed enough shares in a two-day buying spree to raise its holdings to nearly 50 percent of newmont and thwart the hostile bid
pickens' reputation as a corporate raider was made with high-profile bids for several major oil companies in the early 1980s, including gulf corp., phillips petroleum co. and unocal corp
mesa launched hostile takeover attempts, then pocketed millions of dollars in profits when some of the target companies either were bought out by a higher bidder or repurchased their own stock
temperatures typical of the middle of winter covered much of the eastern two-thirds of the nation monday, with record lows across the south, and snow flakes fell as far south as georgia
afternoon temperatures were below freezing as far south as the southern appalachians, kentucky, southern missouri and northern kansas
record lows included 18 at abilene, texas; 19 at albuquerque, n.m.; 26 at dallas-fort worth; 17 at midland, texas; and 20 at san angelo, texas. shreveport, la., tied its record of 29. abilene's former record of 20 had been on the books since 1895
more record low temperatures were expected across the gulf states tuesday and wednesday mornings
a freeze warning was posted overnight across all of georgia, alabama and mississippi, and inland sections of northwestern florida
snow flurries fell as far south as atlanta while sections of the tennessee and ohio valleys received a dusting of snow during the morning
snow flurries also were reported over the appalachians, in parts of virginia and across southern new england
moisture from the great lakes continued to produce lake effect snow squalls across the southern shores of lakes erie, michigan and superior. snow continued to fall over in extreme northern wisconsin, where total accumulation since saturday could reach just over 2 feet along the southern edge of lake superior
during the morning, northeastern ohio reported 4 to 5 inches at the town of conneaut, the national weather service said. five inches of snow fell in sections of western new york
another storm system began gathering strength in canada, just north of western montana. heavy snow began falling during the morning in northwestern montana and a section of northern idaho and snow was expected to spread across much of montana and wyoming by wednesday
elsewhere, showers produced rain over extreme southern sections of florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 15 degrees at alpena, mich., to 77 at palm springs, calif. the low for the day was 20 degrees below zero at chadron, neb
for tuesday, snow showers were forecast from the great lakes across the upper ohio valley and the northern and central appalachians to new england. snow also was forecast from northern and central rockies to the western borders of south dakota and nebraska
highs in the 20s or 30s were predicted from the northern and central atlantic coast states across the appalachians, the ohio and tennessee valleys, the great lakes, and the northern halves of the mississippi valley, plains and rockies; in the 60s in southern florida and across most of texas and new mexico; in the 60s or 70s in much of arizona, southern nevada and california; a few 80s in the desert southwest; and in the 40s or 50s elsewhere. up at 3rd graf, ``i've spent''</note>
president and mrs. reagan are hopeful that son michael's book describing a troubled childhood and family problems will help others in similar situations, a white house spokeswoman said monday
michael reagan, 43, has just completed his autobiography, ``on the outside looking in,'' to be published by zebra books. in an interview with people magazine, the adopted son of the president said he grew up resentful and ``didn't feel i belonged in so perfect a family.''
i've spent my life trying to figure out how to make ronald reagan my friend,'' the younger reagan said
the president and first lady read michael's book over the weekend at camp david, md., called him sunday evening to compliment him on it, said mrs. reagan's press secretary, elaine crispen
they thought it was very good, very interesting,'' mrs. crispen said
the couple told michael they hoped it would ``help other children who went through the same situation _ molestation _ and help other children adjust to adoption,'' mrs. crispen quoted mrs. reagan as saying
the first lady was referring to a section of the book in which michael describes how he was molested and photographed in the nude by a day-camp leader when he was seven years old. he had kept the incident secret until last year
the book also contains reports of arguments between michael and his stepmother. asked if the reagans had been concerned that the book might be critical of them, mrs. crispen said that was not the case
they said the book was good, and that if you read it all, it comes out balanced,'' the spokeswoman said
michael reagan was adopted when his father was married to actress jane wyman. the couple also had a daughter, maureen. after divorcing miss wyman, reagan married actress nancy davis and fathered two other children, ron and patti
in his book, michael relates how he set out last year to find out who his biological mother was and that the president helped by calling the governor of california
when my father helped me with this, it was the biggest gift he ever gave me. he set me free,'' people magazine quotes reagan as saying
reagan learned that he was born out of wedlock to irene flaugher lange, who gave him up at birth in los angeles in 1945 and later worked as a movie bit player under the name betty arnold. she married an ohio restaurateur and had a son, barry lange, and died in 1985
reagan's half-brother visited him and brought an album their mother had kept that was full of pictures and clippings of the reagans
it was the most wonderful feeling in the world when i found out she knew all along who i was, and that this mother had kept track of this child,'' reagan said
reagan and his father had a long talk in january in which michael said he told his father of the feelings of abandonment he suffered as he was growing up
he quoted his father as saying, ``my god, i thought just telling you i loved you was all i had to do.''
newborn babies in 30 cities will be checked for aids antibodies in anonymous tests the federal centers for disease control hopes will provide an early and broader look at who is getting the disease
the tests, to be at selected hospitals, are part of a series of surveys designed to eventually test 1.6 million americans a year for acquired immune deficiency syndrome
blood samples from the newborns will be sent without names for testing, cdc spokeswoman gayle lloyd said monday. the study hopes to determine the extent to which aids has penetrated heterosexual women of child-bearing age, thought to be a low-risk group
other programs, some of which are already under way, will test blood samples from sexually transmitted disease clinics, drug clinics, tuberculosis clinics, military recruits, job corps blood donors and others, she said
some tests will be routine and anonymous while others will be voluntary with confidential results, she said
early results are expected next fall, and the findings probably will determine which programs are continued, she said. the cdc is helping finance the programs at a cost of an estimated $47 million for fiscal 1988
some doctors say it violates ethics to test samples from known people without permission and that getting permission would narrow the population being tested
this is the least offensive way of getting a reliable general population sample,'' dr. tim dondero, chief of surveillance and evaluation for the cdc's aids program
others question whether it is ethical not to tell a patient something he or she should know
to simply have the results and not have the ability to do something with the results isn't a completely reasonable position, is it?'' asked dr. wade parks, a pediatrics professor at the miami school of medicine
only about half the babies who test positively carry the virus. the others get a dose of antibody proteins from their infected mothers. a positive antibodies test on a baby proves only that the mother carries the virus
similar tests on 30,000 newborns in massachusetts revealed that one of every 476 women giving birth there was infected. not all who carry the virus eventually develop aids
the newborns will be tested in 20 cities with a high aids incidence. they are atlanta, baltimore, boston, chicago, cleveland, dallas, denver, detroit, houston, jacksonville, fla., los angeles, miami, new orleans, new york, newark, n.j., richmond, va., san francisco, san juan, puerto rico, st. louis, and washington
tests also will be done in the low-incidence cities of albuquerque, n.m., honolulu, kansas city, mo., memphis, tennessee, minneapolis, new haven, conn., phoenix, ariz., rochester, n.y., salt lake city and seattle
acquired immune deficiency syndrome attacks the body's ability to ward off disease. it is transmitted through sexual contact with an infected person, shared hypodermic needles and blood transfusions, and can be passed from mothers to their offspring. there is no known cure
since june, 1981 there have been 55,167 cases counted in the united states and 30,932 patients have died
university of minnesota officials said monday they hope to quickly name an interim president to replace kenneth keller, who resigned amid controversy about the cost of renovating his official residence and campus office
meanwhile, gov. rudy perpich withdrew his request for an appropriation of $23.1 million to fund keller's program, called ``commitment to focus,'' to raise standards at the university while cutting undergraduate enrollment
perpich said support for the funding had dwindled because of the controversy over the renovations
keller, president of the university for three years, met privately with perpich before calling a news conference late sunday night to announce his departure
at no time did i discuss that he resign, absolutely not,'' perpich told a news conference
however, perpich said he told keller he had two options: ``either leave, or you have a very dramatic plan...to continue with focus and get the university back on track.'''
perpich said the board of regents should consider using a portion of a $53 million reserve fund to meet the immediate needs of the quality-improvement program, which the governor said he continues to support
the existence of the reserve fund was revealed last week as a result of audits ordered after news reports raised questions about the renovations
news reports said that $1.5 million had been spent to renovate eastcliff, the university president's mansion, and $200,000 was spent remodeling keller's campus office suite
the regents never gave formal approval for the mansion renovation, which was orginally supposed to cost $400,000, the legislative auditor's office said
among the most embarrassing expenditures were those for a mahogany desk and credenza for keller's office that the legislative auditor said cost $17,445. keller has offered to pay for the office furniture
the university reportedly met the cost overruns by dipping into the reserve fund, which included profits from book stores, parking lots and temporary investments. the audits released last week did not question the legality of the fund, but criticized accounting and reporting procedures
earlier monday, david lebedoff, chairman of the 12-member board of regents, said he hoped an interim president could be named at a special meeting wednesday. selection of a permanent replacement could take months
lebedoff, who headed a search committee that recommended keller to be president of the 55,000-student school, pledged continued support for commitment to focus
all of my life i will be proud that we selected a president who came up with a plan to make this university even better,'' lebedoff said
some lawmakers had criticizeed the focus program as smacking of elitism, and the $23.1 million proposed by perpich for the program was $12 million less than the university had requested
legedoff said the regents should have demanded an accounting of the remodeling projects, but added that under existing guidelines the spending should have been reported
keller, 53, apologized in his resignation statement sunday
over the past few weeks, you and i have lived with stories about eastcliff renovations and repairs,'' keller said
the stories have not been good ones,'' he said. ``i bear a key responsibility for it. ... i am profoundly embarrassed and profoundly sorry for it.''
the legislative auditor's report said the involvement of keller and his wife, university attorney bonita sindelir, in the renovation led to some of the spending on the mansion was revealed in news media reports in early february. keller annoyed some legislators by going to hawaii on a vacation instead of being available to answer questions about the remodeling
keller, a native of new york city, came to the university in 1964 as an assistant professor in chemical engineering and materials science, and became a department head in 1979
the state board of education is studying a proposal to test students about their understanding of aids prevention, but the legislature is considering action to kill the program
there are states doing innovative things in the area of aids education, but minnesota is the first i've heard about that is trying to mandate assessment this way,'' said katherine fraser, co-director of the aids education project of the national association of state boards of education
it's a good idea because it involves an educational program aimed at changing behavior and that's what is really needed to fight aids,'' she said
fraser commented last week after the state board of education took the first steps toward requiring students in the sixth and 10th grades to be tested on their knowledge of aids prevention
the proposal also would require school districts to teach courses on prevention of aids and other communicable diseases in kindergarten through the senior year of high school
the proposal still faces public hearings and the scrutiny of an administrative law judge before taking effect. department of education officials say the process will take about 10 months to a year and cost $10,000 to $20,000
a bill pending in the legislature which would block board's plan was passed unanimously by the school finance division of the house education committee friday and will be discussed wednesday before the full house education committee
we disagree on mandating. we think school districts in minnesota have good progams in place, and we'd like to continue to help them do that. taking the time and money to develop a rule might upset this progress,'' said state rep. bob mceachern, sponsor of the move to block the board's proposal
fraser says the school boards association backs mandatory aids education because it means local school boards do not have to face as much controversy from people offended by discussion of aids. ``they can just say, `it's the requirement. let's work on how we can meet it,''' she said
according to the minnesota department of education, about 386 minnesota school districts say they have some kind of aids education, but provide no information on what kind. that means about 50 districts still don't have any type of aids education
board member john plocker, who prefers a voluntary approach, said the board still wants local school boards to shape their programs. ``we're just telling them they have to do it. there's still a lot of latitude,'' he said. subs 6th graf pvs, bgng: ``it's not over, with 4 grafs new dole quotes</note>
bob dole declared monday ``it's not over'' for his republican presidential campaign despite indications of a big illinois victory for george bush, but democrat paul simon admitted ``i have no plans beyond tomorrow'' and the home-state primary he needs to win
with five presidential candidates racing around the state in a final day of campaigning, jesse jackson was buoyed by a poll suggesting he may have pulled even with fellow favorite son simon
on the eve of a significant breakthrough ... with your help, we the people can win illinois,'' jackson told a cheering crowd of about 1,800 in carbondale, ill. ``i tell you, we the people will win.''
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, lying third, sought a good enough showing to keep up some momentum from super tuesday. over and over on monday, dukakis hammered at simon's contention that the democratic convention will be deadlocked
it ``would be a disaster'' for the democrats to end the primary process without a nominee-to-be, dukakis said, with ``negotiating, dealing, people behind closed doors trying to decide who the nominee ought to be.''
the problem for dole was much more immediate than the conventions, months away in the summer. the kansas republican was looking for a way to keep his campaign alive in the face of a string of bush victories
it's not over for bob dole,'' he told the executives club of chicago
later, at a news conference, dole repeated his determination to continue beyond tuesday: ``i've made a judgment that illinois, whatever happens, we're going to keep going.''
the kansas senator said he had ``made some inroads'' against bush in illinois, but that there had not been enough time to stop bush's surge after a 16-state win last tuesday
you want to elect momentum or elect the better candidate?'' he asked the executives club audience. ``maybe it's going to take a couple of weeks for everything to sort of slow down.''
but the illinois outlook for dole was not good
a chicago tribune poll said bush was the choice of 62 percent of the likely gop voters in illinois, with only 28 percent for dole
such a strong showing could give bush a big chunk of the 82 republican delegates at stake in illinois. added to his current total of 705 delegates, it could give him more than 60 percent of the 1,139 needed to win the nomination at the gop national convention in new orleans in august. dole has 165
despite the numbers, bush told a reporter that suggestions he has locked up the nomination are premature
i feel the speculation has gotten ahead of the story,'' bush said as he flew on air force two from chicago to springfield, ill. however, when asked if he were surprised that dole was staying in the race, he replied: ``i'm not sure i understand what he's doing.''
on the democratic side, simon was facing the reality that he has to win the illinois primary to keep even his stripped-down campaign alive until the democratic national convention in july
i have no plans beyond tomorrow,'' he said in chicago. ``i have to win and i will win. but obviously michigan and wisconsin come next.''
and second place isn't good enough
a strong second isn't very strong,'' simon told a reporter. if he does end up in second place in either delegates or the popular vote in illinois, he said, ``i'd have to reevaluate.''
one poll published monday in the chicago tribune suggested simon faces the possibility of a second-place finish
the survey, conducted friday and saturday, said 32 percent of likely democratic voters supported jackson, 29 percent backed simon and 20 percent said they would vote for dukakis. rep. richard gephardt of missouri was the choice of 5 percent and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee had the backing of 4 percent
the poll, conducted by peter hart research associates, interviewed 500 people and had a potential margin of error of 5 percentage points
an abc news-washington post poll, conducted saturday and sunday and published monday in the newspaper, gave simon the lead with 39 percent support to jackson's 34 percent among very likely democratic voters. dukakis had 17 percent with gore and gephardt far behind. the potential sampling error was plus or minus 6 percentage points
going into the illinois primary, dukakis held the lead in the associated press delegate count, with 463 to 424 for jackson. gore had 353 and simon just 36
a total of 173 delegates are at stake on the democratic side in illinois
one dukakis goal is to win some of those delegates, a difficult task given the complicated nature of the state's ballot. voters not only cast ballots for presidential candidates, they also vote directly for delegate candidates. thus, a vote for dukakis in the ``beauty contest'' portion does not necessarily mean a vote for him in the delegate selection process
another goal, dukakis aides said privately, is to narrow the democratic field. mentioning the polls showing dukakis drawing his last-minute support from simon's voters, the governor's aides said they would be delighted to see jackson beat simon, believing it would drive the senator from the race
jack roland murphy was always successful: a violin player with the pittsburgh symphony, a tennis star in college, onetime national surfing champion
later, he became famous as murph the surf: playboy, jewel thief, murderer. now, murphy calls himself a ``frontline christian soldier,'' an ex-convict who has ``dedicated the rest of my life to the lord.''
i've got what they call chain-gang religion, jailhouse religion, and it's easy for people to scoff at it,'' murphy said during a recent interview at the bridge, a prison work-release facility in orlando
murphy, 50, said he has traveled more than 100,000 miles to counsel prisoners and has given his christian testimony at hundreds of schools and churches
he was paroled in november 1986 after 19 years in florida prisons. one of the conditions of his release was that he spend his time helping others by preaching and teaching
many are watching and judging, he knows
they remember that it was murphy who stole the star of india, a 563-carat sapphire, in a spectacular heist from the museum of natural history in new york in 1964, along with a 100-carat ruby and 20 other gems
they remember too that he was convicted of murder in the 1967 slayings of two women whose bludgeoned bodies were found dumped in whiskey creek, a tidal waterway between miami and fort lauderdale. prosecutors said the two women were killed over $488,000 worth of negotiable securities they stole from their employer
there will always be critics or skeptics who don't believe in born-again experiences,'' murphy said. ``but i guarantee it happens and has happened to me.''
those he works with believe in him and his work
his goal is to help prisoners come to christ,'' said the rev. george crossley. ``he wants to help fight crime and wage war on drugs. i believe churchgoers should support jack murphy's ministry.''
vernon rainwater, head of central florida's youth for christ, echoes crossley's statements
i've heard nothing but real good reports on jack murphy since he has been paroled,'' rainwater said. ``he has been a good representative of the christian community.''
murphy said he is just starting
i have a number of mentors who have been down the road before. good christians. prison chaplains. people who care about people
jesus told us to represent him in jerusalem. my jerusalem is in the jails. . . the jails are the places i least want to be. but it's there i believe god wants me to be. it is where he allowed me to grow up.''
murphy married catherine collins, who visited him in prison for 12 years, last december. she frequently travels with him on speaking engagements. he is sometimes paid by groups that ask him to speak. other income comes from the sale of paintings he did while in prison
i don't have wealth. i don't have material things. i go from month to month, but god provides,'' he said. ``i never could have imagined the peace, quality and joy of such a life.''
to those who doubt or scoff, murphy said, ``if you don't believe me, just watch me.''
officials of the soviet communist party met monday with representatives of the nicaraguan government and signed an agreement of cooperation, the tass news agency reported
it did not describe the agreement
the report said the sandinistas stressed their determination to defend their government against u.s.-backed rebels, known as contras, and to seek political settlement of the central american conflicts
tass said the soviets ``declared invariable support for the struggle of nicaragua for freedom and independence, its constructive moves, as well as efforts of the contadora group and other latin american countries aimed at a peaceful settlement of the conflicts in the region, with strict observance of the right of any nation to its own social and political choice.''
the contadora group was formed in january 1983 by mexico, venezuela, colombia and panama at a meeting on panama's contadora island with the aim of resolving armed conflicts in central america
tass said the sandinista delegation met with anatoly f. dobrynin, a secretary of the communist party central committee and a former ambassador to the united states, and karen brutents, deputy head of the central committee's international department
tass said the sandinista delegation was led by bayardo arce, deputy coordinator of the ruling sandinista national liberation front
it gave no other details of the meeting
albert gore jr., campaigning against long odds in illinois' democratic primary, looked ahead monday to the rest of the northern industrial states and said he would ``compete everywhere and look for an opportunity to punch through'' with a victory
the tennessee senator flew around illinois in a final day of campaigning before tuesday's primary, repeatedly describing himself as the alternative to rivals michael dukakis, paul simon and jesse jackson. he said he was encouraged about prospects in the state despite polls showing him stuck in single digits behind the others in illinois
the polls have been wrong quite frequently in this race because the voters are thinking for themselves,'' gore said at an airport news conference in peoria
gore began his day at a factory gate in rockford, ill., where he stood coatless in a light snowfall and greeted workers during a shift change before flying to peoria, springfield and champaign
speaking to reporters aboard his chartered airplane, gore said that regardless of the illinois outcome he saw the race for the democratic nomination as a battle between himself, jackson and dukakis that would be fought out in industrial states during the spring
we've got a whole series of contests between now and june 7,'' gore said. ``we're going to compete in all of them.''
needing a victory to to demonstrate appeal outside his native south, gore said he saw ``a number of opportunities for a win,'' naming connecticut, ohio, pennsylvania, new york and indiana
we're looking at the primary schedule,'' gore said. ``we're going to compete everywhere and look for an opportunity to punch through.''
gore strategist larry harrington said the campaign's aim in illinois was to be ``in the fray.'' he said the campaign had bought ``a decent or modest amount'' of television airtime in illinois, and did not dispute estimates putting the figure in the $200,000 to $300,000 range over the past week
i think we're going to do better than people expect here,'' gore said
i think there are an awful lot of voters here in illinois who want an alternative to the kind of approach offered by michael dukakis and paul simon and jesse jackson,'' gore said. ``i offer a different kind of approach.''
in springfield, he said each of those three rivals represents ``the same old formula'' that has led the democratic party to lose four out of the past five presidential elections
in peoria, home of the caterpillar tractor manufacturing company, gore said the reagan administration ``has not been willing to use the tools'' available under current trade laws to ensure fairness by foreign competitors
he also said that ``a majority of the problems identified in the trade deficit are here at home,'' citing massive federal borrowing and saying there was a need to improve education and economic policy
in springfield, gore toured a small homeless shelter and visited with a mother and her baby who live there, underscoring his call for more federal assistance to the homeless. he said much of the increase in homelessness was due to ``slashes'' in housing programs under the reagan administration
at an american legion post in chicago sunday night and again in peoria on monday, gore, a vietnam veteran, faced questions about men left behind after that war. he drew praise from other vietnam veterans when he promised to ``pursue to the ends of this earth'' any remaining leads on such men
at the university of illinois in champaign, gore stood before a cray super computer and accused the reagan administration of ``the starvation of super computing'' through denial of federal support for civilian computer research
he called for more federal money to support development of computer technology and the linking of super computers _ systems capable of performing millions of computations in an instant _ into a nationwide network
pointing to one of the rare super computers, gore referred to the confused democratic presidential race and said: ``if there's a brokered convention, this is a possibility.''
jesse jackson is within striking distance of leading the democratic race for national convention delegates, but massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, the leader in the field, is planning to pick up delegates from yet uncounted caucuses
jackson, who is favored in some polls to win his home state of illinois in tuesday's primary, could still wind up losing when the delegate prize is divided
dukakis led the democratic presidential field with 462.5 delegates, followed by jackson with 423.55. but dukakis' campaign said he stands to gain at least another 100 delegates when caucus results from texas, washington and minnesota are finally tabulated
meanwhile, jackson's campaign said that the rules in illinois do not favor him in picking up many delegates from his home state
if we get as high a percentage of delegates as we do the popular vote that would be a smashing success,'' said steve cobble, who monitors delegate selection for the jackson campaign
illinois holds a direct-election primary in which slates of delegates are elected from the ballot. presidential candidates are also listed on a ``beauty contest'' section of the ballot, but the results have no effect on picking the delegates
the jackson campaign does not expect to pick up the nearly 40 delegates needed to overtake dukakis in the national count, cobble said. at stake in illinois are 173 delegates
two recent polls show favorite sons, jackson and illinois sen. paul simon, neck-and-neck in the contest. in a chicago tribune poll, jackson edged simon 32 percent to 29 percent, while simon held a slim lead over jackson _ 39 percent to 34 percent _ in an abc news-washington post poll
but the percentages separating them were within the polls' potential margins of sampling error
simon, who needs to win in his home state to keep his political hopes alive, had 35.5 delegates. sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee was third behind dukakis and jackson with 352.8 delegates, while missouri rep. richard gephardt was in fourth place with 145 delegates
uncommitted delegates totaled 275.65 delegates. attack</head>
nisrin's mother, two sisters and three brothers are dead. the 3-year-old and her father, one leg blown away, are all the family left after 25 missiles fell on this town in a storm of explosion and fire
nisrin's head was wrapped in blood-stained bandages monday. her father mohammed amin, 54, also lay in the sulaimaniya hospital in the northern kurdistan province, his right leg missing
both were unconscious as neighbors buried the six family members and nine other people killed by the rain of short-range missiles sunday on darbandikhan. more missiles fell on nearby halabja
the attack marked resumption of the latest round in the ``war of the cities,'' which took hundreds of lives in the 12 days from its beginning feb. 29 until both iran and iraq called it off temporarily last friday
iraq retaliated for the short-range missiles by launching a rocket into tehran like scores of others it had fired into the iranian capital since the duel began
reporters were flown to darbandikhan on a tour organized by the government to publicize the damage caused by the attacks on population centers. thousands of civilians have been killed in the cities since iran and iraq went to war in september 1980
hamad mustafa, a resident, said the town ``enjoyed two quiet nights'' before sunday's barrage. he said the 70,000 people who live there had no time to run to shelters because the missiles came suddenly and continued for an hour
an army officer pointed to a mountain in the distance and said: ``this is the border.'' he said the iranians had set up a new missile position just beyond it
jafer barazanchi, the regional governor, said a ``mass evacuation'' of darbandikhan's population was being considered
mourners demanded revenge, not evacuation. about 10,000 people marched monday behind 15 coffins draped in iraqi flags, chanting slogans against ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, iran's revolutionary patriarch
at the cemetery they shouted ``death to khomeini!'' and waved a banner reading: ``fire more al hussein missiles on the criminals in iran in revenge for our people.''
iraq has given its long-range missiles the name al hussein, for a shiite moslem saint, and claims to have developed them itself. western military analysts say the missiles are soviet-made scud-bs with strap-on boosters enabling them to reach tehran, nearly 300 miles from the border. negative</head>
a study of network evening newscasts from jan. 1 through super tuesday march 8 says democrat jesse jackson got the best television coverage and republican pat robertson got the most negative
the center for media and public affairs, a non-partisan study group, said it studied 532 news items involving the election and found:
_evaluations of every major candidate, based on clearly positive or negative statements from all sources relating to character, job performance, campaign performance or issue stands, became more negative after the new hampshire primary feb. 16
_jackson suffered the least. telecast comments involving him were favorable 74 percent of the time, compared with 90 percent this year before new hampshire. he also nearly tripled his share of the democrats' coverage, from 9 percent before new hampshire to 26 percent in the weeks leading up to super tuesday, the big round of primaries and caucuses
_robertson dropped from 70 percent positive evaluations before new hampshire to 33 percent after it. comments about his prospects also became more negative
_republican george bush got his best attention in the week before the new hampshire primary _ 66 percent of the comments were favorable. since then, his favorable coverage percentage has dropped to 44 percent
the analysts also said there have been four stories on the campaign horse race for every story on policy issues since the feb. 8 iowa caucuses and the issues most frequently mentioned are taxes and trade. documents</head>
the man nominated to head the economic regulatory administration was asked to leave another government agency after providing documents to a friend who was seeking a contract, according to rep. john dingell
dingell, d-mich., chairman of the house energy and commerce committee, has written energy secretary john herrington asking the secretary to relieve the nominee in question, chandler van orman, as acting head of the era and that van orman ``refrain from participating in any sensitive matters of any kind.''
van orman was traveling monday and could not be reached, his office said. enegery department spokesman doug elmets said: ``we support chandler van orman. we feel that he is well qualified and we plan to stand behind him. we do not feel that there are unanswered allegations that would prevent him from getting this job.''
dingell earlier asked the senate energy committee to hold up van orman's confirmation until the general accounting office could report on the circumstances of van orman's replacement of marshall staunton as head of the economic regulatory administration. the era seeks refunds from overcharges when crude oil was under price controls
dingell wrote herrington that the gao investigation was still under way, but gao officials had briefed him that in february 1983, the head of the agency for international development ``asked for and received van orman's resignation.''
van orman, according to dingell's account, had given documents to a friend seeking a $450,000 contract to prepare for an international conference on a new way to cure cholera and related disorders, oral rehydration therapy
the contract was awarded but later terminated ``at some cost to the government,'' dingell wrote herrington
a memo on the stationery of the aid general counsel said it did not appear that van orman helped his friend get the contract, and he had not disclosed any classified information. the memo, which was obtained by the associated press, said the evidence assembled by the aid inspector general ``does not indicate that any statutory violation occurred,'' and van orman had not disclosed classified information, but had provided documents on at least one other occasion
aid declined to take further action after van orman resigned
the aid memo was disclosed in a letter dingell wrote the gao with further questions about van orman
van orman had served as an advance man for trips by vice president bush and president reagan when he was appointed deputy era administrator in august. he was nominated for the administrator's job in september, but did not assume the post as acting administrator until staunton left in december
the court of appeals upheld a lower court ruling monday to extradite to argentina a former major and his wife accused of kidnapping two children born to mothers held during the ``dirty war.''
the couple's lawyer, fatima de bustaller, told reporters he will appeal to the supreme court
the roman catholic radio station caritas said former maj. atilio bianco and his wife nilda susana wehrli face charges filed by the grandmothers of the plaza de mayo group of abducting a boy and girl and falsifying their birth papers during argentina's ``dirty war'' of 1976-83
the children, carolina, 12, and pablo, 10, were quoted this month in the independent daily newspaper hoy as saying they don't want to be separated from the major and his wife
we don't know anything about those supposed parents we have in argentina,'' the children were quoted as saying
the grandmothers group says bianco, a bone doctor at a military hospital in buenos aires, abducted the children shortly after their birth and falsified the attending physician's signature to make them appear to be his and his wife's offspring
neighbors say ms. wehrli was not pregnant at those times
at least 9,000 people suspected of being leftist subversives were abducted by military and paramilitary agents and vanished without a trace during what became known as the ``dirty war'' under military rule in argentina, officials say. human rights group say the number is closer to 30,000
the grandmothers group, an offshoot of the mothers of the plaza de mayo group that includes relatives who lost loved ones in the ``dirty war,'' says 72 of the 182 children taken from their parents were recovered
according to local reports, bianco submitted to a blood test in asuncion last month to determine if he was the father of the two children. results were never announced
the cases of two other couples also accused of having fled to paraguay with children suspected of having been born to mothers held in captivity in argentina are pending, authorities say
raul alfonsin was elected argentina's president in 1983, ending nearly eight years of military rule
julie and guy garner's boat disappeared, but it found its way home the next day
as ms. garner was listening to her emergency radio sunday morning, her ears perked up when she overheard someone on the radio ``call for assistance from a boat named `tradition.'''
seems that ``tradition,'' the garners' 36-foot cabin cruiser, had disappeared the previous evening from a dock in san francisco bay while the couple and friends were having dinner in san francisco. they were afraid that vandals had untied the lines and the boat was heading out to sea
as she listened to the radio the next morning, she said, ``the man aboard was saying something about waking up on the boat and not knowing how he got on board or where he was.''
there was another surprise in store for ms. garner when she turned on a scanning device that can pinpoint the boat's position
it turned out to be in the ocean right near their beachside daly city home, about 10 miles from where it was docked when it disappeared
we looked out and saw our boat sailing about a mile out,'' she said
the coast guard dispatched a crew, which intercepted the boat. san francisco police sgt. jerry senkir said edward thomas james, 26, was taken into custody for investigation of grand theft
residents of this village, settled 131 years ago by irish homesteaders, celebrated st. patrick's day a bit early with their decidedly un-irish tradition: toilet bowl racing
to the cheers of 100 onlookers sunday, two-time champion darrell knish downed a cup of beer and jumped on a bowl perched on plywood and bicycle tires
teammates whisked him down the block toward a second beer sitting on the snow-covered pavement, which he chugged before racing back up the hill ahead of a competitor
his trophy? a toilet seat cover with the names of the winning team members scrawled on the back
kilkenny, population 180, swelled by several hundred sunday as locals and visitors sprayed their hair green, painted shamrocks on buildings, and gulped homemade mulligan stew and beer
if you're going to pick a town to go to, this is it,'' said kevin taaffe of richfield, who has come to the last four st. patrick's day celebrations in kilkenny
if you don't know anybody, you'll know them before you leave town,'' said gene mach, son of the mayor
dana begley, 36, was quick to learn that. she passed through the town a while ago on a trip and liked it so much that she and her children moved here from southern california
kilkenny was all-irish at its founding in 1857, but mobility and marriage have gradually reduced the ranks
there are a few around here who are 100 percent irish, but not many,'' said ann sheridan, 62, one of the 100 percenters. ``but even if the people aren't irish, on st. patrick's day, they're all irish.''
as put by donald kewatt, tapping his foot to the beat in the lions den: ``i'm german, but i help 'em celebrate.''
the sentencing of former presidential aide lyn nofziger was postponed monday from march 25 until april 8 to give defense lawyers more time to study a report being prepared by the federal probation office
u.s. district judge thomas a. flannery granted the defense request to postpone the sentencing. the request was not opposed by independent counsel james c. mckay
nofziger, who was white house political director from 1981 until early 1982, was convicted last month of three counts of illegally lobbying former colleagues in the reagan administration on behalf of private clients
he faces a potential two-year prison term and a $10,000 fine on each count
an asian businessman identified as the drug enforcement agency's no. 1 heroin target has been arrested and charged with importing 1,000 pounds of heroin from southeast asia over three years, authorities said monday
the drug ring run by kon yu-leung kon was much larger than those in such well-known heroin smuggling cases as the french connection or the pizza connection, said robert stutman, head of the dea's new york office
the french connection involved 70 pounds of heroin, the pizza connection about 200, he said
heroin trafficking ``is now controlled by chinese ethnic groups that are bringing in vast amounts to the united states, in amounts far more than any of us who have been professionals in the field ever thought possible,'' stutman said
u.s. attorney andrew maloney said federal authorities lured kon to new york, where he was arrested sunday night in front of the new york hilton hotel. the 44-year-old kon was charged under an indictment handed up in december
maloney refused to give details of the arrest
stutman said that although kon is charged with importing 1,000 pounds of heroin, it is believed he is responsible for bringing in twice that amount
the heroin was smuggled into the country from 1984 to 1987 through various means, including suitcases and shipments of vases, ice buckets, t-shirts and wall plaques, said maloney
couriers then carried millions of dollars in proceeds back to hong kong to be laundered, authorities said. kon allegedly used $20 million to buy commercial real estate in the new york area and san francisco
assistant u.s. attorney catherine palmer said kon, who was born in china and later moved to hong kong, had numerous businesses in asia and the united states, including several fur companies
kon had eluded arrest by becoming ``an international gypsy'' and moving between thailand, taiwan, japan and manila, maloney said. kon had at least six phony passports, palmer said
authorities confiscated 570 pounds of heroin alleged to have been imported by kon's organization in several seizures over the years, stutman said
authorities also arrested john routollo, a former new york city police officer, at his mountclair, n.j., home sunday night
routollo, 50, was allegedly responsible for picking up the heroin in new york, usually at the hilton, for distribution in the united states. he gathered the drug money and arranged its return to hong kong, according to authorities
routollo worked with kon before leaving the force in 1981, authorities said. maloney said routollo supplied weapons to kon's organization through his position in the police department's office of pistols and licenses. uranium plates. deletes now-redundant 10th graf bgng: a defense ..., editing to conform</note>
the army went public on monday with a classified program to improve the armor on its main battle tank, announcing that it was starting to build the m-1a1 abrams with depleted uranium in the armor plating
a defense department official who requested anonymity said army officials were convinced the new uranium-laced plates were so much stronger than conventional steel that they could stop all types of ammunition used by soviet tank guns
the army insisted that the depleted uranium would pose no threat to either the soldiers who operated the tanks or to the production workers who built them because of the manner in which the tanks would be fabricated
the armor design modification to the m-1a1 incorporates steel-encased depleted uranium,'' the army said in a statement. ``sealed within the tank, depleted uranium has a very low level of natural radiation, which is well within the acceptable range established by the nuclear regulatory commission.''
the service said it had begun on monday briefing the roughly 5,000 production workers who assemble the tanks about the new modifications. the abrams is made for the army by the general dynamics corp. at two plants _ in lima, ohio, and detroit, mich
while attempting to alleviate fears about radiation, the army made clear that it attached a high priority to building the new version of the m-1a1. production is starting immediately, the service said, and the new armor ``represents a significant enhancement of u.s. conventional defense capabilities.''
this improvement culminates several years of research and development to meet recent and continuing improvements in warsaw pact anti-armor weapons and will allow the abrams to meet the anticipated threat well into the 1990s,'' the army said
maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman, said the new armor plating now going into production would begin showing up on the tank manufacturing lines early this summer. the first completed tank with the new armor should be delivered in october, the spokesman added
soucy declined to say where the armor plating was being produced or to discuss the extent to which conventional armor plates are strengthened by incorporating depleted uranium
depleted uranium is an inert, heavy metal that is unusually dense. the term ``depleted'' means the uranium does not have sufficient energy to be used for commercial purposes such as in a power plant. the navy, air force and army are already using depleted uranium to fashion certain types of ammunition
in the case of the m-1a1, the army refused to say how much uranium would be incorporated into each tank; where on the tank body the armor with uranium would be located, or how it would produce the new armor
service officials who asked not to be named, however, said the new process involved ``weaving'' a thread mesh of uranium into the regular steel armor plating at the time of casting
while depleted uranium has a low level of natural radiation, our tests have confirmed that this material _ as installed in the abrams _ will involve no appreciable health threat,'' the army said
you would receive less radiation sitting on the surface of the tank than you would receive when flying during a trans-atlantic flight. because of this low exposure, no special precautions are required when near the tank.''
the army has already acquired about 1,500 m-1a1's and they will not be retrofitted with the new armor, the service said. but the remaining 3,000 tanks scheduled for purchase will incorporate the new armor, the army added
the majority of the improved tanks will be stationed in europe where they can most directly contribute to nato defenses,'' the service said. the first should arrive ``late this year.''
senate negotiators on monday called on their house counterparts to drop democratic presidential hopeful richard a. gephardt's heavily debated amendment from their sweeping trade bill
we decided to stick with our own super 301 plan and to oppose the gephardt amendment,'' finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said as he emerged from a meeting of senate conference committee members
the move, which came on a voice vote in the closed-door meeting, could set the stage for the gradual erasure of the gephardt amendment if the house presents a compromise counteroffer to the senate that makes a substantial change in the wording
however, gephardt spokesman mark johnson said that the senate's action represents ``nothing new.''
we've known the senate's bargaining position for eight months,'' he said. ``it in no way reflects a decision by the conference committee. it's merely an opening bargaining position. we're confident that whatever emerges from conference will be new, forceful legislation to open foreign markets. and clearly the gephardt amendment paved the way.''
gephardt's plan would require negotiations to reduce japanese and other nations' ``excess and unwarranted'' trade surpluses with the united states. if that failed, it would prescribe presidential action to cut the surpluses by 10 percent a year
such a move could include tariffs or import quotas on japanese goods imported into the united states. but the president could refuse to act, either to uphold ``national economic security'' or if the other country were wrestling with a serious international debt problem
the reagan administration has criticized the gephardt plan as being likely to hurt consumers, cost more jobs than it would save and invite retaliation against u.s. exports
the administration also has been critical of the ``super 301'' provision that the senate is pushing
super 301,'' named for the section of the trade act calling for retaliation against overseas barriers to u.s. exports, would require the president to act to eliminate all of the unfair foreign trade barriers listed on an inventory to be drawn up by the u.s. trade representative
the senate's offer was not immediately sent to the house
instead, the senators planned to return to the bargaining table on tuesday and fashion additional provisions involving steps to combat ``dumping,'' or selling foreign-made products in world markets at prices lower than those in home markets
they also planned to work on provisions involving countervailing duties, or tariffs that are imposed to offset the price advantage that some foreign-mad products get from export subsidies in their home countries
the senators also eased some of the provisions in the portion of their 1,000-page bill calling for retaliation against foreign unfair trade practices
they moved to expand from seven months to 12 months the time for the president to make a determination as to whether a foreign trade practice should be considered unfair. and they acted to remove some of the specific reasons for retaliation from the bill itself and put them instead in a report that will accompany the legislation. comments. picks up 11th graf pvs, during a ... with minor editing to conform and trim. adds one graf at end soviet comment on yugoslav economic reform.</note>
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said monday that ethnic minorities stirring unrest in his vast country are raising old grievances but not challenging the authority of the communist government
soon after arriving on monday in yugoslavia, which has a long history of its own nationality problems, gorbachev was asked about recent demonstrations and ethnic riots in the southern soviet republics
show me the country in which there are no such problems,'' the communist party chief replied. ``if you show me, i will travel there right away, without stopping in moscow on return from yugoslavia.''
gorbachev, who is on a five-day visit, is the first soviet leader to visit yugoslavia since the death of president josip broz tito in may 1980
referring to recent demonstrations in yerevan, capital of soviet armenia, and rioting in neighboring azerbaijan between ethnic azerbaijanis and armenians that left more than 30 people dead, gorbachev said the problems had been brewing for a long time
he acknowledged some tensions between ethnic groups have been neglected in his nation of more than 100 nationalities, but said the protesters were not questioning socialist rule or ``challenging our political line.''
the remarks were his first personal comments on the situation in the soviet south, although a statement in his name was read to yerevan demonstrators
gorbachev plans to visit slovenia, yugoslavia's northernmost republic, and the croatian city of dubrovnik
missing from his itinerary is kosovo, which is beset by strife between the albanian majority and slavic minority
late monday, after touring memorials and monuments, gorbachev began talks with president lazar mojsov and bosko krunic, head of yugoslavia's party
yugoslavia's assistant foreign minister, ilija djukic, briefed reporters later. he said national minorities were not raised as a separate topic, but that in a general discussion on social developments, gorbachev stressed the difficulty of resolving ethnic problems
djukic quoted gorbachev as saying, ``there are no problems that could be solved once and for all, that conditions change, that everything requires improvement.''
gorbachev and his wife, raisa, set an informal pace monday as they took their first look at a communist country that has implemented some of the economic reforms gorbachev proposes _ but with mixed results
the soviet leader made an unscheduled stop in a busy downtown square and left his armored limousine to shake hands and chat with pedestrians. a witness said he picked up a child and gave it a kiss
mrs. gorbachev tried to take a walk through downtown belgrade but was nearly overwhelmed by several hundred people pressing for a closer look
the gorbachevs placed a wreath at the tomb of the unknown soldier atop mount avala, just outside belgrade
on the way down the mountain, their limousine made an unannounced stop at a monument in the shape of a broken airplane wing that marks the site of a soviet air disaster. on oct. 19, 1964, a plane carrying former soviet soldiers who helped liberate belgrade 20 years earlier crashed there, killing all aboard
the gorbachevs left two small bouquets
at one point, a reporter asked gorbachev if there was progress at the geneva talks on the afghan conflict. with a smile, he said ``there is,'' and ``there will be,'' but did not elaborate
he has pledged to withdraw all soviet troops from afghanistan _ estimated at 115,000 _ in less than a year if the geneva talks produce a settlement
gorbachev said he came to belgrade to give ``new impulses'' to the friendly relationship between the countries
yugoslav officials have said a principal topic of discussion will be yugoslavia's economic system of ``self-managed, market socialism.''
it also allows for private initiative along lines similar to cooperative enterprises that have sprung up in the soviet union under new laws
the yugoslav system was developed by tito, who broke with the kremlin in 1948 on ideological grounds and pursued his own communist course. while maintaining relations with the soviet union, he was a founder of the non-aligned movement and developed ties with the west
yugoslavia enjoyed a long economic boom, but has encountered hard times in recent years
today, the government and party are struggling with annual inflation of 170 percent, 15 percent unemployment and a $20 billion debt to western creditors
gorbachev is trying to end stagnation in the soviet economy by encouraging more accountability by management and more local control of production
soviet deputy foreign minister vadim loginov told reporters the soviets are studying yugoslav economic reforms
charles e. ``buddy'' roemer iii, a self-styled reformer who toppled a political legend, was inaugurated governor monday and challenged the people of louisiana to help him ``clean up our politics.''
the 44-year-old democrat, who won a runoff concession from gov. edwin edwards on oct. 24, took the oath of office from former sen. russell long, the son of legendary gov. huey long, shortly after noon on the capitol steps
he takes office amid fiscal crisis, with an accumulated budget deficit and cash shortfall of as much as $1.2 billion, much of it due to the oil patch depression
do we have the character to clean up our politics, to free our political leadership from the stranglehold of the special interests?'' asked the former four-term congressman. ``from the governor's mansion to the pardon board, from the legislature to the local government, i say we do.''
i will lead, but i need you to pick me up when i fall,'' said roemer, louisiana's 51st governor. ``i need you to stand beside me when the special interests attack.''
edwards, who served as governor from 1972 to 1980 and returned for a third term in 1984, was occupied for much of his last administration defending himself successfully against federal racketeering charges
roemer, during an inaugural address to some 5,000 people, did not cite the usual litany of louisiana's problems, including high unemployment, teen pregnancies, high school dropouts and nearly-empty state coffers
roemer was interrupted frequently by applause, edwards included
i'm going hunting tomorrow,'' edwards told reporters. ``it's his now.''
the state's unemployment rate hit 12 percent in january, one of the highest in the nation, due primarily to the long downturn in the oil and gas industry
louisiana's schools are under challenge, business interests are demanding an overhaul of the tax system to attract industry and environmental groups are calling for tougher regulations to protect the air and water
roemer campaigned on calls for major reforms in those areas and others, including campaign financing. he said recently that the challenge is unlike that facing any other louisiana governor
i've got to do both to get us out of debt and build _ education development, economic development, better environment. it's going to be a difficult and interesting job,'' roemer said
as solutions for the state's budget problems, edwards had proposed a statewide lottery and casino gambling in new orleans. roemer is opposed to both
we are not going to raise taxes or change taxes until we cut this budget,'' said roemer. ``it is out of control.''
even before his inauguration, roemer won two key victories in the legislature as his candidates for house speaker and senate president were elected during organizational meetings by lawmakers
roemer said earlier that a change in the legislative leadership was needed to give his ambitious programs a fair hearing by lawmakers
before roemer was sworn in, lt. gov. paul hardy, a republican, took the oath from former gov. dave treen. hardy defeated lt. gov. bobby freeman in a runoff last fall. other top state officials, all democrats, also were sworn
roemer, his wife, three children and his parents started inauguration day with a worship service at the first united methodist church
the supreme court by a vote of 7-2 refused monday to postpone the execution of wayne r. felde, who was due to be executed in louisiana tuesday
justices thurgood marshall and william j. brennan, who oppose capital punishment in all circumstances, voted to grant the stay
at the same time, the court refused felde's request for formal consideration of his appeal
felde's claimed he was denied competent representation at his 1980 trial on charges of killing a police officer because his attorney joined him in asking for the death sentence
felde had claimed his experiences in the vietnam war left him subject to flashbacks and unable to tell right from wrong. he described himself as a walking time bomb who would have to be executed to prevent further killings
a young lawyer who is the son of a former president and was kidnapped for campaigning against drugs has won the bogota mayor's office in the first mayoral elections in colombian history
security for sunday's voting was tight throughout colombia, where violence by extremist political factions and powerful narcotics traffickers is common
an alleged leader of the biggest drug organization even tried to run for city council in the town of armenia, but carlos lehder rivas failed because colombian law demands that candidates register in person. lehder is in jail in jacksonville, fla., facing drug charges there and in miami
andres pastrana, 34, son of former president misael pastrana, won the mayoralty election in bogota and will be one of the youngest men to hold the office, which often has been a stepping stone to the presidency
pastrana is a rising star in the conservative party and his election was a setback for president virgilio barco's governing liberals
he was the only conservative running for mayor in bogota, but feuding factions in the liberal party ran a total of three candidates. pastrana got 324,801 votes and juan caicedo, liberal former president of the colombian association of businessmen, finished second with 236,212
voters heeded barco's call to fight bullets with ballots in the first election of mayors. for 169 years the president, always from either the liberal or conservative parties, had appointed governors who in turn chose the mayors
colombians elected 1,008 mayors sunday. they also chose city councils, state legislatures and governing bodies for remote territories with too few people to become states
by late sunday night the elections office said the liberal party had won 405 of the races for mayor, conservatives 379 and the leftist patriotic union 13. coalition candidates representing several parties won 104 of the mayoral contests, the elections office said. results were not yet in from remote areas
barco said in a speech televised saturday night that voting would be a way to reject the violence. more than 1,700 people were killed in the past year in fighting between leftist guerrillas and government security forces and by right-wing death squads and drug traffickers
on sunday, soldiers and police guarded voting places and patrolled cities and towns. the election campaign was one of the bloodiest ever in colombia, with leftist guerrillas and right-wing death squads killing five mayoral candidates and 19 city council candidates. hundreds of other political activists were slain
leftist guerrillas kidnapped 14 mayors in the two weeks before the election, then freed them after telling each to do more for the poor
pastrana, who called for stronger action against the multibillion-dollar cocaine and marijuana trade, was kidnapped by drug traffickers in january. a week later, police acting on a tip raided a farmhouse where he was held and rescued him unharmed
one group, the medellin cartel, is said to be responsible for 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the united states. lehder is charged in miami with being one of its leaders
the palestine liberation organization observer said monday he will defy washington's decision to shut the plo mission to the united nations, and u.s. officials said they would not try to close it immediately
zehdi labib terzi said american authorities would have to ``put me behind steel bars'' if they wanted to close the mission, which is in a new york city townhouse
we have the right to stay here and we will stay where we are,'' he told a news conference, and added that if the mission is closed the united nations should exclude israel from debates on the middle east
last friday, attorney general edwin meese iii said he would have to close the plo observer mission as required by a new anti-terrorist law
u.n. officials said monday another session of the 159-member general assembly was possible this week in an effort to retaliate or thwart u.s. plans. the plo mission was established 13 years ago
u.s. officials said they would not physically close it by march 21, as stipulated in the law, but would let legal proceedings run their course
the legal situation was confused. terzi said he opposes plo action in u.s. courts because the dispute is between the united states and united nations
unless i am dragged, i see no reason why i should appear in a u.s. court,'' he told reporters. terzi added, however, that a u.s. citizen might sue in an american court to keep the mission open and protect constitutional rights of free speech and association
the united nations recognizes the plo as the sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people and it has non-voting observer status. its representatives have the right to address every u.n. debate on the middle east
the united states considers the plo a terrorist organization
if the mission is forced to close and the plo message cannot be heard, terzi said, the general assembly should decide ``in a sense of fairness and justice'' to exclude israel from middle east debates
the united nations and u.s. state department have said the decision to close the mission violates the international u.n. headquarters treaty under which the united states allows u.n. missions to operate
at a three-day emergency session feb. 29-march 2, the general assembly condemned u.s. plans to close the mission, asked the world court to rule on arbitration and urged the united states to abide by the headquarters treaty
it passed the resolution of condemnation overwhelmingly, with the united states not participating, and decided to reconvene before march 21 to decide what to do if washington decided to press ahead with closing the mission
general assembly resolutions carry moral weight as expressions of world opinion but are not binding, as are those of the security council
many roads in mountainous western austria remained impassable because of snow or avalanches monday, leaving thousands of tourists trapped at ski resorts
in tyrol province, 10 people died under avalanches last weekend. forestry experts and mountain rescue officials predicted new slides of wet snow this week
traffic chaos in the area eased a bit. parts of westernmost vorarlberg province remained isolated, however, and tourists were stranded at the resorts of lech, zuers and stuben and in the kleine walsertal valley along the border with west germany
among those isolated by the masses of snow were former queen juliana of the netherlands and her husband, prince bernhard, who are staying in a hotel at lech am arlberg
the royal guests had planned to leave last saturday. a helicopter flight out of lech also had to be canceled because of bad weather
snowfalls resumed at noon in western austria and supply flights to isolated towns and villages were impossible. local officials said there was no lack of food because emergency supplies had been stored
snow removal and cleanup operations continued at st. anton, the tourist resort in western tyrol hit by avalanche disasters. five swedish vacationers and two local women were killed by two huge avalanches early sunday. damage was estimated in the millions of dollars
experts said wet snow does not settle down unless the ground is frozen. they said recent mild weather, coupled with rising temperatures predicted for tuesday and wednesday, is bound to increase avalanche danger
in st. anton, at least 14 houses, including hotels and guesthouses, were wholly or partially destroyed by avalanches
work teams cleared snow from the approaches of the arlberg tunnel, allowing trains to travel to vorarlberg province
in salzburg province, the main westward rail line was closed for most of monday because of acute avalanche danger. long-distance trains were diverted through regensburg, west germany. missiles fired into tehran and claims of plane and helicopter downed. picks up 6th graf pvs bgng: it said ...</note>
iran and iraq shot missiles at each other's most heavily populated cities and pounded border towns with renewed intensity monday after a weekend truce. scores of civilians were killed and wounded
in a resumption of the ``war of the cities,'' iraq reported it fired eight surface-to-surface missiles into iran's capital of tehran, the last one at 11:27 p.m., and iran said its forces shot two missiles at baghdad, the iraqi capital
the iraqis, declaring an all-out offensive on iranian cities, also launched air raids on ``military and economic targets'' in dezful, kermanshah, shushtar and three other border towns, scoring what it said were ``destructive hits.''
iraqi communiques said the air raids were carried out in a 40-minute period, with all planes returning safely
iraq also claimed its helicopter gunships downed an iranian helicopter
iran, meanwhile, claimed its revolutionary guards and iranian-backed kurdish guerrillas have killed or wounded 1,900 iraqis during ground assaults that began sunday in the mountains of northeast iraq
tehran television reported iran fired nine surface-to-surface missiles into umm qasr, an industrial town near iraq's southern border with kuwait, and said anti-aircraft gunners shot down an iraqi fighter-bomber in the northeastern battles
the official iraqi news agency, monitored in cyprus, said the iraqis fired eight long-range al hussein missiles into tehran monday
it said the barrage was a reprisal for the shelling of iraqi border towns sunday night in which at least 21 civilians were killed and 80 wounded
iraq resumed firing on sunday when it shot a lone ``warning'' missile into tehran, also in retaliation for the shelling of civilian areas
the exchanges shattered the uneasy two-day truce in the war against cities that began friday, bringing a brief respite after a 12-day exchange of missiles, artillery fire and air raids by both sides
iran's official islamic republic news agency, also monitored in cyprus, reported that iraq's missiles on monday exploded in residential sections of the iranian capital, a city of 6 million, killing at least 26 civilians and wounding 50
the news agency, quoting military communiques, said the iranians retaliated by lobbing two missiles at ``military and economic centers'' in baghdad
the iraqis reported that only one missile crashed into a residential area, killing an undisclosed number of civilians
the missile exploded as oil and energy chiefs from 20 arab countries gathered in baghdad for a conference on resources. officials in baghdad said some arab ministers had canceled plans to attend the session, apparently because of the flare-up in the war
both sides in the 7{-year-old persian gulf war vowed to keep pounding each other cities until the other quits
iran will not rest until the blood of our martyrs of iraqi missile and air attacks has been avenged,'' said kamal kharrazi, a member of iran's supreme defense council and head of the war information headquarters in tehran
iraqi news agency quoted an unidentified military spokesman in baghdad as saying that ``iraq has decided to resume its missile attacks and air raids on all iranian cities, not just tehran ... because of iran's new crimes.''
the iraqi agency said that heavy iranian shellfire of the border cities that began sunday was continuing monday, with a ``large number'' of civilians killed or wounded
it said the northern towns of halabja and darbandikhan were badly hit
iraqi communiques said the southern port of basra, heavily bombarded by the iranians in the last 18 months, was hammered by artillery and short-range missiles, with casualties reported to be heavy
the nearby refinery town of zubair and other southern towns also were being shelled, the communiques reported
iraq said it fired 71 missiles into tehran, the holy city of qom and the central city of isfahan, capital of ancient persia, between feb. 29 and march 11
iran said it shot 27 missiles into tehran and two into the northeastern city of mosul in that period. wives'</head>
the judge in the case of seven revolutionaries accused of plotting the overthrow of the government refused a defense request monday to let the three women defendants be tried separately from their husbands
ruling on pretrial motions, u.s. district judge william young also rejected the defendants' request to dismiss the case because of what they claimed was the vagueness of the sedition statute under which they were charged
however, the judge gave the defense a victory when he indicated that witnesses who had been hypnotized to help them recall events related to the case might not be allowed to testify
jury selection was slated to begin tuesday. the trial is expected to last up to a year
the so-called ohio 7 face one count each of seditious conspiracy, racketeering conspiracy and racketeering enterprise. each count carries a maximum penalty of 20 years in prison and $20,000 in fines
the indictment accuses defendants raymond luc levasseur and thomas w. manning of nearly 20 bombings and 10 robberies throughout the northeast since 1975 to raise money to finance their radical political aims
two others, jaan k. laaman and richard c. williams, allegedly joined them on later crimes
the wives of three defendants _ patricia h. gros levasseur, carol a. manning and barbara j. curzi laaman _ are accused of harboring their husbands as fugitives, using false identification and taking part in some bombings
ms. levasseur's attorney, william newman, argued monday that prosecutors were trying to ``bury the women'' by tying them to the crimes allegedly committed by their husbands
prosecutors, however, accused the women of taking an equal part in planning the violent crimes, and young denied the women's request for a separate trial
young denied without comment the defendents' motion to dismiss the case because of what they claimed was the vagueness of the sedition statute, enacted during the civil war to punish confederate rebels
he also denied a motion by the government to add to the indictment some of the defendants' convictions on bombing, robbery and other charges. prosecutors had asked that the convictions be included to help prove a conspiracy
the judge agreed monday with the defense team's objection to government witnesses who were hypnotized to help them recall events
before that witness takes the stand, before you even call that witness, you must file a motion detailing explicitly that witness's pre-hypnotic testimony,'' the judge told prosecutors
i am not disposed to let any of these witnesses testify to anything.''
u.s. attorney frank mcnamara said after the hearing that two or three witnesses had been hypnotized. he wouldn't comment on who they were or their potential importance to the prosecution
new york gov. mario cuomo said monday that jesse jackson was electable as a democratic presidential candidate and ``has done extremely well'' at getting out an appealing message
of course he's electable,'' said cuomo during an inpromptu news conference following a speech to new york's county officials. ``if the democrats _ and that's a majority in the country, is it not? _ if the democrats say they want jackson, how can you say he's not electable?''
some political observers have suggested that jackson could not win the general election even if he were the democratic nominee, saying the country is not ready to elect a black man as president
his message is appealing,'' cuomo said of jackson. ``he's saying to the people ... that we have many people who have been left out that we need to educate and house through job training because we can't make it without them. it's not just a matter of compassion, it's a matter of common sense.''
it's an important message,'' said the new york governor. ``and i think people relate to it. i think we need to fashion the most effective message that the democrats can put together.''
cuomo, who announced more than a year ago that he wouldn't seek the democratic presidential nomination, has refused to rule out accepting a draft for the nomination if there were a deadlocked national convention
the new york governor has refused to endorse jackson or any of the other active democratic candidates
cuomo has said he believes jackson stands a good chance of winning new york's important april 19 primary
the national oceanic and atmospheric administration has levied fines totaling $100,000 against three japanese firms whose ships were videotaped apparently fishing illegally in u.s. waters off alaska in early january
the civil fines of $25,000 per vessel involved are the maximum allowed under u.s. law
this underscores how seriously we viewed the violations,'' jim brennan, a deputy general counsel for noaa, said monday. he said the japanese companies can seek an administrative hearing on the fines if they decide to appeal
northwest congressmen, who had criticized the reagan administration's handling of the fishing situation, were pleased with the fines
this action should send a powerful message to any fisherman who is thinking about fishing illegally in our waters,'' said rep. don bonker, d-wash
added rep. john miller, r-wash.: ``if these fines make it dangerous to fish illegally in our waters and if these fines make it expensive for outlaw fishing vessels if they get caught, then i am all for them.''
the fines were based on a review of the videotapes and depositions taken from commercial fishermen who chartered a plane and photographed the vessels with their nets down allegedly 38 miles inside the american fishing zone, said brennan
the investigation was conducted by a noaa lawyer in juneau, alaska, and the fines issued late last week
two of the vessels videotaped are owned and operated by hamaya suisan co., ltd., which was fined a total of $50,000, said brennan. the other two vessels are owned and operated by senkon gyogyo co., ltd., and taisei gyogyo co., ltd., those companies each were fined $25,000
in addition, the owners and operators of two unidentified fishing vessels that were also videotaped were fined a total of $100,000. the identification numbers on the vessels were covered at the time they were photographed
those fines were for illegal fishing and for having their identifying marks obscured
we expect we will get the cooperation of the japanese government in tracking those vessels,'' said brennan
brennan also said noaa was considering denying applications for permits from the three companies to fish in american waters until 1992
foreign vessels are not currently allowed to fish in the 200-mile u.s. zone off alaska, but they are allowed to participate in joint ventures with american firms. brennan said the denial of permits would bar the three japanese firms from participating in joint ventures
american fishermen and the u.s. coast guard have suspected for more than a year that foreign trawlers were slipping into the u.s. zone under cover of darkness or in stormy weather to fish illegally
ed wolfe, the state department's ambassador for oceans and fisheries, said monday he was not aware of the noaa fines and declined comment. brandfass sted brandfess.</note>
a jury monday found manson disciple and would-be presidential assassin lynette ``squeaky'' fromme guilty of escaping from a federal prison after she told the panel: ``you don't have any choice.''
i'm guilty as charged, legally, and without remorse morally, so that's that,'' fromme, acting as her own lawyer, said in closing arguments
fromme, 39, a disciple of mass murderer charles manson, is serving a life sentence for a 1975 assassination attempt against president ford. she escaped dec. 23 from the federal correctional institution at alderson, w.va., and was captured about two miles away on christmas after a manhunt
fromme called only herself as a witness and carefully followed hallanan's instructions that her testimony had to be in the form of questions and answers, questioning herself on the pronunciation of her name and cautioning: ``miss fromme, you talk too much,'' and ``wait a minute, you're getting ahead of yourself.''
the u.s. district court jury returned its verdict after less than 10 minutes of deliberation. judge elizabeth hallanan set an april 28 sentencing date. fromme faces an additional sentence of up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine
fromme has been described as the main member of the ``family'' that congregated around manson, who is serving a life sentence in san quentin prison in california for the 1969 murders of actress sharon tate and eight others
she told the jury monday that she attempted to escape because ``i got word that (manson) had cancer
he needs a relative, somebody to check on him,'' she said of manson, whom she described as ``my husband, my brother, my father, my son, the man who's been my friend.''
she said she decided to escape because ``my access to him is so limited, i've been feeling helpless for years. if love means anything at all it means stop feeling helpless ... (and) take action if necessary.''
assistant u.s. attorney j. kirk brandfass called four prison employees to testify about fromme's disappearance and her capture
fromme cross-examined each government witness on the population of the prison, and each of them indicated the institution _ which has an official capacity of 670 prisoners _ now holds about 1,000,
in her testimony she told the jury that the overcrowding was one of the reasons she tried to escape.``the prison has become more and more crowded, and the institution staff has become more and more tense,'' she said
the judge had twice denied fromme's request for a no-contest plea and entered an innocent plea on her behalf
fromme had told hallanan the case ``doesn't warrant a jury trial'' and said she was ``willing to accept whatever sentence you hand down to me.''
but fromme failed on monday to ask for ``bench trial,'' which would have left the decision in the judge's hands without calling a jury
ford was unharmed when a secret service agent grabbed a semiautomatic .45-caliber pistol aimed at him by fromme on sept. 5, 1975
in san francisco 17 days later, ford escaped injury when sara jane moore, 45, fired a revolver at him. she eventually pleaded guilty and received a life sentence
in 1979, moore also escaped from the alderson prison but was recaptured hours later about 25 miles away. she is now in a federal prison in pleasanton, calif. box</head> last week sted this week.</note>
activists protesting the bank of boston's investment in a paper mill succeeded in depositing a dead fish in a safety deposit box despite pleas from bank officials
the protesters appeared outside the bank building at noon in opposition to what they said are toxic hazards at the international paper co. mill in jay, maine. mill workers on strike since last june have been replaced and in recent weeks, there have beeen three incidents of gas leaks
members of the national toxics campaign and a group from jay, stop toxics against citizens, placed dead fish in safety deposit boxes in several bank of boston branches last week to symbolize what they said are the fish killed in the androscoggin river because of international paper's alleged toxic dumping
bank of boston controls 189,000 shares of international paper and a bank board member, donald mchenry, is on the board of international paper
on monday, three activists entered the bank as some people outside chanted ``bank of boston, they won't tell, holy mackerel, what's that smell?''
as michael stein, representing the protesters, kate o'connor, a national toxics campaign worker, and tina mcdonald, a jay resident, walked to the vault, a coterie of bank security guards scurried after them, banishing press photographers from the premises
one bank official, who declined to give his name, first tried to dissuade the protesters from placing two fish inside the deposit box
i'm just another schlep here,'' he told them. ``i don't know why you want to do this, but i don't think it's a good idea.''
another official, who would only identify himself as ``ronald mcdonald,'' informed stein that he would be allowed to place the two dead fish in his box, but that the bank planned to terminate his contract immediately thereafter
we're asking you to surrender the box,'' said the official. ``we don't want you as a customer any more.''
stein then desposited the fish and was ushered out of the building
wayne taylor, spokesman for the bank of boston, said the protesters' tactics were hypocritical and caused a health issue. ``they're jeopardizing the safety and health of bank employees and customers,'' he said, arguing that the dead fish could attract cockroaches
taylor said the bank has been, and will remain, neutral in the controversy surrounding the paper mill and the strike
members of the united international paperworkers union and the brotherhood of firemen and oilers walked out june 16 in a contract dispute. international paper wanted to eliminate 170 jobs and cut premium pay on sundays
eight workers were sent to the hospital after being exposed to hydrogen sulfide on jan. 28, and a 112,000-gallon chlorine dioxide leak on feb. 5 forced nearly 4,000 residents out of their homes and schools for several hours. a leak on feb. 14 chlorine gas leak injured seven people
following protests from residents, maine gov. john r. mckernan jr. and international paper chairman john a. georges agreed on a full-scale inspection of the plant, at the company's expense, by an outside consultant selected by the state
bill greener, spokesman for international paper in purchase, n.y., said that the maine department of environmental protection last week announced they had found no reason to close down the mill. greener said the three chemical leaks were ``something to be avoided'' and said the company is cooperating with efforts to make the mill as safe as possible. he denied the protesters' claim that the company engages in toxic dumping
a cuban official on monday claimed the united states paid bribes to win support for its effort to have the u.n. human rights commission investigate cuba, the news agency prensa latina reported
the cuban news agency said assistant foreign minister raul roa told the havana newspaper granma that some people at the commission hearings held in geneva received $50,000 in bribes
in the report monitored in mexico city, prensa latina mentioned no names and gave no further details on the bribe allegation
last week, the 43-nation human rights commission accepted president fidel castro's invitation to send a delegation to cuba to investigate allegations of human rights abuses
after that action, the united states withdrew a resolution calling for the u.n. secretary-general to study the human rights situation in cuba and report to the commission
roa, who returned to havana last weekend from geneva, called the commission decision ``the most crushing defeat'' the united states ``has suffered in recent years in an international forum,'' prensa latina said
armando valladares, a former cuban political prisoner who headed the u.s. delegation to the geneva meeting, said last week the two-year u.s. effort to have the commission examine the human rights situation in cuba had forced castro to invite a delegation to his country
a theological conservative was elected president monday of divided southeastern baptist theological seminary and said he will hire as faculty members only those who accept the bible as the literal truth
a moderate on the seminary's board of trustees warned ``there will be no peace'' at the 1,009-student school if drummond makes good on his commitment to carry out the agenda of the board's conservative majority
lewis a. drummond, 61, a professor of evangelism at southern baptist seminary in louisville, ky., takes office april 1 at southeastern, the fourth-largest of six southern baptist seminaries. it was founded in 1950
drummond, an associate of evangelist billy graham, pledged to seek peace among the school's factions and said he he would preserve academic quality and freedom of inquiry at the seminary
however, he also said he will implement the agenda of the conservatives, including hiring as faculty members only those scholars who hold the ``inerrancy'' view that the bible is literally true, even in matters of science and history
theological moderates believe the scriptures were divinely inspired but may contain errors by their human authors. the issue is at the heart of a clash that has divided the nation's biggest protestant denomination for several years. there are 14.6 million southern baptists
drummond succeeds randall lolley, a moderate who announced his resignation in the fall after 14 years. lolley said he could not carry out what he called the conservatives' plan to ``create a fundamentalist seminary.'' four administrators also resigned
it will be my prayer ... that a fresh wind of spiritual renewal could sweep the campus, fostering a spirit of love, harmony and reconciliation and commitment to all that god would accomplish in and through the institution,'' drummond said
despite his conservative orientation, drummond had been described as perhaps the only candidate acceptable to conservatives and moderates because of his academic credentials and what colleagues describe as a tolerant attitude and agreeable personality
the board's vote 21-6 with one abstention to hire drummond after nearly 90 minutes of debate
dr. drummond's view of the bible is one i cannot accept,'' the rev. mark caldwell, a moderate trustee from washington, d.c., said in an interview
caldwell read a statement on behalf of other moderates that accused the conservatives of trying to ``shift radically the theological foundation of the school toward fundamentalism . ... we will not endorse such an erosion of the school's historic character.''
caldwell said a faculty panel that met with drummond gave drummond a less than 50 percent confidence rating. the faculty raised concerns about his his understanding of the moderate-conservative rift, his appreciation of the ``broad baptist constituency'' and his leadership skills, caldwell said
the rev. robert d. crowley, the conservative trustee chairman and a rockville, md., minister, said drummond ``brings to this new job impeccable credentials, an enviable track record and every qualification we could have wanted for a new president.''
richard l. hester, president of the seminary chapter of the american association of university professors, which has fought the conservatives, said the faculty would give drummond a chance to demonstrate his commitment to academic freedom and excellence
but we want to make fully clear that if his dream is the same dream as the trustee majority there will be no peace here,'' hester said
drummond has been administrative director of the billy graham center since 1981 and billy graham professor of evangelism at southern seminary since 1973. he also has taught at spurgeon's theological college in london, england
at a news conference, crowley read from graham's letter of recommendation in which he described drummond as ``an ideal president at southeastern seminary.'' newspaper to yediot ahronot sted yeiot. picks up 5th graf pvs, prime minister ...</note>
troops shut down one of the biggest produce markets in the west bank on monday, turning away 70 trucks of food grown by arab farmers and tightening the economic noose on the occupied territories
soldiers also shot and wounded at least 11 arabs, and a 3-year-old girl was in serious condition after she was hit in the right eye by a rubber bullet, hospital officials said
the army imposed a nightly 10 p.m. to 3 a.m. curfew over the entire gaza strip for the first time since unrest began in the territories dec. 8. a spokesman, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the curfew will be in effect indefinitely
israel radio said the curfew was to prevent ``the entrance of violent instigators ... and of written instigation material'' to the gaza strip where about 600,000 palestinians live
all residents will have to stay home while the army seals off entrances to gaza, the radio said
the daily yediot ahronot meanwhile reported that the israeli army will spray rock-hurling protesters with paint from helicopters so they can be identified and arrested
prime minister yitzhak shamir arrived in washington with what he said were new ideas for mideast peace talks
also on monday, another 150 arab policemen in gaza announced they would resign, joining 450 other officers in the occupied territories who quit earlier, according to an arab reporter who watched many turn in their uniforms
israeli authorities acknowledged some police quit but gave no figures. about 850 arab police worked in the occupied territories
the resignations were ordered by the palestine liberation organization two days after the slaying of a jericho policeman accused of collaborating with the israelis
it is clear their resignations were not handed in freely but because they fear for their lives,'' gaza police commander shimon levy said on israel radio. in apparent response to the plo-backed protests and unrest, israel stepped up economic sanctions, including a ban on the shipment of gasoline and other fuel to service stations in the west bank
uri hakak of the israeli-owned padesco co., which supplies fuel to 50 west bank gas stations, said drivers were afraid to make deliveries after two tank trucks were attack and burned
in jericho, 22 miles northeast of jerusalem, soldiers closed the regional fruit and vegetable market, turning away 70 trucks carrying produce, arab merchants said
we started to sell about 8 a.m. when the soldiers came and forced us to close,'' said one merchant who refused to give his name, saying he was being watched by a collaborator
he said arab farmers tried to open informal markets elsewhere, but soldiers chased them away
plo leaflets have ordered jericho shops to open only in the morning. but on monday, merchants said troops told them they could operate only after noon
saeb erakat, a political science professor from an najah university who lives in jericho, said israeli authorities wanted to break the back of the palestinian strike with economic pressure
the military government is trying to tell the people here who is boss. jericho is an agricultural city. to order the market closed in the morning amounts to killing it economically,'' erakat said
at least 91 arabs have been killed during unrest in the occupied territories since rioting began, according to united nations figures
in jenin and the nearby west bank village of yamoun, troops using live ammunition shot and wounded 11 arabs
witnesses in ramallah said troops also shot 3-year-old rasha youssef said in the eye with a rubber bullet in a clash with palestinians protesting alleged harassment by jewish settlers
on the political front, legislators of the right-wing likud bloc said they would try to defeat a u.s. peace plan by forming a new government without the left-of-center labor party, led by foreign minister shimon peres
but shamir arrived in washington with what he said were new proposals for mideast peace talks. he also said he would not give a blanket yes-or-no reply to the u.s. peace plan devised by secretary of state george p. shultz
a baby born with most of his brain missing clung to life monday at a hospital where doctors hoped to make the doomed infant's organs available for transplant, a hospital spokeswoman said
he shows progressive signs of brain stem deterioriation but has not yet met all the criteria for total brain death,'' said anita rockwell, a spokeswoman for loma linda university medical center
the boy, identified only as baby d, was born at an unidentified southern california hospital march 10 with a fatal birth defect known as anencephaly, in which much of the brain and skull are missing
the newborn's other vital organs are healthy, and his parents asked that their child be considered an organ donor. he was transferred to loma linda
loma linda has developed the nation's first medical guidelines for preserving anencephalics' heart and other vital organs for transplanting into critically ill infants
the baby is the fourth brain-absent newborn accepted at loma linda for possible use as an organ donor
under criteria established by the hospital, baby d was placed on life-support systems for a seven-day period, which ends thursday night
if doctors determine that baby d is brain-dead during that period, the hospital will serve notice that the organs are available for transplant
if the infant is not declared brain-dead within seven days, baby d will be taken off the respirator and will be allowed to die naturally
the guidelines were developed to address ethical questions surrounding use of doomed anencephalics as organ donors
loma linda received nationwide attention and criticism in 1984 when dr. leonard bailey transplanted a baboon's heart into a girl known as baby fae. she died 20{ days later
bailey later transplanted infant hearts successfully. however, a shortage organ donors led loma linda to develop its policy on anencephalic infants. colon, u.s. reinforcements sent to panama. picks up 8th graf: primary and ... inserts 2 grafs after 11th graf pvs, ``alberto soto ... with colon strike, other details; minor editing thruout.</note>
police fired tear gas monday at protesters who blocked traffic in the capital and cried, ``noriega must go!'' work stoppages broke out as employees learned they would not be paid by a government that has run out of money
the government began selling sacks of food, called ``dignity bags,'' to unpaid workers. some schoolteachers, telephone company and panama canal dock workers demanded cash and struck to reinforce their demand
in washington, the pentagon announced it had sent 104 marines and air force military police to panama to reinforce u.s. security units
violence was reported in the port city of colon at the caribbean entrance of the panama canal
nicolas psichoyos, a manager of the rey supermarket chain, said two company stores were attacked by gangs demanding free food for government employees. five supermarket employees were injured in fights with the attackers, one of them seriously, psichoyos said
he said the gangs were supporters of gen. manuel antonio noriega, the nation's strongman
protesters in panama city erected flaming street barricades of trash. others yelled at security forces and were met by volleys of tear gas
for the first time, the disturbances reached into the heart of the capital's business district
riot police used tear gas to disperse about 600 primary and secondary school teachers blocking traffic in front of the ministry of education. ``we want our pay!'' shouted the teachers. ``books yes, arms no!''
as the police, armed with rubber truncheons and tear gas grenades, forcibly removed them, the teachers cried: ``noriega must go!'' no arrests were reported
primary and secondary schools were to have reopened monday following a three-month vacation, but they stayed closed
alberto williams, a secretary of the dock workers union, said about 700 employees walked off their jobs at 9 a.m. at the port of balboa, the pacific ocean entrance to the panama canal, after being told they would not be paid their semi-monthly salaries
this strike is not a political movement,'' said williams, a forklift operator who makes $5.85 an hour. ``all we want is that the workers get their money.''
alberto soto, the port administrator, said the strike would have ``absolutely nothing'' to do with traffic through the 50-mile waterway linking the pacific and atlantic oceans
dock workers also struck at colon 50 miles north of panama city. colon residents told the associated press that in another protest, teachers temporarily blocked the highway that runs parallel to the canal
the u.s. defense department announced that 60 marines and a 44-man air force police unit were flown to panama monday. a pentagon spokesman, cmdr. robert prucha, said, ``this is simply a prudent measure to augment the security personnel who are already in place.''
u.s. officials in washington have said president reagan's decision to withhold a $6.5 million payment due panama on tuesday was aimed at impairing the panamanian government's ability to pay panama's 130,000 public workers this week
withholding the payment was one of a number of economic sanctions the united states has imposed to pressure noriega to step down as chief of the defense forces
nearly one in every five working panamanians is employed by the government. until now, they have supported noriega, at least outwardly
according to panamanian figures, their payroll comes to about $33 million every two weeks. diplomatic sources and private economists, speaking on condition of anonymity, say the nation's treasury is empty
the ``dignity bags'' contained such staples of the panamanian diet as rice, beans, flour, onions, cheese and lard. they were being sold for between $15 and $16 but the government apparently was not demanding immediate payment
horacio rodriguez, director of the ministry of farm and dairy products marketing, said his agency prepared 12,000 of the bags
the nation's new civilian chief executive, manuel solis palma, noriega and other top officials resumed an emergency economic conference monday morning after recessing an earlier session at 2 a.m. without comment
solis palma, installed by the military last month, has been meeting frequently with his chief advisers but sunday's meeting was the first time that noriega had been known to join them
noriega, the power behind the government since 1983, was indicted by two u.s. federal grand juries last month on charges of drug trafficking and money laundering
about 40 employees outside the state-run telephone company's main office told reporters they were striking because they had not been paid
nobody has told us anything,'' said one worker, who refused to identify himself
the 118 local and foreign banks in panama remained closed by government order for the 10th straight day. most had closed their doors earlier because the government was unable to provide them with the cash to cover a run on deposits
the bank run began feb. 26, the day noriega engineered the dismissal of eric arturo delvalle as president. the day before, delvalle had tried to fire noriega. the deposed president has been in hiding for more than two weeks, but is still recognized by the united states as panama's legitimate chief executive. lying, deleting some detail to tighten. corrects spelling of fields, sted field, in 9th graf pvs. no pickup.</note>
a former official in gov. evan mecham's administration, testifying monday at the governor's senate impeachment trial, accused a key prosecution witness of lying about an alleged death threat
max hawkins said the witness, peggy griffith, ``really had it in for lee watkins,'' the man griffith accused of making the threat
in a heated round of questioning, hawkins insisted repeatedly he did not believe a death threat had been made. ``i thought peggy really detested lee watkins,'' said hawkins, former director of the department of administration
asked by sen. carolyn walker whether he was accusing griffith of lying, hawkins said: ``i testified i think she did lie on that.''
watkins, former state prison construction chief, has been accused of threatening donna carlson, a former mecham aide who was testifying at the time before a grand jury investigating mecham's finances
mecham, the first u.s. governor to face an impeachment trial in six decades, is charged with obstructing an attorney general's investigation of the alleged threat
other impeachment charges against the first-term republican allege he concealed a $350,000 campaign fund and misused $80,000 in a state fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
mecham has not attended the trial since it began feb. 29
earlier monday, mecham's lawyer, fred craft, accused the state police of intimidating defense witnesses as he moved for a mistrial or dismissal of charges against mecham
mecham sent a letter to acting gov. rose mofford asking that three top state department of public safety officials be placed on leave. mecham sugested that federal authorities be called in to investigate the intimidation claims
a political trial that is difficult at best is made even more difficult when witnesses are subject to these kinds of intimidation and harassment,'' the letter said
there was no immediate response from mrs. mofford's office to the letter requesting that she place dps director ralph milstead and two other officials on leave
arizona supreme court justice frank x. gordon, who is presiding over the impeachment trial, said he would not rule on craft's motion until tuesday
gordon also spent an hour in chambers with attorneys. prosecutors asked for sanctions against craft for trying the case in the news media with a weekend news conference, according to rep. henry evans, a democrat who is a member of the house prosecution team
craft held the news conference to protest the arrest friday of defense witness terri fields on an outstanding warrant. she had testified the day before
dps arrested ms. fields on a january warrant charging that she failed to attend court-ordered alcoholics anonymous meetings following a driving-while-intoxicated conviction. she was released on $1,000 bond
ms. fields testified that a state official who had testified about the alleged threat tended to exaggerate. ms. fields also said she thought there had been no death threat
dps spokesman sgt. allan schmidt has denied that ms. fields' arrest was an attempt to intimidate impeachment trial witnesses
meanwhile, hawkins testified monday that he considered the alleged death threat ``a culmination of comical errors.''
i saw no crime,'' hawkins testified. he denied any attempt to shield watkins
house prosecutor william french, confronting hawkins with his own words in a news release, a newspaper interview and a tape recording of a phone call, suggested hawkins tried to shief watkins and help him pass a lie detector test
hawkins said he was misquoted in the newspaper article and wasn't sure his phone conversation with watkins' attorney was transcribed accurately. he complained bitterly that the conversation with attorney dale anderson was illegal because it was recorded without his knowledge
on the tape, he was quoted as saying: ``i love lee and i want to save his ass. i believe he's being railroaded.'' a transcript also shows hawkins discussing questions that could help watkins pass the polygraph test
outside, some 200 pro-mecham demonstrators protested ms. fields' arrest. they carried placards denouncing the dps and the news media and calling for mecham's reinstatement as governor
a two-thirds vote of the senate is required to convict mecham and remove him from office
mecham contends he has broken no law and is the victim of a political conspiracy. he also faces an april 21 criminal trial on felony counts alleging he concealed the $350,000 loan, and a may 17 recall election
more than 50 independent tv production companies, including johnny carson's ``tonight show,'' appealed to striking scriptwriters for an exemption from the walkout, a union official said monday
brian walton, west coast executive director of the striking writers guild of america, said the union board would consider the special requests to allow scriptwriters to return to work at some companies during the strike
the strike by 9,000 guild members against the 200-member alliance of motion picture and television producers began march 7
walton declined to identify the productions companies seeking special, interim agreements, but ``the tonight show,'' announced it was among them
about 40 percent of the companies that make shows for television are wholly independent. of the rest, about half are considered independent but are affiliated with a major studio
among shows already rejected for an exemption was the academy awards ceremony, which is scheduled for worldwide broadcast april 11
lobell-bergman productions said monday the strike has affected development of five of eight movies on its slate and stopped work on a network comedy series
previously postponed was a revival of ``the smothers brothers comedy hour'' and a new series, ``the dictator,'' starring christopher lloyd
a spokesman for the producers belittled the union's assertion about the number of independents seeking waivers
with the exception of carson, i don't know of any other independent producer looking to make a deal who is also member of the alliance,'' said herb steinberg
no new talks were scheduled in strike. the guild is seeking greater creative control, higher residuals from foreign market distribution, and no adjustment by producers of residuals for hour-long syndicated tv shows. why tung went to trial; subs 9th graf pvs, `two years ...' to add tung is serving 20-year sentence.</note>
a former gang member testified monday that he agreed to the assassination of chinese-american journalist henry liu because he believed it was a patriotic act requested directly by the taiwanese government
tung kuei-sen, the former member of a taiwanese criminal ``bamboo gang,'' has pleaded innocent to the 1984 shooting death of journalist henry liu. he faces a sentence of 27 years to life in prison if convicted of first-degree murder with the use of a handgun
liu, 52, was killed in the garage of his daly city home just south of san francisco on oct. 15, 1984. liu, a columnist for chinese-language newspapers in san francisco, had just finished a biography critical of chiang ching-kuo, taiwan's president from 1978 until his death of a heart attack in january
tung, 35, has admitted the killing but went to trial because the prosecution has not offered a plea bargain and because tung want to tell his story, said defense attorney douglas gray
tung testified in san mateo county superior court that he had never heard of liu or his writings until he was driven to san francisco the day before the killing
speaking through an intepreter, he said he agreed to act as a gunman at the request of chen chi-li, a reputed united bamboo gang leader who told him he received his orders from taiwan's then chief of military intelligence, vice adm. weng hsi-ling
he asked first of all, `am i willing to help my country?''' said tung. ``i said, `yes, of course, because this is everyone's obligation.' and then he showed me he was a member of the intelligence bureau with the id card of the intelligence bureau of the republic of china.''
he said chen told him liu was a traitor who had become a double agent for taiwan and the people's republic of china
tung said he was recruited by chen because they both been united bamboo members before tung moved to the united states to set up an import-export business in august, 1984
two years ago, tung testified about his role in the liu killing while on trial on heroin smuggling charges in new york. he has said that he wanted to testify in order to apologize and possibly lessen his sentence. he received 20 years in prison for conspiracy to smuggle 600 pounds of heroin into the united states
tung described the shooting scene monday. he said he and wu tun rode up to liu's home on bicycles, hiding in the garage until liu came in. he said wu tun shot first. ``i heard a shot and i went forward and i saw this man fall down. at that time, i believed that should be the man i should assassinate. i aimed at his tummy and shot him twice,'' tung said
tung fled the country and was apprehended in rio de janeiro after stops in bangkok, the philippines and singapore
chen chi-li, reputed head of the bamboo gang, and wu tun were convicted in a taipei court and are serving life terms in taiwan. the taiwanese government has refused u.s. attempts to have them extradited for trial here
weng and two of his aides were convicted and given life sentences in the case. chen testified that the admiral and other high-ranking military officers recruited him to kill liu
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ the u.s. ambassador personally notified president leslie manigat about the indictment in miami of col. jean-claude paul on narcotics trafficking charges, embassy spokesman jeffrey lite said monday
we have formally notified them, but have not yet revealed the details of the case,'' lite said. ``they will be passed along when they're made available.''
he said ambassador brunson mckinley met with manigat thursday, the same day the miami indictment was unsealed
lite would not say if mckinley discussed the possible extradition of paul or recommended any course of action
the indictment accuses paul, along with his brother and ex-wife, of using a private airstrip to fly a 220-pound cocaine shipment to the bahamas for delivery to miami
paul commands the powerful dessalines battalion that backs up police in this capital city with a population of 1 million
the indictment puts manigat in a precarious situation. the 57-year-old political science professor came to power in a jan. 17 election that many haitians boycotted, foreign observers criticized and rival candidates said was rigged by the army
a decision to act against paul could provoke a coup, and if manigat ignores the indictment it could affect u.s. aid vital to this impoverished caribbean nation and its 6 million people
manigat issued a statement last week through a washington public relations firm calling the incident ``a matter of concern'' that will be handled in haiti by military courts
manigat is in a ``horrible situation,'' said a western diplomat who spoke with the condition he not be identified
paul knows that if he goes (to the united states) he will land in jail. he's not about to let himself be had,'' the diplomat said. ``the solution would be to bring him to trial locally. but how? who would you send to arrest him?'' anaise chavenet, a spokeswoman for the ministry of information, said monday the government has not been officially notified about the indictment
the american government has not notified the haitian government by letter or through normal diplomatic channels _ through the ministry of foreign affairs _ of the indictment of col. paul,'' she said
she added she was not aware of any meeting between manigat and mckinley on the indictment. contest</head>
democratic presidential hopeful rep. richard gephardt brought his tough trade talk to a bastion of organized labor monday night, telling democrats here that america's allies must be prepared to accept u.s.-made products
for gephardt, whose campaign stumbled badly on super tuesday, the march 26 democratic caucuses here are a crucial test. the missouri congressman passed up campaigning in tuesday's illinois primary
gephardt told about 300 supporters that in the past, the threat of tariffs has helped the united states persuade canada to stop dumping wood products and the japanese in dumping microchips on the u.s. market
when we finally lose the timidity and stand up for basic fairness, other countries open up,'' said gephardt, who has made trade issues a campaign centerpiece
gephardt drew scattered groans and catcalls from the audience when he quoted president reagan as saying the trade deficit was a sign of strength
i thought maybe he got his cuecards messed up,'' gephardt said
even as gephardt talked up his stance on trade, lawmakers in washington moved toward to discard the trade amendment the missouri congressman authored
senators are starting to push their house counterparts in earnest to abandon the provision as conferees from the two houses try to hammer out a final version of sweeping trade legislation
gephardt spokesman mark johnson said the senate action represented ``nothing new'' in the trade debate
gephardt planned to remain in michigan through wednesday, then return friday to continue campaigning in advance of the caucuses
michigan attorney general frank kelley, gephardt's state chairman, said the missouri congressman had between $400,000 and $500,000 available for a television advertising blitz over the next 11 days
it's very important that i win in michigan, and we're going to win in michigan,'' gephardt said after the speech
kelley likened gephardt's campaign to that of 1948, when another missourian, harry truman, won an upset victory for the white house
i predict he's going to surprise a lot of people,'' kelley said
earlier monday, gephardt talked to more than 300 members of united auto workers local 569 in flint, where he repeated his call to rebuild america's declining industrial base
in 1948, peter rodino left his native italian neighborhood in newark, n.j., an eager 38-year-old lawyer ready to represent the bustling city in congress
rodino became an institution in the intervening 40 years: fighting for liberal legislation, controlling one of congress' most powerful committees and helping write into history the downfall of a president
on monday, the 78-year-old congressman announced his plans to retire after 20 terms
in those years, newark decayed from the heart of the garden state into the brunt of jokes. rodino's political base eroded, too. his decision not to seek re-election came in the face of mounting pressure from black political leaders, who claim it's now their time to represent the vastly changed area
born in 1909, the son of an italian immigrant toolmaker, rodino seemed awed by responsibility when he was placed in charge of the president nixon's impeachment proceedings in 1974
if fate had been looking for one of the powerhouses of congress, it wouldn't have picked me,'' he told a reporter then
but rodino's steady, judicious handling of the momentous hearings earned him widespread praise and helped produce an overwhelming bipartisan majority in favor of impeachment
rodino said last year he retired to a private office and cried after his committee approved three articles of impeachment, forcing nixon to resign two weeks later
more recently, rodino was again in on the making of history, as a senior member of the house iran-contra committee that investigated the sale of arms to iran and the funneling of profits to the nicaragua contra rebels. he had harsh words for what he called the reagan administration's lack of concern for the constitution
he has continually used the judiciary committee to press for civil rights and what he calls ``the rule of law.''
little in the early years of rodino's career suggested he might climb to the center stage of national political life
a child of the depression, he completed law school in 1937, after 10 years of night classes. he was later decorated for world war ii army service in italy
like many members of congress, rodino relied upon service to his constituents for his electoral success. but he was a strong civil rights advocate, and that served him well as his once-prosperous city became predominantly black by the 1970s
he spoke proudly of his italian heritage, and sponsored legislation that made columbus day part of a three-day annual holiday
peter rodino was an unknown quantity,'' former house speaker thomas p. o'neill, d-mass., once recalled. ``he was a flame under a bushel basket.''
nixon's political demise raised rodino's stock considerably. he made the cover of national news magazines, starred on the dinner circuit, and was even interviewed to be jimmy carter's running mate in 1976
in december 1980, his wife and high-school sweetheart, marianna stango rodino, died after suffering for two years from a brain tumor. rodino had missed many a house session caring for her. he received further blows in 1982 and 1983 when he lost his brother, sister and mother-in-law
rodino focused himself on his work, running for his seat and winning, despite ever-mounting challenges. two years ago, he hinted he would step down as soon as reagan left office
he said then he would concentrate on writing his memoirs
at least 10,000 people marched through la paz monday in a funeral procession for a student who died from a bullet wound he received during a violent protest
later monday, about 5,000 workers demonstrated in the capital against the government's economic policies. at one point, police threw tear gas canisters to disperse protesters about to throw rocks at the u.s. embassy, authorities said
the students and faculty were protesting the death of marco antonio uria, a student at san andres university in la paz who died saturday morning after being hit by a bullet during a confrontation between students and police
the march was peaceful and no arrests were reported
students said police were responsible for uria's death, but the ministry of the interior said the bullet was fired by students
friday's protest was organized to demand an increase in the federal budget for universities. students threw rocks at police, overturned vehicles and threw up roadblocks. police pursued fleeing students onto the campus
a group of students returning from the funeral monday afternoon destroyed a booth in downtown la paz that was selling souvenirs of the pope's visit to bolivia in may, witnesses said
later in the afternoon, at least 5,000 workers marched through la paz to protest the economic policies of the administration of president victor paz estenssoro
the march, organized by the bolivian workers central, was called to pressure the government to increase wages, protect the government social security system and strengthen the public school system
the government is obeying the mandates of the international monetary fund and as a result workers are suffering the consequences with starvation wages,'' said simon reyes, executive of the workers central, during a rally that preceded the march
the shackling of former black panther johnny spain at his murder trial stemming from a 1971 prison breakout attempt was justified by the threat of violence, a prosecutor told an appeals court monday
as the 38-year-old spain, newly released from prison after 21 years, looked on, deputy attorney general ronald niver argued that the judge who presided at the trial ``was confronted with six violent men'' charged with murder
it was reasonable for (the judge) to fear for the safety of those in the courtroom,'' niver told the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals. ``he tried the best way he knew how to protect the safety of the spectators.''
but spain's lawyer, dennis riordan, urged the panel to uphold a lower-court order granting spain a new trial on the grounds that the heavy and painful shackles influenced the jury and deterred spain from testifying
we know that this jury only heard one half the story,'' riordan said. in five years of court proceedings and a 17-month trial, spain wore 25 pounds of chains around his body, arms and legs
the three-judge appeals panel heard more than 90 minutes of arguments and will rule on whether to reinstate spain's two murder convictions
one option raised during the hearing was to return the case to a lower court to find out what spain would say if he had testified and whether it could have affected the verdict. riordan opposed the suggestion
spain, released on $350,000 bail last week, told reporters after the hearing that being free was ``an incredible feeling'' and he wasn't worried about the court sending him back to prison
i probably won't put a down payment on a home, but i can't stop living because of that possibility,'' spain said
spain faces a more immediate threat to his freedom: a vote next week by the state board of prison terms reconsidering a panel's decision to parole him from a life term for a 1966 murder-robbery committed when he was 17
in the unrelated trial known as the san quentin six case, spain was the only prisoner convicted of murder in a 1971 bloodbath that took the lives of militant leader george jackson, two other inmates and three guards
authorities said spain, who was seen running out of a maximum-security unit with jackson, conspired with jackson in the escape attempt. three other prisoners were acquitted, and two were convicted of assault
in his 1986 ruling granting spain a new trial, u.s. district judge thelton henderson said superior court judge henry broderick had failed to consider alternatives to the shackling, such as the warnings used for another of the six defendants
but niver said the appeals court, reviewing the trial years later, should defer to broderick's evident conclusion that he had no safe alternative
circuit judge alex kozinski pressed niver on whether safety could have been maintained with less severe measures _ for example, leaving an arm unchained so spain could write a note to his lawyer without pain
we wouldn't do that to an animal, right?'' kozinski asked
niver replied that spain, even while fully manacled, threw a file folder at the jury and caused other courtroom disruptions. but riordan said the disruptions were caused by the pain of the shackles
primary school teachers across argentina went on strike monday demanding higher wages and forcing cancellation of most classes on the first day of the public school year
officials said only in northeastern corrientes province, where a salary agreement was reached earlier this month, did teachers begin regular classes for pre-schoolers and youngsters in grades one through seven
more than 450,000 members of the ctera teachers' union are demanding a minimum salary of 770 australs a month _ the equivalent of $126
ctera has said grade school teachers in some poorer provinces of this nation of 31 million people receive about 350 australs ($57) a month, requiring many to seek second jobs
it issued a statement saying that except in corrientes, at least 90 percent of the primary school teachers joined monday's walkout
their strike could extend to high school teachers if no agreement is reached by next monday, the opening day of high school classes. university teachers have threatened to boycott classes because of wage conflicts
the government has acknowledged that teachers' salaries are low, but said the wage demands cannot be met because of the country's severe economic problems
education and justice minister jorge sabato described the union decision to disrupt the opening of the school year as abrupt and lamentable
most private schools, many of which are operated by churches, opened as scheduled but a few reported walkouts by teachers sympathetic with their public school collegues
ctera is demanding a uniform minimum salary for teachers in all of argentina, noting differences between wages in districts in and around beunos aires and those in lesser developed regions
the government and provinces have offered to gradually increase salaries by an unspecified amount over several months. that was rejected by ctera, saying the offer was inadequate considering argentina's rampant inflation
inflation registered 189 percent over the past 12 months
a fugitive arrested after he was recognized on the tv game show ``super password'' pleaded guilty monday to collecting $100,000 on a life insurance policy by falsely claiming his wife had been killed in an auto accident
kerry dee ketchem, 36, entered the plea to two counts of mail-fraud indictment. he admitted submitting the false insurance claim while stationed with the air force in england
he faces up to 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine at sentencing may 2
ketchem, appearing under a pseudonym on ``super password,'' was identified by a tv viewer in alaska and was arrested as he attempted to pick up a record $58,600 in winnings from his appearance on the show
the alaskan banker who spotted ketchem and called authorities claimed ketchem had run up about $25,000 in bills by using fraudulently obtained credit cards
after monday's hearing, ketchem's attorney, jerry newton, said his client also may be indicted in indiana on charges of obtaining a $26,000 bank loan by using a car he didn't own as collateral
a pro-noriega diplomat who was replaced at the panamanian consulate here monday apparently left with official diplomatic seals and important papers, authorities said
consul general joaquin meza left office after panamanian ambassador juan sosa replaced him with robert dominguez, a prominent businessman who fled panama after president eric delvalle was forced from office
sosa supports the ousted delvalle and has replaced 25 other consuls general who had backed panamanian military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
dominguez said that when he arrived at the consulate monday morning, he found seals and important immigration papers were missing. miami police are investigating, but a spokesman said meza already has left the country
among the papers missing were visa applications filed by dozens of cuban americans who had paid thousands of dollars to visit or pick up relatives living in panama, dominguez said
the central american nation has been in turmoil since noriega was indicted in miami and tampa on drug charges and delvalle called for his ouster
the u.s. state department has said it recognizes delvalle, who is in hiding, as the official leader of panama
dissident miklos haraszti said police detained him for two hours monday and raided the house of another activist on the eve of an official ceremony marking an unsuccessful revolt against austria in 1848
dissidents were planning their own demonstration following the official event scheduled for tuesday morning
haraszti, a writer, told the associated press police picked him up at his house and handcuffed and beat him before taking him to a police station in budapest's 5th district where he was released after being held for two hours
he said he was warned that he and a colleague, tibor philipp, would be held responsible for any ``anti-system moves'' or disturbances if the dissidents hold a demonstration
police also searched the home of philipp, who is associated with the underground inconnu cultural group, according to haraszti
over the past two weeks, police raided the homes of at least seven dissidents including sociologist ottilia solt, writer gyoergy gado and gabor demzsky, who runs the largest underground publishing operation in communist hungary, according to dissident sources
they said police seized hundreds of journals and documents
haraszti said he also was criticized by the police for taking part in a recent two-day conference in bonn, organized by the west german social democrats to discuss detente, and for making a statement on radio free europe. in the broadcast statement, he denied the official claim that police in the earlier house raids found leaflets opposing the consititution and legal order
he said only books and underground papers were confiscated
last friday, several official publications referred to the house searches and said proceedings were under way against six people, but they did not report the type of proceedings
saturday's edition of the communist party daily nepszabadsag said the police announcement of the raids showed that ``the organs responsible for public order had managed to stop irresponsible people from disturbing the march 15 holiday.''
it said that in addition to the official event, ``an opportunity has been offered for other types of commemorations if they are not of dubious intent and do not disturb the peace
it is impermissible that this celebration be used for adventurist goals.''
lightning struck the fuselage of a passenger jet over the ukraine, knocking out two of the three engines, but the pilot landed the plane safely, the government newspaper izvestia reported monday
it said the tupolev 154, on a flight from taskhkent to donetsk in the southern ukraine, was hit by lightning sunday about nine miles from donetsk
one engine died and the second stalled but the pilot, identified as s. kharkov, showed ``presence of mind and high skill'' in landing the aircraft at the donetsk airport, the paper said
izvestia did not say how many people were on the plane, which can carry about 160 passengers, and did not mention injuries
the soviet union acknowledged monday it has failed to win support for a security council resolution calling for an end to the deadly missile duel against each other's cities by iran and iraq
the united states viewed the proposal as a maneuver to deflect attention from the u.s. push for a worldwide arms embargo against iran for its refusal to honor the council's july 20 cease-fire resolution and peace plan
it is expected the council now will just issue a statement this week by the council president calling for an end to the missile attacks
soviet ambassador alexander belonogov acknowledged that the soviet bid for a new resolution on the ``war of the cities'' had failed after the council met behind closed doors
our personal preference would be a resolution of the security council,'' he said, but the important thing is ``not the form but the essence'' of the council's action
if the presidential statement has better chances than a resolution to be adopted by the security council, we are all for it,'' he told reporters
belonogov urged the council to do its utmost to end the long-range duel, which he said was poisoning the ``political and psychological'' atomosphere for peace talks centering on the council's july resolution
a weekend truce in the war of the cities began collapsing sunday. by monday, both sides had unleashed missiles on each other's capitals
both iran and iraq are believed to be using soviet-made scud-b missiles in the duel that has killed scores of civilian since feb. 29
u.s. ambassador herbert s. okun said the council does not want to ``proliferate pieces of paper when we have a resolution that we are in the process of implementing.''
the superpowers have been at odds over the july 20 resolution demanding an immediate cease-fire and withdrawal to international boundaries as the first steps in a complex plan for negotiating an end to the 7{-year-old war
america has been trying to gain support since last fall for an arms embargo against iran, which has refused to accept the u.n. resolution. the soviet union is trying to improve its relations with neighboring iran and has been reluctant to suppport an embargo. information</head>
a federal appeals court monday ordered grand jury material concerning u.s. district judge alcee hastings of florida turned over to a house committee considering his impeachment
in a 2-1 ruling, a panel of the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals said the house judiciary committee had demonstrated a ``particularized need'' for the normally secret material
the grand jury had investigated whether hastings tipped off a politician about a fbi wiretap the judge had authorized in 1985. no indictments resulted
hastings, 52, the first black federal judge in florida, was acquitted in an unrelated case in 1983 of charges he conspired to solicit a $150,000 bribe
however, two fellow judges filed a complaint that hastings lied in his defense and was guilty of judicial misconduct. a 27-judge judicial conference last year recommended that the house consider hastings' impeachment
hastings, who was appointed by president jimmy carter in 1979, claims the impeachment proceedings are racially motivated. with response and show speech followed text; inserts 1 graf after 10th graf pvs, bgng: ``in an ..'' to update with shamir also meeting with senators; minor editing to tighten.</note>
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir arrived here monday with what he called new ideas for mideast peace talks and said he would not give a yes-or-no reply to the u.s. blueprint for negotiations with the arabs during his four-day stay
for us, these matters are questions of life and death, of our very existence,'' shamir said monday night in a speech to the united jewish appeal
while he promised to keep an open mind in the talks, shamir took a hard line on israel's retention of the west bank and gaza, at least part of which the reagan administration is calling on israel to surrender
i am astonished at some people's short memory,'' shamir said. ``did we have peace when we did not have these territories? don't they remember that the two most dangerous attempts to destroy us _ in 1948 and in 1967 _ were made when we did not control any of these territories? do they want us to go back to a situation which would inevitably invite another such attempt?''
shamir's speech was well-received by an enthusiastic crowd of about 3,000 people, who gave him several standing ovations
referring to the violence on the west bank and in gaza in which 91 palestinians have perished, shamir said ``it is not a war for a palestinian state in those areas. it is a war against israelis, against the existence of the state of israel.''
shamir's reluctance to respond directly to the u.s. plan did not seem to distress the reagan administration. ``we are not pressing israel,'' a senior u.s. official told reporters at a white house briefing
but the official, who spoke under rules granting anonymity, said ``it is the situation in the area which is pressing israel and all the other parties in the area.''
shamir did not disclose the revisions he will propose to secretary of state george p. shultz, who devised the plan and set this week as a deadline for a reply from the israeli and jordanian governments
the senior u.s. official said ``we are not hung up'' on a specific date for israel's response. but he said the middle east was not stable and ``we feel very strongly that everyone, arabs and israelis, must move forward.''
in an arrival statement, shamir said the 1978 camp david agreements, which called for a five-year trial period of palestinian self-rule, ``should serve as our guide.''
shamir also met monday with three of the 30 senators who had sent him a letter urging him to give up some occupied territory in exchange for peace. the three democrats _ sens. carl levin of michigan, frank lautenberg of new jersey and howard metzenbaum of ohio _ again urged that israel cede land for peace, but shamir did not soften his position
the state department did not indicate whether shultz would be willing to alter his formula for negotiations. spokesman charles e. redman simply called it ``a serious proposal'' that was under ``active consideration'' in israeli and arab capitals
but the senior official said ``we won't let any aspect be eroded or compromised.''
he said the camp david framework was a ``work of`genius,'' but was partly out of date, especially since jordan and the palestinians did not participate in negotiations that fell apart in 1981
shultz is pushing for a three-year interim arrangement on the israeli-held west bank and gaza strip, with negotiations for an overall settlement to open by december. he also is prodding israel to cede territory in exchange for arab recognition
shamir, stepping from a u.s. air force plane at andrews air force base in suburban maryland, said he was ``always open to new and constructive proposals'' to bring peace to the middle east
he said israel wished to live in peace with its neighbors, but that ``violence, terrorism and war are endemic'' to the region
meanwhile, senate majority leader robert c. byrd, d-w.va., cautioned that for israel ``to continue down the road developing now is a road to disaster.''
byrd told reporters on capitol hill that ``mr. shamir would be well-advised to listen to the viewpoints of the friends of israel in this country,'' including congress and the american jewish community
shamir, after an overnight flight from tel aviv, met with about 30 jewish leaders at kennedy international airport in new york before continuing on to washington. avi pazner, his spokesman, said, shamir told them, ``i have decided not to take any decision right now because people in israel are divided.''
shamir told the group, which including morris b. abram, head of the conference of presidents of major american jewish organizations, that most people in israel want peace
but shamir added that the question was whether it was possible to make peace with the arabs now and also maintain ``our normal lives and our security,'' pazner said
shultz escorted shamir to his hotel in downtown washington on monday morning and talked with him for a half-hour over coffee
shultz reportedly underscored the importance of shamir's visit as well as the ``strong and unshakable'' ties between the united states and israel
in reply, israeli sources said, shamir said he had brought some ``new ideas'' that he would present to shultz in their talks over the next three days
in his arrival statement, shamir appealed for understanding. ``in our search for peace, the united states has always been helpful, open and indispensable,'' he said
he said ``violence, terrorism and war are endemic'' in the middle east and the area ``is littered with broken agreements.''
shamir said the camp david agreement, which led to a peace treaty between egypt and israel in 1979 but failed to resolve the palestinian issue, ``should serve as our guide'' in the current search for a negotiating formula
he said if past accords were ignored ``future agreements will be meaningless.'' the camp david agreement called for self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live on the west bank and in gaza for five years. jordan and the palestinians did not participate in the talks, which ended in failure in 1981
shultz has proposed a three-year interim arrangement, with talks on an overall settlement of the arab-israeli dispute to begin by december
on sunday, in israel, shamir said ``after i come back with a summation of my talks with representatives of the american government, the cabinet will meet immediately and i think we'll have a decision on this subject.''
meanwhile monday, hanna siniora, a palestinian who met here with shultz in late january, urged the secretary to make room at the negotiating table for the palestine liberation organization
at a news conference, siniora, who is a newspaper editor in jerusalem, said ``so far there has not been a credible effort to seek palestinian representation.''
shultz's plan envisions a joint delegation of jordanians and palestinians, who could participate only with the approval of the plo
but the plo, which shultz and israel have branded a terrorist group, would not take part directly. all the arab governments have endorsed yasser arafat's organization as the only legitimate representative of the palestinians. with disaster proclamation, availability of federal aid; subs 11th graf pvs, `the federal ...' to clarify that aid will be reimbursement of firefighting costs.</note>
a wildfire that charred hundreds of square miles of texas prairie, killing cattle and wildlife, was declared under control monday, but surviving animals faced possible starvation without forage or feed
federal and state officials were organizing a hay donation program for cattle roaming past burned fenceposts through the blackened terrain
officials declared the five-county fire under control monday about noon, said murry fly, the state forest service's head of operations for fire control. but the forecast called for continuing dry, windy weather
damage was so widespread that crews were still trying to assess it five days after flames from burning trash went out of control near abilene
hundreds of firefighters, national guardsmen and state and federal workers contained the blaze after three days. the burned swath covered parts of an area 56 miles long and 24 miles wide
there's been a tremendous amount of forage lost right now,'' fly said
lt. gov. bill hobby issued a disaster proclamation monday, freeing up state money to help the area clean up and recover, said don couch of the governor's emergency management division. gov. bill clements was out of state
bashur said representatives of the state department of emergency services will instruct local officials tuesday on how individuals can apply for relief grants from the federal government
in about 87,000 acres surveyed so far, more than 100 cattle were killed or had to be destroyed, said lawrence winkler, agriculture extension agent in shackelford county, the hardest-hit county with more than 250,000 acres burned. an additional 175 head were injured
wildlife in the area also suffered, he said. a herd of about 20 antelope perished in the flames, according to ranchers who answered questions about damage as they put in requests for hay and feed to keep their livestock alive
there is a two-day supply of donated feed on hand, winkler said. ranchers without winter forage for their herds will have to sell their livestock, haul in hay or feed, or truck the cattle elsewhere, he said
the federal emergency management agency will make disaster aid available to reimburse firefighting costs in the five-county region, said bruce miles, forest service director
if ranchers had to buy feed for all 15,000 cattle affected by the fire, it would require 175 tons a day, at a daily cost of $30,000, said winkler
over the weekend, ranchers from across texas began donating hay. by sunday, tractor-trailers stacked with hay rolls were parked on the courthouse square in albany
at least seven firefighters were treated for minor injuries, said fly. the wildfire at one point threatened the towns of albany, moran and baird. news digest: washington _ pm-us-israel, a0421; jerusalem _ pm-israel, a0443; washington _ pm-anderson anniversary, a0442; washington _ pm-bechtel-pipeline, a0436; new york _ pm-aids-children, a0438; washington _ pm-candidate gore, a0444; galesburg, ill. _ pm-bush, a0431; san salvador, el salvador _ pm-salvador-elections, a0449; tokyo _ pm-japan-infants, a0403, atlanta _ pm-another look-sweet auburn, a0405
</note>
a mass resignation of arab policemen has displayed the muscle of the plo and posed a security dilemma for israel and palestinians alike in the west bank and gaza strip
a national police spokesman, yehoshua goldapfel, on sunday said that 450 of the 850 arab police in the occupied territories ``have asked to leave the force.'' he left open the possibility more would depart
the police control crime and direct traffic, but they are not used to quell arab rioting in the occupied lands, now in its fourth month
iraq said it fired five long-range missiles into tehran today, and iran reported at least 16 people killed and 27 wounded, as the two nations resumed their so-called ``war of the cities.''
iran vowed revenge for the missile strikes, which it said hit residential districts of the iranian capital, which has a population of 6 million
baghdad's official iraqi news agency, monitored in nicosia, quoted a military communique as saying the five surface-to-surface missiles were launched in retaliation for an iranian ground attack in northern iraq on sunday night and shelling of the southern port of basra and three other towns
selection of a hearing-impaired president at gallaudet university for the deaf marks the end of a tumultuous week of protests that students and faculty say ``changed the world.''
it's the first time we've ever shown the world what we want, and that we can get it,'' said student protest leader jerry covell
i. king jordan, dean of the school's college of arts and sciences, was selected by gallaudet trustees on sunday after what began as an isolated campus protest grew into an international forum on deaf rights
frank sinatra, sammy davis jr. and dean martin opened their 29-city ``rat pack'' reunion tour to a sell-out crowd of 14,500, proving they can still doo-be-doo-be-do it with the best
how long have i been on?'' a staggering martin asked the bandleader sunday night as the 35-piece orchestra warmed up for the first number, ``when you're drinking,'' a parody of the old ``when you're smiling.''
martin's cocktail lounge manner and slurred one-liners, with trademark cigarette and drink in hand, set the tone for an evening that brought young and old fans to their feet
democratic presidential candidate richard a. gephardt's plan for retaliatory trade policies comes face to face with its long-threatened demise this week following its sponsor's poor showing on super tuesday
lawmakers who previously had held off on a decision now have decided to tackle the issue as they step up efforts to reach a compromise on legislation to sharpen the u.s. edge in world markets
i expect the trade conference to finish its work by the end of this month and we'll get it on the president's desk some time in april,'' said senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas
the race for a rich trove of democratic delegates from illinois is a three-way battle between michael dukakis and two favorite sons, according to the latest polls, while the republican contest is looking like another george bush runaway
one poll out today said jesse jackson was pulling ahead of paul simon in the battle of favorite sons, while another showed simon maintaining his advantage. both showed dukakis in third place, trying to cut into the home state support of his two democratic rivals and claim some of the state's 187 democratic delegates
bush, meanwhile, was a prohibitive favorite to add the state to his list of republican presidential primary victories
with super tuesday behind them, the presidential candidates are looking toward the next big tuesday on the calendar _ june 7, when the california and new jersey primaries offer the last big bloc of delegates to be allocated before the national conventions
there are other big primaries in coming months, including illinois, pennsylvania and new york. but none offers a larger one-day delegate total than final tuesday, as it's been dubbed
montana and new mexico also will hold primaries june 7
a fiscal crisis and resistance in the legislature challenged self-styled reformer charles e. ``buddy'' roemer iii even before his swearing in today as louisiana's 51st governor
roemer, a 44-year-old democrat, planned to take the oath of office shortly after noon from former u.s. sen. russell long, the son of legendary gov. huey long, on the capitol steps
outgoing gov. edwin edwards, also a democrat, won enough votes in last year's non-partisan primary to call a runoff with roemer under louisiana's unique election laws, but conceded on oct. 24. news digest: undated _ political rdp; wash _ us-israel; jericho, occupied west bank _ israel; panama city, panama _ panama.</note>
defense secretary frank carlucci was to ask his soviet counterpart at talks beginning tuesday in switzerland whether highly publicized changes in kremlin military doctrine mean reductions in soviet forces
carlucci, meeting tuesday through thursday with soviet defense minister dmitri yazov, will also discuss arms control, human rights, the proposed soviet withdrawl from afghanistan, and such dangerous military situations as a collision between u.s. and soviet warships in the black sea last month, a senior pentagon official told reporters monday
carlucci has said he doesn't want the meeting to pre-empt talks on reducing nuclear and conventional forces, but he does want to ask yazov about the emerging soviet doctrine of ``reasonable sufficiency.''
the panama canal, still one of the hemisphere's most important pieces of real estate, has allowed ships to move between the atlantic and pacific without interruption through nine months of political unrest
nearly 13,000 vessels a year avoid the long voyage around cape horn, the southern tip of south america, by traveling 50 miles from sea to sea through the ``big ditch'' that opened in 1914. more than 140 million tons of cargo move through it every year
the panama canal treaties signed in 1977 commit the united states to turn over complete control of the canal and military installations to panama by midnight dec. 31, 1999
legal options dwindled monday for convicted murderer willie jasper darden, who was scheduled to die in florida's electric chair tuesday after surviving an unprecedented six death warrants
the florida supreme court refused to grant a stay monday for darden, who became the focus of an international campaign against capital punishment. it was the eighth time the high court had upheld either his conviction or death sentence
darden's immediately attorneys asked a federal judge in tampa to block the execution, and a federal appeals court in atlanta was standing by to consider an appeal. the attorneys have already filed with the u.s. supreme court
darden, who has maintained his innocence in the 1973 fatal shooting of a lakeland furniture store owner during a robbery, was scheduled to be electrocuted at 7 a.m. tuesday at florida state prison near this north florida town
experts have agreed on a name and definition for a lingering attack of exhaustion sometimes called the ``yuppie disease,'' but they still don't know its cause or cure
in a new report, 16 doctors who study the illness agreed to call it chronic fatigue syndrome, and they settled on a detailed definition. the purpose is to help researchers and physicians rule out dozens of other diseases that can produce the same symptoms
it's a diagnosis of exclusion, and it has to be considered as such even after you've ruled everything else out,'' said dr. gary p. holmes. ``you have to continue to be concerned that there is something else going on. you have to keep an open mind and not simply close the books.''
holmes, who studies the syndrome at the u.s. centers for disease control, was the chief author of the new definition, published in the march issue of the annals of internal medicine
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev said monday that ethnic minorities who have protested in his vast country are raising old grievances but not challenging the government's authority
on the first day of his tour of yugoslavia, which has its own nationality problems, the soviet communist party chief was asked about recent demonstrations and ethnic riots in southern soviet republics
show me the country in which there are no such problems,'' he replied. ``if you show me, i will travel there right away, without stopping in moscow on return from yugoslavia.''
pressure mounted monday on pakistan to sign an afghan settlement aimed at securing the withdrawal of an estimated 115,000 soviet troops and end nine years of fighting in afghanistan
sources close to the talks said the pakistani chief representative, acting foreign minister zain noorani, received a message from the kremlin calling upon him to sign the documents without further delay
the chief afghan negotiator, foreign minister abdul wakil, scheduled a news conference for tuesday, the day soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev named as a target date for the conclusion of the nearly 6-year-old talks. gorbachev said moscow will bring home its troops starting may 15 if the settlement is signed tuesday
gov. evan mecham's lawyer accused a state agency of intmidating defense witnesses monday as he moved for a mistrial or dismissal of charges at the governor's impeachment trial
as testimony resumed for a third week with a former mecham administration official undergoing intense cross-examination, defense attorney fred craft moved to interrupt the trial for a hearing on the intimidation claims
arizona supreme court justice frank x. gordon, who is presiding over the impeachment trial, instead allowed testimony from former mecham administration official max hawkins to continue. he said he would not rule on craft's motion until tuesday
critics of mississippi's 1890 constitution say it is anti-black and anti-business, but an unlikely coalition of blacks, business people and farmers may kill legislative efforts to rewrite the document
gov. ray mabus, who took office in january, said rewriting the constitution ``would show that mississippi is ready to take a step into the next century.''
my biggest argument is that the 1890 constitution is a document that's, in a lot of ways, gotten us into dead solid last place and that we really can't do any worse,'' said mabus, who incorporated the call for a new constitution into his successful campaign last year
the conservative government has split over how to handle the surging pound in a dispute that has overshadowed tuesday's budget and its expected tax bonanzas for the wealthy
prime minister margaret thatcher's willingness to let the pound soar unchecked has thrown in doubt the future of her top treasury official, nigel lawson
the chancellor of the exchequer is so angry at mrs. thatcher overruling his policy of keeping sterling in line with the west german mark that he may make tuesday's annual budget announcement his last, published reports have said
all you have to say in mexico is lola la grande, or lola the great one, and everyone knows who you're talking about
lola is lola beltran, the queen of ranchera music, whose rich, husky and wide-ranged voice can evoke the pain and happiness of love, tender feelings for the land or the gaiety of a mexican fiesta
for 35 years, beltran has shared those sounds of mexico throughout the world, often bringing tears to the eyes of homesick mexicans in the united states and elsewhere
my soul feels like crying. ... i need you so much and yet i swore i would never tell you this,'' she sang in one of her first concerts after she made a hit on mexico city xew radio station
three days without looking at you ... three days crying for you ... three days looking at the sunrise,'' she sang in another song, this one written by a friend _ composer jose alfredo jimenez, the sad-faced, tragic figure of modern mexican music who died an early death and who became famous for songs about love, land, bars and drink
i will always remember jose alfredo,'' beltran said, recalling the times they performed together in mexican films. ``since he died, many beautiful things have disappeared. he was unique and extraordinary. only those who go to heaven can have his kind of heart.''
jimenez wrote the lyrics that broke down barriers and appealed to pure, raw, feelings. ``what can you know about life? when did you ever open with me the doors to tenampa?'' which is a popular mexico mariachi bar
on march 12, beltran was honored in new york by the hispanic association of entertainment writers
the honor came as the sounds of ``ranchera'' music gets new, widespread attention in the united states from pop singer linda ronstadt and her spanish-language album ``canciones de mi padre,'' or ``songs of my father.''
ronstadt, who was recently in mexico rehearsing for her current concert tour of the united states, said she always has been an admirer of the regal beltran
when i was growing up, my father used to play the records of lola beltran, who has always been a great influence on my singing,'' ronstadt recalled
i love that young girl,'' beltran said. ``whenever i am in the united states, she comes to see me and when she comes here, i am happy to receive her.''
beltran and ronstadt performed a duet last fall at the acapulco film festival
i am very grateful to everyone,'' beltran said in an interview. ``i have been lucky enough to sing for people like (presidents) eisenhower, nixon and (former french president charles) de gaulle.''
like most music of the people, ``ranchera'' music is similar to american country music, with a few mexican variations
may the devil take you, you murderous bull,'' beltran curses in a soulful song that recounts the death of a young boy who sneaks into the corrals and is killed by the brave bulls under a moonlit night
since beltran's first three songs on xew, she has maded more than 100 albums and acted in more than 50 movies
however, she is not as active as she used to be years ago when she would sing before a weekly tv audience or in between cockfights
but she does three benefits every year and has an invitation to sing at the university of southern california next may
the sprawling santa fe garbage dump is being bulldozed and filled in to help rid mexico city of pollution, but for thousands of trash pickers it means the end of a way of life that began more than 40 years ago
a distinct class of the poor people _ 2,000 to 3,000 people _ had taken shape in and around the dump since it first opened in the 1940s and picking trash provided a livelihood for them. it grew into a tightly knit society regulated by a dump boss _ pablo tellez falcon being the most recent _ and outsiders were unwelcome
now, the city government says, the trash pickers will be moved to homes with electricity and plumbing near a new but temporary dump, and santa fe will become a park
but the plan leaves trash pickers with mixed feelings and somewhat concerned about the future
the foul-smelling dump, spread over about 150 acres on the western edge of mexico city, was one of the largest in latin america and the last of the big open-air sites to be shut down by the mexico city government
this dump became an air pollution and public health problem,'' the city said in a news release announcing the project
under an ambitious plan, the city began a year ago to level, compact and seal the solid wastes at the santa fe site. the garbage was estimated to be 230 feet deep in some places, forming enormous cliffs from the refuse deposited there for more than four decades
homero aridjis, a poet and president of the group of 100 environmental activists, said the project ``is important because the garbage is not only a pollution problem but also a social problem.''
the mexico city metropolitan area, the world's largest with 18 million people, is considered by experts to have the world's worst air pollution
the santa fe dump, releasing bacteria into the air, posed a health hazard to the trash pickers (``pepenadores,'' or scavengers, in spanish) and residents of surrounding neighborhoods, some of the city's wealthiest
spontaneous fires often broke out, sending noxious fumes into the air. there also was concern the wastes were seeping into aquifers and contaminating the city's already scarce water supply
much of the trash has been covered over, but many pickers still live in their shacks amid the fly-covered refuse that remains at santa fe
nearby, the city has opened the other dump, prados de la montana, where some 2,500 tons a day of trash are unloaded. that site will be used, however, for just five years
the santa fe pickers will be moved in the coming months and offered new houses outside the prados de la montana dump. the nearby tlayapaca housing project, which will provide 510 two- and three-bedroom houses, with water, electricity and drainage systems, is to be completed in may
with this action, the social evolution of that group of people will be achieved, improving their conditions of health and well-being and, as a result, their quality of life,'' the government said
apolonia martinez de correa, whose family flattens milk cartons, stuffs them into plastic bags and sells them for recycling, said she would be glad to live in a cleaner place but is not so sure about moving from santa fe
there is not as much pollution. there are not as many flies,'' she said of living somewhere else
but she expressed sadness at being forced out of a place that has been the family home since the area became a dump and concern about where her family would move
she said she had been told the new houses would cost 2 million to 3 million pesos apiece (about $870 to $1,300), a sum the family cannot afford
we will have to go somewhere else,'' she said
however, alejandro rodriguez cortez, chief of information for the city government, said the residents would have to pay only for water, electricity and other public services in the new homes
mrs. martinez de correa earns 80 pesos _ less than five cents _ for a 2.2-pound bag of paper. a week's work, she said, is worth 50,000 pesos or about $22. the government-set minimum wage is 8,000 pesos a day, or about $3.50
as she talked to a reporter, several of her 10 children sat nearby. a young boy played with a dirt-encrusted fruit pit. two small girls, their faces and clothes covered with grime, listened quietly
behind them, several of the stray dogs that roam the dump in packs scratched for scraps among flattened milk cartons waiting to be bagged
over the years, some of santa fe's residents arranged their shacks, made of the metal cut from oil drums, in rows, forming streets and some order in their lives. their children studied at a primary school and took part in sports events on the weekends
about 200 families have already moved out of santa fe to housing farther away from the sites, residents said. some return to work at the new dump, but others are trying to find different jobs
under new rules, the garbage pickers are allowed to enter the prados de la montana dump and pick trash from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. daily, separating glass and plastic from paper and tin. they can't live there, and small children and pregnant women will be refused entry for health reasons
after the workers leave at night, the unpicked rubbish is flattened and covered with dirt to prevent contamination
it's controlled,'' said hector javier samano, a project engineer with the city`s urban services department. ``there are no flies, there is no smell.''
for nearly half a century, mountains, deserts and paris' traffic couldn't stop it _ that chugging, ungainly four-wheeled beast known as the deux chevaux. but modern times have, and an era in the french auto industry has come to an end
the deux chevaux (french for two horses, or two horsepower) is a car, although some say it is an exaggeration to call it that _ tin can on wheels is more like it. the last one rolled off a french assembly line feb. 29 when france's oldest automobile factory, the citroen plant in levallois, shut down
there was hardly a whimper or a word in the press
yet the closing of the plant on the western edge of paris signals the demise of the tortoise-shaped automotive with bulging headlights that look like a frog's eyes
so ends an institution as french as the beret or baguette
whether rattling down a country road or careening across a city boulevard, with its side windows flapping on their hinges, the deux chevaux has long been part of the french landscape. its snail's pace and its noisy chugs have endeared millions, spawning deux chevaux fan clubs worldwide
when the last car left the factory in levallois, you can say it was the end of an era,'' said gro hoeg, a citroen spokeswoman. ``but you can't say it is the end of the deux chevaux.''
the car will continue to be manufactured in portugal, but at less than half the 1987 rate, when 43,255 deux chevaux were turned out
i don't have great patriotic sentiment, but it's the only car with a french identity,'' said three-time deux chevaux owner gilles collignon
the deux chevaux was conceived as an affordable car for those of modest means
when it first came out the deux chevaux cost the franc equivalent of about $650. the two latest models cost $6,500 and $7,460
like sensible shoes, the buggy with bed-spring suspension, a simple engine, no ``extras,'' is functional in the extreme. and allegedly indestructible
funny looking to some people, downright ugly to others, the deux chevaux is simply ``beyond beauty,'' says citroen. in the 1960s, deux chevaux's heyday, it became a reverse status symbol among the rebellious young
it's more than a car,'' said collignon. ``everyone who has one has a more or less sentimental relationship with it
the big advantage is that it can be completely falling apart, broken all over, and it keeps running. it has an incredible life.''
the deux chevaux has set altitude and depth records for a car _ climbing to 17,180 feet on bolivia's mount chacaltaya in 1953 and down deep into a salt mine in france's lorraine region
two frenchmen, jacques seguela and jean-claude baudot, made an 87,000-mile round-the-world trip in a deux chevaux, once resorting to crushed bananas to replace oil lost from a broken gearbox during a 200-mile desert stretch
four wheels under an umbrella'' was the order to engineers working on the design in the 1930s, according to citroen, which later touted it as ``the most minimum car.''
a wooden model was produced in 1936. world war ii intervened, and the car was not formally unveiled until october 1948 at the paris auto show
originally available only in gray, with a top speed of 37 miles an hour, today's deux chevaux streak by in all colors, or even two-tone, and can reach a top speed of 72 mph
the upgraded engine remains mechanically elementary and the horsepower has increased from two to three
citroen brochures call the deux chevaux ``a mechanical phenomenon, a commercial phenomenon, a sociological phenomenon.'' but the truth, ms. hoeg concedes, is that the car is outmoded
orders have fallen a lot,'' she said in a telephone interview. ``the european market is increasingly closed to the deux chevaux because of pollution norms.''
strict pollution controls, for example, have effectively banned the car from switzerland and austria since october 1987. it has not been sold in sweden since 1968 and in finland since 1982 because it doesn't come up to their safety standards. deux chevaux fans in other countries are expected to be deprived of the car in the coming years, ms. hoeg said. no effort was ever made to sell it in the united states, but she said she understands there are some deux chevaux collectors there
the closing of the levallois plant, built in 1893, is part of an overall retrenchment of the french auto industry. at its peak in the mid-1960s, the plant turned out 550 deux chevaux a day, compared to 80 a day last year
the citroen plant in manguade, portugal, manufacturing deux chevaux since 1982, is expected to produce about 20,000 in 1988
nawal akiki wept as the ferryboat empress left the dock, the lights of jounieh twinkling in the darkness, masking lebanon's scars and suffering
it was her last sight of her troubled homeland
with her husband, elie, and their two sons, she was getting away from lebanon's violence and economic chaos of 13 years of civil war for a new life in canada
for lebanon's 900,000 christians, penned up in a enclave north of beirut by the war, the 8,187-ton empress and its sister ship, the sunny boat, are their only way out of lebanon
beirut's airport is in moslem-controlled territory on the other side of the capital's dividing green line and is unsafe for christians. jounieh, 13 miles north of beirut, is the christians' only passenger port
mrs. akiki spent the entire voyage staring out of a porthole, sometimes weeping as she sailed into an unknown future in a strange land
the white-painted empress and the sunny boat shuttle between jounieh and larnaca on the south coast of cyprus every day with bizarre cargoes of humanity, dispirited lebanese, commuting businessmen, security agents, gamblers, and sometimes hashish runners
during the nine-hour night-time voyage across the eastern mediterranean, the empress becomes lebanon in microcosm, mirroring the despair and hopelessness of its feuding people
in the lounge, a band pounds out pop tunes. in the all-night casino, lebanese high-rollers crowd around the roulette and blackjack tables and the bank of a dozen slot machines
the action never stops. but few are few winners, said one of the croupiers, identifying himself only as tanious
these people drop thousands of dollars every night. it's amazing. some of them are regulars on the boat and they rarely get off ahead of the game.''
before he joined the empress last summer, tanious said, he was a fighter with the lebanese forces, the christians' main militia
so was elias, 24, one of the crewmen. he said he took the $100-a-month job ``because i don't want to fight any more.''
elias said he has been wounded three times fighting moslems and leftists in the war
i want to get out for good, but no one will give me a visa. one of these days maybe i'll meet an american lady, or an english lady, on the boat and i'll marry her and get myself a new passport.''
elias and one of his friends among the 200-member crew admitted that part of their job is to gather information for the lebanese forces about travelers heading for lebanon
with cyprus increasingly used by the middle east's underground organizations, foreign intelligence agencies, gunrunners and drug smugglers, the empress and the sunny boat attract the attention of lebanese and cypriot authorities as well
passengers are checked and closely questioned by the lebanese security officials and cypriot police during the voyage
cypriot customs officers regularly arrest lebanese for drug-smuggling after the ferryboats dock, although they admit the big rings use high-speed boats to ship their hashish and heroin grown in lebanon's bekaa valley
the empress is well known in the eastern mediterranean. it evacuated palestinian guerrillas from beirut after israel's 1982 invasion of lebanon
the following year, it carried yasser arafat and his plo guerrillas when they were pushed out of their last lebanese stronghold in the northern port of tripoli by syrian-backed dissidents
in december, israeli gunboats intercepted it and forced it to turn back to larnaca because they suspected it was carrying palestinian guerrillas to lebanon as part of arafat's effort to rebuild his onetime power base
lebanese foreign ministry officials estimate that as many as 1 million lebanese have been granted emigration visas in the last three years
businessman jean mubarak was heading for larnaca aboard the empress to catch a plane for montreal after receiving initial acceptance as an immigrant from canadian authorities
two of his brothers have lived in montreal for three years and he was going to take a look at the country where he and his family will make their new home
what's it like in montreal?'' he asked akiki, also bound for montreal with his family. ``i hear it's really cold in winter and i'm worried if my children will able to bear it there.''
anything's better than the gunbattles and shelling, the power cuts,'' akiki replied. ``i want a better life for myself and my family.''
buddhist monks in saffron robes stop in the middle of a downtown street to meditate. mechanics work at keeping rusty volkswagen beetles running. panes are missing from windows in government buildings. just about everything needs a coat of paint
this is vientiane 13 years after communist forces took it over during the indochina war. it is more like a sleepy village than a national capital
in contrast to virtually every urban center in asia, its population has decreased, from nearly 200,000 at the war's end in 1975 to 100,000 now
virtually no construction has taken place under the communists, who are trying to cope with one of the most meager economies in the world. the landlocked country's per capita income hovers around $160 a year
vientiane's tallest building is the seven-story ministry of culture, built more than 15 years ago. it faces a water fountain that has no water
only a few traffic lights are seen along the main streets, which before 1975 bustled with chinese merchants. some of their shops are now closed, their owners having joined the exodus of more than 300,000 from a country with a population of less than 4 million
this small population and relatively abundant agricultural land have helped avoid the hunger and poverty found in some other asian countries
in vientiane, at least, there is evidence of the good life for some
at the sprawling, open-air marketplace, vendors display a wide variety of consumer goods, mostly from thailand, which lies just across the mekong river boundary
prices for thai jeans, toothpaste and other basic items are only slightly higher than across the river
although laos is closely linked with vietnam, another neighbor, and has attempted to establish close economic ties with it, a large quantity of laotian imports and exports still pass through thailand
thais and laotians share racial and cultural bonds and despite the laotian government's its attempts to veer away from pro-western thailand, residents of vientiane read thai magazines, gossip about thai movie stars and tune in to thai television
there is also a lingering influence of the french, onetime colonial masters in laos. apart from the french-style residences, one can still buy tasty french bread and frequent such establishments as la fantaisie tailor and hairdressing salons with french names
even a big billboard advertising the soviet airline aeroflot and ``its more than 160 worldwide destinations,'' is written in french, although hundreds of soviet advisers are in the country and some attempt is made to teach russian in schools
but moscow and the soviet way of life seem very distant from languid vientiane. aeroflot's flight su553 flies directly from moscow to vientiane once a week but it does not pick up passengers on its return
despite strident marxist calls to greater efforts at national reconstruction, the old laos of temple bells and the ``bo pen yang'' (``never mind, take it easy'') lifestyle appears in some degree to have survived
near the 16th century monastery of that luang, barefoot boys plau around an ancient frangipani tree in bloom as their mothers pass the day chatting
evidently intact is the traditional hospitality of laotians
although western journalists are rarely granted visas, once admitted they are invariably greeted with the smiles, patience and small kindnesses
by far the largest group of journalists to visit laos _ 55 thais and other foreigners _ were entertained with dances and a magic show and fed exotic food as they accompanied thailand's army chief, gen. chaovalit yongchaiyudh, to vientiane for a 27-hour visit recently. chaovalit was leading a thai military delegation trying to patch up relations after the bloodiest border fighting between the two countries since 1975
at vientiane's laksi restaurant, overlooking the mekong river, the visitors were served pangolin stew, a concoction of onions, wild mushrooms and dark meat of the toothless anteater
the laotians reportedly went out of their way to capture the animal and prepare the delicacy for military officers they had been fighting a week earlier
today is sunday, march 20, the 80th day of 1988. there are 286 days left in the year. this is the first day of spring
today's highlight in history:
on march 20, 1852, harriet beecher stowe's influential novel about slavery, ``uncle tom's cabin,'' was first published
on this date:
in 1727, physicist, mathematician and astronomer sir isaac newton died in london
in 1815, napoleon bonaparte entered paris, beginning his ``hundred days'' rule
in 1833, the united states and siam concluded a commercial treaty
in 1896, u.s. marines landed in nicaragua to protect u.s. citizens in the wake of a revolution
in 1899, martha m. place of brooklyn, n.y., became the first woman to be put to death by electrocution. she was executed at sing sing for the murder of her stepdaughter
in 1942, during world war ii, gen. douglas macarthur vowed, ``i shall return,'' having left the philippines for australia
in 1969, beatle john lennon married yoko ono in gibraltar
in 1976, newspaper heiress patricia hearst was convicted of armed robbery for her part in a san francisco bank holdup
in 1977, voters in paris chose former french prime minister jacques chirac to become the french capital's first mayor in more than a century
in 1980, the united states went before the international court of justice in the hague to appeal for the release of the american hostages in iran
in 1981, former girls' school headmistress jean harris was sentenced in white plains, n.y., to 15 years to life in prison for the slaying of ``scarsdale diet'' author dr. herman tarnower
ten years ago: israeli troops tightened their grip on southern lebanon, creating a ``security belt'' paralleling the border between the two countries
five years ago: nbc broadcast ``special bulletin,'' a movie which depicted a nuclear extortion threat against charleston, s.c. the program, in the form of a simulated newscast, alarmed some viewers who thought the events being portrayed were real
one year ago: the food and drug administration approved the sale of azt, a drug shown to prolong the lives of some aids patients
today's birthdays: producer-director-comedian carl reiner is 66. comedian ray goulding is 66. actor jack kruschen is 66. former nixon white house aide john ehrlichman is 63. children's tv host fred rogers is 60. actor hal linden is 57. actor ted bessell is 52. singer jerry reed is 51. the prime minister of canada, brian mulroney, is 49. hockey hall-of-famer bobby orr is 40. actor william hurt is 38
thought for today: ``the heaviest baggage for a traveler is an empty purse.'' -- german proverb
today is monday, march 21, the 81st day of 1988. there are 285 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
twenty-five years ago, on march 21, 1963, the alcatraz federal prison island in san francisco bay was emptied of its last inmates, at the order of attorney general robert f. kennedy, after three decades of housing some of america's most notorious criminals, including al capone and george ``machine gun'' kelly. (``the rock,'' as alcatraz was called, continues to thrive as a tourist attraction
on this date:
in 1685, composer johann sebastian bach was born in eisenach, germany
in 1804, the french civil code, the ``code napoleon,'' was adopted
in 1918, during world war i, germany launched the somme offensive, hoping to break through the allied line before american reinforcements could arrive
in 1945, during world war ii, allied bombers began four days of raids over germany
in 1946, the united nations set up temporary headquarters at hunter college in new york
in 1960, some 70 people were killed in sharpeville, south africa, when police fired on demonstrators
in 1965, more than 3,000 civil rights demonstrators led by the reverend martin luther king jr. began their march from selma to montgomery, ala
in 1972, the u.s. supreme court ruled that states may not require one-year residency for voting eligibility
ten years ago: israel declared a cease-fire after a week of fighting in which it gained control of nearly all southern lebanon. meanwhile, at the white house, israeli prime minister menachem begin began three days of talks with president jimmy carter
five years ago: president reagan tapped former environmental protection agency administrator william d. ruckelshaus to again head the e.p.a., following the resignation of anne m. burford
one year ago: actor robert preston, best known for his portrayal of conman professor harold hill in the musical ``the music man,'' died in santa barbara, calif., at age 68
today's birthdays: bandleader mort lindsey is 65. actor al freeman junior is 54
thought for today: ``history is always repeating itself, but each time the price goes up.'' -- anonymous
today is tuesday, march 22, the 82nd day of 1988. there are 284 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 22, 1765, britain enacted the stamp act to raise money from the american colonies. the act set off such a strong protest that it was repealed the following year
on this date:
in 1638, religious dissident anne hutchinson was expelled from the massachusetts bay colony
in 1794, congress passed a law prohibiting american vessels from supplying slaves to other countries
in 1820, u.s. naval hero stephen decatur was killed in a duel with commodore james barron near washington
in 1882, congress outlawed polygamy
in 1894, hockey's first stanley cup game was played. montreal, the home team, defeated ottawa by winning three out of four games
in 1929, a u.s. coast guard vessel sank a canadian-registered schooner, the ``i'm alone,'' in the gulf of mexico. (the schooner was suspected of carrying bootleg liquor
in 1933, during prohibition, president franklin d. roosevelt signed a measure to make wine and beer containing up to 3.2 percent alcohol legal
in 1941, the grand coulee dam in washington state went into operation
in 1972, congress sent the proposed equal rights amendment to the states for ratification. (it would fall short of the two-thirds approval needed
in 1977, indira gandhi resigned as prime minister of india, following her party's defeat in general elections for the lower house of parliament
in 1979, israel's parliament approved a peace treaty with egypt
in 1982, the space shuttle ``columbia,'' carrying astronauts colonel jack r. lousma and colonel c. gordon fullerton, lifted off on a weeklong mission from cape canaveral, fla
ten years ago: karl wallenda, patriarch of ``the flying wallendas'' high-wire act, fell to his death while attempting to walk a cable strung 123 feet above the ground between two hotels in san juan, puerto rico. he was 73
five years ago: israel's knesset chose chaim herzog of the opposition labor party to be the next president of israel, in a rebuff to prime minister menachem begin's governing coalition
one year ago: philippine president corazon aquino announced her government was taking a harder line against insurgents, saying the answer to terrorism was ``police and military action.''
today's birthdays: actor karl malden is 75. actor werner klemperer is 68. mime marcel marceau is 65. composer-lyricist stephen sondheim is 58. actor william shatner is 57. senator orrin hatch (republican from utah) is 54. singer-guitarist george benson is 45. composer andrew lloyd webber is 40. singer-actress stephanie mills is 31
thought for today: ``the duty of a democracy is to know then what it knows now.'' -- e.b. white, american author (1899-1985)
today is wednesday, march 23, the 83rd day of 1988. there are 283 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 23, 1775, in a speech to the virginia provincial convention, patrick henry made his famous plea for american independence from britain, saying, ``give me liberty, or give me death!''
on this date:
in a.d. 752, pope stephen ii was elected to succeed pope zacharias; however, stephen died only two days later
in 1743, george frederick handel's oratorio ``messiah'' had its london premiere. (during the ``hallelujah chorus,'' a captivated king george ii rose to his feet. the audience followed suit, and the tradition of standing during the chorus was born
in 1806, explorers lewis and clark, having reached the pacific coast, began their journey back east
in 1919, benito mussolini founded his fascist political movement in milan, italy
in 1933, the german reichstag granted adolf hitler dictatorial powers
in 1942, the u.s. government began moving japanese-americans from their west coast homes to detention centers
in 1956, pakistan became an independent republic within the british commonwealth
in 1965, america's first two-person space flight began as ``gemini three'' _nicknamed the ``molly brown'' _ blasted off from cape kennedy with astronauts virgil i. grissom and john w. young on board
in 1981, the u.s. supreme court ruled that states can require, with some exceptions, parental notification when teen-age girls seek abortions
ten years ago: israeli prime minister menachem begin concluded what he called ``three difficult days'' of talks in washington with president jimmy carter, saying he had the impression that israel was being accused of ``obstructing peace.''
five years ago: artificial heart recipient dr. barney clark died at the university of utah medical center after 112 days with the device. president reagan first proposed the development of technology to intercept enemy missiles _ a proposal that would come to be known as the strategic defense initiative, as well as ``star wars.''
one year ago: jerry collins, a millionaire greyhound race track owner, donated $1.3 million to help evangelist oral roberts reach his goal of raising $8 million for medical scholarships
today's birthdays: movie director akira kurosawa (``rashomon'') is 78. comedian marty allen is 66. actress amanda plummer is 31
thought for today: ``all that is not eternal is eternally out of date.'' -- c.s. lewis, british author (1898-1963)
today is thursday, march 24, the 84th day of 1988. there are 282 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 24, 1882, german scientist robert koch announced in berlin that he had discovered the bacillus responsible for tuberculosis
on this date:
in 1765, britain enacted the quartering act, requiring american colonists to provide temporary housing to british soldiers
in 1883, long-distance telephone service was inaugurated between chicago and new york
in 1932, a new york radio station (wabc) broadcast a variety program from a moving train in maryland
in 1934, president franklin d. roosevelt signed a bill granting future independence to the philippines
in 1944, in occupied rome, the nazis executed more than 300 civilians in reprisal for an attack by italian partisans the day before that killed 32 german soldiers
in 1949, academy awards went to a father-and-son team. walter huston won best supporting actor for ``the treasure of sierra madre'' while his son, john, won an oscar for directing the picture
in 1955, the tennessee williams play ``cat on a hot tin roof'' opened on broadway with barbara bel geddes as maggie, ben gazarra as brick and burl ives as big daddy
in 1958, rock 'n' roll singer elvis presley was inducted into the army in memphis, tenn
in 1976, the president of argentina, isabel peron, was deposed by her country's military
in 1980, one of el salvador's most respected roman catholic church leaders, archbishop oscar arnulfo romero, was shot to death by unidentified gunmen as he celebrated mass in san salvador
ten years ago: striking coal miners approved a new contract, ending a 109-day walkout that saw two earlier agreements rejected by the membership of the united mine workers union
five years ago: doctors at the university of utah medical center said the death the day before of artificial heart recipient barney clark was caused by massive circulatory collapse ``resulting from a multitude of causes.''
one year ago: an attorney for evangelist jim bakker accused television evangelist jimmy swaggart of trying to take over the ptl club ministry _ an accusation swaggart denied
today's birthdays: actor norman fell is 63. fashion and costume designer bob mackie is 48. actress donna pescow is 34. actor robert carradine is 34
thought for today: ``a conscience which has been bought once will be bought twice.'' -- norbert wiener, american mathematician (1894-1964). ^for release friday, march 25</note>
today is friday, march 25, the 85th day of 1988. there are 281 days left in the year
today's highlight in history:
on march 25, 1911, more than 140 immigrant workers were killed when fire broke out at the triangle shirtwaist company in new york. the disaster, which shocked the public, led to reforms governing safety in the workplace
on this date:
in a.d. 752, pope stephen ii died, only two days after his election
in 1634, maryland was founded by english colonists sent to the new world by the second lord baltimore
in 1865, during the civil war, confederate forces captured fort stedman in virginia
in 1913, the home of vaudeville, the palace theatre, opened in new york city
in 1918, french composer claude debussy died in paris
in 1947, a coal mine explosion in centralia, ill., claimed 111 lives
in 1957, the treaty of rome established the european economic community, also known as the common market
in 1964, britain set aside an acre of land at runnymede where magna carta was signed in 1215 as a memorial for the late u.s. president john f. kennedy
in 1965, the rev. martin luther king jr. led 25,000 marchers to the state capitol in montgomery, ala., to protest the denial of voting rights to blacks
in 1975, king faisal of saudi arabia was shot to death by a nephew with a history of mental illness
ten years ago: the kidnappers of former italian premier aldo moro broke a weeklong silence, issuing communiques that said moro would be judged in a ``people's trial.'' moro, who was kidnapped march 16 by the red brigades, was found murdered may 9
five years ago: the reagan administration announced the resignations of five senior officials of the environmental protection agency, including the acting administrator, john w. hernandez jr
one year ago: the u.s. supreme court ruled employers may sometimes favor women and members of minority groups over men and whites in hiring and promoting in order to achieve better balance in the work force
today's birthdays: movie director david lean is 80. sportscaster howard cosell is 68. modeling agency head eileen ford is 66. former astronaut jim lovell is 60. ``ms.'' magazine founding editor gloria steinem is 54. singer-actor hoyt axton is 50. singer anita bryant is 48. singer aretha franklin is 46. actor paul michael glaser is 46. actress bonnie bedelia is 42. singer elton john is 41. actor haywood nelson is 28
thought for today: ``men travel faster now, but i do not know if they go to better things.'' -- willa cather, american author (1873-1947). ^for release saturday, march 26</note>
today is saturday, march 26, the 86th day of 1988. there are 280 days left in the year
   today's highlight in history:
on march 26, 1982, groundbreaking ceremonies took place in washington for the vietnam veterans memorial, two 200-foot black granite walls bearing the names of americans killed or missing in the war
on this date:
in 1804, the louisiana purchase was divided into the territory of orleans and the district of louisiana
in 1827, composer ludwig van beethoven died in vienna
in 1875, poet robert frost was born in san francisco
in 1885, the eastman dry plate and film company of rochester, n.y., manufactured the first commercial motion picture film
in 1892, poet walt whitman died in camden, n.j
in 1911, playwright tennessee williams was born in columbus, miss
in 1937, a six-foot-tall concrete statue of the cartoon character ``popeye'' was unveiled during the second annual spinach festival in crystal city, texas
in 1958, the u.s. army launched america's third successful satellite, ``explorer three.''
in 1962, the u.s. supreme court gave federal courts the power to order reapportionment of seats in a state legislature. the decision eventually led to the ``one man, one vote'' doctrine
in 1971, east pakistan proclaimed its independence, taking the name bangladesh
in 1979, the camp david peace treaty between israel and egypt was signed in ceremonies in washington
ten years ago: protesters stormed the control tower of tokyo's yet-to-be-opened narita airport, smashing equipment and occupying the building for about two hours before police arrested them
five years ago: in an interview with ``pravda,'' soviet leader yuri v. andropov denounced president reagan's proposal for a u.s. defense system against missiles, calling it a ``bid to disarm the soviet union.''
one year ago: jessica hahn, the former church secretary who admitted to a sexual encounter with former ptl head jim bakker, told reporters she had not tried to blackmail bakker, and expressed concern about ``innocent bystanders who have been hurt'' by the scandal
today's birthdays: retired general william c. westmoreland is 74. comedian bob elliott is 65. conductor pierre boulez is 63. supreme court justice sandra day o'connor is 58. actor-director leonard nimoy is 57. actor alan arkin is 54. actor james caan is 49. author erica jong is 46. journalist bob woodward is 45. singer diana ross is 44. rock singer steve tyler is 40. actress vicki lawrence is 39. singer teddy pendergrass is 38
thought for today: ``any movement in history which attempts to perpetuate itself becomes reactionary.'' _ josip broz tito, yugoslavian leader (1892-1980). ^with laserphoto</head>
movie producer robert cooper likes to tell stories about the little guy pursuing a goal despite seemingly insurmountable odds
his first movie in 1979, ``running,'' was about a middle-aged man determined to run in the olympics
the terry fox story,'' a television movie for home box office, told of a youth who ran across canada despite losing a leg to cancer
the simon wiesenthal story: murderers among us'' will follow the story of a man who devoted 40 years of his life to tracking down nazi war criminals
and ``max and helen'' will show a survivor of the holocaust who is finally reunited with the woman he loves, but because of a twist of fate cannot testify against the nazi who brutalized them both
cooper has pursued his own goals against the odds. at 5-foot-4, he describes himself as a little guy out to prove himself. he grew up in montreal, where he abandoned his goal of acting to become a lawyer after his father was threatened by gangsters. he set up a storefront law firm, then became a prosecutor fighting organized crime
he later spent six years as host of a canadian television show called ``ombudsman,'' which looked into complaints of injustice by its viewers
the theme of the little guy against the odds has always appealed to me, not only in my films but in my own life,'' he said. ``i think because of my size i developed an early sensitivity to injustice. it's the david and goliath thing, although some people tell me i use the sling a little too often.''
the simon wiesenthal story'' goes into production for hbo in budapest on may 2. academy award winner ben kingsley (``gandhi'') stars in the title role of the four-hour miniseries
you've got to do something about a man who's been obsessed for 40 years,'' said cooper. ``i told simon i wanted to know why he did what he did when everyone else had come to terms with the holocaust. he had stayed in a time warp in the 1940s. he was the man who found adolph eichmann and (found) the man who arrested anne frank.''
cooper will also film a wiesenthal book called ``max and helen,'' which tells of the only time wiesenthal let a nazi war criminal go. max and the woman he loved, helen, were brutalized in a nazi camp by an ss officer who was found living free in munich. but max refuses to testify
max tells simon to `get in my skin,''' cooper said. ``he tells of how he and helen were in the same camp, but were separated. in 1945 he was able to escape, but was imprisoned another 10 years by the russians. in 1955 he finally found helen in germany
but helen had a son who was the image of the nazi ss officer. he had raped her repeatedly in camp and freed her when she became pregnant. max can't marry her. her son reminds him of the nazi. yet, he won't testify because the son thinks he's jewish and doesn't know who his real father is.''
later, the son grows a beard and moves to canada. max and helen marry, but within a few weeks max kills himself
cooper also has these projects in the works:
_``inspector maigret,'' which is being filmed in europe with richard harris, victoria tennant and patrick o'neal. maigret has been described as a sort of french columbo. the show is for syndication
_``cuba,'' a four-hour miniseries for cbs, tells of an american family living in cuba from 1900 until fidel castro takes over in 1959. cooper hopes to be able to film it in cuba
_an nbc movie about new york model marla hanson, whose face was slashed in a knife attack arranged by her landlord and former makeup man. ``my interest is the fact that she was slashed by her makeup man, whose job was to make her beautiful,'' he said. ``why did he do it? that's what fascinates me. that and the story of a woman who was told all her life she is beautiful _ then loses it.''
elsewhere in television:
so it goes _ linda ellerbee will be the host of a proposed new show that combines reality and comedy. the show is being put together by hearst broadcasting productions and six hearst stations. a pilot is expected to go into production in may. ellerbee, a best-selling author and former nbc correspondent, quit abc after the network canceled her show, ``our world.''
emmy awards _ the 40th annual emmy awards show will be telecast sunday, aug. 28, on fox broadcasting co. for the first time the academy of television arts &amp; sciences will hold its awards program at the shrine auditorium in los angeles. it will be the second year the awards show has been shown on fox
american electronics companies are starved for computer chips. japanese chip makers are raking in windfall profits. and nobody seems quite sure what to do
this is the way of the world in the electronics industry, circa march 1988. it didn't have to be this way
the current worldwide shortage in computer chips is a classic manifestation of the law of unintended consequences, one that has resulted in higher prices of electronic products and even delays in the introduction of some new computers
one big reason for the shortage is unobjectionable: booming sales of personal computers and the retooling for a new generation of memory chips have combined to produce a cyclical squeeze on production capacity
but another reason for the shortage is that a 1986 chip agreement between the united states and japan has backfired in a way that should have been predictable
the accord, intended to benefit u.s. chip makers, was supposed to keep the japanese from ``dumping'' chips at unfairly low prices while giving the americans better access to japan's huge market
what actually came about was the creation of a de facto semiconductor cartel _ a legalized form of collusion that had the effect of setting prices above market levels and carving up markets
the japanese did raise prices of memory chips, mainly by limiting production, but the main beneficiaries were just two u.s. companies, texas instruments inc. of dallas and tiny micron technology inc. of boise, idaho
texas instruments and micron are the only american companies still selling dynamic random access memory chips, or d-rams, and they are earning a windfall
meanwhile, u.s. companies such as digital equipment corp. and hewlett-packard co. are paying more for chips than their foreign rivals pay. the consequences of that over the long term are disquieting
as for u.s. access to the japanese market, it is not happening. it was reported in january that foreigners' share of japan's market had fallen every month since june
in japan, americans are bumping their heads against a concrete ceiling. for one thing, the biggest consumers of chips in japan are also the biggest producers. it is unlikely they will buy from americans when they can take chips right off their own fabrication lines, although pressure on them should be continued
most worrisome in the long run is that the high prices japanese chip makers are fetching under the accord is giving them even more money to pour into their world-leading research and development
in exactly the same way that japanese automakers responded to ``voluntary'' restraints by moving upscale with cars like the honda acura, japanese chip makers are beginning to move upscale with more complex, expensive chips that have been the domain of the americans
so what needs to be done?
the main job, obviously, is to rebuild the american chip industry so it can compete with the japanese without the need for a de facto cartel. the 1986 accord has already been legally challenged by the european economic community
sematech seems to be a step in the right direction. the organization, to be based in austin, texas, is financed by government and industry and will work to improve manufacturing techniques, which are considered the achilles' heel of the u.s. chip makers
a bigger problem is that many of the united states' leading chip makers, such as intel corp. and national semiconductor corp., are only mid-sized companies that lack the deep pockets to compete with japanese giants such as hitachi ltd. and toshiba corp
big u.s. chip buyers such as general electric co. could give the american industry a financial shot in the arm by buying the chip makers, but they have shown little interest in the volatile and expensive business
more mergers of chip companies almost surely lie ahead. the federal government may even serve as matchmaker in some cases
but two of the most worthwhile steps to help the u.s. chip business _ and thus the electronics business _ have nothing to do with integrated circuits per se
step one would be to lower the cost of borrowing for the capital-intensive industry by cutting the federal budget deficit. step two would be to improve the quality of american technical education, on which the industry depends
those are long-term steps, to be sure. but japan did not get where it is by concentrating on the short term
hello dear. you're very handsome. yes you are,'' sir alec guinness coos through the cage at a rhinoceros
you've got a sweet face, very pretty ears,'' the elder statesman of british acting says, as he strolls through berlin's central zoologischen garten
his chat with the animals is almost as engaging as the wonderful characters he has portrayed on stage and screen during five decades as one of the world's finest, most chameleon-like talents
on this particular day, the berlin film festival was awarding the 73-year-old guinness its special ``ehren bear'' (honorary bear) for lifetime achievement in the cinema. the actor, however, elected to avoid the morning crush of screenings and news conferences for a romp in the zoo
i'm not actually that keen on them; i hate to see certain animals caged up,'' he said
but i remember this zoo being small and very imaginatively laid out on the open plan, and i thought it might be amusing to have a second look.'' he last visited the zoologischen garten 14 years ago
images of some of the zoo's reported stock of 10,000 animals have lingered: ``they used to have white rhinoceroses there that were charming. and a great sea lion covered in shrapnel wounds _ an old thing that was like a symbol of berlin; a splendid, great creature.''
this time around, guinness' observations are as keen as ever, whether applied to the varieties of zoo-bound species or the special tributes that have marked his career
in 1980, he received a special academy award to honor a range of work encompassing such portrayals as the sinister fagin in ``oliver twist'' (1948), a comic octet of murder victims in ``kind hearts and coronets'' (1950), the hard-driving colonel nicholson in ``the bridge on the river kwai'' (1957), the aging mystic ben obi-wan kenobi in ``star wars'' (1977) and its sequels
last year, he was twice feted in lavish galas _ in april at new york's lincoln center and in may at the cannes film festival
the occasion in berlin may be less tony, but its significance is no less clear: in the festival's 38 years, guinness is only the second actor to be so honored, following james stewart in 1982
i'm afraid when you get rather elderly, these things seem to come on you rather more than you might wish,'' he says, his brisk gait belying his years, his nose becoming slightly red in the seasonal chill
a signpost draws his attention: ``i think that way may be the pheasantry. do you mind if we go in there?''
somewhere between pheasants and finches, the conversation turns to work. his latest project is ``little dorrit,'' the six-hour film adaptation of charles dickens' novel in which he plays william dorrit, a long-term inmate of a debtor's prison who finds that sudden wealth brings sudden freedom
guinness had not performed dickens since the 1940s, when he both adapted ``great expectations'' for the stage and made his movie debut as herbert pocket in david lean's 1946 film version. he then appeared in ``oliver twist'' in 1948. he considers ``little dorrit'' to be one of dickens' two or three greatest novels
dickens offers great temptations for actors because you can go over the top,'' he said
later this year, he'll be seen as mr. todd in a movie of evelyn waugh's 1934 novel, ``a handful of dust.'' then there's lee blessing's current broadway play, ``a walk in the woods,'' which guinness may do on the london stage. he last trod the west end boards in alan bennett's ``the old country'' in 1977-8
it's a very distinguished piece of writing,'' he says of the play. but guinness acknowledges its pitfalls, as well: ``the amount of learning for a two-hander is horrendous. an actor's great fear is that he won't have the memory.''
on that topic, he is emboldened by the recent return to the stage, after a decade away, of his friend and mentor, sir john gielgud, in the new play ``the best of friends.''
gielgud is 83,'' guinness says matter-of-factly, ``and he got through it (the play) very successfully.''
by now, the sky has clouded over, and rain looks likely. guinness has a lunch date for which he mustn't be late, so he returns to his hotel to find that autograph hunters have arrived
there they are,'' he says, sounding resigned as the anonymity of the walk in the zoo gives way to the fans' ever-ready pens and cameras
but before leaving the zoo, he has one last remark about rhinos: ``we're told they have very nice personalities.''
he takes an inimitable pause. ``but i don't think i'd like to encounter them intimately.''
lavrenti beria
the mere mention of the name stills brings chills to some soviets
in the 1960s, years after his death, people still avoided walking past his drab mansion at 28 kachalov st. in moscow because of the terrible memories it might evoke
now, 34 years after beria's own execution, the mansion houses the tunisian embassy
ambassador abderraouf ounaies of tunisia said there were stories that beria had a dungeon built in the basement and a secret passageway. some areas of the basement could have been used as a dungeon, ounaies said, but he found no evidence of that they actually were used for that, nor was there evidence of a secret passageway
the curse seems to have worn off. people these days walk by, apparently without giving a thought to lavrenti beria, the balding, small georgian who wore pince-nez and is held responsible for the executions of millions during the stalin era
every generation has its horrors,'' said an elderly neighborhood woman, who recalled seeing beria strolling outside the mansion when he lived there
the administration of general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev says it wants the current generation of soviets to know the truth about the past, and is reviving nightmares about beria and the machine of terror he ran in the late 1930s and 1940s as stalin's most ruthless and powerful henchman
press articles and the portrayal of a beria-hitler-like character in the recent georgian movie ``repentance'' are part of gorbachev's attempts to fill in ``blank spots'' in history _ formerly taboo subjects. he believes that extending his policy of glasnost, or openness, to the crimes of the stalin era will help ensure that such mistakes are not repeated
the effort parallels gorbachev's drive to rid soviet society of stalinist policies under which the central government exercised tight control over the economy
sergo a. mikoyan, the son of the late anastas i. mikoyan who had served with beria in the stalin leadership, wrote feb. 21 in the youth newspaper komsomolskaya pravda that it is important to review beria ``to finally free the future from the past.''
beria's legacy is the image of the state security forces as all-powerful and ruthless. in their re-examination of stalin and beria, soviet media have not touched on this image as it pertains to the present-day kgb, successor to beria's nkvd. also conspicuously absent is any criticism of the system that enabled such a pair to take charge and to operate their machine of terror for so long
this is not the first time the official media have focused on beria's reign of terror. he was first exposed during nikita s. khrushchev's de-stalinization drive in the 1950s and 60s. khrushchev, in his memoirs _ published only in the west _ called beria ``a butcher and an assassin,'' a ``beast'' who was ``without the slightest trace of human decency'' and who was ``very skillful at anything that was filthy and treacherous.''
although beria was sharply condemned during khrushchev's years, the early official accounts inacurrately described his relationship with stalin
we refused to believe that stalin himself could have been behind the terror which beria oversaw,'' khrushchev wrote. ``for a while, we gave the party and the people incorrect explanations about what had happened; we blamed everything on beria. he was a convenient figure.''
the truth, khrushchev said, was that ``beria didn't create stalin; stalin created beria.''
only now, under gorbachev, is the official record being corrected, with the help of sergo mikoyan and the sons of other members of stalin's politburo, georgy m. malenkov and khrushchev. andrei g. malenkov and sergei n. khrushchev are quoted in a recent edition of nedelya, a weekly supplement to the literary gazette newspaper. that and the other articles put the blame squarely on stalin
i believe that the roots of beria's evil deeds should be sought in the personality of stalin rather than in beria himself,'' nikolai zhusyenin wrote in nedelya. ``namely the cult, the deviation from leninist norms, resulted in the beria phenomenon. beria was able to guess stalin's wishes, was able to exploit the weaknesses of his master for personal profit and self-glorification.''
zhusyenin said that when he interviewed people, ``their arms began to tremble at the very mention of the name beria.''
the writers of the recent articles said they had trouble researching beria because he did such a good job of covering his tracks, making sure that any evidence that could be used against him was destroyed and witnesses killed
komsomolskaya pravda stated the new evaluation of stalin's relationship with beria in its headline over sergo mikoyan's article: ``the servant.''
stalin tapped beria, a fellow georgian, to be deputy head of the already-dreaded nkvd, as the state security and police force was known at the time, in the summer of 1938. by year's end, beria replaced nkvd chief nikolai yezhov, who had fallen out of favor with stalin and was executed in 1940
the people breathed a sigh of relief, hoping that the years of bloody mass purges were behind them. mass arrests did end, but the terror continued. beria simply made it more selective, playing on stalin's paranoia by identifying and eliminating those deemed to be ``enemies of the people.''
in the meantime, he garnered a staggering amount of power. beria became the first secret police chief elevated to the communist party's ruling politburo. during world war ii, stalin named beria to the committee supervising defense and later put him in charge of developing a soviet atomic bomb. after the war, beria controlled the regular and secret police, the country's labor camps, propaganda and transport, as well as a private empire in his native georgia and surrounding regions
among the horrors western historians link to beria was the massacre of more than 4,000 polish officers in the katyn forest near smolensk by nkvd troops in april 1940. the official soviet version is that the poles were killed by germans
on a personal level, soviet accounts of beria said he interrogated and executed prisoners himself. khrushchev claimed beria raped teen-age girls after having them kidnapped off the streets
beria's intrigues also took a heavy toll on the party itself. nedyelya noted that beria collected files on every government leader, including stalin, for possible use against them. his victims included veteran party members, comrades-in-arms of v.i. lenin and officials of the party youth group komsomol, nedyelya said
even stalin began to fear beria, and by 1946 had taken away all his henchman's security posts. but beria retained unofficial control over the security organs, and planned to use his forces to seize power after stalin's death in march 1953
khrushchev, in his memoirs and in remarks cited feb. 24 in literary gazette, said he was aware of beria's ambitions and suggested privately to the other top leaders in the summer of 1953 that they oust beria. they agreed. the politburo, in beria's presence, met and voted to arrest him. military troops outside beria's control took him to prison. he was put on trial, convicted of being a british agent _ a dubious charge _ and of trying to ``elevate the ministry of internal affairs above the party and government in order to seize power.''
official accounts say he was executed dec. 23, 1953, but some western historians believe he was put to death months earlier
beria, who had been in the limelight for 14 years, quickly became a non-person. the editors of the official soviet encyclopedia, for example, told readers to paste an article about the bering strait over one about beria
this is our last forest,'' said ranger veerawat dheeraprasart, pointing down a deep river valley. ``if the dam is built here, all this will vanish, and nobody will ever be able to replace it.''
veerawat, the chief ranger of this rich wildlife sanctuary astride the border with burma, is among thousands who have joined what unquestionably has become the greatest environmental battle in thailand's history _ a fight to persuade the government not to build a dam in thailand's last virgin forest
in a country that once was jungle-carpeted and teeming with wildlife, it is rare today to see a tract of undisturbed forest, an unpolluted river, white-handed gibbons or free-ranging tigers
anti-dam groups have held rock concerts and demonstrations, some featuring life-like models of crucified animals, in their campaign
newspapers are probing the issue in unprecedented detail. former prime minister kukrit pramoj says the government could face a mass uprising if it approves the nam choan dam
the dam's proponents say nam choam needs to be built, in what is the largest remaining area of protected forest in southeast asia, to increase thailand's energy supply by about 2 percent
the government's electric generating authority of thailand has described the proposed, 580-megawatt dam as the ``last possible exploitable source of hydro power'' in the country. it says it will create a reservoir that would also help irrigate farm land and assure water supplies in times of drought
the projected dam site is still hard to get to: a lurching, nine-hour drive over dirt roads from bangkok, the thai capital, followed by a four-hour jungle trek. when monsoons lash the countryside, a three-day elephant ride offers the only access
but dam opponents claim construction of nam choan, with the necessary approach roads, facilities and ensuing human encroachment, would spell doom for what they say is also the last area in thailand large enough to ensure the survival of a wide variety of wildlife
found in the thung yai and the adjacent huay kha khaeng sanctuary, an area about the size of delaware, are large mammals, such as elephant, gaur, tiger and clouded leopard; some 350 species of birds, and a wide range of plant life. a number of the species are classified as endangered in thailand, some worldwide
foreign conservation groups have written letters expressing concern to the thai government. in december, britain's prince philip, head of the world wildlife fund, urged an independent environmental impact study before a final decision is reached. a similar plea came from more than 1,300 conservationists and scientists at the general assembly in february of the swiss-based international union for conservation of nature and natural resources
the electric generating authority maintains that nam choan would degrade only 4 percent of the area. but ranger veerawat, who has served for 10 years in the sanctuary, contends the 47-mile-long dam reservoir would not only eradicate a biologically vital riverine valley but also disrupt the migration routes of animals, forcing them into smaller habitats
opponents also dispute the 4 percent degradation estimate, saying that in thailand roads built into remote, forested areas have inevitably been followed by massive logging, with collusion between businessmen and corrupt officials circumventing protective legislation
loggers are already felling the rich forests along the park boundary
pisit na patalung, secretary-general of wildlife fund thailand, one of some 30 private organizations opposing the proposal, said the dam issue has raised an environmental awareness among thais. until recent years, the public appeared apathetic as the country's once teeming wildlife was slaughtered and forests that blanketed about 70 percent of the country a generation ago were reduced to around 15 percent of total area today
the dam was first proposed in the early 1970s but plans were shelved in 1983 in wake of protests and charges that environmental impact studies were sloppy and improper
in 1986, the electric generating authority asked that the project be reconsidered and the government appointed a 40-man committee headed by deputy prime minister thienchai sirisamphan to come up with a decision, which is expected soon
some opponents believe government leaders will be impressed by their arguments that thailand now has enough alternate energy sources, including offshore natural gas and lignite, to scrap the dam proposal
others, however, feel that too many key bureaucrats and politicians are still little concerned over environmental problems
another wildlife ranger, sueb nakhasathien, didn't sound optimistic
thais haven't yet put a price on the environment,'' he said. ``they don't realize that trees and water have a price, that wildlife has a price.''
when the farmworkers union failed to persuade civilian officials to remove mario espinal as head of the national agrarian institute, it took its case to the armed forces chief
in going to gen. humberto regalado and the military high command the national association of honduran campesinos made plain its feeling, shared by others, that real power in honduras does not lie with the civilian government of president jose azcono hoyo
the union is seeking espinal's ouster from the cabinet-level post on grounds that he was stalling on agrarian reform
espinal, nevertheless, remains in his post, confirmed once again by azcono hoyo, and so far as is known regalado has not acted
the campesinos' tactic was also used in the past few years by bus drivers, teachers, business leaders and other sectors. it underscores the powerful, even dominant, role still exercised by the armed forces six years after honduras restored civilian government
honduras has a long history of military governments, most recently in the 1972-82 period
the people know where the source of power lies,'' said anibal puerto, vice president of the independent human rights commission and a critic of azcona hoyo's administration. even government supporters acknowledge the imbalance of power
longstanding vices are not gotten rid of from the night to the morning,'' said joaquin luna mejia, president of the honduran council on private enterprise
in an interview with the associated press, he said consolidation of civilian power ``is coming along well.'' but he also observed, ``here, as in all countries, interests are managed according to the real powers. and if those powers are ambitious, we could fall again into old vices.''
no honduran politician is going around saying, `we've got to put the military back in the box,' because here the military never has been in the box,'' said a western diplomat
compared to its neighbors, honduras has enjoyed a degree of stability and peace during a decade of regional conflict. but the civil wars surrounding it have caused big problems
we have become a sanctuary,'' said luna mejia of honduras' tens of thousands of refugees from el salvador, nicaragua and guatemala, all torn by guerrilla wars. ``we are victims of the entry into our country of irregular forces.''
he referred to the contras, who since 1982 have been trying to topple the sandinista government in nicaragua. until last year, a contra force estimated at 6,000 to 12,000 men had waged the better part of the campaign from base camps in honduras along the nicaraguan border. the rebels say most of their forces are now inside nicaragua
by congressional vote, the united states has cut off further military aid, damaging prospects for long-term effectiveness inside nicaragua
there is a great concern that the contras, if defeated, will try to come back here,'' said luna mejia
gen. regalado told journalists in february he hoped the contras would be able to keep up their fight but said if they cannot, they are not welcome back in honduras
we have instructed immigration authorities along the border to ensure that they do not return,'' he said
puerto sees a connection between the contra problem and continued military preponderance in honduran politics. citing honduras' very strong alliance with washington, he said: ``to whom does the honduran army owe its allegiance? everything indicates it owes its allegiance to the united states, and not to its own people.''
he said civilian government and close alignment with the united states had done little to alleviate the poverty of hundreds of thousands in this mainly agricultural country of 4.5 million people
people expected something different from civilian government, but they got more of the same,'' puerto said. ``if things continue like this, people may lose faith in so-called democracy and look for other less desirable forms of struggle.''
azcona hoyo is past the midway point in the four-year term to which he was inaugurated in january 1986. elections are scheduled in november 1989
new discoveries by american archaeologists indicate that humans could have settled on cyprus around 9000 b.c., 1,500 years earlier than previously thought
the finds also indicate that some species of ancient animals survived here at least 1,000 years after they were believed to have become extinct
if proven correct, the discoveries mean that cyprus was one of the earliest human settlements north of africa, along with the island of corsica, also in the mediterranean
if these dates are corroborated, the site will have provided by far the earliest archaeological evidence for island colonization anywhere in the mediterranean,'' dr. stuart swiny, director of the cyprus american archaeological research institute, reported in a recent lecture
scientists had previously dated man's arrival on cyprus around 7500 b.c
but archaelogists digging on a slope near the sprawling british air base at akrotiri on cyprus' south coast recently found pygmy hippopotamus and dwarf elephant bones, some mixed with shells, flint and ash
archaelogists believe the flint, an early cutting tool, was used to slice meat from the animals. the ash indicated cooking fires
carbon dating placed the remains at around 9000 b.c., a millenium after those species of animals were believed to have died out
swiny said that the animals, common to many mediterranean islands thousands of years ago, were wiped out by climatic changes during the last ice age that ended around 12,000 years ago
we thought ... these animals died out because of natural causes _ they couldn't get enough food or enough water,'' swiny said in an interview after the lecture
but now it looks as if man was also responsible for wiping them out.''
the akrotiri excavation is sponsored by the university of nevada and the american schools of oriental research, which sponsors the cyprus american institute. the dig is under the direction of dr. alan simmons, who currently is in nevada
the original discovery was made in 1980 by a british security officer at akrotiri, maj. brian pile, then a lieutenant, while he was training his men to seek out unusual objects
underground excavation at the site, eight miles south of the port city of limassol, started last july and will continue this summer
swiny said the actual age of the site will remain questionable until results of further tests are obtained
the finds are only some of the important discoveries unearthed by american archaeologists in the last few years on cyprus, the center of trade routes between europe and the middle east for centuries
the island is studded with relics of a history that spans more than 10,000 years, during which more than a dozen civilizations, including achaean greeks, egyptians, romans, armenians, venetians and ottoman turks left their imprint
americans are involved in six of the 20 digs currently being made in the greek-controlled southern part of cyprus
the cyprus american institute provides logistical help at one sponsored by brandeis university, of waltham, mass., at the late bronze age town of kalavasos-ayios dhimitrios, 18 miles northeast of limassol
it was one of the biggest bronze age settlements on cyprus and a center for the island's ancient copper trade. cyprus is the phoenician word for copper
last summer archaelogists uncovered the remains of a 13th century b.c. building, covering more than 10,764 square feet and once at least two stories high, that was apparently destroyed by fire
it's the biggest and most important building at the site and one of the biggest of that period in cyprus,'' said dr. alison south todd, the dig's co-director
we also found some inscriptions which are very rare to the period in cypro-minoan script,'' she added
cypro-minoan, which resembles the script used in minoan crete 4,000 years ago, has never been deciphered
the presence of these inscriptions and the huge storage capacity of the building, known as building x, suggest it was either a palace or a town hall
the storage room, more than 60 feet long and 24 feet wide, consists of an outer wall and six stone pillars that once supported the roof
the shards of at least 47 jars, some once as tall as six feet, have been found. all apparently had been smashed in the fire. but six intact jars were later discovered in pits below the floor
todd discovered a tomb, considered one of the richest and best preserved ever found on cyprus, while digging an exploratory trench out from the building
the oval-shaped tomb contained the skeletons of three young women, a child about 3 years old and three infants. they apparently had social status and wealth
the women had been buried with gold and silver jewelry, bronze and bone artifacts, containers of wine with small cups inside and cylindrical ivory cosmetic boxes
abraham d. sofaer says he has been burned and tempered since leaving the federal bench three years ago to become the top lawyer at the state department, a job that keeps him in the heat of the battle over ``star wars,'' the iran-contra affair and other controversies
if it helps to go through fire, i was helped,'' said sofaer
sofaer, 49, says he faces an uncertain future after president reagan leaves office, and is bitter about criticism he received from lawmakers for what is called the ``broad interpretation'' of the anti-ballistic missile treaty
his interpreration, which would have allowed reagan to accelerate the development and testing of missile defenses using lasers and other exotic weapons, provoked angry outcries from members of congress, who voted last year to bar the administration from spending any money that would violate the ``restrictive interpretation.''
i hope that people consider me to be respectable and honorable some day for my work,'' said sofaer. ``but it has been very rough to be attacked the way some people have attacked me,'' he said, referring to sen. sam nunn, d-ga., the chairman of the armed services committee, and sen. joseph biden, d-del., of the foreign relations committee.''
arms control is a very, very emotional subject,'' said sofaer. ``i must say i was not clued in, in a sense, so it was a shock for me to run into that degree of criticism. i feel it was very unfair and unjustified.''
he was also involved in questioning israeli officials in the case of jonathan pollard, who was sentenced to life in prison for spying for israel, and has facilitated contacts between the israeli government and the independent counsel investigating the iran-contra affair
sofaer, interviewed in his office, indicated he might oppose efforts by the iran-contra independent counsel to subpoena testimony from two israelis involved in the clandestine sale of arms to iran, but that no final decision had been reached
as state department legal adviser, sofaer heads a team of about 100 lawyers, and by all accounts has a warm relationship with secretary of state george p. shultz
sofaer was born on may 6, 1938, in bombay to a family of iraqi jews, and came to this country in 1948. after attending law school, he served as clerk to supreme court associate justice william j. brennan in 1966-67, taught law at columbia university from 1969-79, and was u.s. district judge in new york from 1979-85
sofaer gained national prominence as trial judge in the libel case brought by former israeli defense minister ariel sharon against time magazine
in an landmark verdict engineered by sofaer, the jury found that time made a factual error in reporting that a secret israeli report said sharon had discussed revenge with lebanese officials before massacres in two palestinian refugee camps. but the jury said time acted without malice, and was therefore not liable for monetary damages
because of the way i handled the verdict, it turned out to be an important innovation in libel law,'' said sofaer, who proudly points out a sketch of the trial scene hanging on wall of his state department office
i liked being a judge very much,'' said sofaer. ``i particularly liked trials.''
but, he said, ``i don't have any expectation of returning to the bench. no one has invited me. i would certainly prefer that to being unemployed. i don't expect to be unemployed.''
the truth is, he said, ``it's a possibility that i will have a lot of time on my hands'' after reagan leaves office
sofaer bridles at accusations that he devised legal rationales for controversial reagan policies, such as star wars
i have said no to several things, plans, kidnappings, abductions, intrusions into the mail of other nations. there have been lots of things i have opposed successfully,'' he said
sofaer declined to disclose details of the kidnappings and abductions he opposed, but said that none had gone forward. he did support the abduction of fawaz younis, a lebanese suspected in the hijacking of a royal jordanian airliner on june 6, 1985
younis was seized by u.s. agents in international waters off cyprus last sept. 13 and brought to the united states
of all sofaer's actions, he probably will be remembered most for his broad interpretation of the abm treaty
what happened was that senator nunn and others jumped on this issue before we were done with all our work,'' said sofaer. ``the reason we weren't done with our work was because the broad interpretation was announced long before all the work was done, and before any decision to implement was made.'' the interpretation never was implemented
robert c. mcfarlane, then the white house national security adviser, disclosed the broad interpretation on a television news show on oct. 6, 1985
the ensuing controversy has centered on three main issues:
_whether the treaty barred development of space-based or mobile anti-missile weapons based on ``other physical principles''' than those which existed in 1972
_whether remarks made by u.s. officials during ratification hearings in 1972 bound future administrations
_ and whether the subsequent conduct of the superpowers bound them to the restrictive interpretation
sofaer said he was ``not amazed'' by the outcry following mcfarlane's revelations. ``i am not naive. i realize that these people are motivated by their desire to win political battles, not to win legal arguments.''
analysis of the ratification question had been prepared not by sofaer, but by junior attorneys on his staff, and was seized upon by sdi opponents
i had said three times (the ratification analysis) was inadequate and that i would have to come back and redo it. in fact, i was in the midst of redoing it'' when mcfarlane disclosed the broad interpretation
sofaer has completed his review of the abm treaty, and sticks by the broad interpretation, although congress has closed the door for the time being
now would be the time for a real debate on the abm treaty,'' he said. photos and 1 graphic.)</note>
labor relations in the airline industry used to be fairly genteel and mutual accommodation was the rule. then, after deregulation, came a competitive crunch, mergers and cost-cutting, and at many carriers snarl has replaced purr. a reporter surveys today's turbulent scene
the chairman of pan american world airways and several senior executives are fired after a closed-door deal with the airline's labor unions
flight attendants trek to the suburban home of the chairman of trans world airlines to register a protest about a strike that ended nearly two years ago. more than 4,000 of them are still looking to get their jobs back
eastern airlines, expecting a strike, is planning for a small cargo carrier with non-union pilots to fly many of its passenger planes, prompting charges of union busting from eastern pilots and mechanics
it's management and labor hardball, pure and simple
and it has become more frequent since the government eased out of regulating the airline industry in the early 1980s. along with bitter competition among airlines have come increasingly acrimonious relations with labor
in the wars between airline workers and their bosses, the genteel atmosphere of bargaining _ common when the government had its reins on the industry _ seems to have gone the way of the propeller airplane
the hotbed of labor-management combat is at eastern, the miami-based airline that has struggled with huge losses and almost continuous labor turmoil for more than a decade. the company wants major concessions. the unions say they're being pushed into a strike
when word came recently that 26 eastern jets were being leased to a little known cargo operator named orion air, the news unleashed a firestorm among many of eastern's employees
it was no secret that eastern, in the midst of stormy contract talks with its mechanics, intends in event of a strike this summer to have non-union orion air pilots fly the leased planes on eastern's most critical routes
it's an attempt to decimate eastern's cockpit crews,'' says jack bavis, head of the airline's pilots union. there are hints from the parent 40,000-member air line pilots association of a one-day nationwide shutdown of air service if eastern ever uses the orion pilots
thomas matthews, eastern's vice president for human relations, calls the non-union orion pilots ``our insurance coverage.''
corporate hardball
prior to deregulation, for maybe 20 years, there was a posture of accommodation. the unions accepted the companies and the companies accepted the unions. government generally was neutral or slightly on the side of labor,'' says frank cassels, a professor of industrial relations at northwestern university
when labor wanted more money, the airlines often agreed. they knew that the government would pass the increased costs on in the form of higher fares. today, airlines compete vigorously on fares and have argued that one of their biggest problems has been high labor costs. on average, 35 percent of airline operational costs are for labor, according to the air transport association
as a result, there has been ``a stage of outright hostility'' between labor and management in recent years, cassels says
the tiff at eastern may be the latest, but it's hardly the most bitter standoff between labor and management in recent years
it was in september 1983 that frank lorenzo, chairman of texas air corp., the nemesis of airline labor, stopped negotiating with the unions and shut down continental airlines. he declared bankruptcy and shed the existing labor contracts
three days later, continental emerged with pilots flying the same planes, but earning half the salary. pilots and flight attendants saw their strike fizzle
today, continental, which like eastern is owned by texas air corp., is larger than ever, but many of its one-time well-paid pilots are wearing the uniforms of other airlines and have lost much of their seniority and pay
in early 1986 the flight attendants at twa, faced with demands for sharp salary cuts, walked off their jobs and onto the picket lines. today two-thirds of the 6,500 attendants who went on strike are still grounded. while the attendants await a recall from twa, the airline continues to fly with a third fewer attendants who earn less money and work longer hours
would the flight attendants again choose a strike?
victoria frankovich, president of the independent federation of flight attendants, who led the 1986 walkout, mulls the question over before answering. ``i don't think we had a choice,'' she says
attendants at other airlines may not have lost their jobs in recent years, but they have not been able to exert much clout. recently, flight attendants were pushed reluctantly into a settlement at american and thought better of a strike at northwest, where negotiations continue
but labor _ at least in terms of the more-powerful pilots and mechanics unions _ has flexed its muscles as well after several years of back-pedaling and reeling from management demands
consider the fired pan am executives
william t. coleman, with the blessing of fellow members of the pan am board of directors, resigned and sealed the deal with a handshake last january. he then walked into the office of pan am chairman c. edward acker and informed acker and vice chairman martin shugrue they were fired
by the time the bloodletting was over, three senior vice presidents, including raymond grebey, who was in charge of labor relations, also were forced to resign
acker is now in bermuda ``assessing what he's going to do next.'' shugrue recently was hired by texas air corp. to head its continental airlines subsidiary
richard ferris can understand how they feel
a former hotel executive, ferris had a dream of turning united airlines into a broad-based travel company. while at the helm of ual inc., he bought two hotel chains and a rental car company and envisioned one-stop shopping for transportation and lodging for businessmen
the name of ual inc., was changed to allegis corp., to broaden its appeal, but the moniker never caught on among wall street investors. it also served to highlight claims by the pilots that ferris was siphoning money and attention from the airline
one evening last june, the company's board of directors demanded ferris' resignation. the pilots claimed responsibility
although ferris' fall may have been the result of a variety of forces, most industry analysts agree that his empire began to fail when the pilots union launched a $4.5 billion takeover bid, the first effort by a union to buy an entire airline
anyone who thinks that the pilots union or the machinists today are the underdogs in one of these battles is clearly mistaken,'' says clark onstad, a vice president for texas air
indeed, pilots at many airlines have regained the momentum. their salaries are on the upswing. the dual wage scales _ a lower one for newly hired pilots _ imposed by american airlines in 1983 and widely copied by other carriers is showing signs of erosion. new contracts call for a more rapid merging of the two scales
the air line pilots association, caught unprepared and disorganized by the continental bankruptcy, has vowed never to be left so vulnerable again. stiff increases in dues for its 40,000 members have brought $40 million into a war chest that continues to grow
the unions also say they will continue to take their fights into airline board rooms, citing their successes at united, pan am and at twa where the pilots formed an unusual alliance with corporate raider carl icahn two years ago to fend off lorenzo's texas air
ironically, that set the stage for lorenzo to buy eastern, where labor war remains rife. nevertheless, declares alpa president henry duffy, ``labor unions will continue to increase their wall street connections.''
certainly in this day and age you won't get (salary or work rule) givebacks,'' says robert joedicke, airline analyst for shearson lehman bros. but he adds quickly that he wouldn't ``put the unions in the catbird seat'' just yet
nowhere is that more true than at texas air, the houston-based airline whose continental and eastern subsidiaries account for 20 percent of the industry's market and which has led the trend toward lower airline fares
lorenzo made his mark in 1972 when he bought debt-ridden texas international and turned it around by unleashing ``peanut fares'' when business was slow. his low-fare strategy continued with new york air in 1981 and with the newly emerged continental two years later
but to play out the strategy, lorenzo had to cut costs, a direct attack on labor
does frank like unions? that's not the issue,'' says onstad, lorenzo's point man in washington. ``the issue is how does management get the flexibility to deal in a deregulated environment that frank is dealing with.''
onstad says that some members of the machinists union, especially ground workers who haul baggage, are earning salaries _ an average of $43,000 a year with fringes _ that are way too high
when continental emerged with a non-union work force in 1983 it had cut its pilots' pay in half overnight. continental workers in 1986 earned on average $28,200 a year, the lowest in the industry, and better than a third lower than its chief competitors
mechanics at continental earn $16 an hour base salary, $4 an hour lower than new contracts agreed to at united and usair, according to the machinist union
in the third quarter of last year, continental's labor costs were 22 percent of total operating costs, compared to about 35 percent industrywide
but texas air executives argue that low costs are needed if the airline is to survive and continue to provide the low fares that have opened air travel to millions of people
texas air corp., lost $466 million last year and its executives put much of the blame on costs related to absorbing people express and the labor unrest at eastern, where losses were $182 million
eastern president philip bakes has said he wants $490 million in labor concessions at the struggling airline. union leaders countered that they have given back too much already and accuse lorenzo of trying to dismember the airline
jack bavis, the pilot's leader at eastern, says that since lorenzo bought the airline he has:
_sold eastern's valuable computer reservation system to texas air
_cleared the way for continental to fly eastern's profitable latin america routes if lorenzo chooses to
_sold six eastern airbus a-300s and a mcdonnell douglas dc-10 to continental
_tried to spin-off eastern's moneymaking northeast air shuttle operation under a separate subsidiary
he's taking the crown jewels, spinning them off and making them part of texas air,'' says charlie bryan, the chief of the international association of machinists at eastern
onstad suggests the eastern negotations have industrywide implications
we are now the last of the low-cost operators. people focus all of their attention on texas air,'' onstad says. ``if the unions can defeat us, low fares go away and the pressure on wages at other airlines go away.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
it's been called america's most hidden problem. an estimated one in five adults in the united states can't read beyond the fourth-grade level. but help is available through a growing network of organizations dedicated to stamping out illiteracy. two of the most successful groups are based in syracuse, n.y
joseph everson always feared ``signing away his life.'' even more, he dreaded revealing that he couldn't read
then, about four years ago, everson received a letter from a local hospital saying he owed a big bill for recent treatments. his nightmare had become reality
i told them i had medicaid to take care of it, but they said i had agreed to pay the bill,'' everson says. ``they said i had signed my name on the dotted line.''
fortunately, the 42-year-old everson was able to settle the dispute, but only after admitting to hospital officials that he really didn't know what he had signed because he couldn't read. that was the catalyst everson needed to seek help
no longer would everson have to rely on his wife, children or siblings to explain service applications and contracts to him or read him the newspaper to him. above all, he would be able to do the thing he had longed for most _ to be able to read his bible for the sermons he gave to his church of god in christ congregation at payton memorial temple in syracuse
over the years, family members had read the bible to him
at first it was hard, but after a while i began to know by heart most of the verses i would use in my sermons,'' the minister says. ``i might not know the exact words, but i knew the exact feeling and that was easy to translate.''
everson says it's painful to admit you can't read, ``but it opens a new way of life and you have to admit it to get help.''
living in syracuse, it was easy for everson to find help. the city is the headquarters of two of the most successful organizations in the fight against illiteracy _ laubach literacy international and literacy volunteers of america, both part of a national campaign being conducted by project literacy united states (plus)
laubach is the older of the two groups, founded in 1955 by the late frank c. laubach, a missionary who spent 40 years traveling the globe teaching people how to read and write their native languages. laubach became internationally recognized for his approach to illiteracy, the ``laubach method.'' today, lli has 750 councils in 45 states as well as an international program and publishing division
syracuse housewife ruth colvin was inspired by laubach, who taught at syracuse university in the 1950s, and in 1962 she began a basement organization speaking out against illiteracy and teaching people to read. today, nearly 300 lva community affiliates comprise a network spanning 35 states. the organization has doubled in size in the last three years
together, the two groups are responsible for teaching millions of americans to read. last year alone, both estimated they taught more than 100,000 adults how to read
sadly, that only scratches the surface. the u.s. department of education says 27 million adults in the united states _ one in every five _ can't read beyond a fourth-grade level
in some cases the consequences have been tragic. a new york city mother fed undiluted formula to her nine-day old infant because she couldn't read the directions. the baby died
the government estimates illiteracy costs the united states about $225 billion annually in welfare payments, lost job productivity, unrealized earnings and tax revenues and crime
while illiteracy is predominantly a problem of poor america, its victims include bankers, real estate brokers, firefighters, farmers, laborers and others, according to colvin
don't equate ignorance with illiteracy. people learn to get by,'' she says. ``they contrive ways to work around it because they are too embarrassed to let anyone know. some people have remarkable memories, others fake poor eyesight and have others do their reading.''
however, the demands of today's high-tech society have made it harder
it's a national embarrassment,'' says peter waite, director of american programs for laubach. ``illiteracy is america's most hidden problem, and its most solvable problem given adequate resources. really, there's no good reason people who want to learn how to read and write can't do it. there are a dozen proven programs out there now.''
laubach and literacy volunteers each have their own approach to teaching. both are self-paced individual programs that specialize in mobilizing volunteers to serve as tutors. but laubach teaches reading through a phonics-based system keyed on letter and word sound association, while literacy volunteers use a four-part method that incorporates phonics
the literacy volunteers approach also takes advantage of language experience, using the student's hobbies or interests to draw on as a basis to teach new words
sight words and patterned words are other reading techniques employed by literacy volunteers. sight words are those so basic to reading and encountered so often that they are best learned by sight, not by sounding them out, such as `the,' `have,' and `were.' in the patterned words technique, which concentrates on vowel sounds, words are taught by learning families of words, such as `man,' `can,' `fan
it hasn't been easy, but i don't know why i didn't try and learn sooner,'' says everson, who wants to become an lva tutor as soon as he becomes proficient. ``the longer you wait, the worse it gets as far as dealing with the problem. learning to read is like finding yourself.''
waite and colvin say everson's story is a familiar one
it's interesting if you ask a student whose fault it is they can't read, invariably they will say it's their fault,'' waite says. ``they blame themselves. but there are always extenuating circumstances they can't control. someone else's fault: a teacher, a parent, a school system. they drop behind and then get caught in the cycle.''
in recent years, the federal and local governments, local school systems, libraries, churches, businesses and community groups have entered the endeavor, starting up programs at various levels to assist people in learning how to read
there's no indication the problem is getting any worse,'' waite says. ``however, it doesn't appear to be getting any better.'' photos. colorfoto subscribers get 3 35mm slides.)</note>
a museum in southeastern mexico offers clues to three civilizations that predate the aztecs. among other things, there is evidence that these ancient people probably perceived the earth as round, designed remarkably accurate calendars and had an advanced knowledge of mathematics and astronomy
by isaac a. levi=
huge carved stone heads, tiny clay figures and thousands of other artifacts at a museum here tell a strange story about three civilizations that flourished long before columbus discovered america
it's about the olmecs, totonacas and huaxtecs, who inhabited a long stretch of coast on the gulf of mexico
the fascinating and sometimes gruesome story is told vividly at the museum of xalapa, which specializes in the region's archaeological treasures
a lot is still unknown about the three civilizations. they are believed to have been part of a series of migrations from asia that started about 35,000 years ago across the bering strait, by way of alaska, and lasted several millenia
but, says museum director fernando winfield capitaine, ``as new finds are made and studies of old ones shed new light, the results may rewrite quite a few history books
we don't know what their language was, or what they even called themselves,'' he adds. ``even the names we use for them are false and relatively new. they are `nahuatl' names, the trading language of the aztecs, which didn't even exist at the time.''
only 3,000 of the museum's 29,000 pieces are on display for lack of space. they tell how these people performed human sacrifices, probably perceived the earth as round, designed remarkably accurate calendars and had an advanced knowledge of mathemathics and astronomy, among other things
the artifacts range in size from a tiny olmec carving of a rain god 4 inches high, to huge stone altars. the museum's centerpiece is a monolithic head 9 feet high and weighing 16 tons, carved from andesite rock
now housed in a new $3 million set of modern buildings covering 14,400 square yards and surrounded by eight acres of wooded park, the museum is part of the veracruz state university in xalapa, the state's capital 74 miles northwest of the port of veracruz
the olmecs, totonacas and huaxtecas based their agriculture on corn, frijole beans and squash, supplementing their diets with dog meat, river fish and wild animals and birds, which they seasoned with chili peppers, herbs and other spices
both their weapons and their tools were crude, mostly made out of stone or wood, and no one is sure how they carved such huge stone statues. but their civilizations were surprisingly advanced for its time
in his guidebook ``master works of the xalapa museum,'' mexican anthropolgist alfonso medellin zenil says it's possible the olmecs were the first to make paper out of wood pulp in america
archaeologists believe the political organization was more of a loose coalition of small towns or city-states than one big government entity. but their influence spread far and wide and some of it survives in present-day mexico
they could read and write and knew what a wheel was, but didn't use it, probably because they had no draft animals. their ancestors had hunted them all out of existence, including the ancient american horse and the elephant
they spun and wove fibers, including cotton. they tailored their clothes, wore earrings and jewelry, blackened their teeth with natural tar for cosmetic purposes and made rubber from the rubber tree, which is native to the region
being cross-eyed was considered a sign of beauty
by polishing metallic rock, the olmecs made flat mirrors which they hung over their chests as jewelry, or concave ones, which they used to light fires
they made music on drums, whistles, ocarinas, clay flutes and other instruments. they traveled and traded extensively, as far west as the pacific coast and as far south as el salvador in central america, spreading their cultures and acquiring new ones
as a result, cacao _ the bean from which chocolate is derived and is native to the gulf coast _ became a popular currency for trade throughout pre-columbian mexico
at first, they cremated or simply buried their dead, but later they built little pyramidal rock mounds to mark the sites. later still, they built the monumental pyramids that survive today
they played a ceremonial sport with a rubber ball, which was a combination of soccer and basketball. the winning team was afterwards beheaded as a sacrifice, usually to a sun god, although some authorities claim it was the losers who lost their heads
other victims had their hearts cut out atop some pyramid or other sacred altar. some were skinned alive and priests donned their skins to dance before xipe totec, the ``god of the flayed,'' in a fertility rite to mark the beginning of spring
prisoners of war often had their hands severed so the victors could acquire their strength, skill and magic
worship was centered on the sun, the moon and the planet venus
all three cultures worshipped the jaguar as a sun god and hunting the animal was forbidden, except for its skins, which priests wore during sacred ceremonies. the jaguar was often depicted in partly human form
it was said that in times long past a woman mated with a jaguar, giving birth to a ``were-jaguar.'' archeologists believe this explains the olmecs' morbid fascination with dwarfs, hunchbacks and other human deformations
little is known about venus, usually depicted as the lesser of the three, except that ehecatl quetzalcoatl, god of the hurricane and other winds, and xochiquetzal, goddess of love and the spring, were probably associated with it
the most fascinating of the moon deities was tlasolteotl, the totonaca goddess of confession, protectress of childbirth and advocate of illicit love and passions. she encouraged people to sin so that she could later absolve them
sinners had to confess to her, so that she could devour the ``rubbish or spiritual garbage'' that weighed upon them
but,'' says winfield, ``only one confession was allowed in a lifetime, and people tried to put it off as much as they could, since there was no forgiveness for a second offender.'' photo.)</note>

editor's note _ they are on the radical fringe of the environmental movement, labeled terrorists by some for their practice of ``monkeywrenching,'' sabotaging the equipment of loggers and developers. but earth first! founder david foreman compares his style of civil disobedience with that of mohandas gandhi or dr. martin luther king
from their seats in a juneau conference hall, some 400 people tip their noses toward the rafters and let out a long, high-pitched howl
with scarcely a giggle, they howl their scorn at wilderness-wrecking development, howl their devotion to david foreman's controversial brand of environmentalism
wolf mimicry is among the more benign of foreman's attention-grabbing tricks, which some call criminal, others call visionary
it's the stuff of earth first!, the self-styled radical fringe of environmentalism founded by foreman in 1980 when he decided the movement was boring itself out of existence
since then, earth firsters have been putting themselves on front pages, infuriating loggers and frustrating law enforcement officials with their ``civil disobedience'' protests
they shackle themselves to trees, stage sit-ins before bulldozer blades, pour sand in the engines of earthmovers and pound spikes in tree trunks to mangle loggers' saws
they call the practice monkeywrenching
in the eyes of the alaska loggers association, foreman and his followers are ``terrorists.'' foreman prefers to compare himself to mohandas gandhi and martin luther king jr
he says sabotaging equipment isn't terrorism because it doesn't hurt people
i think that i believe in non-violence, too,'' he says. ``pulling up survey stakes, putting sand in the crank case of a bulldozer, those aren't violent.''
though opponents often link earth first! to an accident in california in which a sawmill worker was hurt by a tree spike that struck a saw blade, foreman says conservationists were not involved
foreman, who makes his home in tucson, ariz., has been arrested several times. dozens of earth first! members were charged with criminal mischief and similar crimes for anti-logging protests in oregon last summer
over the past few years they've blockaded oil wells, occupied uranium mines and joined greenpeace at nuclear test protests in nevada
if people see him going to jail for his cause, foreman says, maybe they'll take environmentalism more seriously
sometimes you've got to put your body on the line,'' foreman says. ``face it. there are a lot of madmen and madwomen out there destroying the earth. why shouldn't we be mad about it? why shouldn't we be passionate?
we need to scare people. it's not our job to come up with the final, politically acceptable solution. we're advocates.''
for all its radical tone, foreman's activism has its underpinnings in conventional political strategy
at a how-to workshop on promoting the environmental cause, he explained he doesn't really expect the general public to adopt all his views. by presenting an extreme, he simply hopes to shift the ultimate compromise his way
there are rational solutions, but others should find them,'' he said. ``i see very few politicians respond to facts. i see politicians respond to votes, to public opinion. we compromise and we sort of water down our opinions before ever speaking them.''
he tells a class how to use self-deprecating jokes _ as politicians do _ to make the audience think they're regular guys
he advises his students not to dread a knowledgeable audience. ``if you relax, you can sound like you know a lot more about something than you do.''
passing out pamphlets? dress up in animal costumes and stage a skit, he says. you'll be harder to ignore
and when you're really in an adversarial position, foreman says, remember ``they can't beat you up quite as much if they're laughing.''
it was foreman's talent for humor and drama that brought him an invitation to speak at the alaska environmental assembly's recent conference in juneau
the assembly got the theater it wanted as he sermonized
first came the doomsday predictions: ``1988 is the greatest biological crisis since evolution began 3{ billion years ago,'' foreman says. ``by the year 2,000 the only large mammals left will be the ones we allow to exist.''
then the promise of salvation: this generation is the most important that ever lived, he says, the generation that can halt environmental destruction
then the underlying moral: biocentrism, foreman says, is the most important philosophy of man. it holds that you can't change one part of the world without affecting every other, that a crab in the mud has as much right to life as a man
and, finally, the call to give up worldly goods, to choose wilderness over drinking more coke, buying more vcrs, figuring the value of something ``by how many greasy bills you can pile up next to it.''
forget about building more highways and bring back the bison instead, foreman says. look beneath skyscrapers and opera houses to see ``a vision of the world the way it could be.''
be an animal, he advises, closing with the howl, 400 voices strong
so how does foreman suggest modernized americans get back to the bison?
i don't have all the answers,'' he says after the speech. ``i think that's one of the problems, that we think we have to have all the answers. but i want to energize people to ask the questions.''
foreman says giving up all modern ways for an ecologically sound stone age is not the idea. he'd settle for a shift toward the primitive side
i believe in compromise and balance. we're protecting something like 3 percent of the land of the united states as wilderness. i don't think that's balance. i would be satisfied with 20 or 30 percent.''
the conservationists who work to reach those compromises sometimes seem unsure how to react to foreman's flamboyance
some juneau environmentalists were titillated. ``did you know you're sitting behind a terrorist?'' one lobbyist stage-whispered a row behind foreman, who was giggling at the furor his visit had stirred
loggers and state natural resources commissioner judy brady boycotted the meeting because of foreman's presence
others mixed admiration with a tinge of embarrassment
bart koehler, a leader of the southeast alaska conservation coalition, was foreman's partner in founding earth first!, but returned to more conventional environmental groups in 1982
though they've been best friends since 1973 and remain so, koehler doesn't like to be reminded of his ties to foreman
foreman isn't offended. being environmentalism's bad boy, he says, has its political purpose
i think we help other environmental groups look mainstream and reasonable _ which they are _ but i think we've helped move them toward taking a stronger position,'' he says. photo.)</note>

editor's note _ many of the stories of the late john steinbeck have become the plot lines for movies, but sometimes the author's artistry has been lost in the translation. now his sons and some of their friends have formed a movie company to try to faithfully adapt their father's works to feature films
a realist in the video age, writer thom steinbeck believes that film offers him the best opportunity to carry on in his famous father's footsteps
the son of the late john steinbeck, one of america's best-known writers, is one of the founders of a new movie company dedicated to faithfully adapating the works of famous authors, starting with steinbeck
sitting in the secluded catskill mountain studio of artist eugene gregan, his film company partner, thom steinbeck explains his plans for steinbeck films inc
our concern is with craftsmanship. steinbeck spent a lot of time on his work,'' says thom, who frequently refers to his father by the family name. ``we're going to spend as much time on his work as he did.''
with dark, combed-back hair, ruddy complexion and piercing blue eyes, the 43-year-old thom resembles the prize-winning author who wrote ``the grapes of wrath,'' ``east of eden'' and other classics of american literature
following years of struggle to make a living as an author, john steinbeck gained national attention in the early 1930s as a writer who could masterfully depict the plight of the disenfranchised and downtrodden. he produced 19 works of fiction, eight of non-fiction and also plays, a documentary and a screenplay
his 1939 book ``the grapes of wrath,'' about the hopeless migration of dust bowl farmers, won a pulitzer prize. it also was one of the many steinbeck stories adapted for film
in 1962, six years before his death at age 66, steinbeck was awarded the nobel prize for literature
steinbeck's two sons, thom and john iv, are writers themselves and now partners in the film venture
we chose steinbeck to work with first because there've been very few accurate interpretations of his work that have been translated into film,'' thom says. ``in many cases, companies have chosen pieces that are far too long for a 125-page script, which is usually standard.''
the results, thom says, have been films which cut the writing of his father and others to fit the filmmaking ``formula.''
on broadway, the author owns the stage. in hollywood, he's lucky if he can get invited to a couple of parties,'' says thom, who recently completed the screenplay of his father's novel, ``in dubious battle'' for a los angeles film company, zupnick enterprises inc
it's not that the senior steinbeck minded seeing his writing adapted for film
steinbeck is not like a lot of authors,'' gregan says, ``because he thought visually and wrote visually. some writers are totally verbal. steinbeck is easy to intepret to film because he saw it that way. he loved movies. all his best friends were involved in movies.''
thom says his father knew and influenced the writers who adapted his stories for film while he was alive. ``it's the films that have taken place since his death that i think he would roll over in his grave about,'' he says
the company plans to make full-length feature films based on ``travels with charley in search of america,'' steinbeck's last book, and ``the moon is down,'' a story about nazi occupation of a norwegian town in world war ii
short stories from ``the long valley'' and ``the pastures of heaven'' are also slated for production, with ``the long valley'' scheduled for release in about a year
we want to stay very close to the novel,'' gregan says, ``so that eventually what people can have is a videotape library of john steinbeck's work.''
if translating books to film is so difficult, then why not leave steinbeck's efforts in their purest form?
because people don't read any more,'' thom says with a laugh. ``and the only way i can start them to read is by doing accurate interpretations of steinbeck's work so that they might be enticed to read it.''
some of steinbeck's work that is already on film shouldn't be duplicated, thom says
who could play tom joad better than fonda?'' thom said of actor henry fonda who starred in ``the grapes of wrath.''
for the last 2{ years, the steinbeck brothers and gregan have talked of starting a film company. thom spent last summer and fall in a cabin near gregan's mountain home and the wheels began to turn
three other partners, whom thom didn't want to identify, are also involved
the firm will have offices in new york city and monterey, calif., where thom makes his home and where his father lived off and on
viking penquin inc. has continued to print steinbeck books in hardbound and paperback editions. the largest printings since 1986 have been 280,000 paperback copies of ``the grapes of wrath'' and 119,500 of ``east of eden.''
professor ted hayashi, president of the international steinbeck society at ball state university in muncie, ind., believes there is an ample market worldwide for the films
whenever somebody makes a film out of steinbeck literature, i want to see it,'' hayashi says, though he concedes that some people have been disappointed in the past when steinbeck stories were adapted for film
`cannery row'' independently was a very enjoyable movie, but if you're serious about comparing movies and literary work, a lot of scholars were disappointed,'' hayashi says. ``film is a very independent art after all.''
the logo of the film company is a haunting sketch of the elder steinbeck, done by gregan. but what would thom say in response to critics who might accuse him of trying to profit off of his father's name?
i make money off my father's name right now,'' he said in a blunt, matter-of-fact tone. ``my name is steinbeck. i also share in the literary estate with my brother and stepmother
it's a little bit like inheriting a grocery store. you've got one of two choices: letting the fruit rot on the shelves and not pay attention to it or you can see it as an ongoing business. certainly a literary estate is an ongoing business.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>

editor's note _ five years after he became conductor of the city of birmingham symphony orchestra at age 25, simon rattle thought it could become britain's best. at 33, he hasn't changed his mind. rattle, who is attracting a lot of attention in the world of music, is now bringing the orchestra to america to show it off in 11 cities
britain's simon rattle, who has become known as one of the world's most exciting young conductors, is introducing his city of birmingham symphony orchestra to american audiences for the first time
the orchestra, which rattle believes is ``well on the way'' to becoming britain's finest, will tour 11 u.s. cities from march 29 to april 17
rattle has made his mark in the music world without joining the baton-wielding jet set or accepting a top job with a prestigious orchestra. in fact, he regularly turns down offers to appear as guest conductor
the 33-year-old native of liverpool, england, prefers to concentrate on his job as conductor of the birmingham orchestra and his work as principal guest of the los angeles philharmonic
the curly haired, bright-eyed rattle took over the birmingham orchestra in 1980, at age 25. he plans to stay a while, already making plans for the orchestra into the next century
before he went to birmingham, rattle was the no. 2 conductor with the royal liverpool philharmonic and the bbc scottish symphony and did a lot of guest conducting. ``in some ways,'' he says, ``i was following a more conventional career pattern than i seem to be now.''
rattle is not without his fans in the united states
in the words of critic andrew porter in the new yorker magazine, rattle is considered a first-rate conductor who ``inspires players and elates audiences.''
just before rattle conducted the los angeles philharmonic in his 1985 new york debut, critic nicholas kenyon wrote in the new york times: ``the biggest surprise about this debut by the most brilliantly successful conductor of the younger generation in britain _ the perception, power and clarity of whose work has been acclaimed internationally _ is not the age at which it is occurring but the fact that it did not happen long ago. mr. rattle has been invited to the metropolitan opera and he has been invited to the new york philharmonic. he has turned both down.''
during a recent stopover in new york, rattle was asked if an offer from a prestigious orchestra would lure him away from birmingham
i've been given enough offers that haven't,'' he answers, declining to elaborate. it is known that in 1984 he rejected an invitation from the los angeles philharmonic to become its music director
the work in birmingham is so satisfying,'' he says. ``and it is also unfinished. now we're planning a festival. starting in 1991, we'll do spring festivals, each year concentrating on the music of one decade of 20th century music
in 2000 we'll just about have caught up with ourselves. in 1999, when we're dealing with the music of the '90s, we will surely be playing music by people who now are schoolchildren.''
rattle said in 1985 that he thought the birmingham symphony could become the best in britain
i think they're well on the way,'' he says now
my wife tells me i always refer to the city of birmingham symphony orchestra as `us,' which is true,'' he says. ``we consider that we've been able to grow together. they play beautifully as a unit. there's a degree of listening to each other as an ensemble, like chamber music playing, that is unique in britain.''
though he has made a lot of music documentaries for television, surveying trends or about a particular composer's work, rattle says he isn't a tv ``natural'' like andre previn
andre created an extraordinary new audience in england for music. he can talk to the camera as though it was his best friend. it's something i admire enormously. i can't do that.''
rattle's father briefly led a jazz band. while he appreciates jazz, the younger rattle knew from the time he entered the royal academy of music at age 16 that he would conduct. he thought he'd have to be an instrumentalist _ he was a percussionist _ first, whose conducting career would only be beginning ``about now.''
conducting happened sooner because rattle won a conetst. ``i went in simply because if you got in the final 10, there was a chance to work with the bournemouth symphony,'' he says. ``i was 19 and i'd never conducted a professional orchestra
i still think i only won because it never occurred to me that i might win and i had no anxiety. the final piece i conducted was strauss' `don juan,' which takes 17 minutes. there were 20 minutes to rehearse it. at that age, it was probably just as well. i didn't have time to get up the noses of the musicians.''
studying conducting, rattle says, he learned that ``there's as much connection with what your baton does to the orchestra as to what a violinist's bow does to the strings. all motions a conductor makes affect the orchestra, even if you don't want them to
the reason a conductor begins to get halfway competent around 50 or 60 is that he probably has had as much time in front of an orchestra then as the average 20-year-old violinist has had playing his instrument
at a certain point, to be able to communicate what you know, you have to know your musicians. that's the reason i went down the road of working very hard with one orchestra.''
one of the reasons rattle limits his guest conducting is that he and his american wife, soprano elise ross, and 4-year-old son alexander, known as sasha, like to spend time together
i'm not one of those musicians who wants to live a life which is entirely the musician part,'' he says. ``i'd like to be able to explore the richness of life. there is enough else going on in the world to put music in perspective.'' photo.)</note>
when the time came for president lincoln's secretary of war to point out gen. robert e. lee's route into pennsylvania, he had to seek help from a private
we were filming a scene and we couldn't find the place on the map,'' says sam waterston, who portrays abraham lincoln in the nbc miniseries ``gore vidal's lincoln.'' ``the only person who knew the route was a private.''
the private was one of the civil war re-enactors who served as union and confederate soldiers for the four-hour adaptation of vidal's book about life inside the white house
`they were just an enormous resource in helping the rest of us, who were just pretending, to feel authentic,'' says waterston. ``i remember riding down a street and there were small groups of union soldiers along the way. they came to attention as i passed. they did it according to civil war drill
they were immensely supportive of the rest of us. they saved us more than once when we needed information, like with lee's route.''
lincoln,'' which will be televised on sunday and monday, also stars mary tyler moore as mary todd lincoln, john houseman as gen. winfield scott, richard mulligan as secretary of state william seward, john mcmartin as ohio sen. salmon p. chase, who hopes to become president, and deborah adair as chase's overly ambitious daughter, kate
in an ironic twist on history, the washington scenes were filmed in richmond, va., the capital of the confederacy. the confederate home for needy women, built as a replica of the original white house, was used as the executive mansion. petersburg, where lee put up his last defense before surrendering at appomattox, was also used for some washington scenes
the side benefit of that was that everyone had an enormous interest in the civil war,'' waterston says. ``one man came up to me and said, `if you were the man you're pretending to be i'd want to shoot you.' we got into quite a discussion.''
waterston says he had not seen any lincoln portrayals in a long time and had purposely avoided looking at any
henry fonda seems to me to be the closest to what i imagine he was really like,'' waterston says. fonda appeared in ``young mr. lincoln'' in 1939. ``but i didn't see anything. the danger is that you'll be influenced. in college a friend was doing `richard iii' and made the fatal mistake of seeing laurence olivier's film about five days before we opened. he couldn't put it out of his head.''
waterston says he read a lot of books on lincoln, including one by william safire, one-time speech writer for president richard m. nixon
if safire meddles with the facts, he tells you how,'' waterston says. ``if he's interpreting, he tells you the opposing views so you don't have to read 17 different books to get all the viewpoints.''
waterston says when he read vidal's book he thought it would make good television. ``it's the civil war as seen from the white house, which is different from the usual way of looking in from the outside. it shows how lincoln responded to the pressure of events. i think what's most extraordinary was that he was not perfectly attuned to every situation
but when the chips were down he was up to the occasion. that's what people have found remarkable about him _ how could a man of his background find the skills to manage a war on a scale that no one had ever imagined. his law partner once described him as a man who read less and thought more than anyone he had ever known.''
waterston also spent time trying to understand the man. ``edwin stanton called him `the illinois gorilla,''' he says. ``it certainly takes a breadth of mind to hire that same man as your secretary of war.''
waterston, who is somewhat lincolnesque in build and looks, says he has wanted to portray lincoln for a long time
there ought to be some reward for looking like this,'' he says. ``i thought he was a fascinating man. you can't help but be in awe of this combination of high principle and amazing public skills.''
it was waterston's third opportunity to work with mary tyler moore. previously, they were in ``finnegan begin again'' and ``just between friends.'' he says he found her portrayal of mrs. lincoln as a woman on the edge ``very bold and interesting.''
waterson is currently starring with robert prosky in the new york play ``a walk in the woods.'' playwright lee blessing based it on a real incident in which two arms negotiators, one american and one soviet, worked out a deal during a walk in the woods in geneva, switzerland
this is one of the rare tv appearances for waterston, who was nominated for an academy award for ``the killing fields,'' although he did star in a series six years ago, ``q.e.d.'' photo. colorfoto subscribers get 1 35mm slide.)</note>
carole shorenstein hays put her own money, some $850,000, where her convictions were and brought ``fences'' to broadway. tony awards, a pulitzer prize and a lucrative film sale were her reward
smart money was against the play, hays' first solo producing venture
listen kid, it ain't commercial,'' hays deadpans, mimicking the advice she got from seasoned theater professionals. they cautioned against bringing to new york the august wilson drama about the upheavals of a black family during the late 1950s
it was important for me to do `fences' because i believed in it,'' the producer said the other day, between coos to her infant son, wally, in a fifth avenue hotel suite. ``it was very important for me to send out the word to young emerging american playwrights that broadway is a place where their dreams could be fulfilled. you don't have to go to london or hollywood.''
besides ``fences,'' wally, born aug. 16, was hays' other big production last year
when hays, wearing a maternity evening gown, clambered to the stage of the mark hellinger theater last june to accept a tony as producer of the best play of the season, she exclaimed, ``i think i'm going to give birth right now.''
she didn't. little walter hays actually arrived some two months later, but, according to hays, ``he knows `fences' inside and out.''
the baby made his broadway stage debut _ at age 8 weeks _ in the show. wrapped in a blanket, he was carried on stage by james earl jones, who usually cradles a doll. wally had to be kept covered, though. he was playing a little black girl
i don't believe i did that,'' hays laughs. ``i'm a real stage mother.''
hays first saw ``fences'' in january 1986 at chicago's goodman theater, while it was making the circuit of various regional theaters. by intermission, she knew she wanted to produce the play
she met with director lloyd richards, who had first done the show at the yale repertory theater in connecticut, with author wilson and jones
it was all very simple,'' she recalls. ``i said, `i want to do this. it will be done. i have a theater in san francisco.'''
hays actually runs three theaters there _ the curran, the golden gate and the orpheum _ all owned by her family. her father is walter h. shorenstein, a california real estate mogul. three years ago, forbes magazine estimated the family fortune at some $300 million
hays always was stage-struck. theater-going was the big family activity. she remembers as a child putting on her party dress and white gloves and going to the theater
when her family got into theater real estate, hays got into the theater business
i started at the bottom of the top,'' she recalls, learning what it takes to put on a play. until ``fences,'' though, she had never produced a show on her own
i think the easiest thing is to find other investors,'' hays says. ``you can twist arms. i always sold the most camp fire girl cookies and girl scout cookies
that's the point of my being `fence's' sole investor. it was about doing it right and having that control. i think when you produce you must be a benevolent dictator. you must have the power to make a decision, to say `no' or `yes.'''
before new york, hays staged ``fences'' at one of her theaters in san francisco and the reviews were mixed. changes needed to be made, particularly in clarifying the play's final scene, and hays saw that they were
it was a tryout and we went through the process of trying different things,'' she recalls. ``ultimately, it worked, but it could have gone the other way.''
now the future of ``fences'' seems secure. the play, now starring billy dee williams, has started its second year at broadway's 46th street theater. its fortunes were boosted last april after the drama won the pulitzer prize, last june when it won four tony awards and then later in the year when paramount pictures paid some $500,000 for the film rights as a possible vehicle for the super hot eddie murphy
i never did the play strictly as a commercial venture,'' hays says. ``i'm a broadway baby. i believe in broadway as being the pinnacle of american theater
the first day of rehearsals for `fences' i said to everyone, `we do not know what's going to happen to this play, but we know that we will all do our very, very best,''' she recalls. ```and i want all of you to know that as a producer, you have my word that this show isn't going to open and close. no matter what. we're going to try and keep it running.'''
so far, hays hasn't had any trouble keeping her promise
the tangled, complicated and close relationship between the united states and israel is underscored by developments in the iran-contra affair and the iraqi oil pipeline deal, which converged in november 1985
by coincidence, that mont also saw a serious rift in u.s.-israeli relations when jonathan jay pollard, a counterterrorism expert at the naval investigative service was arrested as a spy for israel
an examination of what led up to the events of november 1985 provides insight into the relationship between israel and the united states and the interaction between officials from the two countries
two independent counsels, james mckay and lawrence walsh, are investigating the iraqi pipeline proposal and the iran-contra affair, respectively. they have begun to share information in a search for links between the cases
what is clear is that at least two of the same people dealt with both cases; private citizens used their friendships with government officials to make money, and international policy was affected by business interests
at the same time that israelis were shipping u.s.-made weapons to iran in an effort to free american hostages in lebanon, businessmen were enlisting friends at the highest levels of both governments to guarantee the safety of a proposed iraq oil pipeline from israeli bombing attacks
late in the year, the israelis gave white house aide oliver l. north free rein over $850,000 in excess profit from the iranian arms sales. most of that money went to the nicaraguan contras, according to a congressional report
here is a loose chronology:
on november 21, 1985, north worked frantically in his national security council office to sort out foul-ups in the plan to have israel ship 80 hawk missiles to iran as part of a deal to release six american hostages held by pro-iranian groups in lebanon
desperate for help, he called his boss, robert c. mcfarlane, then national security adviser, the state department and the cia
the israelis had flown the first batch of u.s.-made weapons to tehran in late august, leading to freedom for hostage benjamin weir in september. details for future shipments were ironed out by north and amiram nir, an aide to shimon peres, then israel's prime minister
handling operational details on the israeli side was adolph schwimmer, an arms dealer, founder of israel aircraft industries and one of peres' closest friends
president reagan had given his blessing to the project
on nov. 22, an iranian middleman transferred $24 million _ payment for 80 hawks _ into swiss bank accounts controlled by an israeli intermediary
north had ordered schwimmer to place $1 million in a lake resources account run by private businessmen working with north. the money was to cover transportation costs of flying the missiles from israel to iran
ultimately, only 18 of the 80 hawks were flown to tehran on nov. 24. shipments were halted because the iranians complained they had been cheated on the kind of missiles sent to them; no hostages were released
because only 18 hawks were delivered, more than $800,000 remained in bank accounts under north's supervision. that money was spent on the nicaraguan contras _ the first diversion of money to the rebels, and it appears to derive from israeli funds, a congressional report on the iran-contra affair says
north testified that in early 1986 he told the israelis that the money had been used `for the purpose of the contras' and they acquiesced,'' the report said. the israelis said north told them dec. 6, 1985, that he intended to use proceeds from the iran arms sales to help the contras
american investigators have been unable to question israeli officials face-to-face about the iran-contra case. yossi gal, a spokesman at the israeli embassy, did not return telephone calls asking about the diversion
the israelis gave the congressional iran-contra committees written chronologies, but no one was interviewed in person. walsh has not been able to question israelis, either
about the time the missiles were en route to iran, another project that involved israel and the united states came to a boil: the proposal by the bechtel group inc. and swiss businessman bruce rappaport to build a $1 billion, 540-mile pipeline to run from iraq's kirkuk oil fields to the jordanian port of aqaba. the route ran near the israeli border
rappaport, who has a relationship with peres that goes back 45 years, had hired as his attorney, e. robert wallach, a san franciscan with close ties to attorney general edwin meese
on sept. 19, 1985, four days after hostage weir was freed, peres wrote meese asking the attorney general to advise secretary of state george p. shultz about israel's interest in the pipeline
promoters of the project planned to pay israel to keep jerusalem from bombing the pipeline in the territory of its enemy, iraq
a week later, wallach wrote meese about rappaport's purported arrangement to pay israel _ and peres' labor party
the debt apparently involved israel's role in freeing weir, the memo said. rappaport ``indicates that peres emphatically indicated that the release of weir was a result of the state of israel, and no one else,'' wallach wrote
in his memo, wallach says ``there is a feeling that the u.s. `owes' and that the accomplishment of this project, as outlined in my memo, is appropriate.''
peres has denied he or his party received bribes; he has called the idea ``nonsense.'' the israeli government supported the project, however, he said
on oct. 7, meese recommended that peres discuss the pipeline with mcfarlane who is ``thoroughly familiar with the subject.'' mcfarlane had assigned nsc aide david wigg to quarterback u.s. involvement in the pipeline
when peres visited the united states oct. 16-oct. 12, he met with mcfarlene and wigg about the pipeline, according to sources quoted by the washington post
on nov. 20, peres sent mcfarlane a letter saying the israeli government was prepared to ``extend guarantees'' that the pipeline would not be touched
within weeks, a proposal surfaced which called for the pentagon to make secret payments to israel to prevent a pipeline bombing
mcfarlane's successor, john m. poindexter, eventually ended the nsc involvement in the pipeline at year's end. it was never built
meanwhile, the justice department continues to investigate the unrelated pollard case
michael ledeen, a former nsc consultant, said he thinks the pollard case may have encouraged red-faced israelis to keep pushing the iran initiative on the assumption it would lead to release of more american hostages in lebanon, thus pleasing the united states
an israeli source with access to top officials in his government says peres indicated that jerusalem thought it could earn forgiveness for the pollard affair if hostages were freed. the source spoke on condition he remain anonymous
peres publicly apologized to the united states on dec. 1, 1985
pollard pleaded guilty to charges he sold secret military documents to israel and was sentenced to life imprisonment. his wife, anne henderson-pollard, was sentenced to five years for being an accessory
israeli air force brig. gen. aviem sella was indicted, and three other israelis were named as co-conspirators in the espionage network operating inside the united states
hollywood's pursuit of the here-and-now has created a glossy, mostly superficial quality to the product coming out of the major studios. nowadays it's european filmmakers who indulge in remembrance of things past
two commendable examples are candidates for this year's academy award as best foreign language film: ``au revoir les enfants'' from france and ``the family'' from italy
louis malle, after working for a decade in the united states, returned to his homeland for the most personal film in his distinguished career, ``au revoir les enfants'' (``goodbye, children''). he wrote and directed the film from his own bitter memories as a schoolboy in occupied france during world war ii
the story begins with a tearful 12-year-old, julien quentin, leaving his mother in paris to attend a catholic boys school in fontainebleau. there he encounters the taunts of the older boys, the privations of wartime and the strict discipline of the priests. julien forms a grudging friendship with a bright, aloof fellow student, jean bonnet, whose background is a mystery
jean, it turns out, is a jew whose identity is hidden by the sympathetic priests. but jean is betrayed by someone inside the school, and both he, two other boys and the head priest are taken off to concentration camps
a brief synopsis cannot convey the rich texture malle contributes to the melancholy tale, nor the deep humanity. he is fortunate in his choice of two gifted young performers: gaspard manesse (julien) and raphael fejto (jean)
in ``the family,'' ettore scola traces the 80-year history of a roman family through the recollections of the central figure, carlo. the entire film takes place within the family's apartment, with views of the hallway signifying the change of eras
the turbulent events from 1906 to 1986 provide the backdrop for the family history. the central theme is carlo's divided affection between the sister he marries and the sister he really loves
scola is the master of such wide-sweeping stories, and his depiction of the temperament and humor of the italians is delightful. he chose three actors to depict carlo at different ages: young emmanuele lamaro, the rising star andrea occhipinto as carlo from 20 to 40, and vittorio gassman thereafter. all three are superb
au revoir les enfants,'' an orion classics release, is rated pg and runs 103 minutes. in french with english subtitles
the family'' is a vestron pictures release, rated pg, running time: 127 minutes. in italian with english subtitles
motion picture association of america rating definitions:
g _ general audiences. all ages admitted
pg _ parental guidance suggested. some material may not be suitable for children
pg-13 _ special parental guidance strongly suggested for children under 13. some material may be inappropriate for young children
r _ restricted. under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian
x _ no one under 17 admitted. some states may have higher age restrictions
sidney poitier was recently asked why he took a 10-year absence from film acting. in explaining why, in a roundabout way, he reminisced warmly about his boyhood on cat island in the bahamas:
i started work when i was seven. my father was a tomato farmer, and i was the youngest of the (family) group. it was not traditional to leave a child of seven, because a child of seven was able to work. there was no one to leave me with. so i went to the fields, for the practical value of contributing to the family by working
i remember we took our breakfast at home, and then we walked to the fields, which were three to four miles from the house. we would all walk because there was no form of transportation except for the donkey, which my mother would ride. it was a very important time when i would be allowed to ride the donkey for brief periods
we worked in the fields until the sun was mid-sky. about that time, my mother would quit work, build a wood fire, take utensils out of a bag, and she would cook for the family in the fields. we used leaves of plants for plates. interesting. we didn't know what we were doing, but they were biodegradable
my job was to find the leaves, which were usually what we call a sea grape in the bahamas. my mother would fashion them into a plate, very easily done. of course we didn't have knives and forks, so we would twist one of these leaves into a spoon. after lunch we worked until the light began to fade, then we would go back to the house, where my mother would have to prepare a fire and cook dinner.''
the poitier farm went bust when the united states banned tomato imports from the islands, and the family moved to nassau. a husky lad, sidney poitier at 12{ became a ditch digger and water boy for a construction project
and i've been working ever since,'' he declared
this, he admitted with a laugh, was a long way around to answering the question. but then, poitier has always been a man to choose his words with thoughtful care, never flinging pat answers to oft-asked questions
when he reached 50, he continued, he faced the situation of many people in mid-life:
you somehow develop through the years work habits. more than that, one becomes psychologically habituated to the process of work as the gauge for your life. we work and we take a certain amount of time off every year _ two weeks or three or four if we're fortunate. the rest of the time we're doing the nine-to-five. even if you have the awareness of other lifestyles, you don't have the wherewithal to investigate them
at 50 i decided to see what life was really like outside of the narrow corridor of work.''
what is it like?
it's wonderful,'' he said. ``it's a little scary, because most of the wonderful things have nothing to do with making a buck. the world is filled with wonderful things; a remarkable diversity exists in the world.''
poitier, who is now 61, fulfilled a long-held desire to study astronomy. he began work on a novel. he and his wife, joanna shimkus, and their two daughters (he has four grown daughters as well) traveled a great deal. he also looked into individuals and organizations who in a quiet sort of way _ poitier style _ try to improve the world around them
he stopped acting after ``a piece of the action'' in 1977, but not filmmaking. he directed ``stir crazy,'' ``hanky panky'' and ``fast forward.'' about 18 months ago, david puttnam, then head of columbia, sent poitier a script about an fbi man who enlists an 18-year-old to catch a pair of soviet spies _ the boy's own parents. the result: ``little nikita,'' starring poitier and river phoenix
then disney submitted ``shoot to kill,'' with poitier as an fbi agent chasing a killer through the wilds. the film was released before ``little nikita'' and has reasserted the star's box-office power
it may seem a curious coincidence that poitier would play fbi men in his two returning films, but he maintains it's not surprising
that seems to be a trend in motion pictures. many of our top actors, and i don't place myself among them, play law enforcement officers. (clint) eastwood. (sylvester) stallone. eddie murphy. (al) pacino. kevin costner. nick nolte. why?
i have a feeling that filmmaking is so much a business that we tend to search for formulas more than we are willing to admit. cops are almost always good guys, however one-dimensional they are drawn. criminals are the bad guys. so we don't have to deal with real issues. we can deal with surface entertainment and a lot of razzle-dazzle, action, dangerous activity and gunplay.''
joseph beuys, west germany's answer to the late pop artist andy warhol, once said the berlin wall should be raised 10 centimeters for aesthetic reasons. the comment did little to endear him to his countrymen
for most of his career, beuys was better known in the united states than at home. but now, two years after his death, germans have suddenly become fans of the avant-garde artist
prices for his works are skyrocketing. critics are singing his praises. and record numbers of visitors are flocking to see the first-ever major exhibition of his sketches and sculptures in west germany at one of the nation's leading museums
in east berlin, a smaller exhibit of beuys' early drawings also is attracting crowds to the communist capital
the overhaul of beuys' reputation has been speedy. less than a year ago, cleaners at the duesseldorf art academy accidentally threw out a beuys sculpture made of wood, butter and animal fat. the cleaners thought the creation was, literally, garbage
i often wonder what beuys himself would think of all this,'' said a bemused heiner bastian, who served as the artist's assistant for 12 years. ``he was used to criticizing society, but not to being toasted by it.''
beuys specialized in sculptures made out of everyday items or cast-off objects: empty boxes and tin cans, scraps of wood, stones, shoes, blackboards or pieces of furniture. felt and fat were his favorite materials
in one creation, a single egg sits atop a wooden bench. in another, a pair of battered boots dangles on a string above two empty crates
a 1977 sculpture entitled ``in memory of my youth in the mountains'' consists of three large, white boulders inscribed with the same words of the title
beuys believed art had to be puzzling to be good, and there is no denying that he is puzzling,'' said bastian, who organized the 120-piece exhibition in west berlin's martin-gropius-bau museum
the 10-week show, which opened feb. 20, drew an unexpected 9,000 visitors in its first five days, an unofficial record for an exhibit in west germany
with his jaunty and battered felt hat, vest and rumpled trenchcoat, beuys never looked like he fit in among the prosperous and serious west germans
his sense of humor was also atypically german. he was fired from his job as administrator at the duesseldorf art academy in 1972, after announcing he would hire only applicants who had failed a formal art program
he was dismissed by an angry johannes rau, then the economics minister for the state of north rhine-westphalia, beuys' birthplace and lifelong home
but rau and other politicians have since changed their tune
now the north rhine-westphalian governor, rau traveled to east berlin last month to open the city's first beuys exhibition and lavish praise on his former employee
meanwhile, volker hassemer, west berlin's culture chief, claimed beuys for berliners
it is only fitting that the best-known contemporary german artist be shown first in berlin,'' hassemer told reporters at the bueys exhibit's gala opening
bastian is at a loss to explain the boost in bueys' popularity, and says it caught him by surprise
throughout the history of art, there have been artists who have become popular only after their deaths,'' he said. ``that has been particularly true for modern art. no one can say why this is so.''
in a recent issue of der spiegel, west germany's largest news weekly, the entire letters column was devoted to beuys. opinion was running decidedly against the artist
you recently ran pictures of beuys works,'' wrote immo kayser-eichberg, a lawyer from the town of meerbusch. ``you do not seriously consider these things works of art, do you?''
visitors to the west berlin beuys exhibition were more tactful
no i do not understand it,'' said ulrike nagel, gazing at a beuys object that appeared to be little more than several empty blackboards scattered on the floor. ``but that does not mean i do not automatically dislike it.''
jan hammer had one thing in common with the cocaine dealers on ``miami vice'': he was fleeing sonny crockett and rico tubbs. unlike those villains, the man behind the ``vice'' music got away
after three years of scoring the show, hammer has stepped down from handling the weekly music chores for ``miami vice.'' and he's released a new album, aptly titled ``escape from television.''
it was very autobiographical when the name was coined,'' hammer said recently in an interview at his manager's manhattan office. ``we went through many different titles, and then i came up with `escape from television,' because i was definitely leaving the show.''
the decision to leave, hammer said, was not too difficult to make
there's other things i want to do _ like living without this sword hanging over your head,'' said hammer, 39, who scored the first 69 ``vice'' episodes, delivering a half-hour of music for each show. ``every week there's a new deadline. ... it's not healthy living.''
it also forced hammer, who came to the united states from his native czechoslovakia in 1968, to pass on several projects. for example, hammer said it pained him to turn down the chance to score ``lethal weapon,'' the mel gibson-danny glover movie
i really like mel gibson. that would have been fun,'' hammer said with regret
but he has few regrets about ``miami vice,'' which created such opportunities and produced hammer's lone no. 1 single with the tv show's theme song. now, hammer says, he's ready to return to his solo career and continue his collaborative efforts with guitar virtuoso jeff beck
i have some sketches for songs, so we're going to get together and see what they sound like. just write and record, just the two of us, and see what happens,'' said hammer, who works in a studio on his upstate new york estate. ``jeff is like second nature to me.''
hammer's initial collaborations with beck followed the 1973 break-up of his acclaimed fusion band, mahavishnu orchestra, which featured guitarist jon mclaughlin. these days, hammer said, the idea of a band doesn't appeal to him any more
those days are over for me. ... all through the '70s, i always had a band. i kept people on salaries year-round,'' said hammer, who toured about eight months a year back then. ``can you imagine the drain? the overhead? i don't feel the need for that, and it just doesn't make sense.''
there are a few other things hammer finds do not make sense: american radio and music videos
it's a machinery, and it force-feeds people,'' he said of radio. ``through the whole top 40 format, it just force-feeds: `you're now going to dig these 40 songs, and only these 40 songs. you're not going to hear anything else
it's just this chunk of 40 songs being jammed down people's throats. ... these things are prechewed, you know?''
as for videos, hammer said, ``to tell you the truth, i'm sick and tired of them. i still like music-music, as opposed to music-pictures. i think that's what i object to _ that everybody has a video, and it's always the same.''
and what does he mean by always the same?
a run-of-the-mill boys playing guitars on the rooftops, boys playing guitars in the desert, and boys playing guitars underground,'' hammer explained. ``and the funniest thing is these really ugly guys have these gorgeous women just climbing over them
they wouldn't do it unless they were paid a lot of money. it's just so unreal.''
after getting together with beck, hammer plans to make his first live appearances in the united states since a 1983 benefit tour. he hopes to release another solo album, score some films and doesn't rule out a return to television work. he'd also be content just hanging around the house playing the piano
i really don't have any mountains to climb. i've been so lucky in my life _ it's staggering,'' said hammer. ``i don't want to analyze it, because i might disturb something. i've been able to be successful, and to do what i love. it's great.'' fiction</head>
pierre salinger has worn so many hats in his lively career that it's not surprising he's helped create a fictional hero with an identity crisis
investigative reporter andre kohl returns to his supersnooping in ``mortal games'' (doubleday, $17.95), the second espionage novel written by salinger and leonard gross
the two authors first introduced the character a few years back in ``the dossier,'' in which the star news correspondent prevented a world war ii nazi collaborator from coming to power in france. in ``mortal games,'' kohl is forced to stage his own death and resume another identity as he ferrets out a rogue cia network that has inked up with similar rebel operations within the kgb and elsewhere
salinger, who has been a reporter for the san francisco chronicle, press secretary to president john f. kennedy, u.s. senator, and chief foreign correspondent for abc news, said in a recent interview that writing fiction serves an important function for him
fiction appeals to me because i can say all kinds of things that i can't say in non-fiction. i can deal with stories that interest me, have my charact's coming.''
she said the message is ``be careful about pointing the finger. you've got three more pointing at yourself.''

one mind'' (global pacific records) _ joaquin lievano

joaquin lievano gives special thanks to zen master rama on the back of ``one mind,'' his new record. if you buy this record, you may wish to enlist mr. rama's assistance in learning the patience you'll need to get through it
one mind'' is simple-minded. it starts at the beginning and never wanders far beyond, winding back and forth upon itself with no apparent direction
lievano plays a variety of instruments, including guitars, synthesizers and drums. he is assisted by steve smith on drums, steve kindler on violin and issac epps on hand percussion. the musicianship is proficient and the production is excellent. the players turn in a nice riff here or a soft phrase there and, if you like this sort of technical mastery of the soul, the record delivers. for this reviewer, though, the overall effect was less than zero
this record has its roots in the 1970s. it is derivative of chick corea's ``return to forever'' and kindler's playing sounds suspiciously like that of jean luc ponty, who rocketed out of france in the '70s on a bow and an electric violin and has been laying down the same tracks ever since
with apologies to mr. rama, an ancient greek philospher once said, ``you can't step in the same river twice.'' but joaquin lievano is sure trying
_ by james reindl, associated press writer

if my heart had windows'' (mca) _ patty loveless

patty loveless' new album consists of 10 songs, and the writing credit is different on each. but loveless' singing and the production of emory gordy jr. and tony brown make the album into a cohesive set that's as country as grits
if my heart had windows'' includes a honky-tonk waltz (the title cut, by dallas frazier); country swing (hank williams' ``i can't get you off of my mind''); and plenty of ballads. loveless' full-throated alto really hits its stride on side 2, climaxing on john and johanna hall's ``fly away,'' which lives up to its name with a soaring chorus reminiscent of the halls' defunct pop group, orleans
the arrangements, built around the solid rhythm section of leland sklar and eddie bayers, include such nice touches as a steel and fiddle playing in unison on the break of ``i can't get you off of my mind.'' the material occasionally sags, but most of the album contains strong and honest performances
by steven wine, associated press writer.  03-14 0858</first> moved feb. 22</head> painting, ``warm colors ... personal preferences.'' ^by andy lang</byline>
you've heard it before and you'll hear it again: the success of your paint job will depend on how much time and effort you put into the preparation
it's nice to see the paint transform your lackluster walls and ceilings into gleaming brightness or unblemished freshness, but the pleasure will disappear quickly if you haven't prepared the surfaces properly
proper preparation means freeing the interior of loose dirt, peeling paint, oil and grease. it also means spackling all cracks and holes with spackling compound or patching plaster. the patches should be primed before the final coat of paint goes on, but read the label on the paint can to determine the manner of treatment
some professionals and many do-it-yourselfers apply a primer even when no patching has been done
it is especially important that any gloss be removed from the surfaces, since new paint does not adhere well to slick or shiny walls and ceilings. the gloss can be steel-wooled, sanded or given a coat of a special liquid that dulls the shine. unlike a few years ago, oil and latex paints can be used fairly well over each other, but a primer will insure an excellent result. the assumption is that you will be using a good paint, since it is poor economy to choose a low-quality paint when it is your own ``elbow grease'' that is being utilized. latex paints have little or no odor and make it easier to clean up after the job is completed
follow the rule-of-thumb that a high gloss paint usually is more washable, resists moisture and wears well, which is why it is preferred in kitchens and bathrooms. flat paints are the choice in most living rooms and bedrooms, being easier on the eyes. a semi-gloss paint is what the name implies, about halfway between the gloss and flat
the ideal way to prepare a room for painting is to remove everything from it, but this may be impractical. at least take out the lighter objects, moving the heavier pieces to the center of the room and covering them with a dropcloth or whatever is handy
all electrical switch plates, doorknobs, etc., can be taken off, but be extra careful about exposing any electric wires. ceiling fixtures can be dropped slightly to make the painting easier
in a casual room, you might want to try unusual effects. there are special rollers to give you offbeat results. you can do the same thing by dragging or swirling brushes, whisk brooms, sponges and rags across the paint while it is still wet, keeping in mind that easy does it if you want to avoid a mess. to find out what kind of results these gimmicky styles of painting will produce, try practicing on something like a piece of scrap wallboard
when you have estimated the amount of paint you will need, it's a good idea to buy an extra amount. for one thing, you always find something more you want to paint to blend in with the room. it may be only a bookcase or two, but if you have it on hand, it can be used at some later time for a touch-up job
buying the same kind of paint at a future time does not always assure that the shade will be identical with the original
some people just don't order enough the first time because they don't want to pay for unused paint. but many paint dealers will take back an unopened can if too much time hasn't elapsed. should you think that might be a problem, ask the dealer about the possibility
you may want to get on with the painting and not worry about whether you are trying to make a room seem larger or smaller, but if the latter concerns you, the proper color is the answer. want to make something in a room ``disappear''? paint it the same color as the room itself. want to make it stand out? paint it a contrasting color
if a room is long and narrow and you want it to seem a bit shorter, using white paint on two of the walls and a soft warm color on the two end walls will do the trick. when a side wall is painted white or a cool color, the room will appear to be wider. in the same way, a hallway that is too narrow can be made to seem wider if a side wall is painted white or cool
warm colors _ red, yellow, red-orange, yellow-orange and variations of red _ make a room warm. cool colors _ blue, green and their many shades _ make it cool. thus, theoretically, rooms which get very little sunlight are best painted warm colors, those with lots of sunlight cool colors. in actuality, other factors, including the shapes of the rooms and their decorative features, usually affect the choice of colors, not to mention personal preferences.   03-14 0201</first>
the ``fashion'' special edition contains these stories:
b1072 bc-spe--fashion: spring look (laserphotos ny704, ny707)
b1073 bc-spe--fashion: french couture (laserphotos ny700, ny702)
b1074 bc-spe--fashion: beene-estrada (laserphoto ny705)
b1075 bc-spe--fashion: karan (laserphoto ny706)
b1076 bc-spe--fashion: italian mini mania (laserphotos ny713, ny714)
b1077 bc-spe--fashion: shoes
b1078 bc-spe--fashion: swimsuits (laserphotos ny703, ny708)
b1079 bc-spe--fashion: brooks brothers
b1080 bc-spe--fashion: alcott-andrews (laserphoto ny701)
b1081 bc-spe--fashion: tuxedo
b1082 bc-spe--fashion: lurie
b1083 bc-spe--fashion: suspenders (laserphoto ny710)
b1084 bc-spe--fashion: paper
b1085 bc-spe--fashion: easy on
b1086 bc-spe--fashion: religious
b1087 bc-spe--fashion: men's magazines (laserphoto ny711)
b1088 bc-spe--fashion: men's suits (laserphoto ny712)
b1089 bc-spe--fashion: hairstyle
b1090 bc-spe--fashion: accessories
b1091 bc-spe--fashion: mini survey
b1092 bc-spe--fashion: men's wardrobe (laserphoto ny709)
spring fashions will be sealed with a kiss from the '60s _ but bows and bubbles will replace love beads this time around
the mood is flirty and fun _ romantic and dramatic
and body-conscious
short skirts were the most obvious blast from the past as designers revealed their upcoming lines. the tent dress _ mini, of course _ was revived by adrienne vittadini. some models piled plastic bangle bracelets up their arms
and there was plenty of flower power: frequent floral prints; skirts curved and layered like upside-down tulips; fabric flowers _ attached as a simple corsage or, ala betsey johnson and bill blass, stuck all over the dress
but the stark options of the '60s also have been tempered with plenty of old-style chiffon and elegant silk, along with buoyant skirts, frothy sleeves, pretty sundresses and even a few bustles
fanciful, pumpkin-shaped bubble skirts appeared frequently, along with a less-radical version that's been dubbed a ``collapsed bubble.'' bob mackie took bubbles one step beyond, turning them into bustles, ruffles and stand-up collars
lace, sequins and gleaming, intricate beadwork also made for after-dark glamour
day or night, black and white still prevailed, along with bold teal, fuchsia and goldenrod yellow. polka dots, ruffles, big buttons and bows cropped up often _ the latter in every conceivable location. waists were nipped and accented with wide belts or sashes
shoulders were bared in strapless, bustier sundresses and off-the-shoulder jackets and dresses
when it came to gams, cathy hardwick's collection was the leggiest of the lot. one strapless, green and yellow cotton dress by mary jane marcasiano was too snug and short for anything but mincing steps. ronaldus shamask also had some shockingly short selections
ellen tracy's silk, knee-skimming tulip-shaped skirts were soft and feminine. even a few offerings from traditionalist laura ashley crept slightly above the knee
to hem or not to hem? the undecided could opt for bob mackie's tight, beaded black dress, featuring a diagonal hem slashed from knee to thigh. or try the cookie-cutter hemlines, many to mid-calf, that spiced the new made-in-america collection by soviet couturier viyacheslav zaitsev
the other alternative _ trousers _ was the opposite of body-conscious: perry ellis' loose, ankle-skimming pants; donna karan's navy pajama pants, teamed with slinky, wrapped tops; mary mcfadden's flowing palazzo pants, with ridges of delicate mushroom pleats tumbling from waist to hem; ronaldus shamask's high-waisted pants, shorts or culottes with sashes
only bike pants, like those offered by adrienne vittadini, were slim, and they often were topped with long dusters or tunics
geoffrey beene favored the jumpsuit, heralding his black, crepe version with a halter neck and a swimsuit back as ``the new ballgown.''
shorts had fashion flair, too: like williwear's cuffed, knee-grazing walking shorts teamed with a double-breasted blazer or a smartly cropped jacket; vittadini's mint-green, cuffed shorts with a bra-top and unstructured jacket
the shorts also were part of a new, below-the-waist, layered look
ashley's two-piece halter dress in a splashy print featured a wrap-around skirt that unraveled to reveal matching shorts. carolina herrera's billowing, black and white, silk organza skirts were cut away in front to reveal beaded camisoles and shorts
some designers also layered dresses and skirts with petticoats, or a second skirt, peeking out from beneath
williwear's eye-catching egyptian print skirt opened to show a solid-colored, cotton-eyelet skirt. johnson's stretchy tube-dress in black and white gingham was prettied up with a buoyant, knee-length skirt and can-can slip. beene's short, sweet, baby-doll circle skirts were fluffed out with petticoats
and just about every designer braved one ensemble that combined unlikely fabrics or prints. mary ann restivo and ralph lauren, for instance, showed floaty, chiffon skirts with tailored jackets
suits are back in force for spring _ especially as haute couture sees the picture. they look everything from wildly extroverted to wearable for business and travel
and the crowning glory of all the couture pizazz is _ what else? _ hats. the designers let their fantasy run mad, from the sublime to the silly
for couture _ which is not for average shoppers, but serves mainly as a strong prototype for what might be found on the racks _ here are ideas to look for:
suits are nearly always waist-hugging and short, with jackets short or long to choose from, and shoulders still shaped, but more played-down than in the past
saint laurent's suits hit both day and dressy notes. his sharply-tailored long jackets with double-breasted or belted safari effects are worn with knotted chiffon scarves at the neck for softening the seriousness of the suit
large boater-style hats give his suits a cachet of total chic
his dressier suit is plastered with a sequined cubistic design, elegance and height added by a wrapped fez hat in a different color, such as purple to contrast with a turquoise satin skirt
dior suits are peppier than ever, but still in the daywear category. they're charmingly bouncy with stiffened, full skirts, very small waists and the crowning touch of tiny perched boater hats
lagerfeld at chanel has brought back some great chanel ideas in suits that are just above the knee _ terrific white tweeds bordered in bicolored ribbon piping. the topper? for this spring's touch, it's a large banded straw hat overturned like a salad bowl
his slinky long suits are harbingers of next winter; he says they're definitely coming back. this is glorious news for those who want to hide their knees. they look authoritative in checked and solid ensembles with long tulip-wrapped jackets, and the salad-bowl hat becomes bigger than ever
budding out into springtime dressy looks, nini ricci showed loads of suits with layers of ruffles on skirts, dressy jackets fitted with a little padding on the shoulders, big stand-out peplum effects on long jackets
polka dots in these flirtatious clothes are often matched with a big dotted sunhat
jean-louis scherrer's silk suits come right out of the hothouse for spring, with flowers all over them _ maybe teaming black and white with bright flower prints in skirts, lapels and cuffs in ultra-fitted suits. and of course, the big-brimmed garden-party hat nearly eclipses the shoulders with flowers
more about hats: solidly sane or simply crazy, they add a fillip to any outfit, and lots of fun to the fashion party. sailor hats are a favorite at louis feraud. maryll lanvin opts for little flower baskets to top her fussily feminine short outfits in a collection based on her ``secret garden.''
with flowers in patterns, appliques and even sleeve shapes in these collections, naturally flowered hats are de rigueur
pierre cardin practically made a whole outfit with his gigantic yellow wildflower chapeau covering the model's face, if not her body _ which was clad in a slinging black mini
kal lagerfeld added an original touch to his chanel collection with the dashing multi-layered straw hat fluted in waves like a seashell, but shaped more like a flounced stand-out skirt
marc bohan at dior branched out into tongue-in-cheek fantasy by pairing a feathery fright wig with all the allure of a jungle ``hottentot'' to go with a draped zebra-striped dress
and in the devil-may-care vein, wonder boy christian lacroix matched zany hats to some of his fanciful outfits. for a circus look, he topped a puffy-skirted short dress with a towering tube slightly curved for laughs. in a sunny beach-inspired mood, he shaped a straw hat like a whorled sea-snail
with these showy or relatively safe toppers, there are plenty of choices to try on and take home from the hat bar
but make sure you get the quick lift you'd get at a cocktail bar _ rather than a hangover. ^laserphoto ny705</head>
geoffrey beene believes the jumpsuit could become the unisex look of the future. but his svelte, black version for spring harkens feminine magic
rising star angel estrada has mixed up some magic of his own in elegantly draped silk dresses
beene describes his slinky, black, crepe jumpsuit, with a halter front and a swimsuit back, as ``the new ballgown.'' he tops it with a sharp, cropped jacket in coral, yellow or white
another enchanting, black jumpsuit is studded with pink moons and stars. the heavenly motif appears again at the waist and neckline of a long, slightly clingy, black gown
throughout his collection, necklines are slashed into striking geometric shapes, including stars. ``fashion is both magic and magical,'' observes beene. ``it's a snow white kind of magic.''
the designer also favored polka dots, especially in baby-doll dressing dominated by short, sweet circle skirts and petticoats
one version, with an empire waistline, was strapless and sugary in white-and-black dots with curvy piping around the hemline. a strapless, black, bustier dress was zippered in front and back, with a black, full, baby-doll skirt in black-and-white dots. many skirts landed about four inches above the knees
beautiful, billowy coats were another of beene's crowning glories. a black, street-length, phantom of the opera coat swirled like a cape. white, scalloped lace circled its stand-up collar
swishy, suave, calf-length raincoats were fashioned in green or gray. a short, effervescent, ultrasuede coat in fuchsia or coral sprouted an uneven hemline. a yellow cotton sheath with a square neck and zip front is splashed with black jonquils; the matching coat had a capelike back
estrada's silk designs, in crepes, taffeta and chiffon, are based on the trim, timeless, princess silhouette. his draping provides la difference
a mint green mini-dress has a foamy cowl that floats down over the shoulders. a gold micro-mini, not for the faint-hearted, resembles a swimsuit, with draping over the bustline and a bustle effect in the back. a short, red, bustier dress looks almost like a jumper over a see-through blouse with balloon sleeves
when the renaissance mood strikes, m'lady would be fetching in a pink, strapless, ankle-length gown, slightly flared at the bottom, with spaghetti straps and plunging back. the long-sleeved bolero-style jacket rises to the midriff. the ensemble is completed with a medieval hat topped with two tall, pink horns and yards of veil
hand-crocheted knits and the most feminine of stretchy laces are some of the richly textured fabrics donna karan uses to create her draped and sculpted clothing for spring. the collection is unquestionably one of the most beautiful of the season
the delicate, airy weave of her fabrics _ inspired, ms. karan says, by her collection of lacey antique straw hats _ makes her clothing soft and feminine without artificial-looking frills, poufs or trim
i want women to feel beautiful in a most luxurious and sophisticated way,'' she says
ms. karan doesn't design mix-and-match sportswear. a jacket is carefully sculpted to be worn with a certain skirt and camisole to capture the fluid line of a one-piece dress
long ``scarf jackets'' in navy and cream stretch wool crepe, elegantly draped to one side and gathered there with a satin bow, were worn with soft, fluid bermuda shorts and short skirts. sometimes there was a hint of a lace decollete, twisted v-neck bodysuit or little camisole
body-revealing wrapped tops also are a favorite of ms. karan's, and she matched them with flowing navy pajama pants worn with elegant high-heel pumps
ms. karan, whose designs concentrate on fabric and shape, used understated solid colors _ navy, cream, taupe and mulberry for daytime, with red replacing mulberry for evening. gold jewelry and buttons, with the dull shine of family heirlooms, provided a touch of brightness
her collection easily made the transition from daytime to eveningwear, since the basic shapes of her clothing vary little. but, for evening, her fabrics attained a lustrous quality _ most apparent in her clingy lace sweaters with plunging necklines, worn over soft skirts or tucked in and cinched at the waist with satin bands
dramatic elegance describes an off-the-shoulder, scoop-neck jacket in stretchy scarlet silk, held in place at the waist by a ribbon rose and then cut away to show a hand-crocheted skirt
the ``scarf jacket,'' with its softly draped fabric at the side, reappeared as a stunning long evening gown in navy
although the bite of winter is still nipping at the heels, shops are already preparing for what promises to be one of the shortest summers in fashion history
the spring-summer of 1988 in fact marks the return of the miniskirt with hemlines so short they make mary quant's version look dowdy
champions of the new micro-mini are the italian ready-to-wear designers who propose a variety of styles from ruffled to pleated to draped and puffed. fabrics range from sexy leather to demure cotton and sensuous silk, but the hemline always hovers closer to the thigh than the knee
for those with scant pocketbooks, the best investment for the summer 1988 italian style is a pair of good scissors to lop off last year's hemlines. however, the fortunate few with a fat bank account _ and a skinny figure _ have an infinite variety of minis to chose from
giorgio armani, the ``numero uno'' in the classic tailoring of the famed made-in-italy label, prefers to keep his summer hemlines a discreet several inches above the knee in supersoft draped skirts and culottes. gianfranco ferre, on the other hand, strays from his traditional line to offer the tightest shortest skirt of the season _ a black patent leather number which barely covers the buttocks
gianni versace, who previewed the return of the mini with a daring winter skirt dubbed the ``postage stamp'' for its minute proportions, offers a minidress with wide-hooped skirt and tight-fitting bodice reminiscent of an inverted champagne glass, while krizia proposes gaily polka-dotted evening minidresses
along with the miniskirt, the italian designers dreamed up a myriad of sugary sweet party dresses, in pretty floral chintz and ruffled lace, matched with wide-brimmed straw hats complete with floral corsage and demure white gloves _ for the delight of the young, or at least the young at heart
the great risk, in fact, of the new italian ``moda bambina'' is that it fall into the hands or onto the bodies of the over-aged and over-sized
byblos is the best place to find this romantic youthful look, with its jeans dresses decorated with lace frills, and its many floral printed mini party dresses with hooped skirt
another label that favors the party dress is fendi, designed by extravagant karl lagerfeld. his petticoated floral printed minidress with oversized puffed sleeves and matching wide-brimmed hat is so young looking it would be a hit at a birthday party for 3-year-olds
armani also picked up on the party theme in his evening wear, designing gaily printed and ruffled floor length evening gowns, with enticing bodice, and puffed petticoated skirt, reminiscent of a fairytale milkmaid
fortunately, the italian designers never forget that they started out a decade ago as the inventors of the tailored classical look, and therefore along with the minis and the party dresses they offer plenty of elegant outfits for summer office and city life _ laura biagiotti's pastel colored linen safari suit, and navy and white striped cashmere pullover; basile's ankle-length rose printed shirt waist cinched at the waist by a wide brown belt, and jenny's feminine plaid blazer and cropped black and white floral printed jacket
on the whole, jackets were man-tailored and long, sometimes covering the scanty attire below
the place to look for an overall fashionable spring-summer of 1988 is armani who, while taking inspiration from the new trends, did not sacrifice elegance and wearability for creativity
the new armani look is based on a very simple daytime silhouette: a classic polo shirt or the newer fencing blouse, a pair of loose trousers or a gently draped skirt or culotte only several inches above the knee, and either a man-tailored double breasted blazer, or a v-necked jacket, all in super soft fabrics and delicate pastel shades
summer colors come right out of a box of watercolors: peach apricot and rose, acqua blue and green, cream and beige. bright fruit shades such as grape, cherry and raspberry, or lemon, orange and lime are cheerful alternatives
high heels are back again, to put even more distance between the hemline and the floor, but there are also plenty of comfortable flat daytime sandals
italian designer clothes were never cheap, but rising costs in italy and the falling dollar have made prices soar almost as much as hemlines. an armani outfit made up of jacket, shirt and trousers or skirt rings up to the shocking figure of over $2,5oo, but compared to $600 for a ferre mini only 10 inches long, it is positively a bargain
turning one pair of women's shoes into a fashionable four is not necessarily a magician's trick, according to footwear fashion consultants. it can be done by any woman with a few handmade, european-inspired accessories
the accessories can give a simple pair of pumps at least four different looks, according to suzan kressel, director of accessory marketing for riviera, a new york-based company
the accessories, called ``shoetooz,'' use fabrics ranging from rich satins and faille to bright tulle and fine leathers. italian plastics also are used as well as metals such as antique gold and silver
styles include a wide variety of shapes and sizes, including bows, rosettes, buttons, tassels and geometric patterns, with prices ranging from $10 to $35, says ms. kressel
the classic, leg-slimming pump also has been given a new look by hush puppies, a footwear manufacturer specializing in comfortable shoes
according to john stevenson, company president, although flat shoes have dominated the fashion scene in the past few seasons, the pump traditionally has been the cornerstone of a woman's wardrobe, due to its versatility, working equally as well with casual, dressy or business clothes
now the classic pump has been updated,'' stevenson says. ``we've added some new interest, such as snake skinned patterns, sling-backs, and gold tips. the spectator pump _ with contrasting blue and white or black and white _ will also be a bold look for spring.''
to showcase the classic pump, he adds, the white, pale, or nude leg is making a comeback, stimulated by the new romantic and feminine movement in clothing
sun-worshiping women from california to cape cod this summer will wear a blend of stripes, animal patterns and floral designs that celebrate an active lifestyle and physical zest, swimwear industry experts say
women want suits that ``portray an image of physical fitness, whimsical sensuality, fashion awareness and success,'' said jill lee williams, who designs for los angeles-based jag swimwear
our body styling, color and print attitudes are very fashion forward, on top and unafraid,'' ms. williams added
in other words, the suits are being designed for young women who value success and who cultivate the body beautiful
other lines being offered this year are similarly bold and revealing, including those made by catalina, deweese and gottex of israel, all of which have west coast manufacturing facilities
in coming weeks, cash registers will be ringing from purchases of yardage with texture that feature ribs, puff prints, lycra, silk, cotton and rubber
all are intended to make a day at the beach a visual as well as a physical exercise
the anne cole collection offers a neoprene wet suit that is a provocative bikini with a hint of scuba diving adventure to it. the cost: $75
jantzen also features a zippered vest suit dubbed the ``sea hunt,'' which diver mike nelson would doubtless appreciate
in designing jag swimwear, the creative ideas come from my own active lifetyle, sporting events, international attitudes, trends and travel,'' ms. williams said
still, even those who achieve less than the image of perfection portrayed by the swimsuit models will likely be able to find a suit that works for them. such outfits are called ``solution suits.'' prints can camouflage figure faults more than solids. a sheath or skirted suit can hide heavy hips. a maillot made with a girdle in the tummy area offers another solution
women who buy the deweese, jag and catalina products will find retail prices starting around $25 and topping about $60. gottex of israel, an international manufacturer, prices a bit higher with many offerings in the $80 range
swimwear, however, isn't limited to the beach anymore. gottex also makes accessories that render swimwear acceptable for evening wear and social events, said spokeswoman vicki abrams
the gottex offerings feature maillots, bikinis and thongs, along with swimming minis that can be worn to town and flounced skirts and stretch dresses ``for dancing 'til dawn.''
some of the influence of last year's popular choices can be seen in animal and floral prints, which remain popular
metallic fabrics are out at catalina, according to june wylie of the los angeles-based swimwear manufacturer
they have been replaced with a subtle hint of foil _ just enough to catch the eye and hold it.''
stripes are also back on the fashion menu, she said
stripes, stripes, stripes,'' she said. ``vertical, diagonal, horizontal or interjected with more stripes are the active ingredients of some of the newest patterns,'' said wylie
catalina is offering suits in colors that feature rich earthen tones of sienna, taupe or charcoal, gentle pastels of mint, coral, pink lilac and ice blue. fruit colors are also on the fashion plate, such as cherry, grape, raspberry or apple green, she said
gottex colors include red, jade, yellow, turquoise, pink, bronze, denim and champagne. gottex textures involve weaving techniques that feature puckered, crinkled, seersuckers and metallics
at deweese, the company describes its as ``young in spirit, yet well-bred in its silhouettes and level of sophistication.''
nothing is more permanent in fashion than good taste,'' said designer lorraine roese in a statement of her philosophy
in 35 years at brooks brothers, the men's clothing store founded by his great-great grandfather, ashbel wall saw the shirt breast pocket come and the back collar button go
he survived the store's first sale, its first women's department and the demise of the pull-over dress shirt. he was there the day suits _ stacked on tables for more than a century _ finally were hung from racks
but wall, the last member of the brooks family to work there, says nothing changed faster than the number of stores
by 1975, the year he retired, there were 16. ``i didn't see how we could keep expanding and keep our image,'' he said in a recent interview. ``we had begun to run out of sophisticated cities.''
today, brooks brothers has 48 stores around the country, many of them in shopping malls. they've popped up in cities from tulsa, okla., to birmingham, ala. there are 14 stores, named burukusu buradasu, in japan
brooks brothers' main store still is on new york's madison avenue and its mainstays still are the button-down cotton shirt and the three-buttoned, natural-shouldered suit coat. but the rapidly growing chain ``isn't the store i knew,'' says wall, 72
the store that became brooks brothers was founded by henry sands brooks in 1818 near lower manhattan's port district. in 1850 the store, which specialized in ready-made clothing, was renamed brooks brothers by the founder's five sons
it sold ulysses grant his uniforms, franklin roosevelt his capes and fred astaire his pajamas. when abraham lincoln was assassinated, he was wearing a brooks suit
brooks brothers' button-down shirt resulted when company president john brooks, visiting england early in the century, noticed that polo players held down their collar points with buttons to keep them from flapping
it was the first of several american introductions: the shetland sweater (1904); the polo coat (1910); the lightweight cotton suit (1930); the dacron-and-cotton shirt (1953)
after garfinkel's bought the store following world war ii, ashbel wall became its link with the past
i was there to keep the continuity,'' he explained. ``i was the last one in the family to work there (so) i was the arbiter of what was brooksy and what wasn't. one of my responsibilities was answering the mail and saying, `i'm a member of the family, and we're doing things the same as ever.'''
well, almost. for years the pocketless shirt was a brooks trademark, although the company would add a pocket for those who wanted it _ at no extra cost
but after the vest went out of style, more and more customers began asking for pockets, and in the late 1960s the pocket became standard. now it is the pocketless shirt that must be specially ordered _ at no extra cost
the demise of the dress-for-success uniform that puts women in box-like suits and little uptight blouses is no surprise to alcott &amp; andrews, which calls itself wardrobers to america's successful women
the specialty store entered the women's apparel market three years ago with the idea that executive women are tired of looking like male clones and want their clothing to be distinguished, but with a soft, feminine touch
i think one of the reasons we've been as successful as we have is that we understand this lady is a lady _ she's not a man,'' says coleen brady, 39, vice president of alcott &amp; andrews
advertisements for the store's 11 outlets across the country show beautiful, blond women with an impeccably coiffed grace kelly look
the company's president, michael jeffries, 43, bristled at the suggestion that his store has something in common with brooks brothers. ``they're traditional clothiers. we're in the fashion business,'' he said
for instance, jeffries notes that alcott &amp; andrews had no hesitations about embracing the short skirt for the fall season. and ms. brady says customer response has been ``tremendous.''
we think the knee is quite stylish, quite appropriate,'' she says
ninety-eight percent of the stores' merchandise, jeffries says, is designed by talent inside the company
he and ms. brady want their apparel to appeal to executive women, ``presidents of country clubs'' and wives of ``very successful men.'' the one common characteristic shared by them all, ms. brady says, is that they are ``successful.''
the store strives for a refined yet efficient atmosphere. classical music and antique furniture aim to sooth the harried shopper
merchandise is grouped in complementary color blocks so a woman can put together a total wardrobe without searching for a blouse or jacket to go with a skirt
and ready to help her in her selections are some of the highest paid salespeople _ called ``wardrobe consultants'' _ in the retail business. ``they can make upwards to $50,000 a year. ... and the norm is between $20,000 and $50,000 a year,'' jeffries says
our customer is traditionally a hard-working executive woman who doesn't have time to wait unattended for sales help or to check out,'' ms. brady says
alcott &amp; andrews is a privately held company whose 1987 sales are expected to exceed $50 million
one of the great modern classics was born late last century when griswold lorillard attended the tuxedo park club's traditional white-tie-and-tails autumn ball wearing a short-jacketed suit and satin lapels
the formal wear, called the tuxedo ever since, came to symbolize the epitome of elegance and style. immortalized by fred astaire and brought to the heights of sophistication by cary grant, the tuxedo has changed little since its auspicious beginning
now, although it was ravaged during the 1970s with ruffles, wide lapels and pastel colors, the basic black ``tux'' is back _ with a few exceptions
the traditional black tuxedo is single vented with notch lapels and natural sloping shoulders, according to joel s. screiber, president of a.t. harris, one of the oldest formal wear establishments
people who bought designer tuxedos two or three years ago are coming back and renting because their tuxedos are no longer in style,'' said schreiber
he said tuxedos should be worn with a white, studded formal shirt with a turned down collar, and black patent lace-ups or pumps
but this doesn't mean there aren't variations. people are experimenting with different colored cummerbunds and ties. some, mostly the young, are opting for the wing tip collar
certain accessories also are becoming popular, says schreiber. ``more people are requesting white silk scarfs, gloves, spats and even top hats.''
although all of the big designers make a tuxedo, the bulk sold today come from two major companies: after six and lord west
after six, designed by bill blass, is more in the classic tradition. the selections from lord west, designed by pierre cardin, have more of a european flair
the miniskirt may be back, but it's more formal and refined than the thigh-high hemlines of the 1960s, says alison lurie, pulitzer prize novelist and fashion commentator
the more sophisticated minis, she says, may be an expression of women's confidence at work and in the economy
when things are good economically, skirts tend to go up. if we're happy and carefree, we begin to act and dress like children. the miniskirt is part of this general phenomenon,'' she says
when we were young, we wore very short skirts; children still do. but there's an age beyond which you have to be in absolutely wonderful shape to wear a miniskirt, maybe 40.''
lurie won the fiction pulitzer prize in 1985 for the novel ``foreign affairs'' and also wrote ``the war between the tates.'' she is an english professor at cornell university here in narrative writing, folklore and children's literature. a native of chicago, she was raised in white plains, n.y., and is the mother of three grown sons
she is also the author of ``the language of clothes,'' written in 1981, in which she said that the lacy, baby-doll style of the 1960s made ``grown women look like toddlers with a glandular affliction, or like severely retarded nubile teen-agers.'' the miniskirts, she said, seemed ``ridiculous rather than seductive.''
in the beginning, ``it was said that men wouldn't be able to concentrate on their work if they had `beautiful chicks' running around in brightly colored clothes,'' she says. ``women had to scrape their hair back into buns and wear dark, depressing clothes that hid the figure
those clothes were boring. women are not used to wearing the same thing every day the way men are; they couldn't put up with it. now that they are confident in their jobs, they can kick up their heels a little and stop wearing such a dreary costume.''
it was consumer demand, not designer contrivance, that brought the miniskirt back, she says, noting that so far the skirts seem more popular away from work than at the office
braces. suspenders. straps
by whatever name, those bands over the shoulders that hold up your pants or skirt are holding up as fashion statements, too
they have become so popular that most trousers are being manufactured today suspender button-ready,'' says larry levy, president of field brothers menswear
as with ties, suspender styles are more exotic,'' he says, ``as opposed to the standard solid blue or black of recent years.''
indeed, suspenders are being ``snapped up,'' he says, with sales rising 400 percent in the past year
paper hats are old hat, but paper bathing suits? and paper pajamas?
designer susan lane has created a line of ``paper couture,'' 15 paper designs for resort, holiday and bridal fashions _ all recyclable
the designs _ from jogging apparel and tennis whites to sailor suits and evening dresses _ are made of paper interfacing, a material commonly used for garment linings
each design in what ms. lane calls the ``symbol signature'' collection carries the paper recycling symbol of three revolving arrows
in the tradition of the polo pony and guccis gs, i'd like to see the recycling symbol become the newest symbol of fashion savoir-faire,'' says ms. lane, owner of the los angeles-based country elegance boutique, who introduced paper wedding gowns to the fashion industry two years ago
there are many advantages to paper clothes,'' she says. ``they can be personalized with a pen, altered with a pair of scissors and repaired with scotch tape.''
pretty, yet pain-free'' is the philosophy behind a line of fashion clothing and accessories aimed at women who have physical problems, like arthritis, in getting dressed
irwin taylor, a rochester, n.y.-based company named for its designers, janet irwin and pattie taylor, produces clothing with easy closures for those who have difficulty in hooking, tying, snapping or buttoning
a shirtwaist, for example, opens halfway down the front for easy ``step-in'' dressing and fastens with a zipper-like strip of velcro to eliminate buttoning
an ``elegant ease'' line has back-opening apparel for women who use wheelchairs
irwin and taylor say they worked with occupational and physical therapists to develop the clothing. research, they say, showed many women between the ages of 46 and 65 needed pants that didn't require pulling on. many others had difficulty with buttons or hooks-and-eyes
their line of clothing includes dresses, undergarments, evening clothes and sportswear
maiden modesty has been out of style for decades. and for religious women, that once meant settling for dowdy clothes
but now, a small fashion industry is growing up around covering up
far from mousy, the clothes at these boutiques are the best italian and french imports _ at up to $1,000 a dress
i buy things that are fashion forward,'' said judi kalatsky, owner of david's den, which caters to orthodox jewish women in affluent lawrence, n.y
many orthodox jewish women wear sleeves that cover the elbow, skirts that cover the knee, and high necklines
many of the same dress restrictions apply to moslem women, said dr. m.t. mehdi, head of the national council on islamic affairs in new york. however, moslem women are more likely to hire dressmakers or make their own clothes, according to nur ali, a brooklyn couturier with a moslem clientele
david's den and other shops like it cull appropriate fashions from top designers' collections. that saves the orthodox shopper from weeding out what she can't wear
ms. kalatsky said she also gets manufacturers to run off a batch of clothes with longer hems and sleeves. or she may order fabric swatches so the customer can fill in a neckline
since long skirts have been in style for 15 years, orthodox jewish women who want to look great have had it pretty easy, said madeleine novitsky, manager of kutiel fashions in brooklyn
but now, ``everything coming from italy is a mini,'' she said. ``i predict a problem in the coming year.''
ms. novitsky pointed out that orthodox women do shorten their skirts when the styles are shorter. in the 1960s, ``more religious women were walking around with skirts right by their knees.'' but as calf-length caught on, the shorter skirt became unacceptable
now, she says, the women who shop at kutiel _ including the manager _ could have stepped out of vogue
ok, my leopard hat and bag do help,'' she said
gq and esquire are unquestionably the leading magazines in the men's fashion and lifestyle field
but publisher gerald rothberg sees an affluent buying pie out there and he wants a piece of the market. so he started mgf _ for men's guide to fashion _ three years ago. it's aimed at the younger end of the ``well-healed'' market, the 18-to-29-year-olds, and rothberg says his circulation is up near 200,000 now
a new yorker, rothberg _ who once worked at esquire _ is also the publisher of the rock magazine circus, now in its 18th year. but, he says, as an independent publisher, he finds it ``dangerous'' to rely on the revenue of one magazine. so, for years, he says, he's been looking for another kind of publication
he hit on mgf after reading a sunday newspaper story by a feminist who bemoaned the yuppie male generation as ``peacocks only interested in themselves and their clothes.'' as an entrepreneuer, he saw in that not a social statement but a business opportunity: there's a market there
others see similar opportunity in sharing the magazine market for younger men, including men's look and ebony man
like the others, the monthly mgf is not just about clothing styles. it has regular features on grooming and hair style as well as columns on fitness, a ``sex advisor'' and lifestyle articles such as these in the march issue: ``the truth about steroids,'' ``your power breakfast'' and ``she's your friend _ can she be your lover?''
rothberg, who serves as fashion editor as well as editor in chief and publisher, personally visits various designers, selected to reflect his reading market, then boils it down to a ``point of view'' aimed at his readership. he calls it ``selective reporting.''
and the men's ``look'' for this spring and summer? ``loose and comfortable,'' he says, ``with style.'' first, ``the right lightweight suit. then, open a button or throw on a polo shirt for that dressed-down, casual look. it's not only comfortable for spring. it's a smart-looking way to lounge around.''
for men, the suit still is the thing to wear, whether it's for a corporate look or a casual one with a t-shirt
yet, many men don't know what to look for when buying a suit
j. schoeneman, a private label manufacturer which has recently started its own line of ``power clothing'' suits called derigueur, offers this advice:
_when you try on a suit, put everything you normally carry with you _ glasses, pens _ in the pockets. stand normally; don't correct your posture. wear shoes you would wear with the suit
_shoulders should be wide enough to allow a straight drop along the outside of the sleeve, from the top edge to the cuff. they should lie evenly and smoothly
_jacket length should be long enough to cover the seat entirely
_the jacket collar should lie smoothly against the back of the neck
_lapels should lie flat when the jacket is completely buttoned
_three-eighths of an inch of shirt cuff should show below jacket sleeve
_there should be no pulling on the pants through the hips, no tugged-open pleats, no strain across the pockets
_trouser hems should fall to the top of the shoe, producing a slight break
most important, says j. schoeneman: if it doesn't fit, don't buy it. never have extensive alterations
the look in women's hair fashions this spring is natural and decidedly female, according to hairstylists
hair will have a soft natural look; it won't be quite as full as in previous seasons,'' says gordon nelson, director of style training for regis hairstylist salons
we will also see a variety of exciting new styles. there won't be just one specific look that is this year's hot trend,'' he adds
the best new looks are close and shapely. tops will be left long for lots of permed-in texture and movement. new perm wrap methods are essential to create unusual finishes with texturized volume,'' says nelson
xenon, international creative director for the helene curtis professional division, says, ``women are finally learning that looking professional doesn't mean the same as looking masculine
the more subdued feminine fashion looks shown for spring allow hair to make an important, dramatic statement of its own,'' says xenon, in introducing a collection of perm styles for this spring
hairstyles today are highly sculpted, yet must remain soft and touchable. the only way to achieve this sculpted look without weighing hair down with sticky, brittle sprays and gels is through perming.''
as for length, he says, ``anything goes.''
hair length is not really an issue this spring. the key to this season's most up-to-date looks is volume and softness. curls are softer and looser; waves have more definition; all hairstyles move and shine
most of my styles involve lifting the hair up and away from the face, emphasizing the individual woman's facial features. after all,'' he says, ``what could be sexier or more feminine than a woman's face?''
accessories can't be emphasized too much,'' says marigale briggs, fashion director at spiegel, the catalog retailer. ``they play a prominent role in turning a simple outfit into a powerful and pulled-together fashion statement.''
she offers some accessory ``picks'' for spring:
_bicolor footwear, bags and belts. ``spectator'' accessories
_sculptured handbags
_woven sandals and skimmers in brown. ``brown is essential for spring,'' she says, ``because it works beautifully with neutrals and with white.''
_watches. ``look for bold tank faces, floating rhinestones or sundials.''
_banded footwear
_waist-cinching belts, 2{ to 5 inches
_sterling silver or matte gold jewelry
_earrings with movement. ``look for hoops that swing from button posts or drop earrings.''
_sheer hosiery. ``especially with shorter skirts' focus on the leg, the move is definitely towards tonal dressing for career,'' she says. ``save your opaque hosiery for fall and winter.''
the mini is not for the many, according to a survey published in a newsletter for marketers
the especially short, thigh-high miniskirt is appropriate only for ``the young, the skinny and the bold when they're at play,'' according to the langer report
its findings were based on a study of women 15 to 64 years old, conducted in los angeles, new york, dallas and kansas city during november and december 1987
it is for a small minority of women, a minority of the time,'' said judith langer, publisher and co-editor of the report, which says the ``thigh-high micro-mini is seen by women as tacky _ worn to attract male attention, but not respect.''
langer associates inc. is a new york-based market research firm
what's involved in a complete wardrobe for men?
having a good wardrobe doesn't mean owning 20 suits or 30 pair of shoes and only one sports coat,'' says marvin blumenfeld, president of april-marcus, a new york-based retailing consulting firm. ``it means that you have something to wear for every occasion.''
he believes the average man's wardrobe should include at least seven suits _four all-weather, two all-wool winter suits and a lightweight summer suit. in addition, there should be at least three sports coats _ ``one should be the blue blazer because it can be used in so many different ways.''
blumenfeld recommends five pairs of trousers, which can be worn with or without a jacket; 10 dress shirts (five white); five sports shirts and at least 10 ties
when men shop for clothes, they tend to seek mainstream ``basics'' rather than unusual items, says a men's fashion designer
these `basics' become well-loved favorites in a man's wardrobe, often replaced year after year,'' says bill windhorst, a designer at spiegel, the catalog retailers
he lists some ``must-have'' basics for a man's wardrobe:
_ white, 100 percent cotton shirt
_multipurpose blue blazer
_jean jacket
_worn-in blue jeans
_pleated khaki pants
_striped rugby shirt
_polo-style shirt
_striped cotton shirts
_loafers
_cotton sweater
a focus group study by spiegel found that men generally are ``shopping shy'' and usually refer to others for help before buying. seventy percent of men's purchases involve a woman, according to the study, conducted in boston, chicago and los angeles in late 1987
wholesale prices dipped 0.2 percent in feburary as both energy and food costs declined, including a dramatic 70 percent tumble in the price of lettuce, the government said
the decline reported friday in the labor department's producer price index partially erased a 0.4 percent increase in january. analysts said it provided further evidence that inflation remains tame
the producer index does not show two categories in which price increases have been the most pronounced _ services and imported goods
the government said retail sales edged up 0.6 percent in february, bolstered by strong demand for autos, but economists worried that sales in january were much weaker than previously believed
instead of a 0.5 percent rise in sales, the commerce department said friday sales actually fell 0.2 percent during january, showing the consumer sector is weaker than previously believed
koppers co. sued shearson lehman hutton inc. and british investor brian beazer, accusing them of violating securities laws in trying to acquire the pittsburgh-based chemicals and construction company
koppers said friday it was attempting to break up ``an ongoing illegal scheme ... to acquire control of koppers in blatant violation of the disclosure requirements'' of securities laws
the new york stock exchange's 5-week-old ``collar'' on computerized trading appears to be an effective therapy for easing volatility in the post-crash market and luring back frightened investors, analysts say
but the restriction also makes the market less attractive to investors who thrive on risk, which could theoretically drive them overseas
some market experts argue that the restriction would do little to squelch another panic
the general services administration has extended by one month the deadline for bids on a new, multibillion-dollar government telephone system to give us sprint communications co. more time to draft its proposal
the gsa said it was reluctantly extending the deadline to april 29, but said it was doing so to ensure the fullest possible competition for the contract, one of the biggest ever let by the government
the securities and exchange commission said painewebber inc. voluntarily has agreed to repay customers an amount the sec claims were overcharges in the sale of treasury bond coupons
the sec did not disclose on friday the amount of the repayment or of the alleged overcharge by the brokerage house
the sec alleged the overcharges occurred between jan. 1, 1984 and july 31, 1985
the head of the inter-american development bank says its loans to latin america will increase from last year's $2.36 billion to between $2.5 billion and $3 billion in 1988
we can continue on this level until the end of the century,'' antonio ortiz mena, the departing president, told a news conference friday
the bank, owned by 44 governments, is a major source of loans to raise the living standards of latin american countries
the first national bank of boston has agreed to freeze activity on panamanian government accounts until the state department lifts sanctions against the nation
the action friday stems from a civil suit filed earlier this week by panama's u.s. ambassador, juan b. sosa, the recognized representative of the government of deposed president eric arturo delvalle
prosecutors are portraying two former bank executives as greedy men hungry for wealth in a fraud trial linked to the near-demise of continental illinois bank and trust co
the government has accused former continental vice president john lytle of buying high-risk loans from now-defunct penn square bank in oklahoma city in exchange for kickbacks
defendant william patterson, former head of energy lending at penn square, gave the kickbacks to lytle in the form of unsecured loans, the government contended in u.s. district court friday
home shopping network inc., the leader in televised shop-from-home programs, said telephone problems were responsible for a 44 percent decline in second-quarter earnings
the telephone problems _ since corrected _ prevented some potential customers from placing orders, and contributed to an inventory buildup that the company is still trying to reduce by cutting prices on some merchandise, roy speer, chairman and chief executive of home shopping, said friday
kuwait will raise its stake in british petroleum co. plc to 22.5 percent but no more, and will not seek representation on the board of directors, an official of the persian gulf nation's investment arm says
the remarks friday, by the chief investment manager of the kuwait investment office, were the first direct statements of kuwait's immediate intentions toward bp
some analysts suggested kuwait ultimately wants access to bp's extensive refining and marketing operations in europe and the united states
the stock market rallied from behind late friday. the dow jones average of 30 industrials, down more than 20 points at midafternoon, closed with a gain of 8.95 at 2,034.98
the dollar declined in quiet trading and gold prices slipped. bonds rose in response to news of low inflation and slow retail sales
cotton futures prices jumped
french media giant hachette sa is launching a tender offer today for grolier inc., bidding $21 a share to acquire the connecticut-based book publisher
hachette, the biggest publisher in france and the second-largest in europe, announced sunday it would launch a tender offer today aimed at acquiring the 95 percent of grolier's roughly 19.5 million outstanding common shares that it did not already own. hachette put the total cost of its offer at $415 million
the offer expires at midnight est april 8 unless extended
grolier stock rose 87{ cents to $15.87{ a share friday on the new york stock exchange
telephone calls to grolier's headquarters in danbury, conn. were not answered sunday
hachette stated that an acquisition of grolier would make hachette the world's leading encyclopedia publisher
the acquisition of grolier is an important strategic step for hachette,'' stated yves sabouret, hachette's chief executive officer
jean-claude lattes, vice president and director of hachette's international book publishing business, said hachette planned to dedicate ``substantial resources'' to the encyclopedia business ``in order to meet the rapidly expanding information needs of the public.''
grolier is an international publisher of encyclopedias, reference and educational books, juvenile books and furniture, trade publications and yearbooks. grolier also owns mystic color labs, a mail-order film processor
the company has about 7,200 employees
grolier posted a profit of $22.1 million on revenue of $424.2 million in its 1987 fiscal year, up from net income of $12.5 million on revenue of $350.6 million the previous year
the 162-year-old hachette, which reported sales of more than $3 billion in 1987, has operations in book and magazine publishing and distribution, radio broadcasting, movie and television production and outdoor advertising
hachette publishes magazines such as elle, paris match and a new french edition of fortune, and owns curtis circulation co., which it describes as the second largest national magazine distributor in the united states
have you ever reached for a magazine to pass the time in a doctor's waiting room and come up with an election analysis _ of jimmy carter's victory in 1976?
or gotten interested in a magazine story only to find the conclusion was missing, along with the rest of page 87?
who hasn't found outdated or tattered magazines in the doctor's office?
christopher whittle, chairman of whittle communications of knoxville, tenn., is prescribing a package of six new magazines designed to fit the reading habits of people waiting for the doctor
but the idea makes some magazine publishers ill. they object to a key feature of the whittle package, which asks subscribers to have no more than two magazines from other publishers in their offices
whittle said the provision lets him charge advertisers more for an uncluttered, relatively exclusive publishing environment
i'm taken aback by it,'' said george green, an executive vice president at hearst magazines, which publishes good housekeeping and redbook. ``it is putting other publishers in a position where they are not able to sell their product.''
some advertising agency executives also question whittle's proposal
if he believes his editorial product is so great, why is it necessary to eliminate what he refers to as the worn-out, dog-eared and soiled waiting room magazines?'' asks richard kostyra, media services director for the advertising agency j. walter thompson
whittle has heard all the objections and parodies some of them in a series of full-page advertisements that have appeared in the new york times
in one ad, this headline appears over a photo of a torn and smudged magazine page: ``few things equal the special quality of magazines in a doctor's waiting room.''
in another full-page ad, a mob is shown assaulting a cowering man. ``few things have brought magazine publishers together the way `special reports' has,'' reads the ad
special report is the name for six new whittle magazines to begin appearing quarterly in 15,000 doctors' waiting rooms in september. the titles are families, sports, fiction, health, living, and personalities
whittle said each magazine is designed to be read in 27 minutes, which he said is the average time spent in a doctor's waiting room
the magazines are being offered only to three types of doctors: obstetricians-gynecologists, pediatricians and family practitioners. whittle declines to disclose the subscription price but says it will be below the typical $200-300 a year that doctors now spend on magazine subscriptions
but whittle's proposal goes a lot further than a simple magazine subscription. he said he will provide three to four copies of each of the six titles and a magazine rack to display them. his staff will deliver the magazines in person and return monthly to replace any that have been taken or abused
no other company is beginning to provide the level of service and numbers of magazines that we are going to provide,'' he said in an interview
what whittle asks in return is the assurance that special reports be the ``primary magazines'' in the office, with no more than two other titles around
the requirement enables whittle to offer advertisers exclusivity in their product categories that will help their messages stand out
special report magazines will carry 30 pages of ads in every 64-page issue and no competing products _ only one coffee advertiser per issue, for instance
the minimum ad purchase is one page each quarter for a year in all six magazines, a total of 24 ad pages. the price: $1.2 million
whittle said category exclusivity and the expectation that the magazines will reach over 70 percent of all the mothers in america who have two or more children make his magazines worth the price for some advertisers
he said the company already has sold 20 of the 30 available advertisements for the first two years, but declined to identify the buyers
procter &amp; gamble co., the biggest u.s. ad spender, describes itself as ``very interested'' in the magazines. ``we are continuing to explore it in depth, but have not yet signed any agreements,'' spokeswoman sydney mchugh said
rival publishers say readers may be bored by the whittle magazines. ``who would want to pick up a generic quarterly when you can read the current issue of people, time or mccall's?'' asks dale w. lang, chairman of the working woman-mccall's group, which also publishes working mother
but whittle said he has recruited some of the finest editors in the country, led by editor-in-chief william rukeyser, the former managing editor of fortune and founding editor of money
rivals have warned they may take legal action over the issue of limiting other magazines in waiting rooms that take whittle's service
rodale press inc., which publishes prevention and children magazines, has written 40,000 pediatricians, warning that whittle's proposal raises legal issues that could result in ``a waiting room battle, one likely to be settled in court, one that could only cause unfavorable publicity for doctors in the program,'' according to rodale executive thomas stoneback
but whittle said he is not trying to force doctors into anything. if doctors who take his service keep more than two other magazines in their waiting rooms, whittle says he simply will remove the special reports
what it gets down to is, what does the doctor prefer?,'' whittle said
the dollar fell against all major currencies in early european trading today as the british pound continued a weeklong surge with the conservative government split on whether to rein in sterling
gold prices rose
some traders said the pound was helping to depress the dollar
the pound jumped more than half a cent to $1.8590, compared with $1.8535 late friday. the pound has risen 8 cents from a week ago
sterling has been rising on expectations the government will announce substantial tax cuts in its annual spring budget tuesday, and was boosted further by the government split
prime minister margaret thatcher last week rejected state intervention to depress the pound, either by selling sterling or lowering interest rates _ thus overruling chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson
a strong pound hurts british exports. but mrs. thatcher believes lowering interest rates to make the pound less attractive to foreign investors will encourage borrowing and fuel inflation
after years of low-deficit budgets, britain is heading for a balanced budget, or even a surplus of revenue over expenditure, for the first time in nearly 20 years
in tokyo, where trading ends before europe's business day begins, the dollar closed at 127.23 yen, down 0.57 yen from friday. later, in london the dollar slipped further to 126.55 yen
tokyo dealers said the dollar was depressed partly by pessimistic expectations for u.s. january trade figures to be released thursday
other dollar rates at mid-morning, compared with late friday's rates, included: 1.6575 west german marks, down from 1.6615; 1.3665 swiss francs, down from 1.3720; 5.6325 french francs, down from 5.6515; 1.8624 dutch guilders, down from 1.8680; 1.228.40 italian lire, down from 1.232.55; and 1.2552 canadian dollars, down from 1.2553
gold opened in london at a bid price of $441.80 a troy ounce, compared with late friday's $440.50. at mid-morning today, the city's five major bullion dealers fixed a recommended price of $441.90
in zurich, the noon bid price was $441.85 dollars, up from $441 late friday
earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at a $444.81 bid, up $1.27 from saturday's closing price
silver was quoted in london on monday at a bid price of $6.23 a troy ounce, down from $6.36 late friday
stocks closed lower and the dollar fell further against the yen in tokyo today as traders' expectations for u.s. trade figures for january grew more pessimistic
after opening at 127.35 yen, the dollar closed at 127.23 yen, down 0.57 yen from its close of 127.80 yen on friday, when it fell 0.40 yen. the dollar traded in a narrow range between 127.20 yen and 127.37 yen today
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average of 225 selected issues closed at 25,433.51 points, down 110.22 points, or 0.43 percent, from friday's close. volume in the first section was 950 million shares, nearly half that of friday's session
an exchange dealer at a major commercial bank in tokyo said the market was turning its attention toward the release of u.s. merchandise trade figures for january, due to be released thursday
it is hard to say how much impact the u.s. trade figures are having, but compared with the end of last week we're seeing a trend toward a stronger yen,'' the dealer said
other dealers mentioned speculation that the u.s. trade deficit would be larger than previously expected
traders in the stock market also were waiting for the u.s. trade figures, said an analyst with a major brokerage
trading was not so heavy in the first section, aside from some heavy industrials, steel, and electricals,'' said the analyst, who requested anonymity
we are following what is happening in new york, but the market is still strong, and what we are seeing here are adjustments,'' said a dealer, also speaking on condition of anonymity. moved on general news wires.</note>
democratic presidential candidate richard a. gephardt's plan for retaliatory trade policies comes face to face with its long-threatened demise this week following its sponsor's poor showing on super tuesday
lawmakers who previously had held off on a decision now have decided to tackle the issue as they step up efforts to reach a compromise on legislation to sharpen the u.s. edge in world markets
i expect the trade conference to finish its work by the end of this month and we'll get it on the president's desk some time in april,'' said senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen, d-texas
a house-senate conference committee weighing rival versions of the sweeping, 1,000-page trade bill had been hesitant to tamper with the plan that gephardt, a missouri congressman, has made a centerpiece of his presidential campaign
majority democrats had sought to avoid anything that might trip up gephardt, whose plan is part of the house version of the trade bill but not the senate legislation
the reagan administration calls it veto bait and japanese businessmen expressed elation last week when gephardt carried only one of the 20 states _ his own _ where there was super tuesday primary and caucus voting
after that disappointing showing, democratic chairmen decided to go ahead with action on the issue this week, congressional sources said
the so-called gephardt amendment would require the president to reduce ``excess and unwarranted'' surpluses run by japan and a few other countries in trade with the united states. if negotiations failed, the president would be required to use import curbs to lower the surpluses at a 10 percent annual rate
the president could waive such action if he found it contrary to the national economic interest or if the offending country were wrestling with serious debt. but critics say the plan is a long step toward protectionism and invites retaliation against u.s. industries
senate conferees, returning from a one-week recess, planned to take up the gephardt proposal along with related issues of japanese trade barriers at a closed caucus today, an aide to a state finance committee member confirmed
up to this point, the senate side has been making all the concessions and there's no question but what, come monday, they'll be asking the house to give up gephardt,'' said the aide, who spoke on the condition that he not be identified
house and senate conferees have been meeting separately and thus far the negotiations have been a ping-pong match of offers and counter offers
on its face, the senators' move to drop the plan will not amount to anything all that unusual, since the senate never passed the measure in the first place. it also will take some heat off of gephardt's fellow democrats on the house ways and means committee, who don't want to be seen as lowering the boom on him
the house is expected to make a counter offer that most likely will be couched as an effort to rescue the main thrust of gephardt's plan
the politics involved in the issue became apparent last month
rep. sam gibbons, d-fla., said feb. 21 that the ``gephardt provision will be dropped. we're going to dump it because it's bad policy.''
but two days later, ways and means chairman dan rostenkowski, d-ill., issued a statement saying that ``mr. gephardt's amendment has not been scuttled or jettisoned.'' he said it would be part of any eventual compromise
the key difference between the house and senate versions is that gephardt's proposal focuses on trade surpluses while the senate bill calls on the president to retaliate against foreign barriers to u.s. exports
in tackling the gephardt controversy, the conferees are moving into one of the toughest issues remaining to be resolved. but it is not the only one
senate conferees holding out for a five-year import ban on toshiba corp. products are deadlocked with house counterparts, who propose to allow the president wide latitude to discipline the japanese company for selling submarine silencing equipment to the soviet union
the administration does not want the outright ban, neither side has shown much inclination to budge and even the house conferees say they are divided
there have been no meetings of a conference subcommittee weighing a senate provision that would require companies to give employees advance warning of plant closings and mass layoffs. the measure is not part of the house bill and also has been described as potential veto bait
there also have been no meetings thus far on a highly controversial amendment to the house bill that would require disclosure of foreign ownership of property and land in the united states
it's under huge attack from these international companies and foreign lobbyists as well as the white house that don't want to see any disclosure of foreign ownership at all,'' says rep. john bryant, d-texas, the sponsor of the measure. he said last week the provision probably has a 50-50 chance of getting to the president's desk
the environmental protection agency says it will not launch a special study of a widely used herbicide suspected of causing cancer among farmers because other research has not confirmed the suspicion
a major commercial user, however, said it won't put the chemical back in its lineup until the cancer picture is clarified, and a scientist with an environmental group called the epa's decision ``outrageous.''
the herbicide is 2,4-d, short for dichlorophenoxyacetic acid. a 1986 study said it was the fourth most widely used pesticide in the nation, with more than 39 million pounds of active ingredient sold the previous year
the great bulk of that is believed to be used for broadleaf weed control in wheat fields, though 2,4-d also is widely used on highway rights of way, on lawns and in forests
following several scientific reports associating certain cancers with farming or exposure to various _ and sometimes unspecified _ herbicides, the national cancer institute in 1986 found that farmers in kansas who used 2,4-d more than 20 times a year, mixing their own formulations, had an eight times greater chance than normal of getting a specific cancer called non-hodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph system
home and garden users did not face concentrations large enough to cause concern, the study said
the herbicide aroused suspicion because it can be contaminated with small amounts of chemicals related to the dioxins, though there are no u.s. reports, and only one abroad, of contamination with the most toxic form of dioxin
the contaminants of 2,4-d generally have only about 1 percent of the cancer-causing power of the most toxic dioxin
in all the controversy over dioxin, a cancer called soft-tissue sarcoma has been at the center of the issue _ and this cancer sometimes was found in the early 2,4-d reports
epa frequently puts suspicious pesticides into what it calls ``special review,'' a way of bringing the chemical to the head of the line. the agency may call for additional studies by the manufacturer and the reviews may end up with new use restrictions or an outright ban
in this case, epa has decided not to begin such a review. spokesman al heier confirmed trade press reports of the decision, describing the decision as a ``tough call.''
animal studies, he said, ``do not suggest that it's a carcinogen,'' and ``i think there are quite a few (human) epidemiology studies'' that also fail to confirm the cancer-causing ability of 2,4-d
it is extremely rare for a chemical to cause cancer in humans but not in laboratory animals. the best example is arsenic
officials to whom heier referred more detailed questions did not immediately return telephone calls. the agency plans a news conference on thursday to discuss its decision
one study of farm and forest workers in new zealand found elevated incidence of non-hodgkins lymphoma and another cancer called multiple myeloma, but did not examine exposure to pesticides. a followup study, however, found no excess risk of cancer as a result of exposure to chemicals of the 2,4-d class
chemlawn services inc. stopped using 2,4-d after the national cancer institute results were announced
the company acted ``out of concern for our employees,'' of whom 2,500 to 3,000 probably were using 2,4-d on 80 days a year, said spokesman steve hardymon in columbus, ohio
it has arranged a study of employees by the institute, and will not decide whether to resume use of 2,4-d until results are reported, probably late next year, though epa's decision ``probably is right,'' said hardymon
i think it's outrageous,'' diane baxter, staff scientist of the national coalition against the misuse of pesticides, said of the epa's decision
she was particularly critical of the weight given to animal studies that showed no effect. ``we only do animal studies when we don't have human studies,'' but in this case a good study of humans _ the kansas farmers _ was outweighed by animal studies, she said
she said ``2,4,5-t was banned mostly because of birth defects (among humans) in the pacific northwest ... and that is not anywhere near as hard to refute as the study nci did.'' subs 12th graf to conform and 19th graf to delete redundant reference to cincinnati.</note>
federated department stores inc. said today that r.h. macy &amp; co. has sweetened its friendly takeover bid, while campeau corp. announced an extension until midnight friday of its competing $6.18 billion tender offer
cincinnati-based federated said its board of directors was meeting here today to consider a proposal from macy ``to revise and improve the terms upon which macy's would acquire federated.''
federated spokesman jim sluzewski said he could not provide details of the revision. macy currently has a definitive $6.1 billion agreement to acquire federated
meanwhile, campeau said it extended its hostile offer to buy 70.5 million of federated's stock at $75 a share from tuesday until friday to take pressure off a federal judge who was scheduled to hear arguments today on the takeover battle
the extension gives federated and macy more time to work on a sweetened deal
shortly after campeau's move was announced, federated urged its shareholders to hold onto their stock
on sunday, federated had ``reluctantly'' advised stockholders to tender their shares under campeau's two-tier buyout offer although it was against merging with the toronto developer
the unusual recommendation had been intended to ensure that federated shareholders get the higher price offered under the first stage of campeau's offer
campeau said it would pay $75 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's stock while the remaining 20 percent would be acquired later for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger, giving the deal an aggregate value of $68 per share
in early trading on the new york stock exchange, federated stock rose $1.37{ to $67.37{
federated's board said sunday shareholders should tender their stock to campeau ``to insure that they are not relegated to the $44 back end'' in the event the campeau bid were successful and their shares were not tendered by the deadline
federated noted that shareholders could withdraw shares tendered to campeau if the campeau deadline were extended
macy has sought a federal court injunction to extend campeau's tuesday expiration. macy contended campeau's current offer, which was amended from an earlier $68 per share bid for all federated shares, essentially is a new offer and under federal law must remain open past its scheduled expiration
a hearing was set for today on the dispute, and campeau also planned to ask the court to strike down federated's ``poison pill,'' or shareholder-rights plan, which makes an unfriendly takeover prohibitively expensive
macy has offered $74.50 per share in cash for 80 percent of federated's stock in an bid that expires april 4. macy plans to swap shares in a new company, macy's-federated inc., for the remaining 20 percent of federated shares
federated said its board met friday and unanimously reaffirmed that the definitive merger agreement with macy was superior to the campeau bid
federated also said sunday its directors and corporate management have insisted their stock options and restricted shares be converted to cash on the same basis as other shareholders in the macy-federated merger agreement
a filing with the securities and exchange commission revealed last week that some 500 federated executives would receive all cash for their stock in the proposed macy acquisition, while other shareholders would get cash for only 80 percent of their shares
senior management has taken this steop to avoid any possible implication that they would be treated better than the company's stockholders generally,'' federated said in a news release
federated owns department store chains including bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, rich's and bullock's
macy has nearly 100 department and specialty stores, while campeau owns allied stores corp
campeau said today it expects to obtain all the necessary financing to complete a buyout by the march 18 expiration date
the number of oil and gas rigs working in the united states decreased by 32 this week to total 946, baker hughes inc. announced
the total reflects the number of rigs actively exploring for oil as of last friday, not the number rigs producing oil. the previous week, the count had decreased by five to 978
in a normal year, the low comes in late march or early april, and then begins a gradual increase from that point,'' said ike kerridge, a baker hughes economist who compiles the count. ``it is not unusual for it to be coming down in march.''
kerridge said companies usually accelerate their exploration spending as the year progresses. a year ago, the rig count stood at 761, baker hughes said
houston-based baker hughes, an oil toolmaker, tallies the number of working rigs and the count is the widely-watched industry index of drilling activity
hughes tool co., which merged this year with baker international corp. of orange, calif., has kept track of the number of working rigs since 1940
the rig count reached a peak of 4,500 active rigs in december 1981 _ the height of the oil boom. but as oil prices plunged to less than $10 per 42-gallon barrel in the summer of 1986, the count fell to 663, the lowest since hughes began compiling figures
among the major oil producing states, oklahoma lost 14 rigs, ohio lost seven, new mexico lost five, colorado and pennsylvania each lost three, and michigan and wyoming lost one apiece
kansas gained three rigs, louisiana gained two and texas gained one. the states of california and north dakota showed no change
t. boone pickens' mesa limited partnership said today it has withdrawn its $1.9 billion cash offer for homestake mining co., the nation's largest gold producer
mesa said in a statement it was withdrawing its $20-per-share offer for homestake's 93 million outstanding shares following homestake's rejection of the unsolicited bid earlier this month
mesa owns about 3.8 percent of homestake stock
homestake's board said on march 7 the bid was inadequate and that the company preferred to remain independent
homestake, based in san francisco, holds interests in oil and natural gas and mines uranium, silver and gold, as does newmont mining corp., another major gold producer which was the target of an unsuccessful hostile takeover bid by pickens
last year, new york-based newmont was approached by ivanhoe partners, another group led by pickens, which made a $2 billion hostile bid for control of the company
that move was blocked in october when a delaware court upheld a ``market sweep'' in which newmont's biggest shareholder, britain's consolidated gold fields plc, grabbed enough shares in a two-day buying spree to raise its holdings to nearly 50 percent of newmont and thwart the hostile bid
pickens made his reputation as a corporate raider with high-profile bids for several major oil companies in the early 1980s, including gulf corp., phillips petroleum co. and unocal corp
in the bids, mesa launched hostile takeover attempts, then pocketed millions of dollars in profits when the target companies either were bought out by a higher bidder or repurchased its own stock
the stock market showed little change in quiet trading today as traders looked ahead to a busy and potentially volatile week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 4.97 to 2,039.95 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 7 to 6 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 582 up, 693 down and 466 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 41.01 million shares at midmorning
analysts said traders were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the january data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty about how it will go this time has lent an added element of uncertainty to a marketplace still haunted by memories of the crash last fall
grolier inc. led the active list, up 7{ at 23]. hachette s.a. of france made a $21-a-share offer to acquire the company
homestake mining fell 1{ to 14}. mesa l.p. withdrew a $20-a-share takeover bid that homestake had opposed
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks gained .16 to 149.61. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .88 at 296.97
close to two billion new jobs would have to be created by 2030 if the goal of full employment were to be attained worldwide, according to a survey published monday by the international labor office
citing data from the ilo's new statistical yearbook, the survey suggested that this goal was out of reach at current levels of creating new employment
it said that globally an average 47 million new jobs are needed each year over the next four decades to cope with the population growth and absorb the ``armies of unemployed and underemployed.''
the yearbook, covering data from almost 100 nations, said women and young people continue to fare worst, but that the women's share of the workforce increased in many parts of the world
however, in some developed countries, including belgium, italy, and greece, jobless rates of women were more than double than those of men
the picture looked grimmest for young people. in spain, more than half of all teenagers and almost half of those between 20 and 25 were unmployed in 1986, and in france the rates were 27.5 and 16 percent. no statistics were available for african countries where the problem is believed to be most serious in the third world
the statistics list a decline of unemployment in 31 countries between 1985 and 1986. improvement was most marked in latin american and caribbean countries although they still have some of the highest unemployment rates in the world
rates dropped from 12.1 percent to 8.7 percent in chile; from 21.8 percent to 18.9 percent in puerto rico; from 11.8 percent to 8.2 percent in peru; and from 14 percent to 10.3 percent in venezuela
the trend was also downward in the united states, from 7.1 to 6.9 percent. the hardest hit european country was spain, but the rate also declined slightly from 21.9 percent to 21.5 percent. by contrast, ireland's rate was up from 17.8 percent to 18.2 percent
switzerland, with a rate of 0.8 percent, ranked at the bottom of the survey. china and norway, at 2 percent, and japan, at 2.8 percent, also reported almost full employment
j.p. stevens &amp; co. said today it has accepted a nearly $1 billion cash buyout bid from a group led by odyssey partners, a private new york investment firm
the bid tops recent offers from rival west point-pepperell inc. and stevens senior management
under the approved tender offer, odyssey and unnamed private investors have agreed to pay $61.50 for each of stevens' 15.5 million shares outstanding, or around $953.24 million
the deal is subject to a majority of the shares being tendered and the necessary financing being obtained
odyssey said it would finance the deal through a $600 million loan from citibank n.a., $570 million of subordinated debt and preferred stock and a $100 million equity investment
stevens said the offer was approved by a committee of outside directors formed last month to consider a leveraged buyout from a group led by the fifth generation member of the family that founded stevens in 1813
the management group recently sweetened its bid to $55 a share in cash and securities from $43 a share, after west point-pepperell's $56-a-share offer
stevens is a leading manufacturer of textile products, principally home fashion textiles. in 1987 it earned $56 million on salesof $1.6 billion
odyssey is a private investment company. its deals included the purchase of controlling interest in lucky stores inc.'s eagle food stores, located in the midwest, and a leveraged buyout of research cottrell inc., a pollution control, engineering and construction company
a non-partisan group of 100 lawmakers monday asked eli lilly &amp; co. to set up a trust fund for victims of side effects of its anti-arthritis drug oraflex
the lawmakers wrote to lilly president richard wood asking that the company bring compensation for british claimants into line with that offered american claimants
the total of 2.275 million pounds ($4.1 million) for 1,354 people is extraordinarily low compared wth the roughly equivalent sum paid in compensation to one american sufferer,'' said the letter
it said the differences between british and u.s. legal systems did not justify lower payments to british claimants while the indianapolis-based company offered $50 million to 103 u.s. claimants
derek anthony, a spokesman for lilly industries, the british subsidiary of eli lilly, said he would not comment on the amount of compensation offered to u.s. or british claimants because of confidentiality
he said, however, that about 98 percent of the british claimants had accepted the settlement
anthony said he could not comment on the lawmakers' letter because he had not seen it
the drug, known as opren in europe, was withdrawn worldwide in 1982 because of complaints of serious side-effects, including damage to skin, kidneys and liver
the opren action committee in britain said doctors had linked it to 83 deaths and nearly 4,000 cases of adverse reactions
bulgaria has established two duty free zones to ``encourage economic cooperaton'' between bulgarian and foreign companies, the state-run bta news agency reported monday
bta said the zones were set up in the cities of rousse and vidin, and offered areas where ``economic activities can be carried out ... without duties or taxes.''
the report did not say when the duty free zones were established, or provide further details
the stock market drifted in a narrow range in quiet trading today as traders looked ahead to a potentially volatile week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 2.49 to 2,037.47 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 3 to 2 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 561 up, 820 down and 443 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the january data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty about how it will go this time has lent an added element of uncertainty to a marketplace still haunted by memories of the crash last fall
grolier inc. led the active list, up 8[ at 24. hachette s.a. of france made a $21-a-share offer to acquire the company
j.p. stevens climbed 5\ to 61. the company agreed to be acquired for $61.50 a share by an investor group
homestake mining fell 1\ to 15. mesa l.p. withdrew a $20-a-share takeover bid that homestake had opposed
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .01 to 149.44. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .69 at 296.78
volume on the big board came to 58.01 million shares at noontime, down from 115.49 million at the same point friday
ply-gem industries inc. and wolverine technologies monday announced a merger agreement involving a $60.8-million tender offer by ply-gem, a new york maker of home improvement products
ply-gem secured financing from manufacturers hanover for the $18.50-a-share offer for wolverine's 3,285,000 shares of common stock, said diane cady, a ply-gem spokeswoman reached in new york
wolverine is a major manufacturer of vinyl siding and windows
gregory c. smith will continue as chairman and chief executive officer and james k. cassedy as president of dearborn-based wolverine, which will be a wholly owned ply-gem subsidiary, the companies said in a joint announcement
the merger with wolverine in combination with ply-gem's 1986 acquisitions of veriform inc. and great lakes window inc. will make ply-gem the leading company in the vinyl siding and vinyl window market today,'' said jeffrey silverman, ply-gem chairman and president
ply-gem, a maker and distributor of home improvement specialty products such as vinyl siding and windows, decorator paneling and fire-retardant lumber, reported 1987 revenues of $313 million. wolverine had revenues of $111 million for 1987
by midday, following the morning announcement, ply-gem stock was at $13 a share, up 12{ cents on the american stock exchange, and wolverine stock was at $18.12, up 50 cents on the new york stock exchange
moore mccormack resources inc. said monday its board rejected as inadequate a sweetened $450 million bid from southdown inc. and authorized the sale of a moore mccormack subsidiary as a move to enchance shareholder value
last week southdown, a houston-based cement and energy company, increased its tender offer for all of moore mccormack's outstanding common stock to $35 per share from its previous offer of $31 per share. the initial offer valued the company at about $391 million
moore mccormack called the latest bid ``inadequate and not in the best interests'' of the company and its shareholders
the board of directors of moore mccormack continues to believe that remaining independent would be a superior alternative over the long-range term,'' the company said in a statement
moore mccormack's board authorized the sale of moore mccormack energy inc., the company's oil and gas subsidiary
the company said it is ``continuing to explore and investigate the variety of ... transactions intended to enhance securityholder values, other than a significant acquisition by the company.''
southdown said its tender offer was conditional upon the valid tender of a majority of moore mccormack common stock, the invalidation of moore mccormack's ``poison pill'' anti-takeover defense and the acquisition of sufficient financing
southdown produces and sells cement and ready-mixed concrete and is active in oil and gas production. moore mccormack, of stamford, produces building materials and is involved in oil and gas exploration and production, mainly in texas and louisiana
american electronics companies are starved for computer chips. japanese chip makers are raking in windfall profits. and nobody seems quite sure what to do
this is the way of the world in the electronics industry, circa march 1988. it didn't have to be this way
the current worldwide shortage in computer chips is a classic manifestation of the law of unintended consequences, one that has resulted in higher prices of electronic products and even delays in the introduction of some new computers
one big reason for the shortage is unobjectionable: booming sales of personal computers and the retooling for a new generation of memory chips have combined to produce a cyclical squeeze on production capacity
but another reason for the shortage is that a 1986 chip agreement between the united states and japan has backfired in a way that should have been predictable
the accord, intended to benefit u.s. chip makers, was supposed to keep the japanese from ``dumping'' chips at unfairly low prices while giving the americans better access to japan's huge market
what actually came about was the creation of a de facto semiconductor cartel _ a legalized form of collusion that had the effect of setting prices above market levels and carving up markets
the japanese did raise prices of memory chips, mainly by limiting production, but the main beneficiaries were just two u.s. companies, texas instruments inc. of dallas and tiny micron technology inc. of boise, idaho
texas instruments and micron are the only american companies still selling dynamic random access memory chips, or d-rams, and they are earning a windfall
meanwhile, u.s. companies such as digital equipment corp. and hewlett-packard co. are paying more for chips than their foreign rivals pay. the consequences of that over the long term are disquieting
as for u.s. access to the japanese market, it is not happening. it was reported in january that foreigners' share of japan's market had fallen every month since june
in japan, americans are bumping their heads against a concrete ceiling. for one thing, the biggest consumers of chips in japan are also the biggest producers. it is unlikely they will buy from americans when they can take chips right off their own fabrication lines, although pressure on them should be continued
most worrisome in the long run is that the high prices japanese chip makers are fetching under the accord is giving them even more money to pour into their world-leading research and development
in exactly the same way that japanese automakers responded to ``voluntary'' restraints by moving upscale with cars like the honda acura, japanese chip makers are beginning to move upscale with more complex, expensive chips that have been the domain of the americans
so what needs to be done?
the main job, obviously, is to rebuild the american chip industry so it can compete with the japanese without the need for a de facto cartel. the 1986 accord has already been legally challenged by the european economic community
sematech seems to be a step in the right direction. the organization, to be based in austin, texas, is financed by government and industry and will work to improve manufacturing techniques, which are considered the achilles' heel of the u.s. chip makers
a bigger problem is that many of the united states' leading chip makers, such as intel corp. and national semiconductor corp., are only mid-sized companies that lack the deep pockets to compete with japanese giants such as hitachi ltd. and toshiba corp
big u.s. chip buyers such as general electric co. could give the american industry a financial shot in the arm by buying the chip makers, but they have shown little interest in the volatile and expensive business
more mergers of chip companies almost surely lie ahead. the federal government may even serve as matchmaker in some cases
but two of the most worthwhile steps to help the u.s. chip business _ and thus the electronics business _ have nothing to do with integrated circuits per se
step one would be to lower the cost of borrowing for the capital-intensive industry by cutting the federal budget deficit. step two would be to improve the quality of american technical education, on which the industry depends
those are long-term steps, to be sure. but japan did not get where it is by concentrating on the short term
standard &amp; poor's corp. said monday it will restructure its widely followed index of 500 issues traded on the new york stock exchange, effective april 6
s&amp;p's 500 composite stock price index will no longer contain a fixed number of industrial, utility, financial and transportation companies. the composite index currently includes four sector indices with a set number of stocks: 400 industrials, 40 utilities, 40 financials and 20 transportation companies
the investment research company said it will continue to calculate sector indices, but they will be referred to as the s&amp;p industrial index, the utilities index, the financial index and the transportation index. the composite index will still contain a total of 500 companies
although this is the first structural change in the s&amp;p 500 index since 1976, market analysts said it shouldn't make a significant difference for stock traders. the index, which represents more than $2 trillion in market value, is used as the basis for many index-linked investment funds
s&amp;p said the revamping is designed to respond to economic changes
the change ``reflects a major shift toward a more service-oriented u.s. economy, illustrated by the increasing number of highly-capitalized companies in the financial services industry,'' said s&amp;p executive vice president robert s. andrialis
he said the change will allow s&amp;p to be more flexible in choosing new companies for the index when openings occur and in switching companies between sectors as their businesses change. under the current system, when a company is removed from the 500-share index, usually due to a merger or acquisition, it is replaced by another company from the same sector
now, if a transportation company were dropped, for example, it could be replaced with an industrial, utility or financial company
s&amp;p also announced that effective april 6, primerica corp. and salomon inc. will be transferred from its composite index to its financial index
primerica, formerly american can co., divested itself in recent years of its container business and has made several acquisitions in the financial services area _ including the investment firm smith barney, harris upham &amp; co. in 1987
salomon, formerly phibro corp., has shifted its main focus from commodities trading to financial services
the arab energy conference opened here monday with many key arab oil ministers staying away from the missile-threatened iraqi capital
the absence of influential oil ministers made it unlikely, in the view of experts, that significant action could be taken to deal with the current imbalance between oil prices and production
in addition to debating price and production, the conference will consider some 50 papers on a variety of energy-related subjects
sources said emphasis will be given to the petrochemical industry. one paper to be discussed makes the point that arab countries produce 22.1 percent of the world's oil but less than 3 percent of the world's petrochemicals
another paper prepared by the organization of arab petroleum exporting countries estimated that the arab world has 57.3 percent of the world's proven oil reserves and 17.2 percent of the world's proven gas reserves with major potential for increasing reserves of both fuels with new technology
issam abdul-rahim al-chalabi of iraq, and his saudi counterpart, hisham nazer, were the only oil ministers from major arab oil-exporting countries present among 550 delegates to the four-day conference
though oil ministers of major arab oil-producers gave personal or professional reasons for their absences, sources suggested the recent missile attacks by iran and iraq on each others' capitals may have contributed to ministerial cancellations
seven arab nations are among 13 members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries. ten arab nations belong to the organization of arab petroleum exporting states, a sponsor of the conference along with the 22-member arab league
among opec or oapec oil ministers missing were from kuwait, libya, the united arab emirates, qatar, algeria and egypt
a paper before the conference notes that arab oil income from oil was $178 billion in 1981 and $52 in 1986
the oil cartel is currently facing deteriorating oil prices as production exceeds demand
opec has been trying to prop up its official price of $18 per barrel. but member nations have been forced to give discounts to match market prices several dollars lower
the opec ministers are divided on whether to lower production quotas in order to defend the official price or to lower the price to defend their share of the market against non-opec producers
stock prices marked time in quiet trading today as traders looked ahead to a potentially volatile week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials rose 1.49 to 2,036.47 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 4 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 619 up, 841 down and 439 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the january data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty about how it will go this time has lent an added element of uncertainty to a marketplace still haunted by memories of the crash last fall
grolier inc. led the active list, up 8[ at 24. hachette s.a. of france made a $21-a-share offer to acquire the company
j.p. stevens climbed 5\ to 61. the company agreed to be acquired for $61.50 a share by an investor group
homestake mining fell 1[ to 15[. mesa l.p. withdrew a $20-a-share takeover bid that homestake had opposed
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .01 to 149.44. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .61 at 296.70
volume on the big board came to 87.53 million shares with two hours to go
mesa limited partnership's second foray into the gold industry fell short monday when the group, controlled by oilman t. boone pickens, withdrew its $1.88 billion cash offer for homestake mining co
mesa released a statement saying it retracted its offer to obtain the entire equity interest in homestake, a leading gold producer, with a negotiated transaction for a price of $20 per share in cash
mesa spokesman david h. batchelder said the san francisco-based homestake had rejected mesa's bid. but he offered no explanation for mesa's move
the partnership made a cash offer on feb. 29 for the 93 million outstanding common shares of homestake. mesa already controlled about 3.8 percent of homestake's stock
the mesa statement said its offer was rejected march 7 by the board of directors of homestake as ``inadequate and not in the best interests of homestake and its shareholders.''
homestake had 1987 earnings of $146.4 million, two-thirds coming from homestake's sale of its interests in an australian mining operation
the company's stock traded between $18 and $24 a share before the oct. 19 stock market plunge. when pickens, mesa general partner, announced his offer, homestake stock shot up $3.50 to about $18.50 per share. late in monday's session, it stood at $15.12{ per share, down $1.12{ on the new york stock excange
the street didn't seem to be that excited about his going after homestake,'' said bob hill, vice president for the a.g. edwards investment firm in amarillo
wall street analysts said they did not perceive pickens' pursuit of homestake as a good buy
obviously, he did or he wouldn't have gone after them,'' hill said of pickens
homestake vice president richard w. stumbo took the bid seriously
you always take him seriously,'' stumbo said, adding he did not know if mesa's withdrawal was the end of its takeover efforts
homestake holds interests in oil and natural gas and mines uranium, silver and gold, as does newmont mining corp., another major gold producer targeted in an earlier, unsuccessful hostile takeover bid by pickens
new york-based newmont was approached last year by ivanhoe partners, a group led by pickens, which made a $2 billion hostile bid for control of the company
a delaware court blocked the move in october when it upheld a ``market sweep'' in which newmont's biggest shareholder, britain's consolidated gold fields plc, grabbed enough shares in a two-day buying spree to raise its holdings to nearly 50 percent of newmont and thwart the hostile bid
pickens' reputation as a corporate raider was made with high-profile bids for several major oil companies in the early 1980s, including gulf corp., phillips petroleum co. and unocal corp
mesa launched hostile takeover attempts, then pocketed millions of dollars in profits when some of the target companies either were bought out by a higher bidder or repurchased their own stock
soybean futures prices soared on the chicago board of trade monday as fears about increased soybean acreage eased. grain futures also closed higher
prices for delivery of new-crop soybeans _ those to be harvested this fall as opposed to those harvested last fall _ posted the greatest gains in reaction to talk about estimates issued monday morning by sparks commodities, a private analytical firm based in memphis, tenn
sparks reportedly pegged 1988 u.s. soybean plantings at 57.5 million acres, just slightly above last year's 57.4 million. the report followed an estimate of 60 million acres made last week by refco inc., a large commodities trading firm
sparks would not comment on the figures, which it supplies only to its subscribers
that's not the gospel, but it's the closest thing we've got for the time being,'' victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc., said of the reported sparks estimate
sparks also reportedly predicted 1988 corn plantings at 66.8 million acres compared to last year's 65.7 million. the estimate was seen as slightly bullish for corn prices
the agriculture department will release its first crop acreage estimates on march 31
at the close, wheat was 1 cent to 4 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.93{ a bushel; corn was { cent to 2{ cents higher with march at $1.97{ a bushel; oats were } cent to 2 cents higher with march at $1.89{ a bushel; soybeans were 5 cents to 12 cents higher with march at $6.12\ a bushel
stock prices drifted aimlessly in quiet trading today as traders looked ahead to a potentially volatile week
the dow jones average of 30 industrials slipped .99 to 2,033.99 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 4 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 660 up, 845 down and 426 unchanged
analysts said traders were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the january data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty about how it will go this time has lent an added element of uncertainty to a marketplace still haunted by memories of the crash last fall
grolier inc. led the active list, up 8[ at 24. hachette s.a. of france made a $21-a-share offer to acquire the company
j.p. stevens climbed 5] to 61[. the company agreed to be acquired for $61.50 a share by an investor group
homestake mining fell 1\ to 15. mesa l.p. withdrew a $20-a-share takeover bid that homestake had opposed
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks lost .04 to 149.41. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .24 at 296.33
volume on the big board came to 105.01 million shares with an hour to go
a unit of wickes cos. inc. said monday it has formed a joint venture with shiroki corp. of yokohama, japan, to design and manufacture window regulators for the north american auto market
the wickes unit, wickes manufacturing co. of southfield, mich., and shiroki currently are leading suppliers of components to automakers in the united states and japan
window regulators control the speed and position of power windows, which wickes said are expected to dominate an increasingly large share of the u.s. market
wickes manufacturing makes a variety of electroninc and mechanical auto components and last fiscal year sold about $1 billion in original equipment to automakers. it also sells smaller amounts of auto parts in the secondary market
united artists communications inc. announced that is has formed corsair pictures, a new motion picture company based in new york
denver-based united artists, one of the nation's biggest movie operators with about 2,050 motion picture screens, said monday that corsair will develop a slate of quality films made with low and moderate budgets of $3 million to $10 million each
the new company, to be privately financed by united artists, will be headed by frank perry, a film producer and director. perry, who won an academy award nomination for best director for ``david and lisa,'' will be president and chief executive officer of corsair
perry said he envisions corsair producing three or four feature films in its first year, although that could vary depending on the number of quality projects and filmmakers available. ``corsair will be governed by quality and economic logic, not quantity,'' he said
last week, united artists and united cable television corp. agreed to combine their operations into a $3.8 billion concern that would rank as one of the nation's biggest cable tv companies
united artists has about 800,000 cable subscribers, while united cable has around 1.1 million
united artists also announced monday that its taurus entertainment co., a film marketing and distribution group, will report to perry in the future. perry will also oversee the company's recently acquired interest in ``think entertainment,'' a movie production company founded and run by actress-producer shelley duvall
perry's producing and directing credits include ``last summer,'' ``diary of a mad housewife,'' ``play it as it lays,'' ``rancho deluxe,'' ``mommie dearest,'' ``compromising positions'' and ``hello again.''
husky oil ltd. of canada is considering offering texaco inc. a cash infusion of at least $1 billion to help persuade texaco to sell husky a majority interest in texaco canada ltd., according to a published report
a texaco spokeswoman declined comment on the report carried in monday's editions of the wall street journal. officials at husky, based in calgary, alberta, did not return phone calls
the journal said robert blair, co-chairman of husky, said in an interview he remains very interested in acquiring the texaco unit and will step up his efforts in a trip to new york this week
blair added that husky would be willing to pay $2.4 billion to $2.7 billion for texaco's 78 percent interest in the toronto-based unit of texaco, the journal said
the estimated purchase price does not include the possible $1 billion cash infusion from husky, the journal said. it was not immediately clear what form a cash infusion might take
blair told the journal he hopes to present texaco a ``mutually attractive plan'' under which the two canadian companies would merge under husky's control. he added that texaco would have to sell enough of its interest to give husky a stake of at least 51 percent
blair said his recent phone messages have not been answered by james kinnear, texaco's chief executive
texaco is planning to sell about $3 billion in assets as part of its plan to emerge from chapter 11 protection by late next month
texaco filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of federal bankruptcy law last april to forestall enforcement of a $10.3 billion damages judgment for interfering with pennzoil co.'s acquisition of an interest in getty oil co. in 1984. texaco settled the dispute in december by agreeing to pay pennzoil $3 billion
a flurry of buying just before the close enabled stock prices to post a gain in a quiet session today
analysts said traders were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the january data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past couple of witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty about how it will go this time has lent an added element of uncertainty to a marketplace still haunted by memories of the crash last fall
the dow jones average of 30 industrials gained 15.09 to 2,050.07
but declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the new york stock exchange, with 728 up, 793 down and 434 unchanged
big board volume totaled 131.89 million shares, down from 200.02 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index rose .61 to 150.06
oil prices fell sharply monday in response to reports that saudi arabia, opec's largest producer, had rejected calls for new restrictions on production
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark crude, lost 70 cents to settle at $15.59 per 42-gallon barrel
the contract had moved above $16 late last week after members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries called for a meeting of the cartel's pricing committee to stabilize market prices. in addition, officials of non-opec producers met last week to discuss similar concerns
the saudis believe that if current quotas are maintained, inventories are going to come down gradually,'' said bob baker, an analyst with prudential-bache securities inc
the saudis' apparent rejection of new quotas, attributed to officials attending an arab energy conference in baghdad, also dimmed hopes that key members of the 13-nation opec cartel would convene an emergency pricing meeting any time soon
action is going to be taken, but not necessarily the kind that's going to right the world in a week,'' said baker
as the mood on prices turned bearish, near-term contracts for refined products also turned downward. wholesale gasoline for april delivery lost 1.23 cents to 44.36 cents per gallon. wholesale heating oil fall 1.35 cents to 43.34 cents per gallon
analysts said the slide in prices was accelerated by technical factors as traders dumped contracts purchased in the midst of the rally late last week
everyone remains very, very nervous and unsure of the (market's) direction,'' said richard redoglio of merrill lynch energy futures
stock prices showed no clear trend monday in the quietest trading of the year as traders looked ahead to a potentially volatile week
takeover news and speculation and a late flurry of buying in blue chips provided the highlights of an otherwise uninspired session
the dow jones average of 30 industrials gained 15.09 to 2,050.07
but declining issues slightly outnumbered advances on the new york stock exchange, with 737 up, 794 down and 445 unchanged
big board volume came to 131.89 million shares, down from 200.02 million in the previous session, and the lightest total since a 111.58 million-share day dec. 29
analy were reluctant to take big positions in advance of the government's report thursday on the nation's trade balance for january
the trade deficit narrowed in the last two months of 1987, but some analysts expect the sts said tradersjanuary data to show a modest increase in the gap between exports and imports
this week's trade report will come just ahead of a quarterly ``triple witching hour'' involving a group of expiring options and futures on stock indexes
the past few witching hours have been relatively uneventful with the adoption of new procedures designed to spread out the impact of last-minute maneuvering by computer program traders
nevertheless, analysts say uncertainty aboe index closed at 296.94, up .85
internal documents indicate that g.d. searle &amp; co. may have misled doctors and a federal regulatory agency about safety characteristics of its copper-7 contraceptive, according to an attorney representing a woman who claims the device made her sterile
wall street reacted monday by knocking the stock of monsanto co., searle's parent, down $3.12{ a share to $83.37{
according to the documents, searle apparently hid complaints about the copper-7 from the u.s. food and drug administration, the attorney said
an fda task force recommended that a federal grand jury investigate whether any laws were broken by searle's allegedly misleading reports on animal studies for a number of products, including the copper-7. no charges were filed
the searle documents, produced for a trial set to start may 16 in st. paul, became public last week on order of u.s. district judge robert renner. the judge rejected searle's arguments that the memorandums be kept confidential to protect trade secrets
michael ciresi, a minneapolis attorney who represent esther kociemba, a melrose woman who claims to have been made infertile by the copper-7, said: ``these documents can be characterized as the tip of the iceberg. once all the documents are disclosed (to the public), they will collectively establish without a doubt that the copper-7 causes (infection) and searle knew about it, but did not disclose it to doctors or to women.''
nationally, there have been 17 trials involving searle's copper-7, 14 of them decided in the company's favor
kociemba's case ``will be the first case tried against searle where the jury will be presented with evidence from searle's files showing what searle knew about the hazards of the iud, when they knew about them and what they did about them _ which was to conceal the information,'' ciresi said
paul strain of baltimore, an attorney for searle, said, ``we are confident when a jury hears all the evidence, reviews all the documents and, most importantly, hears from the doctors that they will conclude the copper-7 is a good iud that does not cause infection.''
he said that documents not yet released and defense testimony will show that the company did not mislead anyone
a major issue in the suit will be whether the copper-7 tail string was a single strand of polypropylene incapable of transporting infection-causing bacteria into the uterus, as searle contends, or if it was made up of many tiny strands that could act as a tunnel for bacteria, as ciresi contends
one of the searle documents quotes a company official saying for the first time that the copper-7 string is a ``bundle of fused micro-filaments.''
the copper-7 was a popular intrauterine device from 1974 to 1988, when searle withdrew it from the market citing litigation costs. many american women continue to use copper-7 iuds and searle recently resumed manufacturing the device in order to fill foreign orders
the dollar turned in a mixed performance against other major currencies monday as traders bided their time in advance of thursday's report on the january merchandise trade deficit. gold prices edged higher
republic national bank of new york said gold was bid at $441.90 a troy ounce as of 4 p.m. est, up from $441.25 an ounce late friday
traders in europe said the dollar's immediate future was closely tied to the british pound, which has gained 10 cents against the dollar in the past month
traders were cautious about the dollar-sterling rate on the eve of tuesday's british budget statement
also in the offing were a commerce department report tuesday on the united states' fourth-quarter balance in the current account, the broadest measure of trade, and thursday's merchandise trade figures
currency traders in new york have largely been reacting to developments overseas in the last two weeks, ever since the big run-up in the british pound, said keiichi udagawa, chief trader for the bank of tokyo in new york
now it's going to be a calm before the storm, before the trade figures,'' said zlatko glamuzina, chief currency dealer for the banco di sicilia in new york
in london, the british pound edged upward to $1.8575 from $1.8535 friday. but later in new york, the pound finished the trading day at $1.8540, down from $1.8562 late friday
in tokyo the dollar closed at 127.23 japanese yen, down from 127.80 on friday. in london the dollar traded at 126.85 yen. at the end of the trading day in new york, the dollar sank to 126.79 yen from 127.29 yen late friday
other late rates for the dollar in new york, compared with friday's late rates, included: 1.6629 west german marks, up from 1.6602; 1.3717 swiss francs, up from 1.3696; 1.2572 canadian dollars, up from 1.2571; 5.6395 french francs, down from 5.6460; and 1,231.25 italian lire, up from 1,231
other late rates for the dollar in europe, compared with friday's late rates, included: 1.6645 west german marks, up from 1.6615; 1.3693 swiss francs, down from 1.3720; 5.6375 french francs, down from 5.6515; 1.8645 dutch guilders, down from 1.8680; 1,227.87 italian lire, down from 1,232.55; and 1.2577 canadian dollars, up from 1.2553
gold bullion prices gained about 50 cents in light trading
the late gold price in london, the major european center, was $441 a troy ounce bid, up from $440.50 late friday. the late zurich bid price was $441.50, up from $441
on the commodity exchange in new york, gold bullion for current delivery rose 60 cents a troy ounce to $441.90 an ounce
earlier in hong kong gold closed at $444.81 bid, up from $443.54
silver bullion traded late in london at $6.22 bid a troy ounce, down from $6.36. on new york's comex, silver bullion for current delivery rose 6.2 cents to $6.240 an ounce
soybean futures prices soared as much as 13{ cents a bushel monday after a private crop analyst predicted only a slight increase in soybean planting this year. grain futures also closed higher
on other markets, crude oil futures tumbled well below $16 a barrel; livestock and meat futures advanced sharply; precious metals posted slight gains; and stock-index futures advanced
prices for delivery of new-crop soybeans _ those to be harvested this fall as opposed to those already in storage _ posted the greatest gains on the chicago board of trade in reaction talk about estimates issued monday morning by sparks commodities inc., a private analytical firm based in memphis, tenn
sparks reportedly pegged 1988 u.s. soybean plantings at 57.5 million acres, just slightly above last year's 57.4 million acres. the report followed an estimate of about 60 million acres made last week by refco inc., a large commodities trading firm
earlier trade estimates have been as high as 64 million acres. the agriculture department will release its first 1988 crop acreage estimates on march 31
sparks would not comment on the figures, which it supplies only to its subscribers
that's not the gospel, but it's the closest thing we've got for the time being,'' victor lespinasse, a trader for dean witter reynolds inc., said of the reported sparks estimate
mickey luth, chicago-based soybean analyst for shearson lehman hutton inc., said the sparks estimate merely gave the soybean market an excuse to reclaim the losses it sustained last week
you were oversold, you were in a hole,'' luth said. ``with an excuse to rally, that's exactly what the market did.''
luth said he expected 1988 soybean planting to total 58.4 million acres
sparks also reportedly predicted 1988 corn plantings at 66.8 million acres compared to last year's 65.7 million. the estimate was seen as slightly bullish for corn prices
wheat settled 2} cents to 4 cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.95\ a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2{ cents higher with march at $1.98\ a bushel; oats were 1 cent to 2 cents higher with march at $1.90 a bushel; soybeans were 7{ cents to 13{ cents higher with march at $6.14} a bushel
oil prices fell sharply to below $16 on the new york mercantile exchange in reaction to reports that saudi arabia, opec's largest producer, had rejected calls for new restrictions on production
crude prices had moved above $16 late last week after members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries called for a meeting of the cartel's pricing committee to stabilize market prices
prices for future delivery of refined products also tumbled
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 63 cents to 70 cents lower with april at $15.59 cents a barrel; heating oil was 1.30 cents to 1.38 cents lower with april at 43.34 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was 1.23 cents to 1.33 cents lower with april at 44.36 cents a gallon
livestock and meat futures posted sharp gains on the chicago mercantile exchange in response to stronger demand for cattle and tighter supplies of hogs, resulting in higher cash prices for both
weather worries also helped boost the livestock futures, analysts said. a winter storm moving out of the rocky mountains could slow the movement of animals to market in the northern great plains states, said tom o'hare, an analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
live cattle settled .70 cent to 1.18 cents higher with april at 74 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .38 cent to 1.42 cents higher with march at 82.85 cents a pound; hogs were unchanged to 1.50 cents higher with april at 45.22 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were 1.40 cents to 1.90 cents higher with march at 53.57 cents a pound
silver futures advanced slightly while gold finished nearly unchanged on the commodity exchange in new york
gold settled unchanged to 50 cents higher with april at $443.10 a troy ounce; silver was 5.9 cents to 6.2 cents higher with march at $6.24 a troy ounce
stock-index futures gained on the chicago mercantile exchange, where the contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled .90 point higher at 266.40. the underlying spot index gained 1.43 points, closing at 266.37.  
american telephone &amp; telegraph co. is urging shareholders to reject a resolution from a white supremacist organization calling on the company to phase out its affirmative action program
the resolution is included in the proxy materials for the company's annual meeting, to be held in denver on april 20
the national alliance of arlington, va., argues that affirmative action programs ``may contribute towards discrimination against white people'' and ``may contribute to a decline in the quality of a company's work force.''
at&amp;t responds that affirmative action plans are necessary to qualify for government business, are a ``sound and fair business practice'' and have improved employee morale and performance, spokeswoman luann gardner said monday
the national alliance is described in the encyclopedia of associations as an organization dedicated to creating racial and cultural pride among whites and ``building a new order in american life.''
oilman t. boone pickens said monday the petroleum industry will recover soon, but never to the heights reached during its boom days in the early 1980s
pickens, chairman of mesa limited parnership of amarillo, said oil should reach at least $18 a barrel by the end of the year, far below its highs near $40 a barrel in 1982
pickens told delegates to the 111th texas and southwestern cattle raisers convention that the state needs to continue its trend of economic diversification
sometime, oil production in texas won't be too important. taxes from the oil industry are consistently going down,'' pickens said
to believe that the oil industry is going to lead the state of the doldrums we're in i don't believe it will be the case,'' he said. ``i do believe the industry will get better over a period of time, but it will never be the leader that we had been in the past.''
pickens said the oil and gas rig count would never reach its peak of nearly 5,000 in 1981
i don't believe in my lifetime that i will see 2,000 rigs operating in the united states,'' pickens said
pickens said that consumers should not fear the long lines at the pumps such as those during the arab oil embargo of 1973 and 1974
opec is going to provide the floor price for you. just give them a little time and they'll get their act in order and they'll give you an $18 floor,'' he said
pickens said he opposed an oil import fee because it would spark government control
investor a. robert abboud said monday he is confident debt holders of first city bancorporation of texas inc. will surrender their notes to the bank for less than face value
on march 4, more than 71 percent of the houston-based bank holding company's 37 million shareholders approved a $1.5 billion federal bailout plan
the plan _ which would be the second largest government bank bailout _ calls for $970 million in federal assistance, a $500 million infusion of capital raised privately by an investor group headed by abboud, and a spinoff of $1.79 billion in book value of poorly performing assets
first city, the fourth-largest bank firm in texas, grew quickly during the texas oil boom, but was hammered by energy and real estate losses when oil prices plummeted. for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss
under a buyout plan that was made a condition of the bailout, holders of first city's debt securities would be paid less than the face value of their notes, said alan whitney, director of communications for the federal deposit insurance corp
the amounts offered to note holders ranged from 35 cents to 45 cents on the dollar, he said
but abboud, who would head the bank under the plan, told federal regulators in washington this weekend that not enough of the note holders have agreed to sell at those prices. the agreement provides that 90 percent of the debt holders turn over their notes by a 4 p.m. cst tuesday deadline
during a monday afternoon news conference in houston, abboud would not say how many debt holders had submitted their notes, but expressed confidence the deal can be closed by month's end
there's a high degree of confidence and enthusiasm as presently structured,'' said abboud, who was wearing a ``yes we can! first city'' button on his lapel
i would ask the other debt holders who have not yet tendered to cooperate with us and submit their securities. we're prepared to close if conditions are fully satisfied,'' he added
abboud said debt holders are getting more than if the bank were liquidated
the offer on the table is basically the offer until tuesday afternoon,'' he said. ``there is no intent on anybody's part to make any material changes in the monetary terms of the offering.''
last week, first city bonds were trading well above the prices being offered under the bailout plan. analysts said this indicated that some investors were gambling that federal regulators would come up with a higher price for the first city debt
the investors are betting that the fdic, in its eagerness to wrap up the first city deal, will either sweeten the offer or reduce the percentage of shares that need to be tendered
still other analysts said last week that the fdic could refuse to raise the offer for fear of setting a precedent for future bank bailouts
other options available to the fdic, the analysts said, include cancelling the abboud deal and reopening bidding for the bank, or a move by the fdic to itself take over first city, as it did with continental illinois bank and trust of chicago in 1984
first city has assets of $11 billion and operates 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota
the united auto workers union and mazda motor manufacturing corp. in usa reached tentative agreement monday on an initial contract covering workers at the automaker's only u.s manufacturing facility
details of the agreement, covering more than 2,000 members of uaw local 3000 at mazda's plant near flat rock, mich., were withheld pending a ratification vote thursday, the union and mazda said
black &amp; decker corp. on monday disclosed previously confidential information received from american standard inc. that showed the takeover target expected sales and earnings to rise substantially by 1992
american standard had shared the information as part of its negotiating strategy with black &amp; decker, a tool and appliance company that has been pursuing the plumbing and air conditioning maker since late january
black &amp; decker has an outstanding offer of $73 a share, or $2.27 billion, to acquire american standard
it wasn't clear whether the information would influence black &amp; decker's next move. american standard said sunday it was considering other bids from undisclosed suitors, including one worth $75 a share or $2.35 billion, and gave black &amp; decker until wednesday to make another offer
as quoted by black &amp; decker, the information received from american standard included its secret five-year plan with sales and cash flow figures and the basic economic assumptions underlying them
they showed american standard expected sales to rise from $3.8 billion this year to more than $4.7 billion by the end of 1992, and earnings to double to $304 million
both companies said the disclosure was required by federal securities laws because it could have a bearing on whether black &amp; decker changed its position in the takeover battle. but securities analysts said it was highly unusual that the information was released
black &amp; decker is involved in a ``contentious battle,'' said william h. miller, who follows the company for legg, mason, wood, walker in baltimore. ``if the information works to discourage another bidder, that works in black &amp; decker's interest,'' he said. if the returns look crummy, it could discourage someone else.''
stanley fishman, analyst for fahnestock &amp; co., in new york, said ``i've never heard of that before. confidential means confidential where i was brought up
if it is not unique, it's nearly unique,'' said fishman. ``we (analysts) can't even get five-year forecasts.''
share prices closed slightly higher in thin trading monday in what traders said was cautious optimism ahead of tuesday's release of the british budget
the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index closed up 7.9 points at 1,819.5. the index had been up by 9.0 points at mid-afternoon after a wall street slightly higher than friday's close
volume fell to 337.1 million shares from 688.2 million on friday
traders said many participants stayed on the sidelines ahead of chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson's budget speech to parliament on tuesday
economists are forecasting personal tax cuts amounting to 3 billion to 4 billion pounds _ about $5.5 billion to $7.4 billion at current exxchange rates _ and a fiscal 1989 budget that is balanced or slightly in surplus
also boosting shares were better-than-expected results from glaxo holdings, the giant pharmaceuticals concern, traders said. glaxo announced its pre-tax profit rose 5.6 percent to 397 million pounds in the six months ended dec. 31, exceeding market expectations
glaxo finished up 27 pence at 10.82 pounds a share
newspaper and television station operator media general inc. said monday it sued unwanted suitor burt sugarman, the los angeles-based investor and tv producer, accusing him of making statements designed to create speculation in media general's stock
the suit filed in federal court in richmond, va., where media general is based, seeks an injunction barring sugarman from such actions and requiring sugarman to sell the 10 percent of the company's stock he has acquired
the suit also seeks unspecified monetary damages
at the same time, media general said its board had ``carefully considered'' sugarman's $61.50 per share, or $1.58 billion, offer for the 90 percent of the company he doesn't already own and decided not to pursue it
sugarman was out of the office and not available for comment, a receptionist said
the suit accuses sugarman of making ``inaccurate and incomplete'' statements to the press and in securities and exchange commission filings `designed to create speculation concerning media general stock and to help him in a possible proxy contest.''
the suit also claims sugarman has, in effect, begun seeking proxies through his statements in the press without filing required sec documents in advance
media general's stock closed monday at $47.25, down 37{ cents
the suit is the latest salvo in two-week-old tug of war between sugarman and the family of media general's chairman, d. tennant bryan, which controls a majority of the company's voting power
if sugarman succeeds in putting his proposal before shareholders, the company said, the tennant family will vote against it
the tennant family owns 71 percent of the company's class b common stock. although there are only 559,168 class b shares, they have the voting power to elect seven of the company's 10 directors
media general has 28 million class a shares, which have one vote each and elect three directors
sugarman, who owns 10 percent of the company's class a stock and none of the class b, has argued that the disproportionate voting rule doesn't apply if a holder of more than 10 percent of the company's stock proposes a merger
media general says its counsel disagrees
media general, based in richmond, owns a number of daily newspapers, including the richmond (va.) times-dispatch and news leader, the winston-salem (n.c.) journal and the tampa (fla.) tribune, plus 32 weeklies in southern california and a 40 percent interest in garden state newspapers inc. that owns 18 dailies and four weeklies in eight states
it also owns television stations, including wcbd-tv in charleston, s.c., wjks-tv in jacksonville, fla., and wxfl-tv in tampa, fla
sugarman is making the takeover offer through two companies he controls _ barris industries inc., the maker of successful televison programs such as ``the dating game'' and ``the gong show,'' and giant group ltd., the parent of keystone cement co. and giant cement co. order. picks up 9th graf, federated stock...</note>
federated department stores inc. on monday agreed to a sweetened friendly merger with r.h. macy &amp; co., which upped its initial bid by $200 million in cash to $6.3 billion, giving it an edge over hostile competitor campeau corp
under terms of the amended merger agreement unanimously approved by the federated board, macy will offer $77.35 a share in cash for 80 percent of federated's stock, up from $74.50 per share for the same portion in its original offer
macy plans to swap shares in a new company _ macy's-federated inc. _ and issue convertible debt securities for the remaining 20 percent of federated shares. the offer expires on april 4
meanwhile, toronto-based campeau indicated it had no immediate intention of revising its rival bid. the company late monday extended its $6.18 billion tender offer through friday in advance of a court hearing over suits filed by both sides to challenge each other's bids
u.s. district judge leonard sand indicated at the lengthy evening hearing that he would not rule before wednesday either on macy's request to force campeau to extend its tender offer past friday or on campeau's challenge to federated's ``poison pill'' takeover defense
sand said he was seeking an opinion from the securities and exchange commission on macy's contention that campeau's latest tender offer _ which was revised from a previous, lower bid _ constitutes a brand-new offer that must remain open past its scheduled expiration. macy hopes that by forcing campeau to extend its offer it will ease the pressure on federated stockholders to accept the canadian company's bid
the judge said he would not get the sec opinion before wednesday and would not rule on either suit before then
however, sand stated that both buyout offers would have to remain in effect for at least three business days after he ruled on the poison pill issue, effectively extending campeau's offer through next week
federated stock closed unchanged at $66 a share on the new york stock exchange
in consideration for the sweetened offer from macy, federated granted macy a ``lockup'' option to purchase its bullock's-bullock's wilshire and i. magnin retail divisions if the merger is not successful. federated said the divisions would sell for at least $800 million and $150 million, respectively
campeau has valued those divisions at a total of about $1.25 billion
additionally, macy granted federated's board ``sole discretion'' over whether to maintain its ``poison pill,'' or shareholder-rights plan, which makes unwanted takeovers prohibitively expensive. under its previous agreement, cincinnati-based federated would have rescinded the plan in a merger with macy
in recommending shareholders tender their stock to macy, federated called the new offer ``substantially more favorable to federated stockholders than macy's previous offer and the coercive campeau two-tier offer.''
campeau on monday extended its hostile offer to buy 70.5 million of federated's stock, or 80 percent, at $75 a share from tuesday until friday to take pressure off the federal judge who was to preside over the courtroom battle
campeau said the remaining 20 percent of federated stock would be acquired later for $44 cash per share in a subsequent merger, giving the deal an aggregate value of $68 per share
shortly after campeau's move was announced, federated urged its shareholders to hold onto their stock, reversing an unusual recommendation issued sunday, when federated ``reluctantly'' advised shareholders to tender their shares
although federated is opposed to merging with campeau, the retailer intended to make sure its shareholders got the higher price offered in the first stage of campeau's two-tier buyout bid
federated said later monday that its board again might advise shareholders to tender to campeau ``to avoid the risk of being relegated'' to the $44-a-share ``backend.''
if campeau were to succeed in its bid, federated vowed to go to court, and urged shareholders to do the same rather than ``accepting the grossly inadequate price which campeau has proposed for its backend merger.''
federated owns department store chains including bloomingdale's, burdine's, filene's, foley's, rich's and bullock's. campeau has indicated that if successful in acquiring federated it planned to sell filene's and foley's to may department stores co. for about $1.5 billion
macy has nearly 100 department and specialty stores, while campeau owns allied stores corp
campeau said it expects to obtain all the necessary financing to complete its buyout by the march 18 expiration date, but federated repeatedly has challenged that claim
a continental airlines advertisement designed to catch readers' attention has caught some flak from the new york city consumer affairs department
the department said monday it had cited the airline for a march 10 ad in the new york times that it claims gave the false impression that the u.s. internal revenue service was involved with the airline's promotion
the ad in question stated: ``fly continental to be out of the country on april 15 and the irs will allow you an automatic filing extension.''
angelo aponte, commissioner of consumer affairs, said the ad falsely implied a sponsorship by the irs and falsely asserted that consumers must leave the country in order to get the automatic extension to file
aponte also said the ad failed to give important information concerning the filing of extensions
bruce hicks, a spokesman at continental's houston headquarters, said an irs official indicated last week there were no problems with the ad and that it was straightforward and accurate
we're mostly very puzzled that the department would insinuate itself into an issue where there is no argument,'' hicks said. ``the irs has stated that it has no problems whatsoever with the advertisement.''
gary walker, a spokesman for the consumer affairs department, said continental was cited friday and sent a notice via overnight mail to its headquarters. continental was directed to send a representative to the department on march 25 and pay fines of up to $500 for each violation
hicks said no one at the airline's headquarters had seen the notice, but the airline's representatives would attempt to clear up the issue with the consumer affairs department
