orcement</head>
government efforts to curb the flow of smuggled drugs have failed and may have actually boosted profits for latin american cocaine and marijuana growers, a rand corp. study said thursday
latin american drug producers make money whether the drugs are successfully smuggled or intercepted, said the study by the private think-tank's national defense research institute. if the drugs are intercepted, more must be shipped
thus, we conclude that cocaine interdiction has probably increased the export earnings of producers in bolivia, colombia and peru,'' the study said
the u.s. government has tripled its spending to battle smuggling and has seized more narcotics, but an even greater amount is getting through to meet demands of american drug users who can pay higher prices, the study said
the study noted that from fiscal 1981 to fiscal 1985, seizures of cocaine rose from less than 2 metric tons to more than 25 metric tons, while seizures of marijuana were halved from 4,000 metric tons to 2,000 metric tons
meantime, the study said, the amount of cocaine believed to be reaching the united states rose from between 38 and 68 metric tons in 1981 to between 111 and 153 metric tons in 1985, the latest year for which figures were available
for marijuana, the amount reaching the united states rose from between 8,700 and 12,700 metric tons in 1981 to between 9,447 and 12,228 metric tons in 1985
the study said it based its figures on estimates from the u.s. drug enforcement administration
from fiscal 1981 to fiscal 1986, federal spending on interception of drugs rose from $237 million to $801 million, the study said
a woman accused of killing a psychiatric social worker at a hospital feb. 16 was ruled incompetent to stand trial thursday
allegheny county judge robert dauer ordered 31-year-old edith anderson committed to mayview state hospital for at least 90 days after the director of the county's behavior clinic diagnosed her a paranoid schizophrenic
ms. anderson, who has a 13-year history of mental problems, is charged with shooting linda rosen, 27, at st. francis medical center and holding three people hostage for about 90 minutes before surrendering
the woman shouted angrily during thursday's hearing about being sent to mayview. in three months, the judge will decide whether she is fit to stand trial
earlier this week ms. anderson told the pittsburgh post-gazette she shot ms. rosen after becoming angry at the thought that the mental health system that once forced her to take drugs was now keeping them from her
after running out of drugs that controlled her schizophrenia, she had problems obtaining more medication because her welfare prescription card had expired, she said
she said that when she carried a handgun into the hospital, ``i felt ... i got the power tonight, i am the one. i was in charge like i probably will never be again.''
hours before the slaying, a mental health counselor at braddock general hospital started the process of committing her to a mental hospital after she said, ``i feel it makes sense to kill,'' authorities said
but before the counselor could complete the commitment, ms. anderson abruptly left the hospital. update with comment from sandinistas.</note>
the house on thursday rejected a package of $30 million in ``humanitarian'' aid for nicaragua's contras and for young victims of the war. the proposal had been pushed by democrats as an alternative to military aid for the rebels
the final vote of 216-208 was a defeat for house speaker jim wright and his democratic lieutenants, who had sought to craft a package that would diffuse pressure for future military aid for the rebels. but it also damaged administration hopes that the contras, whose last u.s. aid ran out tuesday, could be given any new infusion of aid in the near future
liberal democrats opposed to the contras joined republicans, who thought the package too weak, in voting it down
house action came just a month after the house rejected president reagan's request for both humanitarian and military aid
the democratic package had included money for food, clothing, medicine and shelter for the anti-sandinista rebels and a $14 million program of aid for children injured in the nicaraguan civil war
reagan welcomed the vote, but wright, d-texas, said it may prove ``a somewhat pyrrhic victory'' for republicans. wright said he had no immediate plans to revive a contra aid plan, and other democrats vowed to make any new try for aid difficult
as far as i'm concerned, it ought to be a damned lengthy process,'' said rep. david obey, d-wis., chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over the matter, and a contra opponent
this has effectively stopped aid for the near future,'' added rep. steny hoyer, d-md
in a written statement, reagan called on congress ``to act urgently to develop an aid package which is effectively deliverable and of sufficient quantity to sustain the nicaraguan freedom fighters
if not, the prospects for peace and democracy inside nicaragua will diminish quickly,'' reagan said
the house had set up a procedure under which the democrat-written package would come before the chamber as an amendment to a competing but similar republican bill. it was adopted on a vote of 215 to 210, replacing the gop version. but minutes later, the entire package was defeated on a final vote. the house never voted on the republican plan
rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who led the republican debate, said supporters of contra aid were never given an option they could support
this plan didn't do anything,'' he said. ``it was just a lousy, lousy bill. we were saying we weren't going to vote for it, and they didn't believe it.''
as he returned to the white house from a nato summit in brussels, belgium, reagan said ``i'm very happy'' when asked about the defeat of the democratic package. spokesman marlin fitzwater explained the president meant he was happy to have another ``chance to work on an adequate package of humanitarian aid for the freedom fighters.''
however, a spokeswoman for the contras said in miami that the leadership of the nicaraguan resistance, a contra umbrella group, had wanted the measure to pass
every time the united states turns its back on the contras, it puts us in a less favorable position,'' said contra spokeswoman marta sacasa. the sandinistas ``will become even more intransigent and more hard line...
we are fighting against an enemy that doesn't have these kinds of problems. the aid from the soviet union has not stopped flowing to the sandinistas,'' ms. sacasa said
the sandinista government hailed the vote and called for direct talks between reagan and nicaraguan president daniel ortega
the vote ``must contribute to the peace efforts taken by the presidents of the central american countries,'' a statement released by government spokesman manuel espinoza said
reagan, in a letter from brussels, said the democratic plan ``does not meet the essential criteria'' of maintaining military pressure on the sandinistas
wright called the dispute over the aid package ``a battle for peace in nicaragua, and for a constructive role for the united states in central america as opposed to a destructive role.''
reagan, in his letter, agreed that the vote represented ``a watershed in our policies toward central america.'' but he said the democratic proposal would have led ``to rapid debilitation of the resistance and further encouragement of sandinista intransigence.''
the republican alternative, he said, would ave kept alive ``prospects for democracy and meaningful talks toward peace.''
the democratic package included about $16 million in food, clothing, medicine and shelter for the rebels, intended to last at least through june; and $14 million to set up a fund to help children injured in the seven-year nicaraguan civil war
on feb. 3, the house defeated, 219-211, a $36.2 million reagan proposal that included money for weapons and other military equipment
in debate thursday, both sides argued that their version would best enhance a central american peace process
our opportunity today is to construct a united position on nicaragua policy for the first time in eight years,'' said rep. lee hamilton, d-ind., a sponsor of the democratic package
it says to the contras that the united states is not going to provide them the means to make war. but neither is the united states going to turn away from them,'' hamilton said
but rep. william broomfield, r-mich., called the proposal ``a surrender package. it could turn the freedom fighters into refugees in their own country.''
cease-fire talks between the two warring sides were stalled as the debate occurred in congress
but nicaraguan president daniel ortega proposed for the first time holding high-level direct talks inside nicaragua, without cardinal miguel obando y bravo, who has been serving as a mediator. the contras agreed to a meeting, but only if obando were included as a ``witness and guarantor.''
in seeking to craft a majority for their package, democrats were faced with challenges from at least two sides. they needed the votes of moderates who were reluctant to totally abandon the rebels, believing that they provide useful pressure to keep the sandinistas bargaining in good faith
they also needed the votes of the party's liberal wing, most of whom have steadfastly refused to vote for aid to the rebels in any form
party leaders argued that passage of this purely ``humanitarian'' aid bill would lessen chances that reagan could come back to congress soon with a request for weapons and ammunition to sustain the contras
the republican alternative contained more money for the rebels _ about $22 million _ and placed fewer restrictions on the way the contras could use the aid, allowing purchase of non-lethal military supplies. the gop package also contained a children's aid fund similar to that proposed by democrats
the gop package also would have permitted the president to ask for military aid any time after april 15 and would have expedited action on such a request
even before the house acted, white house chief of staff howard baker said the administration would go to the senate for whatever it failed to obtain in the house. ``we have good strength in the senate,'' he said
republicans noted that the democratic bill would turn over responsibility for delivery of the supplies to the defense department, rather than the existing cia-run supply network. even if the pentagon retained the private contractors now used by the cia to make supply flights, u.s. military personnel would have to be present in the region to oversee them, edwards said
the republican alternative would have left the delivery of supplies in the hands of the cia
jackson, a native of south carolina, said: ``the cornerstone of anti-poverty policy is full employment at adequate wages. punitive work programs aren't the answer for families on welfare. people need livable wages, access to education, training, and affordable child care. we also need strong affirmative action and comparable-worth policies to ensure equal opportunity to hold good jobs at adequate wages. ..
we must significantly increase the minimum wage, to at least $4.65 an hour, and index it to average wages. ... we need a uniform, national benefit to needy families, single-parent and two-parent alike ... (and) a comprehensive, universal national health care program
we need to change the incentives for corporations to close plants on workers here and move them to repressed labor markets abroad.''
the key to reducing rural poverty is a rural development program designed to return the profits of rural labor to the countryside. a rural development program must begin with a commitment to preserving the family farm.''
poverty is a curse wherever it is prevalent, but rural poverty is particularly devastating as it can drain entire communities of their resources and productivity.''
simon proposes an $8 billion public works program, the guaranteed job opportunity program, to ``provide a job opportunity for those who want to work'' and earn 10 percent more than welfare or unemployment compensation
we must bring farm prices back up, and expand our farm economy with farm-related manufacturing. ... we need farm policies that encourage greater diversification,'' including loans to give farmers ``time to make the transition to a new crop.''
simon is co-sponsoring legislation to create a $2.5 billion federal child care program, which he called ``a particular concern in rural areas because of the distances between jobs ... and the lack of well-developed public transportation.''
here are the republicans' replies:
opening markets abroad is my top agricultural priority ... we should also concentrate on developing new markets for our farm products at home. i strongly support the development of alcohol fuels. ..
finally, we should emphasize development of our rural economy. america has been hit hard in recent years. what rural america must do is attract new businesses by offering a productive work force and strong infrastructure. to help rural america rebuild itself, we should have a partnership of the federal, state, and local governments, and the private sector. ...''
we should ensure that rural hospitals are treated fairly under federal health programs'' and create ``rural, as well as urban, enterprise zones.''
i am committed to a federal role in helping those americans who need help in entering the mainstream of society. as someone who is disabled as the result of wounds received during world war ii, i am sensitive to the needs of people who, due to factors beyond their control, may need a boost in climbing the ladder of opportunity. for these people, i am committed to continuing and strengthening programs that provide assistance and promote the goal of economic self-sufficiency, not dependence on government aid
furthermore, i would ensure that the benefits of the federal programs reach rural communities. currently, federal funding formulas, particularly those which target low-income groups, discriminate against rural america. retraining programs should focus on the explosion in services and information-based industries. and finally, the federal government should use existing loan programs to foster private investment in rural industries.''
i believe the best way to make opportunity real for every rural community across the south is to lower interest rates and income tax rates, while focusing new pro-growth incentives for entrepreneurship, investment and business growth in depressed rural areas
i have proposed enterprise zones for depressed urban and rural areas. experience with state enterprise zones proves that federal tax incentives, regulatory relief, and community involvement can unleash a flood of new seed capital, new businesses, and new hope for the rural south.''
the costly welfare bureaucracy must be steamlined so that funds reach those truly in need. ... i would initiate measures that would restore people to productive lives, while giving special attention to the needs of single women with children, and the long-term health care needs of the elderly
we need a youth opportunity wage to bring our young people into the job market, and more on-the-job training for them. ... the needs of our rural citizens deserve the same priority as those of their city counterparts.''
resolving poverty in the rural south goes hand-in-hand with upgrading excellence in education. education is the turnkey.''
robertson proposed launching a private program ``to combat illiteracy among america's poor _ all without spending one dime in government assistance. ... i would move swiftly to mobilize every resource to provide rural students with qualified teachers and a competitive, quality education _ an urgent need in the south.''
with the decline of industrial relocation to the sunbelt, more creative initiatives must be taken to stimulate the southern economy. ... strategies of cooperation between government, universities and business that helped spark an economic revival in the northeast can be adapted to the unique growth potential of the south.''
the deaths of 14 hospital patients from tainted drugs has prompted an investigaton of india's pharmaceutical industry and accusations that health is being sacrificed to greed and corruption
adulterators and purveyors of death move freely in society, heads high,'' said judge bakhtavar lentin of the bombay high court, who led the 17-month inquiry
he finished nearly three months ago but his findings have not been made public. the 14 patients, who were from the lower middle class and ranged in age from 10 to 75, died two years ago from the effects of tainted glycerol, a drug used to treat edema, or abnormal swelling
failure of the maharashtra state government to release the report has encouraged charges of slipshod manufacturing in india's 16,000 drug companies and of government connivance in certifying substandard drugs
chief minister s.b. chavan, the highest elected official of maharashtra, appointed lentin as an investigating magistrate, but the government is not obligated to prosecute on the basis of his report and the law does not require the report to be made public
lentin has pressed to have his findings made public. chavan said the report will be presented to the legislature in march but has not given a date
state governments certify drugs in india and 60 percent of the industry is located in maharashtra, a western state of which bombay is the capital. some other states also use the maharashtra government laboratory for drug certification
india's drug business is worth $1.8 billion a year and exports total $203 million of that, but there is no indication tainted products have been exported
most finished medicines go to the soviet union, africa, the middle east and southeast asia. bulk drugs also are sold to manufacturers in europe, the united states and australia
indubhai a. modi, president of the indian drug manufacturers association, said all companies are being blamed for the shoddy work done by a few small ones. according to figures presented to parliament, 14 percent of indian drugs tested in 1986-87 were substandard
dr. arun bal, secretary of the association for consumer action on safety and health, says about 40,000 drug formulations are produced in india, compared with 250 the world health organization describes as essential
even the federal drug controller does not have an exact figure,'' he said. ``this is ridiculous.''
the industry has been under attack since the 14 patients died in january 1986 at the government-run jamshetjee jejeebhoy hospital in bombay after being given glycerol contaminated with toxic diethylene glycol
lentin's inquiry took testimony from 120 witnesses, and charges of perjury were lodged against a former state health minister and four other people. the investigation was conducted in public, not a common practice in india, and unearthed facts embarrassing to state officials
one was that the tainted glycerol originally was labeled ``industrial glycerine,'' was substandard even for that category and went through several middlemen before being packed for hospital use
charges were made that employees of the state food and drug administration sometimes drank rather than tested samples of ``country liquor,'' or illicit alcohol, sent for analysis
there were complaints that agency employees demanded bribes. a drug company owner, j. sipahilalani, testified: ``diwali comes more than once every year for fda officers.'' diwali is an indian holiday on which gifts are given
the most sensational revelation, a list of 582 drugs declared substandard but still on the market, became known as the fda ``murder book.'' among the products were medicines used for typhoid and for serious diarrhea, often a cause of death among indian infants
included were drugs made by major indian companies and subsidiaries of multinational manufacturers: parke davis, raptakos brett, rallis india, roche products and lupin laboratories
some companies whose products were listed described the defects as minor and said they were caused by later handling, not manufacturing
v.h. bhat, a spokesman for roche, said chipped sugar coating on vitamin tablets ``could be due to mishandling by persons concerned or in transport.'' c.m. hattangadi, president of parke davis-india, said some tablets found to contain less than the stated amount of ingredients were a ``stray case'' that ``could be due to high humidity, high temperature or poor transport arrangements.''
state officials concede privately that proper procedures were not followed in buying the tainted glycerol and said some fda employees have been suspended
a senior doctor at jamshetjee jejeebhoy hospital said a report in 1972 recommended changes in hospital rules for buying and using medicines, but it was not implemented. he spoke on condition of anonymity
drug makers say indian drugs have been instrumental in increasing the average life span of indians from 32 years in 1947 to 54 today, and that the more than 600 percent increase of exports in a decade was achieved by quality
we want spurious drug manufacturers prosecuted for murder,'' said modi, president of the manufacturers association, ``but for a microscopic minority, why paint us all black?''
ibrahim radaydeh's name is scrawled on walls all over town. he is a marked man and knows it. his fellow palestinians may kill him as an informer
palestinians suspected of collaborating with israel have been attacked by their neighbors. one was lynched
it is a sign of the spread and greater organization of the arab uprising that began 12 weeks ago in the occupied west bank and gaza strip
israel was shocked when other villagers in qabatiyeh hanged mohammed ayad from a utility pole and burned his house. during the five-hour rampage last week, ayad fired on the crowd with an israeli-issue uzi submachine gun, killing a 4-year-old boy
the palestine liberation organization applauded the lynching in leaflets distributed in the west bank
arsonists have burned shops or homes of other suspects, many of whom have been identified by name on a pirate arabic-language radio station
about two dozen palestinians have renounced connections with israel over mosque loudspeakers in the past two weeks, handed over israeli-supplied weapons to village leaders and received letters saying they have reformed, the arab-run palestine press service reported
it said most west bank villages are believed to have a few collaborators, although the agency estimated they total less 1 percent of the 800,000 arabs in the territory
residents say there are about 10 suspects in obediyeh, a town of 7,000 people on the outskirts of bethlehem. the main job of informers in the current turmoil is to give israeli authorities the names of activists in their villages
some work for money, special privileges or promotions in their jobs in israel. others became informers in exchange for shorter sentences after they were arrested
israeli soldiers have done little to help the collaborators, and leaders of both major parties have said that may cost israel the few allies it has among palestinians
as a jew and a soldier, i am ashamed,'' former defense minister ariel sharon of the right-wing likud bloc said after ayad was lynched. ``how could we have left this man without help for so many hours? this was a moral failure.''
amnon linn, a legislator from the center-right labor party, said: ``now every arab in the occupied territories knows this is what he can expect if he is working with us to achieve peace.''
radaydeh, 41, is suspected of helping his nephew, ali abu bakr, give the israelis information. abu bakr is said to have bragged about a year ago that he worked with the army
his neighbors were willing to overlook it then, but not now in the heat of the uprising
he three-room home, where he lived with his wife and six children, was gutted by fire last week and he fled the town. his burned-out car still sits outside the shell
if abu bakr tries to come back here, he will be massacred,'' said an elderly man, barefoot and wearing a long robe, who gave his name only as khalid. ``parents whose sons were arrested will be after him.''
some villagers said they had suspected radaydeh for months but most became convinced he was a collaborator only last weekend, when he was seen standing on a dirt road watching about 100 masked villagers protest
no soldiers were there, but the next night troops entered town and arrested 32 of the protesters
that was enough for radaydeh's neighbors. spray-painted messages like this appeared on the walls of homes throughout obediyeh: ``we warn collaborators like ibrahim radaydeh to flee as soon as possible. beware, hypocrites.''
one protester who not at home when the soldiers came was 31-year-old jamil, who would not give his last name
collaborators are worse than the israelis,'' he said. ``they are an internal enemy. they know everything and can do more harm. radaydeh has no future in this village.''
jamil stood outside a friend's house watching the road for signs of israeli army jeeps
during an interview in his home, radaydeh insisted on his innocence. he squinted nervously, smoking a cigarette
i want you to write that i went to a bethlehem newspaper and asked them to publish an announcement denouncing my nephew, abu bakr,'' he said. ``i think collaborators should be lynched. i want the plo to know i am not one. these are rumors spread by a few vicious children.''
his neighbors are unmoved
mahtar assin, the mukhtar, or town leader, sipped thick, sweet arabic coffee and said: ``whatever he says, the palestinian revolution may well take its revenge next on ibrahim. if he wants to be safe, radaydeh should leave obediyeh now.''
his name didn't appear on the agenda, but it was on nearly every leader's lips during the first nato summit since mikhail s. gorbachev assumed power in the kremlin three years ago
gorbachev was a shadow on the wall as president reagan and leaders of 15 western democracies tried to size up their potential foe
the two-day session was designed mainly to present a united front on key arms control issues before reagan travels to moscow in may or june for his fourth summit with the soviet commmist party leader
but the alliance meeting showed how intensely washington and its north atlantic treaty organization allies are trying to assess the implications of gorbachev's efforts to open up parts of soviet society. they wonder whether it will help western security or harm it
the meeting also underscored the difference in western views _ particularly between washington and london on one hand and paris and bonn on the other _ about how nato governments should deal with gorbachev
some want to give gorbachev the benefit of the doubt; others do not
the issue is important to nato because gorbachev in recent months appears to have succeeded in portraying himself to much of the west european public as more of a peace seeker than the west's leaders
a gallup poll last year said 58 percent of britons thought russia sincerely wanted peaceful relations with nato, while only 33 percent thought its foreign policy initiatives should be treated with great suspicion
the west german magazine der spiegel says that according to recent polls conducted on its behalf, gorbachev has become the first soviet leader to get a higher popularity rating than an american president
the reagan administration is worried about the popularity among many west europeans of gorbachev's goal of eliminating all nuclear weapons from the european continent
washington fears that if this happened the trans-atlantic partnership would be severed and western europe would be vulnerable to soviet intimidation
a joint nato declaration thursday noted ``encouraging signs of change'' in soviet policies and welcomed moves to open up the east bloc societies
but it also said the western nations must ``look beyond pronouncements'' for tangible and lasting changes that directly address the issues that have kept the european continent divided for four decades
this was a reference partly to what the nato countries consider to be a systematic denial by the soviets of basic human rights for their citizens, and, in part, the soviet military domination of eastern europe
yet for all their words of caution, some western leaders appear increasingly convinced that gorbachev is genuine in saying he wants to establish more peaceful relations with the west at a lower level of arms
gorbachev has opened possibilities that we should take advantage of dynamically and boldly. that's where the challenge lies,'' belgian prime minister wilfried martens told the nato conference
he said ``the future of europe'' may depend on the outcome of gorbachev's reform efforts
french president francois mitterrand was quoted by his aides as telling the brussels summit that the soviet union was undergoing an ``historic transition.''
we must not be naive, but we must show flexibility that will enable dialogue and which will have an effect on gorbachev's actions,'' he said
last week, mitterrand was quoted in a french newspaper interview as saying nato should put off plans to modernize some of its nuclear weapons in europe in order not to upset the trend of improving east-west relations. he did not specifically address this in brussels
most of the other alliance leaders want to go ahead with the weapons modernization program
british prime minister margaret thatcher said after thursday's meeting that nato must keep its defenses strong by upgrading nuclear as well as non-nuclear weaponry, regardless of signs of change in the kremlin
so long as our defense stays sure, we have nothing to fear'' from gorbachev's reforms, she said
treaty organization from his base in brussels since 1984
they sat side by side beneath bright television lights in a huge government hearing room, a vivacious student council president and her newfound friend with aids
the white house commission listened intently as ryan white and jill stewart told their stories thursday
i came face to face with death at 13 years old,'' said ryan
no one realizes how much he has done for us,'' said jill. ``he helps us put life in perspective in so many ways.''
it was three years ago when doctors discovered ryan had aids _ a victim of contaminated blood products used to treat his hemophilia _ and gave him six months to live
but the indiana youngster, now 16 and planning for an advertising career, or maybe architecture, refused to accept that. he told the presidential aids commission that he decided ``to live a normal life, to go to school, be with my friends and enjoy day-to-day activities.''
i'm a normal, happy teen-ager again,'' he continued
he's on azt now, a drug that helps prolong the lives of people with aids, but does not cure the fatal disease
i have a learner's permit, i attend sports functions and dances. i made the honor roll just recently, with two as and two bs. ... i believe in myself as i look forward to graduating ... in 1991.''
but it wasn't that way until ryan moved to cicero, ind., last summer _ three doors up from jill _ and enrolled at hamilton heights high school in nearby arcadia
in kokomo, another indiana town, things had not been so good
because of the lack of education on aids, discrimination, fear, panic and lies surrounded me,'' he told the commission
i was labeled a troublemaker, my mom an unfit mother and i was not welcome anywhere. people would get up and leave so they would not have to sit anywhere near me. even at church, people would not shake my hand.''
as word of his plight spread around the country, ryan started making new friends _ but mostly from far away places
mayor (edward) koch of new york was the first public figure to give me support,'' he said. ``i met some of the greatest, like elton john, greg louganis, max headroom, alyssa milano _ my teen idol _ lyndon king and charlie sheen. all of these plus many more became my friends, but i had very few friends at school
i tried to ignore the injustice, because i knew the people were wrong. my family and i held no hatred for those people because we realized they were victims of their own ignorance. we had great faith that, with patience, understanding, and education, that my family and i could be helpful in changing their minds and attitudes around.''
yet, finally, they decided to move
the people in cicero and arcadia had heard of ryan and they prepared themselves for him
jill, who aspires to study human genetics next year in college, or maybe law, told about how the 600 students at her school ``had witnessed ryan's pain in his former community'' and how they determined ``there was no reason for ryan to go through that pain again.''
she told how school officials worked with the student council and parents to educate the community about aids. within the first few days of school last fall, she said, the kids had exhausted all their questions about aids
by this time, they were asking how they could help ryan,'' she said. ``they were asking to sit beside him.''
the commission was impressed
the children always teach the adults,'' observed commissioner burton james lee iii, a renowned cancer doctor at memorial sloan-kettering cancer center in new york center
commissioner theresa l. crenshaw, a physician from california, said she hoped the lesson would be ``contagious.''
the retired navy admiral who heads the commission suggested a round of applause for the teen-agers, the first such demonstration granted any of the nearly 400 witnesses that have appeared before the panel
jill and ryan met with reporters afterward
this may be a little personal,'' said one, ``but do you have a girl friend?''
no,'' said ryan, ``but i have a lot of friends who are girls.''
jill smiled. campaign</head>
partisan squabbling, charges of justice for sale and million-dollar campaigns have thrown the historically clubby, even genteel, texas supreme court into a political tempest
as much at issue in the march 8 democratic and republican primary campaigns as the nominations for five seats on the nine-member court is the reputation of the high court itself
texas is the last big state to elect its appeals justices
in unusually high-profile developments over the last year, the troubled supreme court has seen two justices publicly reprimanded, two others depart because of disagreement over whether justices should be elected or appointed, and republicans bidding to achieve their first majority on the court
it is, i think, without question the most important judicial election in texas ever, certainly the most important judicial election in over 100 years,'' said thomas phillips, the only republican chief justice this century
phillips was appointed to the court by gop gov. bill clements, who said the judge ``represents the first volley in the fight for a judicial selection in texas in which merit and fairness are the determining factors in the selection of supreme court justices.''
phillips, a houston district judge, succeeded democrat john hill, who resigned to return to private practice and champion the cause of an appointed appellate judiciary. hill charges that the election process leads to big donations from lawyers who have cases before the court
cbs-tv's ``60 minutes'' did a segment on the court late last year titled, ``is texas justice for sale?''
hill's resignation was followed by that of justice robert campbell, who argued that appointing judges is ``a mere scheme to give big business interests the power to control our courts.''
clements again appointed a republican, judge barbara culver of midland, to replace campbell, giving the gop two supreme court justices for the first time this century
neither phillips nor ms. culver has an opponent in the republican primary and they are expected to lead the so-called gop court reform slate, which hopes to capitalize on negative publicity to defeat democrats in november
justice william kilgarlin, for example, was publicly admonished by the state commission on judicial conduct last june. the commission's report listed kilgarlin's failure to require staff members to observe proper ethical standards and the solicitation of funds
kilgarlin dismissed the criticism as insignificant and immediately announced for re-election
only recently, campaign reports showed that kilgarlin and justice ted robertson had received $25,000 apiece in january from joe jamail, the lead attorney for pennzoil co. in its lawsuit against texaco inc., two months after the supreme court upheld a multibillion-dollar verdict favoring pennzoil
jamail and his family have contributed $288,000 to sitting supreme court justices since 1980
kilgarlin's opponent in the democratic primary is state district judge carol haberman, a former san antonio city council member
republicans seeking that seat are justice nathan hecht of the 5th court of appeals in dallas, d. camille dunn of the 1st court of appeals in houston, and ronald block, a houston attorney who lives in missouri city
dallas lawyer john humphreys opposes robertson in the democratic primary for chief justice
the democrats avoided a possible party-splitting campaign between former u.s. rep. jack hightower and former state sen. lloyd doggett when hightower switched to a race with no democratic opponent. he will face ms. culver in november
doggett is opposed by state district judge marsha anthony of houston, who became known statewide three years ago when she declared the state's no pass, no play rule unconstitutional. that ruling was reversed by the state supreme court
republicans george barbary, a dallas attorney, and justice paul murphy of the 14th court of appeals in houston oppose each other in the race for that seat on the court
the late entry of san antonio lawyer art vega spoiled justice raul gonzalez's previously uncontested bid for the democratic party nomination. gonzalez is the first hispanic elected to statewide office in texas
justice charles ben howell, also of the 5th court of appeals in dallas, is unopposed in the gop primary for that seat. howell lost a supreme court race in 1986
estimates by the agriculture department show that farmers will have received about $9 billion in direct federal subsidies by the end of march for participating in 1987 commodity programs
part of the payments has been in cash, but most has been in generic certificates that can be redeemed for surplus commodities held by the department's commodity credit corp
another installment was announced thursday. milton hertz, executive vice president of the ccc, said farmers who participated in last year's feed grain program will get about $1.45 billion in government ``deficiency'' payments this month
hertz said the payments will include about $1.3 billion for corn farmers and $225 million for sorghum producers, all in certificates
under the program, deficiency payments are required when average market prices fall below a prescribed target price. the payments make up the difference between the target and the market price or support level, whichever is higher
in addition to the $1.45 billion due this month, corn producers received about $2.6 billion in advance payments for 1987 participation, and sorghum producers got advances of $225 million
according to figures supplied by the department's agricultural stabilization and conservation service, which is headed by hertz, total deficiency payments for 1987 crops may be around $12 billion, slightly less than the $12.6 billion paid to farmers under 1986 programs
counting the payments for feed grains announced thursday, payments through march are expected to total about $9 billion, with the possibility of an additional $3 billion to come as final settlements for 1987 participation
the feed grain deficiency payments are expected to reach about $7.3 billion for 1987. other projections included totals for: sorghum, $612 million; barley, $294 million; oats, $19 million; wheat, $3.2 billion; upland cotton, $861 million; and rice, $568 million
in addition to the deficiency payments, farmers also can qualify in some cases for ``diversion'' payments to remove additional land from crop production. for 1987, those are expected to total more than $1.6 billion, including: corn, $1.44 billion; sorghum, $137 million; barley, $31 million; and oats, $8 million
there were no diversion payments for wheat, cotton and rice
women who bear premature babies can provide more milk for their infants by not smoking during lactation, according to an agriculture department scientist
physiologist judy m. hopkinson said she instructed mothers who delivered babies eight to 12 weeks early to empty both breasts at least six times a day. she said 23 of the non-smoking mothers, or 80 percent, maintained enough milk after the infants went home. but only three of the 11 mothers who smoked, or 27 percent, continued to produce enough milk
hopkinson works at the department's children's nutrition research center at baylor college of medicine in houston. her findings were reported here thursday by the department's agricultural research service
in non-smokers, low milk production is usually due to ``mothers not pumping their breasts enough,'' she said. ``generally, it's not a physiological problem.''
but ``smokers have significantly lower milk volume than non-smokers,'' hopkinson said. the 11 smokers averaged 11 percent less milk during the first two weeks after giving birth and 40 percent less by the fourth week
the infants have to be tube fed because they are too immature to suck and swallow, and ``mothers want to give them their milk,'' she said. ``it's one of the few things they can do, and it's a very emotional issue.''
but many women who deliver prematurely are not getting the appropriate information to produce enough milk, hopkinson said. most of the mothers can increase milk production by pumping more frequently. five times a day is enough to maintain volume, she said, and eight to 10 times a day will increase milk volume within a week or two
hopkinson said mother's milk is preferred over formula or donor milk because it is more suited to the infant and may also enhance the infant's immunity to infections. even so, she said, for very low-birthweight babies, mother's milk must be fortified with extra protein and minerals, including calcium and phosphorous
many have brushed, but only a few have swallowed
so say researchers who scrutinized medical literature and found exactly 31 cases in all recorded history of people somehow managing to swallow their toothbrushes
four of those incidents occurred in durham, n.c., in recent years, dr. allan d. kirk of duke university medical center and colleagues reported in the march issue of the archives of surgery
two of the north carolina swallowers apparently had drunk a large quantity of alcohol, while a third was a 60-year-old woman who had a seizure while brushing her teeth. she complained only of throat pain but examination revealed the brush stuck in the esophagus and it was removed with forceps
the fourth victim was a 20-year-old woman who developed a violent coughing spell while brushing her teeth. the brush made its way to her stomach and surgeons snared it with a wire dropped down through her mouth
despite the unusual cluster in durham, ``this problem should probably not be considered endemic to this part of north carolina,'' the researchers wrote
the other reports of toothbrush swallowing in this country are isolated with one each in san francisco, tennessee and louisiana
one region in india reported six such swallowings between 1960 and 1973
the champion toothbrush swallower of all time was a soviet psychiatric patient who ate 16 of them in 1984
most toothbrush swallowing has been accomplished in recent years, although the earliest reported case was in 1882 in hong kong
in times past, swallowing knives was in
in 1602, for example, florian mathis, a german barber-surgeon, removed a knife from the stomach of a 36-year-old knife swallower who had something go wrong with his trick
in fact, the researchers said, knives were the only foreign bodies reported removed from the stomach for 207 years. then people started doing it with forks and spoons, too
but perhaps the no. 1 champion swallower of all times was a mental patient who had 2,533 objects removed from his stomach in 1927
big ike'' may stand in the way of progress, but owners bill and dewayne davis figure the aging, 100-foot giant pecan tree is worth a campaign to keep the chainsaws at bay
you can put your arm around six times before you meet yourself,'' said dewayne davis
the tree is in danger of being cut down as part of a project to expand u.s. 45 in northern mississippi
to save their tree, the davis brothers and a growing number of supporters are waging a campaign that already includes a ``big ike'' newsletter and ``save big ike'' t-shirts
ike, which has an average limb span of 84 feet, is located on 88 acres owned by bill, of olive branch, and dwayne, of richmond, va., on the west side of u.s. 45 three miles south of corinth
the mississippi highway department is widening the highway from two to four lanes and needs six acres of the brothers' land
on that six acres sits what is arguably the fifth or sixth largest pecan tree of its kind in the world,'' said dewayne
forestry experts say they are not sure if ``big ike'' is a record tree, but they agree that it is among the largest of its kind. the tree is on the mississippi forestry commission's list of the state's largest pecan trees, and mississippi historically has some of the nation's largest pecan trees
dewayne davis said the tree also had sentimental value
i was born under that tree, in a house right below the tree,'' he said. ``i ran into that tree the first time i rode a bicycle.''
davis said he had met with representatives of the highway department and that officials were attempting to work with him
there are no villains,'' he said
davis said that as part of his campaign, he wrote letters to various officials and contacted an area newapaper
that cut loose a real groundswell of support,'' he said
he said he had received calls and letters offering support, and a fourth-grade class at kossuth elementary school adopted the tree. davis said he forwarded the information to gov. ray mabus, who owns a tree farm, and began sending out the newsletters and the t-shirts
puckett wilson of the governor's staff, a self-proclaimed ``tree fanatic,'' said the governor will ``do anything within reason'' to save the tree
i think it's going to come out happy,'' said davis
what was to have been u.s. rep. pat swindall's dream house has turned into a political albatross, dripping with threatened lawsuits and leaving the congressman battling suggestions of money-laundering
swindall designed the 12,500-square-foot house for him and his wife, kimberly, near stone mountain state park
the ultimate irony is i started out wanting to build a log cabin,'' said the republican congressman
nine subcontractors have filed liens against the property, and swindall has appeared before a federal grand jury investigating an accused money launderer who once lent the congressman money
swindall, a lawyer, has tried to stay out of court over the thousands of dollars in contested bills and said he has asked his pastor and his general contractor's pastor to help him resolve the dispute
there is a route you ought to follow that is biblically prescribed in matthew 18,'' said swindall. ``first, you confront the person alone, which i've done, and he denied everything. secondly, you take them before their church, which i intend to do. i don't think christians ought to be suing other christians.''
the three-story mansion, built on 13 heavily wooded acres and overlooking a small lake, has seven bedrooms, 7{ bathrooms, a mother-in-law suite, a swimming pool, a tennis court and a three-car garage
the size and cost of the house was made an issue by ben jones, a democrat who nearly upset swindall's 1986 re-election bid. jones said it was built at cut rates by john sauers, a political supporter tied to the religious right
swindall, 37, laughs at hints of a ``sweetheart deal'' from sauers, his general contractor, because the two and numerous subcontractors are feuding over unpaid bills
swindall blames sauers for delays, poor workmanship and cost overruns that he said tacked $300,000 to the price of the house. their contract was an oral, cost-plus-10-percent agreement that gave sauers unlimited access to swindall's construction account, the congressman said
swindall claims sauers, whom he fired in november, failed to pay subcontractors and used the congressman's credit to buy supplies for other projects
sauers denies the charges and says he built swindall a fine home. the house costs ``were extremely fair,'' he said, adding that swindall's claims of shoddy work ``is like telling van gogh he can't paint or michaelangelo he can't sculpt.''
rusty johnson, a smyrna flooring contractor, is among the subcontractors who say the congressman owes them money
you try to pay your taxes then your damn local congressman don't pay you,'' said johnson, who says swindall owes him $5,395. he said he rejected an offer from swindall to settle at 50 cents on the dollar
swindall said the cost overruns led him to borrow $150,000 from former atlanta businessman charles lechasney, indicted in january on federal money-laundering charges
while seeking a permanent home loan last fall, swindall said, he negotiated an interim construction loan from lechasney but returned the $150,000 check after becoming suspicious of him
swindall voluntarily testified about the loan before a federal grand jury last month
the congressman admits to ``poor judgment'' in some dealings with sauers but blames part of his predicament on ``placing too much responsibility on my wife.''
the house ``was my wife's project,'' he said
legislation to raise the federal minimum wage from $3.35 an hour to $4.65 over the next three years has won house subcommittee approval, but organized labor failed in a bid to tie future increases to inflation
with voting along strict party lines, the democratic-controlled house labor standards subcommittee approved the bill on thursday. the full house education and labor committee plans to take up the measure next week
subcommittee chairman austin j. murphy, d-pa., said the current minimum of $3.35 an hour ``no longer provides the same level of opportunity to improve one's life that it once did.''
our actions here today represent a step in the right direction,'' he said. ``an increase in the minimum wage will certainly help many low-wage workers achieve a measure of dignity.''
organized labor supports the legislation, while the u.s. chamber of commerce and the national restaurant association oppose any minimum wage increase
the subcommittee approved the legislation 6-3 with all the democrats for the measure and all the republicans opposed. democrats earlier defeated several republican-sponsored amendments either to water down the legislation or kill it outright
one amendment, sponsored by rep. thomas e. petri, r-wis., would have increased the minimum just 65 cents over the next three years. it was rejected on party lines
however, labor did not gain all it had been seeking over the past year. the subcommittee, on a motion by timothy j. penny, d-minn., refused on a 7-2 vote to tie future increases to inflation
penny said he was ``concerned about something like this being on automatic pilot. congress should review any future increases.''
he also said automatic increases in the minimum wage could lead to higher inflation
rep. augustus f. hawkins, d-calif., chairman of the full committee, disputed that argument, saying ``wages lag behind inflation and will always do so as long as they are based on past experience.''
a similar bill has been introduced in the senate by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the labor and education committee. the panel has held hearings but has not placed the measure on its business agenda yet. competition</head>
legislation broadening the power of banks to enter the securities industry but narrowing their opportunities to offer insurance would offer a mixed bag to consumers of financial services
the provisions are contained in a bill passed late wednesday by the senate banking committee. the bill, which must go before the full senate, dismantles most of the barriers between commercial and investment banking in place since the depression
supporters say businesses and state and local governments would pay lower underwriting fees because of added competition in the securities business. they say individual investors would pay lower mutual fund fees for the same reason
home buyers could save as much as $1,000 on a $100,000 mortgage, says sen. william proxmire, d-wis., chairman of the committee and the bill's sponsor
consumer groups are also hailing a section, sponsored by sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., that provides new safeguards on home equity loans
but limits on bank involvement in insurance, also sponsored by dodd, could hamper competition in that field, they say
despite the lopsided 18-2 vote by the senate committee, signaling almost certain passage in the full senate, similar bills in the house face more uncertain prospects. there, jurisdiction over the issue is shared by the energy and commerce and the banking committees
house banking committee chairman fernand j. st germain, d-r.i., has expressed great skepticism about allowing banks too many new powers
rep. edward j. markey, d-mass., chairman of the finance subcommittee of the energy and commerce committee, has said he favors phasing in new powers for banks so federal regulatory agencies aren't swamped
it is essential that congress link the introduction of new powers to regulatory preparedness,'' he said in a statement thursday
the home equity loan section of the proxmire bill requires lenders to disclose the interest rate on loans in a clear and uniform manner as well as closing costs and repayment terms. it also would prohibit lenders from unilaterally changing the terms of a home equity line of credit after the contract is signed
michelle meier, an attorney for the consumer's union, and leslie gainer of u.s. pirg, a group associated with consumer activist ralph nader, said in a statement that the proxmire version is an improvement over a similar home equity bill in the house, which does not bar unilateral changes
another section would make it easier for consumers to shop for a place to put their money by requiring banks and mutual funds to advertise in a uniform manner the interest rate paid on deposits and money market accounts
under the bill, banks would get immediate power to underwrite mortgage-backed securities, commercial paper and municipal revenue bonds
they would be able to deal in mutual funds and corporate bonds six months after enactment. but, in a concession to the securities industry, banks would not be allowed to underwrite corporate stock _ viewed by senators as the riskiest securities area _ unless congress authorizes that in a separate vote early in 1991
on insurance, the bill permits state officials to authorize state-chartered banks and bank holding companies to underwrite insurance within their home states. but they will not be able to sell insurance outside their home state. and the bill would close loopholes that permit some national banks to sell insurance
former president jimmy carter says he and his family would be in danger if secret service protection stopped under legislation that a senator says would end the era of the ``imperial former presidency.''
elimination of security ``would make it almost impossible for us to live a normal private life at home free of uninvited visitors, to attend major events if our attendance is publicized, or to travel to many places in our country or abroad,'' carter said in a letter to sen. lawton chiles, d-fla
he said there were frequent occasions when people have come to his hometown of plains, ga., and threatened him or his family with bodily harm
last fall, he said, there were three such incidents within a month. in one case, he continued, the visitor shattered the large glass reflector mirrors and tried to destroy the gate leading to his driveway
there is no way to anticipate when one of them could be serious,'' wrote carter
carter's letter and letters from former presidents gerald r. ford and richard m. nixon were made public thursday in a hearing by chiles' senate government operations subcommittee
ford said he can do without the federal protection, and nixon gave up his government security in 1985
chiles and 14 others have sponsored legislation that would end secret service protection of former presidents and their families five years after they leave office. the bill also would place a limit on their office and staff expenses and would phase out funding entirely after 10 years
secret service protection could be extended beyond the five-year period if the treasury secretary demonstrated a need for continued protection
the american people want former presidents to live a dignified retired life as an elder statesman, free from any real danger, one free from the need to commercialize _ to huckster _ the office of the presidency,'' chiles said. ``but the programs were left open-ended. things have gotten out of hand.''
he said secret service protection for ford and carter and their families cost $8 million in 1986. in nixon's last year of 1985, federal protection cost some $3 million for him
ford told chiles that he favored enactment of the legislation. a nixon aide, john h. taylor, said nixon voluntarily gave up the lifetime federal protection in august 1985 and mrs. nixon did so in 1984, thus saving the government $3 million annually. ``he believed it was no longer appropriate for the taxpayers to bear the cost of his security,'' wrote taylor
michael endicott, a secret service agent for 20 years who now is in charge of security for nixon, said secret service protection often limits the recipient's freedom of movement. he said he has never felt nixon's safety has been threatened since he began to handle his security, traveling to cities around the world and attending sporting and other public events
at most of these events, we usually sit in the general public seats, even though vip boxes are usually available,'' he said. ``there is more privacy with fewer people. we are able to go to more ball games now than when he had secret service protection.''
the big difference, he said, is that the secret service must ``protect against the potential threat, while i can protect from the actual threat.''
endicott said he believes there should be a time limit on the secret service protection but feels that the federal government ``should continue to be responsible for their protection.''
i believe the government should provide funding to the former president so that they can manage their own day-to-day security,'' he said
carter asked that ``an adequate level of security'' be continued. however, he said, he would not object if secret service experts could reduce the level and cost of his protection
there is a need for a security or law enforcement presence around a former president that naturally flows from occupying the most important office in the country,'' he said. ``to finance one's own security force, however modest, is a very expensive matter, though some of our former high-level officials have chosen to do so.'' pace</head>
while vice president george bush spoke from the steps of the kershaw county courthouse, his campaign manager was telling reporters how easily bush could withstand a loss in saturday's south carolina republican presidential primary
not many people expect bush to lose to either kansas sen. bob dole or former television evangelist pat robertson. two recent polls said bush was running well ahead of dole in this state, with robertson in third place. rep. jack kemp was far behind
but the south carolina vote comes three days before super tuesday, the day 20 states hold primaries or caucuses, most of them in the south or bordering the region
south carolina is going to set the pace,'' bush told the crowd gathered on the courthouse lawn
lee atwater, a native of this southern state, is a master of political spin and he was determined to plant the bush campaign view of things with reporters
the stakes are extremely high on everybody else,'' he said
robertson has said over and over again that he's going to win and if he doesn't win here i don't see anywhere else he could win,'' said the bush aide
as for dole, he has the support of sen. strom thurmond, the most popular republican in the state, said atwater, so if dole can't beat bush in south carolina, where can he beat him three days later on super tuesday?
a bush loss on saturday?
it would not be good,'' said atwater. but not all that devastating either, he says
you've got dole, who's got no organization as far as i can tell, anywhere in the south, he's not running on tv in a lot of the states and he's way behind in the polls,'' he went on. ``no one is in a position to capitalize if something does happen.''
one secret of atwater's success putting spin on political events is that there always is a measure of truth in what he says
while he tries to minimize the impact of a bush loss, he's probably right about the thinness of the dole organization in the south
it also is hard to argue with his contention that if robertson can't win in south carolina, he can't win anywhere
the night the new hampshire votes were counted, robertson, who finished last in the northern new england state, said the race was moving into his back yard and he flatly predicted he'd beat bush and dole in south carolina
the state's primary seemed tailor-made for robertson. the state has a large fundamentalist christian community and there are no barriers to democrats who want to vote in the gop primary. many of robertson's supporters are democrats
but as polls began to come out showing bush with a solid lead in the state, robertson toned down his optimism
i have a tremendous uphill fight against george bush,'' said the former host of the television's ``700 club.'' ``he's way, way ahead of me in the polls.''
atwater is cautious in assessing robertson's showing in the polls, however
you just can't judge the robertson factor in the polls,'' he said
thurmond's backing and active campaigning gave dole a boost in the state. a victory on saturday or a strong second would revive dole's prospects in the region where he is considered weakest
on the other hand, if the kansas senator finishes third, it would seem to confirm his weakness in the south
south carolina is another conservative state where kemp hoped to find a large enough constituency to establish himself as the conservative-wing alternative to bush and dole. but here as elsewhere, robertson stood in his way and there seems little likelihood that the new york congressman will have any breakthrough
a last-place finish for kemp would be the end of the line _ whether or not he stays in the race
donald m. rothberg is the chief political writer of the associated press
in campaign sparring, rep. richard gephardt has accused democratic rival gov. michael dukakis of taxing average families to close a state budget deficit. dukakis, for his part, claims he has cut a record amount in taxes
both men have a point
dukakis, governor of massachusetts for nine of the past 13 years, has served the state as chief executive in the best and worst of times. in that period, the state has increased taxes by about $500 million and cut taxes in a series of steps by more than $700 million
as governor, dukakis signed all those measures. some he initiated, some he merely tolerated and some he resisted
in a campaign debate monday night, dukakis criticized gephardt for his 1981 federal tax bill vote, saying the ``iowa gephardt'' soft-pedaled that vote
gephardt shot back, asking ``what about the massachusetts dukakis that raised taxes on average families?''
dukakis responded by saying he had ``cut taxes five times in the last four years.''
but gephardt persisted: ``why did you raise taxes on average families in 1974?''
in fact, massachusetts did raise taxes under dukakis in 1975, when dukakis took office from a republican governor and inherited a $530 million deficit in a $4 billion budget
the deficit forced dukakis to go back on the ``lead-pipe'' guarantee he made in his 1974 campaign not to raise taxes. acting with the legislature, dukakis borrowed $450 million to close the gap and put through $110 million in ``sin'' taxes and another $350 million in a surcharge on the state's 5 percent income tax
dukakis also imposed drastic cuts in social spending, which balanced the budget but which are widely blamed for costing him the governorship in 1978, when he was defeated by conservative democrat edward j. king. one of king's top advisers, edward reilly, is now a gephardt strategist
since dukakis returned to office in 1983, state taxes have been reduced by more than $700 million, according to frank keefe, dukakis' secretary of administration and finance. keefe also notes that massachusetts has seen its bond rating improve and the cost of state and local government fall to near the bottom of national rankings
i think the governor deserves the reputation of being the biggest tax-cutter in the history of the commonwealth _ a record i don't think will be matched in two generations,'' keefe said
dukakis does, however, have bitter detractors in massachusetts. prominent among them is barbara anderson, executive director of citizens for limited taxation, a tax-fighting group that has been supplying ammunition against dukakis to the rival campaigns of gephardt and tennessee sen. albert gore jr
anderson said in an interview that if tax cuts are defined as any reductions dukakis signed, ``then you'd have a wash.''
but she argues that dukakis has consistently resisted tax cuts over the years and proposed only minor ones. she notes that dukakis opposed proposition 2{, the 1980 ballot question that limited local property taxes, although she does not note that virtually every politician did
her group's list of grievances against dukakis also includes keeping the income tax surcharge for 10 years, advocating a graduated state income tax in 1976, increasing the capital gains tax in 1983, proposing $300 million in business taxes to fund an infrastructure bank, vetoing a tax cut for senior citizens and pushing for a ``unitary'' tax on multistate corporations
but clt's biggest complaint involves a protracted, complex struggle over taxes in 1986 that resulted in repeal of the surtax and the imposition by the voters of a cap on state revenues. anderson claims dukakis resisted both moves at every turn
richard manley, head of the non-partisan massachusetts taxpayers foundation, gives dukakis more credit
i think it's fair to say dukakis has never been philosophically a guy who wants to cut taxes. but i think it's also fair to say that the surtax part of the 1975 package hung around his neck like an albatross,'' manley said
he's no pal of mine. but if you look at the thing objectively, the fact is the (1975) deficit was inherited and somebody had to pay it,'' he said. ``did he repeal the surtax? no. the legislature did. he went along ... but i don't think it's fair to say in any way that he's a tax raiser.''
sen. albert gore jr. entered his first ``attack ad'' in the super tuesday sweepstakes as two of his democratic rivals went at each other over a commercial about corporate contributions
the political tv ads heated up and proliferated thursday in preparation for the presidential primaries and caucuses next week in 20 states, most of them in the south
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis sparked a chain reaction with his new ad challenging rep. richard gephardt's message to the little people that ``it's your fight, too.''
the dukakis ad consists of a rolling list of corporate political action committees that have contributed to gephardt's campaign. ``is dick gephardt really fighting your fight, or theirs?'' asks the narrator
gephardt, who has been running ads criticizing both dukakis and gore for days, staged an airport news conference and blasted dukakis for questioning his sincerity and record of fighting for working people
i'm very upset about it,'' gephardt told reporters at baltimore-washington international airport. ``i've never made a decision in my public life based on (pac) contributions. some who are raising money for me were grievously damaged by (the 1986) tax reform.''
gephardt accused dukakis of accepting millions from ``special interests who do business with the state of massachusetts'' and said his campaign would release a partial list on friday
the dukakis campaign does not take a dime of corporate pac money or any money from a lobbyist registered in the state of massachusetts,'' responded dukakis spokesman leslie dach
gore introduced a 60-second ad consisting entirely of an excerpt from a debate last month in dallas. it is running ``in a great number of markets in a great number of states,'' said gore spokesman mark armour
the spot shows the tennessee senator accusing gephardt of voting against minimum wage increases, against creating the department of education, for tuition tax credits and for reaganomics _ and reversing his positions on all four issues
the next president of the united states has to be someone the american people can believe will stay with his convictions. ... you've got to be willing to stand your ground and be consistent,'' gore tells gephardt
a gephardt spokeswoman said the missouri congressman's campaign would have no direct response to the gore ad
negative commercials, dubbed ``attack ads'' by the campaigns, were the order of the day for the republican front-runners as well. vice president george bush and senate republican leader bob dole continued their television attacks on each other in ads that began earlier in the week
a gop official said he is not worried about the intensity of the campaign as long as the two keep their advertising accurate
this is hardball. we're talking high stakes here,'' said frank fahrenkopf, chairman of the republican national committee
i think the tone and rhetoric really in both campaigns has gotten pretty rough,'' fahrenkopf told reporters in boston. but he added, ``in many ways i've welcomed what's happened. in january i was concerned with the lack of fire in the belly.''
both bush and dukakis have stepped up their super tuesday media campaigns in recent days, both in scope and frequency of ads, and gore was expected to do the same. ``we intend to outspend the other democratic candidates on media in the super tuesday states,'' armour said. results from iowa, new hampshire and maine; republican totals include results from new hampshire, kansas, south dakota, guam, part of pennsylvania and part of new york.</note>
here is the current breakdown of the presidential preference of the delegates to the democratic and republican national conventions. the preferences are based on delegates' public statements or binding state laws or party rules
              total                  changes
                       today      7 days      30 days dukakis         65.50        0         21           22 gephardt        47           0          8           26 gore            17.80        0          7.25         0 hart             0           0          0            0 jackson         27.55        0         17.75         0 simon           35.50        0          2.50        20 others           0           0          0            0 uncommitted    256.65        0        -21.75         6
needed to nominate: 2,082
total delegate votes: 4,162
chosen thus far: 450
yet to be chosen: 3,712
              total                 changes
                       today      7 days      30 days bush           85           0         24           61 dole           61           0          1           60 kemp           35           0          0           35 robertson       8           0          0            8 others          0           0          0            0 uncommitted    11           0          1           10
needed to nominate: 1,139
total delegate votes: 2,277
chosen thus far: 200
yet to be chosen: 2,077
nato leaders are looking toward better relations with the soviet union, encouraged by mikhail s. gorbachev's new policy of openness but demanding that he back up his words with deeds
we are looking beyond pronouncements,'' the western alliance said in a final communique that called on the soviets to respect human rights and make a ``speedy and complete withdrawal'' of red army troops from afghanistan
the 16 nato leaders on thursday wound up their two-day summit, the first in six years, in a show of solidarity that glossed over differences on arms issues and applauded superpower efforts to reduce long-range nuclear weapons
president reagan claimed a mandate for his planned spring summit in moscow and said nato was ``ready to get down to business'' on strategic arms talks
he said the medium-range nuclear weapons treaty signed by the united states and the soviet union last december was ``a direct result'' of alliance unity
the alliance, troubled by a dispute over the modernization of short-range nuclear missiles in west germany, sidestepped a direct confrontation on that issue and produced an upbeat proclamation of unity
the leaders pledged to maintain a nuclear presence in europe to deter a soviet attack, and called for a reduction in soviet bloc conventional forces. the west says the soviet bloc has a substantial edge in five major ground categories
nato said ``the search for improved and more stable relations with the soviet union and the other countries of eastern europe is among our principal concerns'' and called for efforts to reduce east-west tensions
the statement noted ``encouraging signs of change'' in the policies of the soviet union'' that create ``the prospect for greater openness in their relations with their own people and with other nations.''
but we look beyond pronouncements for tangible and lasting policy changes addressing directly the issues dividing east and west,'' the communique said
we agree that the speedy and complete withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan and effective restoration of that country's sovereignty would be of major significance. it is against these criteria that we shall assess general secretary gorbachev's recent statements,'' the statement said
the nato leaders were united in their assessment of the alliance and its goals
we're strong, we're united, we're prosperous and we're free,'' said reagan
underscoring nato's commitment to keep nuclear weapons in europe, he said, ``all of us understand the absolute necessity of maintaining the credibility of our deterrent.''
there is no doubt whatsoever that the agenda we have set now is the right one for nato,'' said british prime minister margaret thatcher
french president francois mitterand said ``this is one more step toward disarmament, with all the necessary precautions.''
the harmony of the meeting had been threatened by west germany's reluctance to replace older short-range nuclear weapons with newer, more effective ones
most of these weapons, if fired, would hit german soil, east or west, and the modernization campaign has inflamed disarmament passions in west germany
in a compromise, the communique avoided use of the word modernization, to which west germany objects. instead, the document said nato will maintain ``an appropriate mix of adequate and effective nuclear and conventional forces which will continue to be kept up to date where necessary.''
nato secretary general lord carrington said the word modernization _ perhaps because of translation problems _ ``means in the minds of a number of people in different countries in europe the introduction of new and more terrible and more destructive weapons.''
however, he said it was more likely that the new weapons would be ``more accurate and may very well be of less destructive power.''
malaysia plans to ban people under 21 years old from nightclubs, bars and pool halls in kuala lumpur, prime minister suleiman mohamad said today
suleiman told reporters the age limit was being raised from 18 to maintain a good social image for the capital
legislation was being proposed to impose the ban, he said
suleiman said entertainment centers would be fined about $200 if they allow in underage customers, and the youths would be fined a similar amount if caught
here are excerpts from the official text of the final communique agreed to thursday at the conclusion of the nato summit
we, the representatives of the 16 members of the north atlantic alliance, have come together to re-emphasize our unity, to assess the current state of east-west relations, to review the opportunities and challenges which lie ahead, and in so doing:
_to reaffirm the common ideals and purposes which are the foundation of our partnership;
_to rededicate ourselves to the principles and provisions of the washington treaty of 1949;
_to reassert the vital importance of the alliance for our security, and the validity of our strategy for peace. ..
the security in freedom and the prosperity of the european and north american allies are inextricably linked. the long-standing commitment of the north american democracies to the preservation of peace and security in europe is vital
the presence in europe of conventional and nuclear forces of the united states provides the essential linkage with the united states strategic deterrent, and, together with the forces of canada, is a tangible expression of that commitment. this presence must and will be maintained
likewise, a free, independent and increasingly united europe is vital to north america's security. the credibility of allied defense cannot be maintained without a major european contribution. we therefore welcome recent efforts to reinforce the european pillar of the alliance, intended to strengthen the transatlantic partnership and alliance security as a whole
the atlantic alliance cannot be strong if europe is weak
our aim will continue to be to prevent any kind of war or intimidation. by maintaining credible deterrence the alliance has secured peace in europe for nearly 40 years
conventional defenses alone cannot ensure this; therefore, for the foreseeable future there is no alternative to the alliance strategy for the prevention of war. this is a strategy of deterrence based upon an appropriate mix of adequate and effective nuclear and conventional forces which will continue to be kept up to date where necessary
while seeking security and stability at lower levels of armaments, we are determined to sustain the requisite efforts to ensure the continued viability, credibility and effectiveness of our conventional and nuclear forces, including the nuclear forces in europe, which together provide the guarantee of our common security
taking into account the structure of the alliance, each of us undertakes to play his part in this joint endeavor in a spirit of solidarity, reaffirming our willingness to share fairly the risks, burdens and responsibilities as well as the benefits of our common efforts. ..
we want gradually to overcome the unnatural division of the european continent, which affects most directly the german people. we will continue to uphold the freedom and viability of berlin and to support efforts to improve the situation there
the search for improved and more stable relations with the soviet union and the other countries of eastern europe is among our principal concerns. we call upon these countries to work with us for a further relaxation of tensions, greater security at lower levels of arms, more extensive human contacts and increased access to information. we will continue the effort to expand cooperation with the east wherever and whenever this is of mutual benefit
we have noted encouraging signs of change in the policies of the soviet union and some of its allies. this creates the prospect for greater openness in their relations with their own people and with other nations. ... but we look beyond pronouncements for tangible and lasting policy changes addressing directly the issues dividing east and west
however, we have to date witnessed no relaxation of the military effort pursued for years by the soviet union. the soviet union persists in deploying far greater military forces than are required for its defence. this massive force, which the soviet union has not refrained from using outside its borders, as is still the case in afghanistan, constitutes a fundamental source of tension between east and west. ..
arms control is an integral part of our security policy. we seek negotiations not for their own sake but to reach agreements which can significantly reduce the ris of conflict and make a genuine contribution to stability and peace. ..
the recently concluded inf agreement between the u.s. and the soviet union is a milestone in our efforts to achieve a more secure peace and lower levels of arms. ..
consistent with their security requirements, the 15 allies concerned will make use of all possibilities for effectively verifiable arms control agreements which lead to a stable and secure balance of forces at a lower level. for them, the comprehensive concept of arms control and disarmament includes:
_a 50 percent reduction in the strategic offensive nuclear weapons of the u.s. and the soviet union to be achieved during current geneva negotiations
_the global elimination of chemical weapons
_the establishment of a stable and secure level of conventional forces, by the elimination of disparities, in the whole of europe
_in conjunction with the establishment of a conventional balance and the global elimination of chemical weapons, tangible and verifiable reductions of american and soviet land-based nuclear missile systems of shorter range, leading to equal ceilings. ..
genuine peace in europe cannot be established solely by arms control. it must be firmly based on full respect for fundamental human rights. as we continue our efforts to reduce armaments, we shall press for implementation on the part of the governments of the soviet union and of other eastern countries of all of the principles and provisions of the helsinki final act and of the madrid concluding document. ..
we agree that the speedy and complete withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan and effective restoration of that country's sovereignty would be of major significance. it is against these criteria that we shall assess general secretary gorbachev's recent statements
we hope that at their forthcoming summit in moscow president reagan and general secretary gorbachev will be able to build upon the progress achieved at their washington meeting last december. we strongly support the efforts of the united states
here are the house members who switched sides on the two contra aid votes thursday. the first vote was on adopting the democratic plan for $30 million in aid. the second vote was on passage of the entire bill

switching from yes on the first vote to no on final passage:
democrats: bates, california; boxer, california; roybal, california; schroeder, colorado; durbin, illinois; jacobs, indiana; smith, iowa; early, massachusetts; kennedy, massachusetts; wheat, missouri; applegate, ohio; gonzalez, texas; boucher, virginia; kastenmeier, wisconsin; moody, wisconsin
republicans: leach, iowa

switching from yes to not voting:
democrats: wright, texas

switching from no on the first vote to yes on final passage:
democrats: bennett, florida; fascell, florida; nelson, florida; pepper, florida; ray, georgia; lipinski, illinois; sisisky, virginia
republicans: meyers, kansas; miller, washington; morrison, washington
advocates of using lie detectors to screen job applicants and test employees' honesty have given up hope that president reagan will veto legislation outlawing the practice
the senate, by a 69-27 vote, on thursday joined the house in approving a bill effectively prohibiting about 85 percent of the some 2 million polygraph examinations now conducted each year in the united states
remaining now is only for the house and senate sponsors of the ban to iron out minor differences in the two versions, submit the compromise for passage again and send it to the white house for reagan's signature
throughout his first term and even into last year, reagan had vowed to veto any legislation to restrict private employers in their growing use of lie detectors, allegedly to ferret out thieves and other wrongdoers
labor unions and civil liberties groups argue that the devices are used just as often to intimidate workers or weed out those with pro-union sympathies
with increasing evidence that the tests in most circumstances are poorly administered and produce faulty results between 15 and 50 percent of the time, advocates of the ban have worn down much of the administration's opposition
after two days of extended debate this week stalling the senate action, opponents of the ban gave up their fight when the administration released a statement objecting only to portions of the legislation and avoiding any mention of a veto for the first time
the administration does not have the backbone at this time to veto this bill,'' complained sen. dan quayle, r-ind. ``they have folded up shop, caving like a house of cards.''
crafted by sens. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., and orrin hatch, r-utah _ normally adversaries on labor-management issues _ the senate bill would allow some private use of polygraphs to investigate specific incidents of theft or sabotage
but even then, the tests would have to be conducted by licensed examiners under regulations to be developed by the labor department, and employers would first have to file a police report or insurance claim and detail in writing the basis for suspecting the employee to be questioned
employees who failed the test or refused to take it under such circumstances could not be fired absent other evidence. if they were, the bill allows civil suits against offending employers, and provides for up to a $10,000 federal fine for each violation
kennedy and hatch, respectively the chairman and ranking republican on the senate's labor and human resources committee, complained that an estimated 320,000 ``honest workers'' are branded as liars each year, often losing their jobs or being denied one because of the machines' inaccuracy
conversely, it is a regrettable fact that employees steal,'' hatch said. ``this bill addresses both concerns by barring use of polygraphs where they are most likely to make a false identification but permitting the use of these tests where they are likely to be most accurate.''
both house and senate versions exempt private security guards and kennedy said thursday that senate negotiators are likely to go along with the house in extending the exemption to employees of pharmaceutical companies as well
he said he expects to meet with rep. pat williams, d-mont, the primary author of the house version passed by a 254-158 vote last november, within the next two weeks to begin hammering out a compromise
they ban about 90 percent and we ban about 85 percent,'' kennedy said, predicting the new prohibition will become law before the end of the year ``with or without the president's support.''
hatch credited the united food and commercial workers union and its president, william wynn, for crafting the language that allows use of lie detectors to investigate specific instances of ``economic loss.''
with that provision, absent in the house bill, several business groups representing railroads, bankers, restaurants, brokerage houses, grocers and other retail merchants dropped their opposition
the only major opponents that remained were the polygraph industry itself, the american trucking associations and the u.s. chamber of commerce
we've found them to be reliable and cost-effective, particularly in pre-employment screening,'' said roger middleton, chief counsel for corporate policy at the chamber of commerce. ``this is just an inconsistent attempt by the federal government to address a state problem.''
however, the ufcw's wynn said the large margin by which the senate passed the bill reflects a recognition that the devices are little more than ``the 20th century's equivalent of the dunking stool.''
the commerce department turns 75 today, just four years older than the man who runs it, c. william verity. and verity claims to be ``a late bloomer'' just like the once-staid agency he heads
even as a late bloomer, you can come into the scene and be a player,'' verity said in an interview in his ballroom-size office built in the late 1920s to the specifications of one of the early commerce secretaries, herbert hoover
the oldest cabinet member at 71, the retired chairman of armco steel is still five years younger than his boss in the white house. verity arrived on the scene in october, about the time top-echelon members of the administration plan their returns to the private sector
still, verity's brief tenure has been marked by activism and some measure of controversy
there have been trade skirmishes with japan, turf squabbles with other agencies and resignations of several top officials. verity's outspoken advocacy of closer economic ties with the soviet union has drawn criticism from both conservatives in congress and from some jewish organizations
the agency has come a long way from its creation in 1913 when its main functions included counting the population, inspecting steamboats and maintaining lighthouses
today, the department enforces u.s. trade policy, probably its most vital role in a day of $170 billion trade deficits. it also collects and analyzes economic data and serves as home for the census bureau, the national weather service, the bureau of standards and a host of other agencies
it serves, now as in the past, as the business community's advocate within the halls of government
verity had retired in 1982 as chairman and chief executive officer of armco, then based in ohio. the retirement ended when he was picked by president reagan to head the sprawling agency after the death last summer of malcolm baldrige, who had been commerce secretary since 1981
baldrige, who was extremely popular with the agency's 38,000 employes and members of congress, died in a freak rodeo accident
although under baldrige the commerce department had been the lead federal agency on dealing with congress on trade legislation, verity has moved into other areas and pressed ahead with his own pet projects
one has been more fully automating the department's many activities. another was pressing for commercializaton of space _ an effort verity said gave him a quick lesson in heading a government agency since it brought him into conflict with the national aeronautics and space administration
nasa doesn't want anybody else out there,'' he said
i think you find out you're not in charge,'' he said. ``there are a lot of people who have a piece of the action who have to get on board. the mission in private business is to get something done. in government, it's to move toward solving a problem, but to get everybody on board with you as you try to solve it.''
and that just requires a lot of time and a lot of massaging of people's feelings and testing this and testing that.''
he said his present priority is a program to help smaller companies export more
i think our economy is going to be export-driven this year,'' he said. ``our department feels we should do whatever we can to encourage small and medium sized companies to get into the export game.''
his no-nonsense approach, particularly his tough stance toward japan, has won him a lot of fans in the business community. just a few days on the job, verity threatened japan with retaliation if it didn't do more to open its markets or adjust its prices to match the lower dollar
while japanese officials protested, the tough talk from a man who speaks softly and slowly won him fans among u.s. industries battered by japanese imports
other secretaries and other u.s. spokesmen have not been urging the government to start speaking in plain language to these guys (the japanese),'' said richard muller, a washington representative for chrysler corp
verity also delighted conservationists by recommending sanctions against japan last month for the killing of minke whales in violation of international whaling regulations
but, sighed verity: ``i never had any idea i would be in charge of whales some day. and i had no idea it would take so much of my time.'' campus; picks up 5th graf pvs, `tillard will ...'; subs 11th graf pvs, `on monday ...' with two grafs to update with ban.</note>
a black student activist at the university of pennsylvania was under 24-hour protection thursday after receiving a death threat, and an all-white fraternity was banned from campus for hiring two black strippers for a party
earlier thursday, about 300 people rallied at dartmouth college in a protest against bigotry
the threat was made against conrad tillard, director of the organization of black consciousness, which had called for the ouster of the primarily jewish fraternity zeta beta tau from the ivy league school in philadelphia
the university had charged that black strippers at a zbt party in september danced naked with a prospective freshman pledge before a jeering audience shouting racial epithets
the threatening letter was sent to a reporter at the school newspaper, the daily pennsylvanian. the writer claimed to be a student member of the jewish defense league
however, school officials said they do not believe the writer is a student, and the jdl denied any connection with the threat
tillard will receive round-the-clock protection by campus police ``as long as it necessary,'' said security spokeswoman sylvia canada
police said they were investigating the letter. the fbi also said they have received the letter but declined comment
the main thing it said was that i was a target on their hit list,'' tillard said. ``it also said that in general they're trying to stop the rise of this black power group that i'm helping bring about.''
in hanover, n.h., the rally was sparked by a conservative off-campus student newspaper's criticism of a black professor's teaching ability and his music course. the night before, about 200 people held a candlelight march
members of dartmouth's afro-american organized the protests aimed at the dartmouth review. four review staff members are charged by the school with harassing the professor, william cole, after confronting him in his classroom over the article
at the rally, music professor john appleton defended his colleague, saying, ``we must find a away to put an end to jim crow, to jingoism, to sexism and to just plain ignorance that the review seeks to foster on this campus.''
on monday, demonstrators at a penn rally sponsored by the organization of black consciousness had called for the ouster from campus of a zbt, which was charge by the university with lewdness, indecent exposure and hazing
late thursday, the 112-member fraternity announced that it had been banned from campus until at least the fall of 1989
the threatening letter did not mention the fraternity incident, tillard said
the racial tension on the campus has been very, very high for a long time,'' said jacqueline wade, director of penn's afro-american studies department. ``this is just one indicator of the level. it's part of a larger whole of racism on this campus.''
penn spokesman bill epstein said university officials believe the death threat was written by a penn student. ``we've checked around,'' said epstein. ``there's no sign of the jdl.''
mordechai levey, international director of the new york-based jdl, said that several jews on campus were affilitated with the organization but that the jdl played no role in the threat
rabbi howard alperg, director of the jewish campus activities board, called the zbt incident deplorable but added: ``to claim that it is now a jewish-black issue is also deplorable.''
there are black radicals who are trying to turn it into a black-jewish issue,'' alperg said. ``that is perceived by jewish students as being anti-semitic.''
relationships between black and jewish students were strained in 1986 during a confrontation over attempts by the black student unity conference to have nation of islam leader louis farrakhan give a speech
farrakhan did not speak; his organization said it was not satisfied with the security arrangements
on wednesday, minority students at hampshire college in amherst, mass., ended their nine-day occupation of a dormitory office after administrators signed a 16-point agreement aimed at encouraging racial harmony
two large holes opened up in a road in eastern england, swallowing a double-decker bus and prompting the evacuation of a small hotel and nearby homes, police said
authorities believe the road near the city of norwich was built above an abandoned 19th century chalk mine
one hole opened under the rear of the bus thursday and the driver ordered the 20 passengers off the vehicle immediately, the british broadcasting corp. reported. but as the driver tried to pull away, the hole grew into a 26-foot-wide gap and another hole appeared nearby
the television report showed the bus with its rear in the hole and its front wheels in the air
chief inspector david cushing of norwich police said city authorities ordered the evacuation of the hotel and nearby homes as the holes grew larger. underground gas, electricitry and domestic water supplies were disrupted
the evacuated people spent the night at a school as workmen attempted repairs
south korea plans to send a buying mission to the united states in may as part of its effort to ease growing trade frictions with washington, government and industry officials said today
the mission, to be headed by nam duck-woo, president of the korea foreign trade association, will tour various u.s. cities for 15 days to purchase machinery and other industrial products, the officials said
officials did not give details of the mission's itinerary or shopping list
the united states has pressured south korea to open its markets wider to american products to cut its growing trade surplus. the united states ran a trade deficit of $9.5 billion with south korea last year
the house has killed its democratic leadership's proposal for a package of ``humanitarian'' aid for the nicaraguan contras, leaving the vacillating u.s. policy toward central america once again in limbo and the rebels without support
the lawmakers voted 216-208 thursday to reject the democrats' $30.5 million proposal that would have provided four months' worth of food, clothing and medical supplies to the rebels and created a new $14 million program to aid children who are victims of the nicaraguan civil war
forty-five democrats, mostly liberals who oppose any aid to the contras, joined with republicans, who thought the aid proposal too weak, to deal it a fatal blow. only five of 176 gop members present voted for the measure on the final ballot
the vote showed the difficulty of coming up with any kind of agreement on the contentious issue. it was a particular setback for house speaker jim wright, d-texas, who had sought to keep the contras in place in nicaragua to pressure the leftist sandinista government into concessions as part of a regional peace process. democrats had hoped, too, that their milder aid package would relieve pressure to give the rebels more weapons later this year
but the surprise outcome also appeared to dim any administration hopes of speedy action to keep supplies flowing to the rebels, who by some accounts are in dire need of food and other non-lethal materiel. previous u.s. aid, and the authority to deliver it by airdrops inside nicaragua, expired tuesday
wright, d-texas, said the vote may prove ``a somewhat pyrrhic victory'' for republicans, adding that he had no immediate plans to revive a contra aid plan
we have thus far done our best,'' wright said. ``it was as good an effort as could be made. i don't know how you would find a better consensus among those who have a sincere effort to help the peace process.''
other democrats vowed to make any new try for aid difficult
as far as i'm concerned, it ought to be a damned lengthy process,'' said rep. david obey, d-wis., a contra opponent who is chairman of the house appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over the matter. ``the republicans sandbagged us.''
the vote came exactly one month after the house rejected a $36 million reagan plan to aid the rebels, one which included money for weapons and other military supplies. wright won that showdown partly on the strength of a promise that he would give moderate members of his party a later chance to vote for a purely ``humanitarian'' aid package
we fulfilled our commitment to them,'' wright said after the vote
with no aid plans left before congress, u.s. policy toward the contras _ who were organized seven years ago with u.s. backing _ was in limbo
the confusion was illustrated by conflicting reactions to the vote from president reagan, the contras' most prominent supporter, and a rebel spokeswoman in miami
as he flew back to the united states from a nato meeting in brussels, belgium, reagan said: ``i'm very happy.'' his spokesman, marlin fitzwater, later explained that the president meant he was glad to be able to work on an improved aid package
but contra spokeswoman marta sacasa said the rebels had wanted the aid to pass, and said the united states was turning its back
every time the united states turns its back on the contras, it puts us in a less favorable position,'' sacasa said. ``we are fighting against an enemy that doesn't have these kinds of problems. the aid from the soviet union has not stopped flowing to the sandinistas.''
in drawing up their aid proposal, democrats led by rep. david bonior, d-mich., were faced with the challenge of attracting support from moderate members, many of them southerners, while not alienating the party's liberal wing _ most of whom never have backed the rebels
to gain every possible advantage, democratic leaders had set up an unusual procedure under which their package would come before the house as an amendment to a competing but similar republican bill. the democratic version was adopted on a vote of 215 to 210, thus wiping out the gop version and replacing it with the democratic plan
but minutes later, voting on final passage for the same bill, 26 members switched their votes and the entire package was defeated. the largest group of those abandoning the bill comprised liberal democrats who had been uncomfortable voting for it in the first place
rep. mickey edwards, r-okla., who led the republican debate, said supporters of contra aid were never given an option they could support
this plan didn't do anything,'' he said. ``it was just a lousy, lousy bill. we were saying we weren't going to vote for it, and they didn't believe it.''
one democratic liberal who said he grudgingly voted for the package, rep. george miller of california, said it would have helped encourage the peace process in central america because it sent ``a renewed message to the contras that congress is not willing to provide lethal aid.''
but a contra supporter, rep. dan burton, r-calif., said the bill was ``like throwing a bone to the freedom fighters without any meat on it.''
rep. henry hyde, r-ill., said the democratic package represented ``an invitation to a funeral _ a funeral for freedom.'' and if it passed, hyde told democrats, ``you'll have the guilt you deserve: being accessories to the murder of freedom and democracy in this hemisphere.''
police said they arrested two men late thursday in the slaying of a rookie police officer shot at point-blank range in his patrol car feb. 26 outside the home of a drug witness he was guarding
the men, whose names were not released, had been picked up thursday for questioning along with two women who were later released, said officer peter o'donnell, a police spokesman
details of the arrests in the slaying of 22-year-old officer edward byrne will be released friday, he said
police commissioner benjamin ward had described the slaying as an ``assassination'' meant to intimidate drug witnesses. byrne was killed by shots from a car that had apparently coasted up to his early in the morning
since the slaying, detectives have flooded the queens neighborhood, arresting 256 street-level crack dealers in hopes of extracting information about the killing
shooting at cops, it's just bad for business. i think experienced criminals know that; perhaps these inexperienced ones will learn it,'' ward said
the reward for information leading to the conviction of the killer grew to $130,000 thursday with a $25,000 contribution from members of the new york stock exchange. more than 10,000 officers attended byrne's funeral
wnbc-tv reported wednesday night that investigators identified two men _ including the gunman _ and two women believed to have been in the car from which the shots were fired
a police spokesman, capt. tom fahey, asked earlier about the wnbc report, said, ``the case has not been solved. the reward is still in effect, we still need the cooperation of the community to help us solve this case.''
the broadcast report also said police believed the killing was ordered by lorenzo ``fat cat'' nichols, 29, a reputed drug kingpin sentenced feb. 25 to 25 years to life in prison for narcotics and weapons possession
he is also awaiting trial on charges he had his parole officer killed for revenge
nearly every night for the past week and a half, sen. albert gore jr. has delivered himself by satellite to television stations in super tuesday states for interviews on local newscasts
the tennessee democrat also appeared via satellite for a campaign pep rally with supporters assembled in more than 50 locations and for a question-and-answer session with students on more than 100 college campuses
everybody is having to do things like this in view of campaigning in 20 states at the same time,'' said arlie schardt, a spokesman for gore. ``it's economical and it's the best method of reaching large numbers of voters.''
as the approaching super tuesday primaries strain campaign warchests and candidate schedules, satellite ``uplinking'' is being used by presidential hopefuls to increase their exposure to voters in the cheapest way possible
though many stations refuse these brief interview opportunities, the chance for ``live'' time with the candidates has become attractive to smaller stations in areas where the contenders are not likely to appear in person
but some media experts say the new high-tech tool of the 1988 campaign does not serve the public well
it plays on the vanity of the local media because everyone wants to be seen interviewing a presidential candidate, but the tough questions aren't being asked'' by the local interviewers, said kathleen hall jamieson, a communications professor at the university of texas at austin
the candidates won't run into any sam donaldsons in the 132nd market,'' said stephen hess, senior fellow at the washington, d.c.-based brookings institution, referring to abc's tough, sometimes abrasive white house correspondent
costs for transmitting via satellite vary depending on location and equipment used, but generally it is far less expensive than producing and airing an advertisement
airing a 30-second ad on a boston television station during the popular cosby show program can cost $30,000, while buying 90 minutes of satellite time that can be used for five-minute interviews by 18 stations costs about $2,000, said gary galanis, a spokesman for democrat paul simon's campaign
we at this point don't have the resources to buy even a minimum amount of paid advertising, which would probably be about a million dollars to hit all the super tuesday states,'' galanis said
you can't mold your message as well with satellite interviews, but you can get two to three minutes on a local newscast,'' he said. ``paid advertising ... is the best thing, but the next best thing is satellite uplinks.''
tim archie, a spokesman for republican bob dole, said large stations in major markets are less likely to accept a satellite interview because they are in cities where the candidates are appearing anyway. these stations also often have a reporter on the road with the campaigns
but for other stations, satellite interviews ``give the stations a sense of an exclusive,'' he said
a number of democratic congressmen want the final totals of the 1990 national census adjusted to make up for the many minority group members and city dwellers they say will be overlooked
commerce department and census officials, who have refused to agree to such changes, were criticized thursday at a hearing for making ``shameful'' and ``political'' decisions
every census since 1790 has seen at least some criticism for the so-called ``undercount,'' and the complaints have grown in recent years despite improvements in census taking
officials estimate that in 1980 only about 1 percent of americans were missed in the national head count. but they admit the problem was much greater among minorities and in cities than it was for other groups
studies were launched to try and determine if adjustments could be made to compensate for this problem, but last october the decision was announced that there would be no adjustment in 1990
pointing out that the people usually missed are most often minorities and city residents, where the democratic party predominates, rep. charles schumer of new york termed the decision not to adjust ``shameful'' and ``political.''
he said the action was not based ``on fair-minded concern about accurate statistics; it's a raw exercise of partisan politics.''
schumer's remarks came thursday at a hearing of the house post office and civil service census subcommittee. reps. mervyn m. dymally of california and robert garcia of new york also raised concerns about the decision not to adjust. all three are democrats
commerce undersecretary robert ortner denied that politics were involved in the decision, contending that statisticians disagree on whether there is an accurate method of making adjustments
i don't think it would make the problem any better if we were to devise an elaborate mathematical system to make up new numbers,'' ortner said
the focus of the problem is the fact that all 435 seats in the house of representatives and billions of dollars in state and federal money are distributed on the basis of the figures collected every 10 years by the census bureau
kansas republicans convene saturday to elect the last 14 of the state's 34 delegates to the republican national convention, and it's expected to be a good day for bob dole
all will be pledged to support the kansas senator on the first ballot in new orleans, since dole claimed all but 16 of the 1,249 county delegates elected five weeks ago in the kansas gop caucuses
the convention also will ratify the election of five delegates recommended from congressional district conventions held feb. 20. the other 15 national delegates were elected at the district level
no contests are expected for the 14 slots still to be filled, but some challenges are expected for the final 14 alternate delegates to be elected. kansas also has 34 alternates
gov. mike hayden, sen. nancy kassebaum and other elected officials, party leaders and prominent republicans will claim the 14 open delegate positions, sources said. their election is not automatic, but nobody is expected to challenge them for the slots out of respect for their prestige and position
the 1,249 delegates elected at county conventions feb. 1-7 are all eligible to attend the state convention and vote on the national delegates, but some are not likely to show up
hayden, who is expected to be elected chairman of the delegation going to new orleans in support of dole, and kassebaum will address the convention
state gop chairman fred logan jr. said dole also may talk to the convention by telephone but the senator will not come to topeka
the main order of business is to elect the rest of our 34 delegates for bob dole,'' logan said
the national convention is aug. 15-18 in new orleans
for the first time in canadian history, a member of parliament has revealed that he is homosexual, surprising the public, delighting gay rights activists and provoking right-wing ridicule
svend robinson, of the socialist new democratic party, made his announcement in parliament thursday
we do not choose to be gay or lesbian and are not seeking special rights, merely the right to live openly in dignity without losing our jobs or homes or being subjected to violence,'' robinson, 36, said
his honesty had consequences
robinson's constituency office in burnaby, british columbia, was vandalized last weekend following reports he was about to confirm longstanding rumors about his sexual orientation
premier grant devine of saskatchewan, father of five children, expressed fear that robinson's statement would encourage young people to try homosexuality. devine said his compassion for gays equaled that for bank robbers
pollsters said the declaration may damage the new democrats' chances in the next election
but toronto gay rights activist russell armstrong called robinson's decision a ``quiet act of heroism.''
he set a wonderful example for all of us who have to make that same kind of revelation in our lives,'' armstrong said. ``i feel a kind of jubilation.''
the minneapolis-born robinson explained in an interview with the associated press why he chose this week to make his disclosure after a nine-year parliamentary career which made him the enfant terrible of canadian politics
it was a difficult decision in both personal and political terms. i didn't want to be perceived as a single-issue candidate or a gay member of parliament, but rather as a member of parliament who happens to be gay
for me as for any other gay or lesbian person, it is a liberating experience,'' the legislator said
robinson, whose family moved to canada in 1964, said it was important to make his declaration before the federal election which conservative prime minister brian mulroney may call this year
the new democrats are at a historical high in the polls under their popular leader, ed broadbent, and could vie for power
other factors in his decision, robinson said, were the government's two-year delay in fulfilling a pledge to outlaw discrimination against gays and lesbians, a growing trend of violence and harassment against homosexuals, and ``attempts to link aids to homosexuality by the jimmy swaggarts of the world.''
rather than allowing extreme right-wing fundamentalist homophobia to become stronger, i think it's important that we stand up and say this is enough,'' he said
he denied being pressured into revealing the truth but cited past harassment, including an incident following the 1985 aids death of film star rock hudson. a conservative member yelled across the floor of parliament, ``why aren't you at rock hudson's funeral?''
it stung,'' said robinson, who disclosed his secret in a speech and two major television interviews earlier this week
a lawyer and graduate of the london school of economics, robinson is known as an aggressive spokesman for minority and left-wing causes and has been thrown out of the house of commons several times
broadbent chastised robinson last year for heckling president reagan over u.s. support for nicaraguan rebels when reagan addressed the canadian parliament
robinson's judgment was criticized again this week for saying there are homosexuals in the federal cabinet, a statement he later withdrew. he also said he wished it were socially acceptable to stroll ``hand in hand'' with the man he cares about in vancouver's stanley park
columnist orland french of the toronto globe and mail noted that robinson is justice critic for the new democrats. french commented how odd it would be if the new democrats are elected and justice minister svend robinson were seen traipsing hand in hand through the park with his male lover
is canada ready for this?'' the columnist asked
robinson said he knows of three other legislators who have revealed their homosexuality: labor member of parliament chris smith in britain, and congressmen gerry studds and barney frank from massachusetts
robinson acknowledged ``political risks'' but was confident he would be renominated for his seat this weekend
pollster angus reid said the new democrats would find it harder to shed their fringe-party image. the financial post commented: ``the reality is that there is an undercurrent of fear of homosexuals in canada.''
robinson didn't shed all his apprehensions. he asked a reporter if his story would reach u.s. newspapers. ``i've got relatives in the states and some are aware and some aren't,'' he said. increase</head>
a sharp increase in methane gas in the atmosphere since 1978 probably will make earth warmer and may worsen seasonal losses of protective ozone over antarctica, scientists say
but the 11 percent increase in methane in the past decade also may slow depletion of the ozone shield over the rest of the planet, said f. sherwood rowland and donald r. blake, chemists at the university of california at irvine
their nasa-funded study was published today in the journal science
methane is the major component of natural gas, but about 80 percent of atmospheric methane comes from decomposition in rice paddies, swamps and the intestines of cows, with some contribution from wood digestion in termites, rowland said
humans are responsible for increased methane levels because they are raising more cows, growing more rice and chopping down tropical forests, which provides food for more termites, said atmospheric scientist pat zimmerman of the national center for atmospheric research in boulder, colo
researchers generally agree that by trapping solar heat like glass in a greenhouse, methane, carbon dioxide and pollutants are likely to warm earth's lower atmosphere by 3 to 5 degrees by the year 2050
they fear this ``greenhouse effect'' may cause crop-threatening droughts and partially melt polar ice caps, which could raise sea levels up to 15 feet and threaten coastal cities
ozone is an air pollutant at low altitudes, but in the stratosphere it shields earth from harmful ultraviolet radiation. scientists say reduction of the ozone layer will cause more skin cancers and might trigger climatic changes
in 1974, rowland and chemist mario molina first warned that the ozone layer was threatened by man-made chlorine compounds called chlorofluorocarbons, or cfcs, which are used as refrigeration coolants, aerosol propellants and for making plastic foams. the united states banned spray-can cfcs in 1978
mounting evidence indicates cfcs are responsible for the worldwide loss of about 1 percent of earth's ozone shield and the formation of a hole that forms in the ozone layer above antarctica for a few months starting every september
blake and rowland said methane increases may worsen the ozone hole by aiding formation of ice clouds above antarctica. that's because studies by molina and others suggest the clouds enhance chemical reactions that allow chlorine from cfcs to break down ozone
as methane rises into the polar stratosphere, it breaks down and releases hydrogen, which combines with a chemical called hydroxyl to form water, which in turn freezes into clouds, blake explained
outside antarctica, wind and higher temperatures prevent formation of stratospheric clouds, so methane attacks chlorine from cfcs, reducing the amount of chlorine available to destroy ozone, blake said
the 11 percent methane increase ``will make the ozone hole over antarctica more severe. it will probably make the ozone depletion in the rest of the world less severe,'' said molina, of the national aeronautics and space administration's jet propulsion laboratory in pasadena
he said the increase ``will make the greenhouse effect more severe.''
rowland and blake also said that because increasing atmospheric methane reduces the amount of hydroxyl present, it indicates the atmosphere is losing its ability to cleanse itself of pollutants. hydroxyl reacts with many pollutants and removes them from the atmosphere
their study also indicates the rate of increase in methane gas slowed slightly during the past five years
blake and rowland collected air samples regularly between january 1978 and september 1987 at up to 60 locations around the pacific to measure methane levels
earlier studies suggested methane levels more than doubled during the previous 200 years. based on that, blake and rowland calculated methane increases may have raised the amount of water vapor in the stratosphere by 28 percent since the 1940s and by 45 percent over the past two centuries. public</head>
american jewish leaders ending a visit to israel say they are still troubled by the ongoing violence in the occupied lands but are convinced that u.s. jews should air their criticisms in private, not public
it is a formula supported by prime minister yitzhak shamir, who told the american jewish leaders this week: ``it is absolutely un-jewish and very dangerous to join an anti-israeli front with non-jews'' by publicly chastizing israel
the 42-member presidents of major american jewish organizations met in jerusalem for a week-long annual conference that ended thursday
morris b. abram, the group's chairman, said he had arrived with ``a good deal of anguish, a good deal of anxiety and misgivings.''
other american jewish leaders also have spoken publicly of their concern over seeing nightly television footage and reading daily news reports on the israel army's tough tactics to quell three months of unrest in the west bank and gaza strip
reports of troops using excessive beatings of palestinians and burying alive four arabs near nablus heightened that unease
but abram said that, after private meetings with israel's political and military leaders, ``i have not the slightest doubt the policy is to use restraint ... and the time is not right to publicly criticize israel's handling of the unrest
the question is not whether american jews have the right to express dissatisfaction. of course they do,'' abram said in an interview with the associated press. ``the question is, on matters of israel's defense and security, is public criticism effective or prudent?''
shamir called on the u.s. jewish leaders to stifle outspoken criticism among their ranks
every critical statement of a jewish leader does much more harm than many violent demonstrations in gaza,'' shamir said. ``it is inconceivable that, god forbid, american jews would permit themselves to be used in the campaign against us.''
not all u.s. jewish leaders agree they should be silent partners with israel
we as jews need to cut through our illusions and self-delusions about israel,'' albert vorspan, vice president of the union of american hebrew congregations, told the organization
he said american jews should speak out about their concerns and warn israeli leaders that ``the tv pictures that multiply every day are potentially explosive'' in terms of israel's image abroad
vorspan also expressed frustration that israel's divided government seemed to be throwing away a chance for peace
he described u.s. secretary of state george shultz's middle east peace mission as ``a shuttle between shamir and (his rival, foreign minister shimon) peres.''
the deep divisions in israel's government concern some u.s. jewish leaders as much as israel's inability to put down the anti-occupation unrest. some warn that that issue is potentially more damaging to israel's relations with the united states than the riots themselves
zvi rafiah, a retired israeli diplomat who served in israel's embassy in washington, said u.s. leaders are alarmed because israel appears ``incapable, even incompetent in resolving one of its most important problems, the peace process.''
in a speech to the jewish leaders, rafiah warned: ``the palestinian problem has become a time bomb in our relationship with the united states.''
actor burt reynolds says that for a long time he felt it was impossible to marry an actress, but he's changed his mind
reynolds, 52, says he'll probably marry longtime steady loni anderson, 43, within the year, and that they want to have children
it's so difficult for an actor and actress to get married, to fight for the mirror,'' he said in an interview in the current issue of us magazine. ``loni has been successful in breaking down all of those things.''
reynolds also said ms. anderson has suffered the classic ``dumb blonde'' misperceptions
she's a college graduate, an art major and she's taught school. she's raised a fabulous daughter,'' he said. ``all of that speaks for itself. that's part of what makes me so proud of her.''
added ms. anderson, ``you'd think that when i peroxided my hair my brains went down the drain.''
academy award-winning actress bette davis says she set aside five years to establish herself as an actress. sixty years later and a month away from her 80th birthday, she's still working
miss davis, born april 5, 1908, is preparing for her role in a new larry cohen thriller
miss davis, who wrote the best seller ``this 'n' that,'' has overcome a mastectomy and a severe and temporarily crippling stroke to keep working
she has just moved from the east coast to a hollywood apartment
i've never been all that fond of southern california weather and i miss the east,'' she said in a recent interview. ``but i decided i'd become too much of a hermit. i needed to get back in the world.''
as for her birthday, ``i haven't quite decided what to do on the day. on my 70th, i put a black wreath on the front door. but to be working on your 80th birthday, that's quite something.''
actress brigitte nielsen says marrying sylvester stallone was good for business, but that wasn't the only thing that gave her career muscle
to stay on top, you have got to have personality and talent,'' stallone's ex-wife said in the march 21 issue of us magazine. ``then it doesn't matter who you were married to
my business was terrific whether i was married or not,'' but ``it might have taken longer'' to make it had she not married the star of the ``rocky'' and ``rambo'' movies, nielsen said
i have more success than i've ever had,'' she said. ``so whatever i have done, i must have done something right because i'm doing good, and more important, i feel good.''
nielsen is engaged to jets defensive lineman mark gastineau
ballet star mikhail baryshnikov will perform in stravinsky's ``apollo'' at a gala during the making music together festival teaming soviet with american artists, organizers say
baryshnikov, a star of leningrad's kirov ballet who defected to this country, will be joined at the march 27 gala by dancers from moscow's bolshoi ballet and american ballet theater ballerinas susan jaffe, leslie brown and christine dunham
more than 285 soviet performers will come to boston for the march 11-april 2 festival, which is to be followed next year by a similar gathering involving u.s. artists in the soviet union
in addition to dancing, the festival will include opera, symphony, chamber music, quartets, folk ensembles and mime
a high-level board of military and civilian advisers is departing from its normal policy stance and questioning the future of a build-up in reserve forces
the suggestion that the reserve forces may be overextended comes as budget problems appear likely to prevent any significant growth in reserve and national guard forces in fiscal 1989
in recent years, the 22-member reserve forces policy board has consistently argued that more money be appropriated for the reserves because of their increasing role in military preparedness and strategy
the selected reserve forces _ the drilling, so-called ``weekend warriors'' _ now total more than 1.1 million people, compared with the 2.1 million on active duty
under the so-called ``total force'' policy adopted in 1973, many of those reservists and guardsmen would go to war before their active-duty counterparts because of the equipment they use or the jobs for which they have been trained
the policy board, in its just-released fiscal 1987 report, repeats its plea for greater financial support for the reserve forces. but it also advances the unexpected suggestion that the pentagon should attend to the strength of its active-duty forces first
an appropriate balance should exist between the active and reserve components,'' the board stated
according to col. phil fogel, an aide to the panel, the board issued its warning this year in part because of declining projections for military spending
when you have budget constraints, people tend to want to shift more responsibilities to the reserves to save money,'' fogel said thursday
the board is saying you've got to have a sufficient active-duty force, and that you can't shift like that without providing the necessary resources, money, spaces in schools, etc.''
the board said it thought ``the most suitable missions for the national guard and reserves are those with low peace-time activity levels and high war-time surge requirements.''
if a mission must be performed on a daily basis or requires daily training, that mission is best suited to the active component,'' the panel said
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,615.62 points, up 19.31 points, on the tokyo stock exchange friday
sheikh bassam jarrar stabbed the air with his finger and declared that a political settlement with israel would be ``disastrous.''
the moslem religious leader said the koran, islam's holy book, ``forbids recognition of israel.'' he argued against cooperating with peace initiatives aimed at ending the three-month uprising in the israeli-occupied lands
jarrar's remarks, criticial of the plo's policy of seeking a settlement, provoked murmurs of disagreement from men sitting cross-legged along the wall of the mosque in this village 10 miles northwest of jerusalem
the dispute, reflecting deep political divisions of palestinians despite the unity they have shown in confronting israeli soldiers, soon grew into a shouting match
it cut short the gathering of more than 150 men, an informal town hall-type meeting where the heated exchanges continued outside the mosque under a tree despite a drizzle
the first to challenge jarrar, a charismatic speaker aligned with the fundamentalist moslem brotherhood, was a middle-aged man in a white headdress, who asked if there wasn't a peaceful alternative to street violence
the 39-year-old preacher left no room for compromise and warned that anyone who recognized the jewish state would be considered an enemy of islam
we don't have any common language with israel. we have nothing to demand of them. we are in a state or revolt against israel. the conflict should continue until victory,'' jarrar said, his deep, resonant voice cracking with emotion
a bearded man in his 20s accused jarrar of breaking ranks with the palestine liberation organization, which has endorsed an international conference to discuss peace with israel
the plo represents all the people. there is no islamic trend. there are only moslems who support the plo,'' shouted the young man, a supporter of plo chairman yasser arafat's fatah organization
i represent the islamic trend,'' said jarrar, whose full black beard signified his fundamentalist allegiance
a tall, muscular man rose to disagree with jarrar's criticism of syria and the soviet union
we are in need of syria. there is a plo delegation visiting damascus now to create a good atmosphere for fighting israel we should support an alliance with syria,'' he said
the man, whose comments indicated he was a supporter of the pro-soviet democratic front for the liberation of palestine faction, blamed jarrar for provoking the dispute
we have differences, it is true. but we are all supporting the uprising and we should not discuss them now,'' he said
jarrar attacked the plo position, saying arafat only had agreed to a conference after losing his independent base in lebanon, being driven out of beirut by israel and out of the northern lebanese city of tripoli by syria
it's impossible to have a peaceful alternative while we are in a weak position,'' jarrar said. ``i will not say there is a possibility of a political solution. it would be disastrous under the current conditions.''
the infighting was also reflected in graffitti spray-painted on walls near the mosque
one slogan attacking the peace mission of secretary of state george shultz was signed by the democratic front and another anti-occupation slogan by ``hamas,'' which means fervor in arabic and is used by the moslem brothers, a movement founded in egypt in 1929 by a school teacher named hassan al banna
israeli officials, especially those of the right-wing likud bloc, have stressed the islamic influence in the ongoing riots. they have argued that the fundamentalists threaten western nations as well as israel
the influence of the fundamentalists has grown since the violence began dec. 8. islamic groups are especially strong in the occupied gaza strip, where there are more refugee camps than in the west bank and poverty is widespread
but plo supporters appear to be in the vast majority in the west bank, which israel also seized in the 1967 middle east war, and even jarrar said the riots were not an ``uprising of the mosques,'' as he said some israeli leaders had claimed
israel wants to frighten the west by saying the fundamentalists are playing an active role. israel wants to justify its oppression by saying they are fighting fundamentalists,'' jarrar said
he said the riots had damaged israel's image in the world, hurt the israeli economy by robbing it of arab labor and tourism, and prevented the military government in the occupied lands from imposing new and more harsh measures
they thought we were sleeping or dead,'' jarrar said. ``if there is no other benefit of the uprising it is to show that we reject oppression.''
the dollar closed at 129.22 yen, down 0.08 yen, on the tokyo foreign exchange market friday
here is the 69-27 roll call by which the senate voted to ban the use of lie detectors by most private employers to screen job applicants and randomly test employees already on their payroll for honesty
on this vote, a vote ``for'' was a vote for the ban while a vote ``against'' was a vote opposing it
there were 69 votes ``for'' and 27 votes ``against.''
adams, wash.; baucus, mont.; bentsen, texas; bingaman, n.m.; boren, okla
bradley, n.j.; breaux, la.; bumpers, ark.; burdick, n.d.; byrd, w.va
chiles, fla.; conrad, n.d.; cranston, calif.; daschle, s.d.; deconcini, ariz
dixon, ill.; dodd, conn.; exon, neb.; ford, ky.; fowler, ga.
glenn, ohio; harkin, iowa; heflin, ala.; hollings, s.c.; inouye, hawaii
johnston, la.; kennedy, mass.; kerry, mass.; lautenberg, n.j.; leahy, vt
levin, mich.; matsunaga, hawaii; melcher, mont.; metzenbaum, ohio; mikulski, md
mitchell, maine; moynihan, n.y.; nunn, ga.; pell, r.i.; proxmire, wis
pryor, ark.; reid, nev.; riegle, mich.; rockefeller, w. va.; sanford, n.c
sarbanes, md.; sasser, tenn.; shelby, ala.; stennis, miss.; wirth, colo
boschwitz, minn.; chafee, r.i.; cohen, maine; d'amato, n.y.; danforth, mo
domenici, n.m.; durenberger, minn.; evans, wash; hatch, utah; hatfield, ore
heinz, pa.; humphrey, n.h.; kasten, wis.; lugar, ind.; packwood, ore
simpson, wyo.; specter, pa.; stafford, vt.; weicker, conn
graham, fla
armstrong, colo.; bond, mo.; cochran, miss; garn, utah; gramm, texas
grassley, iowa; hecht, nev.; helms, n.c.; karnes, neb.; kassebaum, kan
mccain, ariz.; mcclure, idaho; mcconnell, ky.; murkowski, alaska; nickles, okla
pressler, s.d.; quayle, ind.; roth, del.; rudman, n.h.; stevens, alaska
symms, idaho; thurmond, s.c.; trible, va.; wallop, wyo; warner, va.; wilson, calif
air force officials have been told by lawmakers to scour their budget for money that would avert the temporary furlough of more than 80,000 civilian workers
rep. nicholas mavroules, chairman of the house armed services readiness subcommittee, told air force comptroller general claudius watts on thursday that the air force could wring the necessary funds out of its budget
if the initiative does not come from the military..., it'll come from this one member,'' the massachusetts democrat said. ``these humane issues _ the quality of life that we take such a deep interest in _ are not going to be affected.''
under the air force plan, 82,500 civilian workers in the air force logistics command could be furloughed for up to 10 days this year
i wish i could guarantee to you that no one would be furloughed,'' watts told the subcommittee. ``but i can't.''
rep. john kasich, r-ohio, said the command would only need to find $167 million out of its total budget of $5 billion to avert the furloughs
we're spending $60 million on a club system for our service people and $13 million to subsidize golf courses,'' said kasich. ``we can start by cutting out the $13 millon for golf courses. i think we've got to find the money.''
the logistics command is responsible for transporting air force supplies as well as repairing and maintaining equipment. it has about 7,300 workers at its headquarters at wright-patterson air force base near dayton, ohio, and another 2,500 at the newark (ohio) air force station
in addition to wright-patterson and newark, the logistics command operates major centers at ogden, utah; sacramento, calif., san antonio, texas; oklahoma city; warner robins, ga.; davis-monthan air force base in arizona; and battle creek, mich
rep. jim hansen, r-utah, has introduced a bill aimed at averting the furloughs by increasing from $1.5 billion to $4 billion the amount of money the pentagon could transfer from one account to another
the nation's ``weekend warriors'' in the military reserves tend to be married and older individuals who have served in the active forces and have years of experience in their jobs, a first-of-its-kind survey shows
reservists and national guard members also tend to come from military families, almost always have at least a high school diploma, expect to stay in the reserves because of the pay and pension benefits as well as out of a sense of patriotism, and now mirror the percentages of women and minorities in the active forces, the study found
the survey, entitled simply ``description of officers and enlisted personnel in the u.s. selected reserve: 1986,'' was released late thursday by the pentagon
the defense department described it as ``the first comprehensive survey'' of reservists it had ever attempted, adding that more than 52,000 enlisted personnel and 12,000 officers across the country had been queried on their personal backgrounds and satisfaction with their part-time military work
the selected reserve forces include the army national guard, the air national guard, the army reserve, navy reserve, marine corps reserve, air force reserve and coast guard reserve. those forces now include more than 1.1 million men and women, who are expected to train on active duty for two weeks every year and on one weekend a month
stephen m. duncan, the assistant defense secretary for reserve affairs, said thursday the pentagon intended to use the survey to gauge the adequacy of its recruiting and retention policies for the reserves
according to the survey:
_about 62 percent of part-time reserve officers and 47 percent of the enlisted reservists spent time on active duty _ an average of more than four years for enlisted members and five years for officers. about three-quarters of the reservists come from families with other members who served in the armed forces
_once they join up, reservists tend to stick with their commitment. part-time enlisted reservists have an average 7 years of service with their units, while officers have an average 10.5 years of service under their belts
_the median age for an enlisted member is 29.5, while the median for an officer is 37.9
_fifty-five percent of the enlisted reservists and 76 percent of the officers are married; three-quarters of the married reservists say their spouse supports their part-time military service
_only about 15 percent of the reservists' employers are perceived as having an ``unfavorable'' attitude toward military service
serving their country was a major contributor to the retention decision for 55 percent of the enlisted personnel and 59 percent of the officers,'' the study states
earning credit towards retirement was a major contributor for 50 percent of the enlisted personnel and 62 percent of the officers.''
republicans said they were treated like ``common criminals.''
the senate's democratic leader said the republicans were merely ``cry-babies'' and should act like adults
for five hours thursday, senators talked about and briefly debated the legality of the senate's vote last week to ``arrest absent senators.''
at one point, spectators in the senate gallery may have thought they had wandered into a courtroom
facing the presiding officer at the bench was sen. george mitchell, d-maine, drawing on his experience as a former federal judge to defend the democrats' vote last week to arrest republicans who refused to show up for a quorum call
on the other side of the ornate chamber stood sen. arlen specter, citing his background as a former philadelphia district attorney and arguing that senators should enjoy the same protections against illegal arrest as ``common criminals.''
that vote resulted in the senate sergeant-at-arms chasing senators down corridors and finally entering the locked office of sen. robert packwood with a team of detectives. the senator was escorted to the senate, where he was picked up and carried into the chamber, feet first
packwood, an oregon republican, seemed amused
but 17 other republicans were not, and they spent much of the day thursday condemning the whole episode. they introduced a resolution asking the rules committee to tighten procedures by which senators can be arrested and forced to attend the senate
specter, r-pa., charged that ``an arrest is an arrest is an arrest'' and demanded that in the future, warrants be changed to ``include a written statement establishing the reasons for arrest.''
the resolution also proposed a rule change that would prohibit the seizure of an absent senator between 11 p.m. and 8 a.m. ``unless the pending business is of a compelling nature.''
through it all sat senate majority leader robert byrd, d-w.va., the man who had proposed the rarely-used motion to arrest
he said the complaining republicans were ``cry-babies'' and the arrest warrant carried no penalties other than requiring senators to show up for work
we bored the american people today with almost four hours of talk about the `tough life' of senators,'' byrd complained
he called the whole debate ``a tale of woe'' and suggested ``there are several million americans who would be glad to trade places with us.''
byrd singled out the provision that would limit late-night arrest warrants other than for ``compelling'' reasons. ``who's to determine that?'' byrd asked. ``the senate determines that and it determined that the other evening.''
packwood was seized in his office at about 1:30 a.m. last wednesday when he and most other republicans fled the chamber to prevent the senate from establishing a quorum. a quorum of 51 senators was needed to keep the senate in session, and the republicans were trying to end an all-night debate on a campaign spending bill
packwood's unique arrival gave the democrats a quorum and the senate remained in session all night
packwood was not a sponsor of the resolution, introduced thursday, and referred to the rules committee
in addition to specter, sponsors included sens. alan simpson of wyoming, john chafee of rhode island, william armstrong of colorado, rudy boschwitz of minnesota, thad cochran of mississippi, john heinz of pennsylvania, dan quayle of indiana, mitch mcconnell of kentucky, kit bond of missouri, dan evans of washington, robert kasten of wisconsin, alfonse d'amato of new york, gordon humphrey of new hampshire, jake garn of utah, john warner of virginia and malcolm wallop of wyoming
american and soviet negotiators meet next week to start work on a new, long-term grain agreement to replace the current pact that guarantees sales of 9 million metric tons a year
we look forward to our discussions with the soviets on a new u.s.-soviet long-term grain agreement,'' said a joint statement thursday from agriculture secretary richard e. lyng and u.s. trade representative clayton k. yeutter
the two officials said they expected the talks that start march 11 in vienna to be only ``the first step in the negotiating process'' aimed at fashioning an agreement to replace the current one, which expires sept. 30
any agreement produced by the talks would be the third such deal between the united states and the soviet union since 1975
the two officials said the earlier ones ``have been important in stabilizing grain trade between our two countries, and we are optimistic we will be able to achieve another mutually beneficial agreement.''
under the current five-year agreement, the soviets agreed to purchase 9 million metric tons of wheat and corn annually. four million tons must be wheat and four million corn
the soviets may satisfy the rest of their commitment through purchases of wheat, corn, soybeans, soybean meal or any combination of those commodities, with every ton of soybeans or soybean meal counting as two tons of grain
earlier this week, the agriculture department announced the sale of 500,000 metric tons of subsidized u.s. wheat to the soviet union by private exporters. it would be worth about $50 million at recent prices
the sale came under the export enhancement program, a subsidy established under the 1985 farm bill to provide exporters with surplus government commodities as an incentive to sell u.s. farm goods
the soviet union was a grain exporting nation through most of the 1960s but began large-scale imports in the early 1970s. the first long-term pact with the united states was signed in 1975 and another followed in 1983
friction arose in 1986 when american producers were still recoiling from five years of weak performance in the farm economy and the soviets fell 3.8 million tons short of the minimum wheat purchase under the agreement, complaining that the united states failed to meet world market prices
the soviets left untouched a last-minute offer by the united states under which 4 million tons of wheat were made eligible for bonuses under the export enhancement act. but the agriculture department made a similar offer again in early 1987 and the soviets resumed purchases
elizabeth shatto and christina drury braved rough seas to rescue a young girl from drowning in the gulf of mexico last summer, earning them an award from the carnegie hero fund commission
now the two 16-year-olds from houston are taking a lifesaving course
we hadn't had any lifesaving before that,'' miss shatto said thursday. ``it was just instinct. you see someone who needs help and you go get them.''
sixteen other people in 10 states were awarded carnegie medals thursday by the pittsburgh-based commission, established in 1904 by industrialist andrew carnegie to recognize what he called the ``heroes of civilization.''
of the 18 heroes, five died in their rescue attempts, according to the commission. each of the heroes or their survivors received a $2,500 grant and a bronze medal
miss shatto said she and miss drury were in a beach house near surfside, texas, on aug. 18, 1987, when they heard a young boy scream. he pointed to 11-year-old lynette bennett, whose head could be seen bobbing out in the ocean
there was no one else around. if we hadn't been there, she would be dead,'' she said
the girls swam out, grasped an arm and towed the exhausted girl to shore, fighting a strong current and rough surf. lynette recovered after being hospitalized overnight. miss shatto said she and her friend were uninjured
others honored thursday are:
_robert ray dodd, 35, of clarksburg, w.va., who died helping to save his 15-year-old son from drowning in 4{ feet of oil in a storage tank near his home on july 5, 1987
_john d. anderson, 46, of baldwin, mich., who died in an unsuccessful attempt to save a 16-year-old boy from drowning in lake michigan on july 17, 1987
_carlton m. muse jr., 34, of new bern, n.c., who died trying to save an 18-year-old girl from drowning in the neuse river on june 1, 1987
_james scott clay, 30, of des moines, iowa, who died after rescuing a 30-year-old woman from armed assault on nov. 4, 1986
_theodore hansen, 38, of thousand oaks, calif., who died trying to save a 4-year-old boy from drowning in the pacific ocean on june 17, 1984, and daine n. vannett, 21, of newbury park, calif., who took the boy from the unconscious hansen
_michael l. reda, 34, of titusville, fla., who saved a 10-year-old boy from drowning in the atlantic ocean and helped to save a 40-year-old man who also tried to rescue the boy on aug. 16, 1987
_raymond s. cairo, 20, of east providence, r.i., who helped save an 8-year-old girl from drowning in the atlantic ocean on june 18, 1987
_sallie ruth pierdolla, 43, of marion, texas, who saved another woman trapped in a burning car on june 20, 1987
_javier geraldo meza, 24, of santa rosa, calif., who saved a 66-year-old man from armed assault on dec. 31, 1986
_victor m. ramirez, 27, of cooleemee, n.c., who saved a 56-year-old man from drowning in the rain-swollen yadkin river on may 18, 1987
_daniel carl tourville, 29, of westminster, colo., and glenn m. koppes, 23, of bellflower, calif., who helped save a 10-year-old boy from drowning in the pacific ocean on jan. 11, 1987
_joe c. woodrow, 63, of sarcoxie, mo., who rescued an elderly neighbor from a burning house on nov. 23, 1986
_terry m. coats, 24, of riverside, calif., who helped rescue a 36-year-old man from a burning apartment following a natural gas explosion on april 21, 1987
_mark wood, 38, of detroit, who saved a 55-year-old man being attacked by two pit bull dogs on march 18, 1987
ibm researchers say they've set a record high temperature for superconductivity _ a jump of 35 degrees _ by varying the recipe that produced the old mark reported last month
the accomplishment is a significant step toward making superconductors practical, according to a superconductivity expert
the new material lost all resistance to electricity at minus 234 degrees fahrenheit, said edward engler of the international business machine corp. almaden research center in san jose, calif
the material was a mix of thallium, barium, calcium, copper and oxygen, the same elements used by university of arkansas researchers who last month reported zero resistance at minus 269 degrees
ibm used the elements in different proportions. engler declined to reveal the new recipe thursday, citing patent considerations
allen hermann, chairman of the physics department at the university of arkansas, said he was astounded and thrilled by ibm's result
i knew someone would probably do us better,'' he said in a telephone interview. ``well, the race is on.''
superconductivity is the ability to carry electricity without resistance. scientists want to drive the temperature up as far as possible to reduce or eliminate the need for chilling. that will help make the materials practical for use in high-speed computers, bullet trains and other applications
one goal is to reach superconducting temperatures as far as possible above minus 321 degrees. that is how cold a material gets when chilled by liquid nitrogen, which is relatively cheap
the higher the superconducting temperature is above that mark, for a material chilled by liquid nitrogen, the more electrical current the material can carry and the greater magnetic field it can withstand before losing its superconductivity
the ibm compound ``is a significant step'' in that effort, said brian schwartz, physics professor at brooklyn college
he noted that in terms of the kelvin scale, which measures temperature in centigrade degrees above absolute zero, liquid nitrogen chills to 77 degrees while the ibm mark corresponds to 125 degrees
now we have almost a situation with the thallium materials where if we're working at liquid nitrogen temperatures, we're working at close to half the transition (superconductivity) temperature, which is a very nice feature,'' schwartz said
thallium is poisonous, and scientists say its potential for practical use outside the laboratory is limited. but they hope to learn enough from thallium compounds to find more suitable materials that superconduct at still higher temperatures
engler said the new material has shown no sign of losing its superconducting ability in the roughly two weeks his team has worked with it. all of the dozen or so samples made so far have reached zero resistance in the range of minus 244 degrees fahrenheit to minus 234 degrees, he said
the thallium compound expelled a magnetic field, a hallmark of superconductivity called the meissner effect, engler said
ibm's results were reported this week at a superconductivity meeting in switzerland, engler said. his co-workers at the ibm center were victor lee, adel nazzal and stuart parkin
higher temperatures for superconductivity have been reported in the press. but many have not been reproducible, and others were based only on evidence that a sample contained isolated pockets of superconductivity, rather than a complete zero-resistance pathway
associated press writer=
washington (ap) _ an independent counsel investigating attorney general edwin meese iii is focusing on a $1 billion iraqi oil pipeline project, calling a former national security council aide as a witness before a federal grand jury
nsc aide david wigg, a central figure in discussions of the proposed pipeline, went before the grand jury for both morning and afternoon sessions thursday in the criminal investigation of meese being conducted by independent counsel james mckay
in the fall of 1985, wigg was designated by then-national security adviser robert mcfarlane to expedite the project. the proposed pipeline was foundering over iraq's desire for an insurance package. iraq feared that israel, its enemy for four decades, would destroy the project
wigg was involved in late 1985 in a plan, which was never approved, to use pentagon budget money to ensure that israel would not attack the proposed pipeline. meese said last week through his lawyers that he had known nothing of the idea
mckay's probe is focusing on a 1985 memo to meese written by his longtime friend e. robert wallach which mentioned that a portion of up to $700 million from the pipeline would be paid directly to the israeli labor party of then-prime minister shimon peres
wallach was representing one of the project's partners, swiss oilman bruce rappaport, who has close ties to peres
peres says that rappaport offered israel a $65 million to $70 million a year discount on oil purchases but says he didn't take the idea seriously and didn't inform other government officials. peres denies that rappaport proposed paying part of the money to the labor party
the pipeline, to have been constructed by san francisco-based bechtel group inc., was never built
mckay is investigating whether meese may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act which makes it a crime for u.s. citizens, companies or their agents to bribe foreign officials for help in business matters and authorizes the attorney general to file suit to block such practices. meese says he doesn't recall reading the portion of wallach's memo pertaining to labor party payments
wigg now is a deputy assistant secretary for policy analysis in the pentagon
here is the 216-208 roll call thursday by which the house defeated a $30 million package of humanitarian aid to nicaragua's contra rebels
a ``yes'' vote is for the aid package
voting yes were 203 democrats and 5 republicans
voting no were 45 democrats and 171 republicans
xxx denotes those not voting
present denotes those who voted they were ``present'' at the time of the vote but did not vote ``yes'' or ``no'' on the issue
there is one vacancy in the 435-member house
democrats _ bevill, yes; erdreich, yes; flippo, yes; harris, yes; nichols, xxx
republicans _ callahan, no; dickinson, no
republican _ young, no
democrat _ udall, yes
republicans _ kolbe, no; kyl, no; rhodes, no; stump, no
democrats _ alexander, yes; anthony, yes; robinson, yes
republican _ hammerschmidt, no
democrats _ anderson, yes; bates, no; beilenson, yes; berman, yes; bosco, no; boxer, no; brown, yes; coelho, yes; dellums, no; dixon, yes; dymally, yes; edwards, yes; fazio, yes; hawkins, yes; lantos, yes; lehman, yes; levine, yes; martinez, yes; matsui, yes; miller, yes; mineta, yes; panetta, yes; pelosi yes; roybal, no; stark, yes; torres, yes; waxman, yes
republicans _ badham, no; dannemeyer, no; dornan, no; dreier, no; gallegly, no; herger, no; hunter, no; konnyu, no; lagomarsino, no; lewis, no; lowery, no; lungren, no; mccandless, no; moorhead, no; packard, no; pashayan, no; shumway, no; thomas, no
democrats _ campbell, yes; schroeder, no, skaggs, yes
republicans _ brown, no; hefley, no; schaefer, no
democrats _ gejdenson, yes; kennelly, yes; morrison, yes
republicans _ johnson, no; rowland, no; shays, no
democrat _ carper, yes
democrats _ bennett, yes; chappell, yes; fascell, yes; gibbons, yes; grant, yes; hutto, no; lehman, yes; mackay, yes; mica, yes; nelson, yes; pepper, yes; smith, yes
republicans _ bilirakis, no; ireland, no; lewis, no; mack, no; mccollum, no; shaw, no; young, no
democrats _ barnard, yes; darden, yes; hatcher, yes; jenkins, yes; lewis, yes; ray, yes; rowland, yes; thomas, yes
republicans _ gingrich, no; swindall, no
democrat _ akaka, yes
republican _ saiki, no
democrat _ stallings, yes
republican _ craig, no
democrats _ annunzio, yes; bruce, yes; collins, yes; durbin, no; evans, yes; gray, yes; hayes, yes; lipinski, yes; price, yes; rostenkowski, no; russo, yes; savage, no; yates, yes
republicans _ crane, no; davis, no; fawell, no; hastert, no; hyde, no; madigan, no; martin, no; michel, no; porter, no
democrats _ hamilton, yes; jacobs, no; jontz, yes; mccloskey, yes; sharp, yes; visclosky, yes
republicans _ burton, no; coats, no; hiler, no; myers, no
democrats _ nagle, yes; smith, no
republicans _ grandy, no; leach, no; lightfoot, xxx; tauke, no
democrats _ glickman, yes; slattery, yes
republicans _ meyers, yes; roberts, no; whittaker, no
a 50-year-old law exempting truck and bus drivers in cities from meeting federal safety requirements is one step closer to being removed from the books
the senate passed legislation thursday that would apply federal safety regulations within urban areas for the first time, and would also commence government consideration of whether to put devices in trucks that would monitor drivers' performances
the bill, which would also require the government to study how to improve truck braking systems, was approved by a unanimous voice vote
it is aimed at truck and bus accidents that kill more than 5,000 americans every year
federal regulations set minimum standards for the construction and operation of trucks and buses, and for the physical condition of their drivers. they are often stricter and more detailed than state requirements
but the rules do not apply in urban areas. the regulations were written in the 1930s, when urban traffic was slower than it is today and lawmakers believed city authorities could keep track of local problems
the exemption for vehicles operating in cities would be eliminated one year after the bill becomes law
the measure would also give the department of transportation a year to determine whether drivers' performances must be monitored by instruments installed in the trucks, and if so, which devices should be used
federal rules forbid commercial drivers from driving more than 10 consecutive hours or 60 hours per week. drivers are required to keep written records of their hours, but these logs are believed to be frequently falsified
mechanical and electronic devices are available that could record the driving time and speed of drivers
the legislation would also give the transportation department until sept. 30 to conduct a study on ways to improve truck braking systems, and until a year after that to require better brakes if they are found to be necessary. brake problems are believed to be a cause of up to one-third of all truck accidents
the measure's chief sponsors are sens. john danforth, r-mo., and brock adams, d-wash
a similar bill is awaiting action in the house public works and transportation committee
democrats _ hubbard, yes; mazzoli, yes; natcher, yes; perkins, yes
republicans _ bunning, no; hopkins, no; rogers, no
democrats _ boggs, yes; hayes, no; huckaby, no; roemer, xxx; tauzin, no
republicans _ baker, no; holloway, no; livingston, no
democrat _ brennan, no
republican _ snowe, no
democrats _ byron, no; cardin, yes; dyson, yes; hoyer, yes; mcmillen, yes; mfume, yes
republicans _ bentley, no; morella, yes
democrats _ atkins, yes; boland, yes; donnelly, yes; early, no; frank, yes; kennedy, no; markey, yes; mavroules, yes; moakley, yes; studds, yes
republican _ conte, no
democrats _ bonior, yes; carr, yes; conyers, yes; crockett, yes; dingell, yes; ford, yes; hertel, yes; kildee, yes; levin, yes; traxler, yes; wolpe, yes
republicans _ broomfield, no; davis, no; henry, no; pursell, no; schuette, no; upton, no; vander jagt, no
democrats _ oberstar, yes; penny, yes; sabo, yes; sikorski, yes; vento, yes
republicans _ frenzel, no; stangeland, no; weber, no
democrats _ dowdy, xxx; espy, yes; montgomery, no; whitten, yes
republican _ lott, no
democrats _ clay, yes; gephardt, xxx; skelton, no; volkmer, yes; wheat, no
republicans _ buechner, no; coleman, no; emerson, no; taylor, no
democrat _ williams, yes
republican _ marlenee, no
republicans _ bereuter, no; daub, no; smith, no
democrat _ bilbray, yes
republican _ vucanovich, no
republicans _ gregg, no; smith, no
democrats _ dwyer, yes; florio, no; guarini, yes; howard, yes; hughes, yes; rodino, yes; roe, yes; torricelli, yes
republicans _ courter, no; gallo, no; rinaldo, no; roukema, no; saxton, no; smith, no
democrat _ richardson, yes
republicans _ lujan, no; skeen, no
democrats _ ackerman, yes; biaggi, xxx; downey, yes; flake, yes; garcia, yes; hochbrueckner, yes; lafalce, yes; manton, yes; mchugh, yes; mrazek, yes; nowak, yes; owens, yes; rangel, yes; scheuer, yes; schumer, yes; slaughter, yes; solarz, yes; stratton, no; towns, yes; weiss, yes
republicans _ boehlert, no; dioguardi, no; fish, no; gilman, no; green, no; horton, no; houghton, no; kemp, no; lent, no; martin, no; mcgrath, no; molinari, no; solomon, no; wortley, no
democrats _ clarke, yes; hefner, yes; jones, yes; lancaster, yes; neal, yes; price, yes; rose, yes; valentine, no
republicans _ ballenger, no; coble, no; mcmillan, no
democrat _ dorgan, yes
democrats _ applegate, no; eckart, yes; feighan, yes; hall, yes; kaptur, yes; luken, yes; oakar, no; pease, yes; sawyer, yes; stokes, yes; traficant, no
republicans _ dewine, no; gradison, no; kasich, no; latta, no; lukens, no; mcewen, no; miller, no; oxley, no; regula, no; wylie, no
democrats _ english, no; mccurdy, yes; synar, yes; watkins, yes
republican _ edwards, no; inhofe, no
democrats _ aucoin, no; defazio, no; wyden, no
republican _ d. smith, no; r. smith, no
democrats _ borski, yes; coyne, yes; foglietta, yes; gaydos, yes; gray, yes; kanjorski, yes; kolter, no; kostmayer, yes; murphy, no; murtha, yes; walgren, yes; yatron, yes
republicans _ clinger, no; coughlin, no; gekas, no; goodling, no; mcdade, no; ridge, no; ritter, no; schulze, no; shuster, no; walker, no; weldon, no
democrat _ st germain, yes
republican _ schneider, no
democrats _ derrick, yes; patterson, yes; spratt, yes; tallon, yes
republicans _ ravenel, no; spence, no
democrat _ johnson, yes
democrats _ clement, yes; cooper, yes; ford, xxx; gordon, yes; jones, xxx; lloyd, no
republicans _ duncan, no; quillen, no; sundquist, no
democrats _ andrews, yes; brooks, no; bryant, yes; bustamante, yes; chapman, yes; coleman, yes; de la garza, yes; frost, yes; gonzalez, no; r. hall, no; leath, xxx; leland, yes; ortiz, yes; pickle, yes; stenholm, no; wilson, no; wright, xxx (by tradition the speaker seldom votes)
republicans _ archer, no; armey, no; bartlett, no; barton, no; boulter, no; combest, no; delay, no; fields, no; smith, no; sweeney, no
democrat _ owens, yes
republicans _ hansen, no; nielson, no
republican _ jeffords, yes
democrats _ boucher, no; olin, yes; pickett, yes; sisisky, yes
republicans _ bateman, no; bliley, no; parris, no; slaughter, no; wolf, no
democrats _ bonker, no; dicks, yes; foley, yes; lowry, yes; swift, yes
republicans _ chandler, no; miller, yes; morrison, yes
democrats _ mollohan, no; rahall, yes; staggers, yes; wise, yes
democrats _ aspin, yes; kastenmeier, no; kleczka, yes; moody, no; obey, yes
republicans _ gunderson, no; petri, no; roth, no; sensenbrenner, no
republican _ cheney, no
a $9.4 million damage award to the family of a woman whose killer was hired through a soldier of fortune magazine classified ad is ``sending out a warning'' to other publishers, the jury foreman says
an attorney for the magazine said it would appeal thursday's verdict in favor of gary wayne black, 18, and his grandmother, marjorie eimann, 64, who sought $22.5 million in their lawsuit
this fight goes three rounds like a lot of first amendment cases,'' said soldier of fortune attorney larry thompson. ``we lost the first round but put your money on us in the next two rounds.''
after deliberating for 12 hours over three days, the jury awarded black $1.5 million, $400,000 to mrs. eimann and $7.5 million in punitive damages to the plaintiffs
we're sending out a warning or message to other publishers that ads placed in a certain context can be a very dangerous message and publishers as such should be responsible,'' said jury foreman herman castex
sandra black, black's mother and mrs. eimann's daughter, was shot to death feb. 21, 1985, at her home in bryan, about 90 miles northwest of houston
mrs. black's husband, robert, is on death row for paying john wayne hearn $10,000 to kill her. hearn is serving three life terms in florida for that slaying and two others
robert black contacted hearn through a classified ad hearn placed in late 1984 in soldier of fortune, the self-styled ``journal for professional adventurers.''
in a pretrial decision, u.s. district judge david hittner ruled that the boulder, colo.-based magazine and parent company omega group ltd. could not enjoy full first amendment protection because of the ad's commercial nature
this will have no effect on the legitimate press,'' said plaintiffs' attorney ron franklin. ``soldier of fortune knew in fact that it was advertising for contract killers and that offers no first amendment protection.''
publishing and legal experts were not as certain
when magazine publishers' advertising people hear a big verdict based on this kind of ad, they may be more concerned than necessary to accept controversial advertising,'' said slade metcalf, chairman of legal affairs for the new york-based magazine publishers association
these kinds of cases really open the door,'' said david protess, a professor at northwestern university's medill school of journalism in evanston, ill. ``there's very little case law on media negligence. there are almost no precedents.''
attorneys said it could take 18 months before the case reaches the 5th u.s. circuit court of appeals in new orleans
mrs. eimann shook hands and hugged the six jurors after the verdict. ``i lost a daughter and he lost a mother,'' she said, looking at her grandson. ``we felt something had to be done to save other people's lives.''
soldier of fortune publisher robert k. brown said the verdict would not affect the future of his publication, which sells about 150,000 copies monthly
please understand this was a terrible tragedy, a terrible crime,'' he said. ``we have a great deal of empathy for them, but we didn't do it.''
this means every publisher is going to have to read every ad and look into the minds of those placing the ad,'' brown said
hearn's ad in four issues of soldier of fortune read: ``ex marines. `67-69 nam vets. ex-di, weapons specialist _ jungle warfare. pilot. me. high-risk assignments. u.s. or overseas.''
attorneys and witnesses for the family said ``high-risk assignments'' meant hearn and others placing similar ads were willing to commit crimes
soldier of fortune witnesses defended the publication as a legitimate military journal and described the ads as providing employment for vietnam veterans as bodyguards, security workers or mercenaries overseas
but the family's lawyers linked at least nine other crimes to ads before september 1984, including a 1982 houston murder-for-hire case
a white house commission has adopted its chairman's recommendation to pour an additional $2 billion a year into the the fight against aids
the panel unanimously approved retired navy adm. james d. watkins' 60 pages of suggestions thursday night during a brief business meeting that wrapped up four full days of hearings on a variety of topics _ such as testing and protection against discrimination _ that are to be addressed in subsequent reports
watkins had outlined his recommendations at a news conference last week and they were formally considered by the full commission on monday
the final version contained no substantive changes although there were some additions to emphasize particular areas of concern
for example, a paragraph was added to emphasize ``that available data do not provide a basis for comfort or complacency to any segment of our society. ... we express our concern that inaccurate and misleading statements suggesting that (the virus) cannot be spread through heterosexual activity could stimulate transmission among those who would see such reports as bases for ignoring the danger that does, in fact, exist.''
in a section on drug abuse, a sentence added to say: ``in addition to direct transmission, the use of drugs that impair judgment can contribute to sexual transmission.''
that had been suggested by commissioner theresa l. crenshaw, a physician who specializes in sex therapy and has expressed the view that alcohol, marijuana and other drugs can lower inhibitions and result in people engaging in risky sexual behavior that they otherwise would avoid
the bulk of the increased spending called for in the report _ about $1.5 billion a year in federal and local funds _ would go directly to attacking intravenous drug abuse. the rest, all federal funds, would go for development of drugs to treat the disease and additional ways of caring for aids patients, such as more group homes for those who do not require constant hospitalization yet are unable to care for themselves
the recommendations are geared toward the establishment of a `treatment on demand' system for iv drug abusers, whereby treatment would be immediately available for any iv drug abuser,'' the report said
health authorities are convinced aids is spreading most rapidly among iv drug users _ who often pass the virus by sharing contaminated needles _ and their sexual partners and offspring
it is estimated that there could be as many as 20,000 babies infected with aids by 1991, most of them catching it directly or indirectly from the estimated 1.3 million iv drug users in the nation
the other two sections of the report focus on patient care and basic research for drug development to treat the disease
the commission recommends expanding resources for the food and drug administration, expanding community based clinical trials and ``removing placebos in clinical trials whenever possible.''
the section on patient care says the aim is ``to promote a continuum of comprehensive, accessible, cost-effective high quality care for persons infected with hiv.'' hiv is the medical term for the aids virus
three young men standing on the side of a road were killed and a fourth injured when they were hit by a passing van that then fled the scene, authorities said
fairfax county police spokesman walter carmichael said the accident occurred about 10 p.m. thursday in a suburb of washington, d.c., as the victims were attempting to change a tire on the car in which they had been riding
witnesses told police that a white van struck the youths as it passed their car, knocking them between 25 and 50 feet, carmichael said. the three were pronounced dead on the scene, while the fourth victim was rushed to fairfax hospital, where his condition was not immediately available
names and ages of the victims were not released, although carmichael said all three appeared to be in their late teens or early 20s
an all-points bulletin was issued for the van, but carmichael said witnesses provided little more information than its color
vice president george bush holds a strong lead over rival bob dole among likely gop voters in south carolina's primary, according to a poll published today
the washington post said bush had the support of 49 percent of 1,000 people who said they would vote in the gop primary, while dole had 26 percent, pat robertson garnered 14 percent and new york rep. jack kemp claimed 7 percent
among those voters most likely to go to the polls _ those who said they were certain to vote, had voted in 1986 and strongly supported a specific candidate _ bush had 55 percent support to dole's 22 percent and robertson's 17 percent. figures for kemp were not provided in that category
the post survey, taken over six nights ending wednesday, had a margin of error of plus or minus three percentage points. the south carolina contest takes place just three days before the big round of super tuesday primaries and caucuses concentrated in the south
the post survey found that even among several different categories of christians, former television evangelist robertson was not the favorite. among voters who said they watch television evangelists almost every week, bush got 44 percent to robertson's 27 percent
the core of robertson's support, according to the poll, was among voters who placed high priority on moral and social issues
about 83 percent of robertson's backers said their main reason for supporting him was his stand on pornography. robertson's stand on abortion was cited by 78 percent of his supporters as a big factor. about half cited concerns about ``declining moral standards'' or school prayer as the biggest reason for their support
a house panel chairman investigating fbi conduct says a bureau official used mccarthy-like tactics when he disclosed unproven allegations against an anti-reagan organization
in a floor speech thursday night, rep. don edwards, chairman of a house judiciary civil rights subcommittee, likened the disclosure to misuse of fbi files by the late sen. joseph mccarthy in the early 1950s
mccarthy used ``investigatory information from the fbi'' to label government officials as communists without proving the allegations, edwards said
edwards' panel and the senate intelligence committee are investigating the fbi's march 1983-june 1985 probe of opponents of president reagan's central america policy. the lawmakers want to know whether the bureau improperly investigated political activity protected by the first amendment
the intelligence panel held a public hearing feb. 23, at which fbi executive assistant director oliver b. revell sought to justify the bureau's investigation. the probe focused primarily on the committee in solidarity with the people of el salvador, but it broadened to include a number of other groups and individuals
revell released a report that detailed some of the allegations against cispes, none of which were proved by the fbi
during the mccarthy era, it was a common practice of the fbi to secretly disclose investigative, file information to congressional committees,'' edwards, d-calif., said
if the fbi responds to criticism by doing publicly, before tv cameras, what it once did privately, then we have not come very far at all,'' he said
fbi spokeswoman sue schnitzer said: ``mr. revell testified at the request of the committee. this was an open hearing and therefore the information provided at that hearing was not of a classified nature.''
edwards said he was not trying to prove or disprove the information, but said the allegations amounted to ``guilt by association'' since no charges were ever filed against cispes or its members
some of the information released at the hearing was made public previously under a freedom of information act lawsuit filed on behalf of cispes. other information disclosed at the hearing had not been made public before
edwards called revell's disclosure of ``unsupported allegations'' at a public hearing ``a major violation of the key rule for police investigatory files _ that none of the information can be published except according to established rules and safeguards.''
improper release of file information by the government ... is a violation of the constitutional and statutory right of privacy and can cause grave injury to innocent people or groups,'' edwards said
among the allegations that edwards said should not have been released:
_claims that some cispes members were ``involved in the distribution'' of a soviet-forged document to the media
_a statement that cispes was ``believed to have been established with assistance of'' the communist party of the usa
_linking cispes' political support of the salvadoran guerrilla group fmln to terrorist actions by that organization, suggesting, according to edwards, that ``cispes was somehow connected with these actions.''
_a possible connection between cispes and two bombings in washington, because one took place ``about the same time'' of a cispes rally in the capital; and responsibility for the second was claimed by a group with positions ``similar'' to those of cispes
the fbi never brought any charges against cispes or its members
the government says a weeklong military exercise in the falkland islands set to begin monday is not intended to provoke argentina, noting that fewer than 1,000 troops are to take part
argentina, which claims the islands it calls malvinas, lost a 74-day war with britain for their possession in 1982 and still has not formally declared an end to hostilities in the south atlantic
a communique thursday from argentina's foreign affairs and defense ministries said argentina has adopted plans for ``vigilance and defensive alert'' during the british exercise and, if necessary, ``will execute corresponding defense plans.'' it did not elaborate
britain's minister of state for the armed forces, ian stewart, told the house of commons thursday night that fewer than 1,000 troops and only a small number of aircraft would take part in the exercise, code-named fire focus
stewart said the exercise involves an airlift and is part of a defensive strategy to keep a minimum of troops in the islands about 400 miles east of the southern argentine coast
the british defense ministry announced last june that it was reducing the strength of its falklands garrison, but refused to disclose the size of the cut. published reports at the time said the move would cut the garrison then consisting of more than 2,500 troops by about 400
britain completed an international airport at mount pleasant near the falklands capital of stanley in june 1985. the airport can take wide-bodied military jets, enabling britain to fly in reinforcements at short notice if necessary
stewart said the development of contingency plans for a massive airlift had enabled britain to halve the size of the garrison
he gave no figures for the present strength of the costly garrison but added: ``such a substantial reduction of the military presence ... serves to confirm that our purpose is entirely defensive.''
a defense ministry spokesman, who in accordance with british practice declined to be named, said later: ``we are not intending to increase the tension down there ... there is nothing significant about the timing of it (the exercise). it is not meant in any way to be provocative to argentina.''
a foreign office spokesman said britain recently notified argentina through swiss diplomatic channels that the exercise was purely one of reinforcement
diplomatic ties between britain and argentina, cut during the 1982 war, remain severed. dukakis strong</head>
vice president george bush had a commanding lead over bob dole in the south and jesse jackson was in front on the democratic side in the race for votes before super tuesday primaries and caucuses, according to a poll published today in the new york times
the cbs-times poll, based on telephone interviews between sunday and wednesday of 2,251 likely voters in 14 southern and border states, found bush in front with 44 percent over dole's 20 percent, pat robertson's 12 percent and rep. jack kemp's 3 percent
in the democratic contest, jackson garnered 21 percent support to 14 percent for michael dukakis and 12 percent for albert gore jr., according to the cbs-times poll, which had a margin of error of plus or minus 4 percentage points. rep. richard gephardt had 10 percent, gary hart 8 percent and sen. paul simon, 2 percent, the times said
another poll, by cable news network and usa today, indicated bush leads dole 48 percent to 27 percent in the south
among democrats in the south, the cnn-usa today poll suggested dukakis had 19 percent, jackson 18 percent and gephardt and gore, 14 percent each
the poll was conducted feb. 23-28, with a margin of error of 5 percentage points, the newspaper said
still another poll, this one in today's editions of the los angeles times, said jackson had the support of 23 percent, followed by dukakis and gore with 16 percent each
the poll surveyed 964 people across the super tuesday states who were likely to vote in the democratic primaries. the margin of error for democrats was 4 percentage points in the poll, which was conducted for five days, ending monday
on the republican side, with a 5-point error margin from 766 voters surveyed across the super tuesday states, bush held a nearly 3-1 lead over dole, getting 61 percent of the backing. dole got 22 percent
meanwhile, an nbc news-wall street journal poll found that nationwide, the race appeared to be narrowing on the republican side to a two-man race between bush and dole and on the democratic side to a two-man contest between dukakis and gephardt
the poll, based on telephone interviews with 1,368 likely voters between sunday and tuesday, found bush leading dole 39 percent to 31 percent, with his lead widening to 45 percent to 24 percent over dole in the south
the nbc-journal poll found dukakis with 29 percent being trailed by gephardt with 17 percent. jackson had 10 percent, it said
the poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points
federal researchers could find no new or unusual pathways by which aids spread in a study of 2,059 people who apparently contracted the deadly disease from unknown sources, says a report published today
another new study concluded that routine screening of surgical patients for the aids virus is unwarranted because it would wrongly identify as many as 130,000 people as having the virus for every surgeon it saved from infection
even though surgeons are very important people, somehow changing the lives of 130,000 people to protect one of them doesn't seem quite right to me,'' said one of the researchers, dr. stephen g. pauker
both studies were published in the journal of the american medical association
the national centers for disease control in atlanta investigated 2,059 cases of aids recorded through the end of september in which there was no evident means for the patient to have acquired the infection
cdc researchers concluded that known but undetected risk factors were probably responsible
the risk factors are male homosexual contact, intravenous drug use and receiving tainted blood transfusions or blood products, the researchers said. other factors are sexual contact with people infected with the aids virus or at high risk, and residency in a country where aids is passed mainly through heterosexual contact
it can be concluded the disease is still following patterns of transmission that have already been identified, said co-author dr. kenneth g. castro
we've had six or seven years of epidemic,'' he said in a telephone interview thursday. ``we should have had some change by now'' if other modes of transmission existed
although the aids virus has been detected in saliva, tears and urine, there is no evidence for believing it can be passed through these fluids, according to an accompanying article by dr. alan r. lifson, a public health specialist with the san francisco department of public health
of the 2,059 cases, 921 were eliminated because no detailed medical history could be obtained. another 825 were found to involve risk factors that had not been identified originally
an additional 32 cases were excluded because the patients had been incorrectly diagnosed as having acquired immune deficiency syndrome
that left just 281 cases for which no risk factors seemed to exist, the researchers said
the patients or relatives in about two-thirds of these cases were questioned. it turned out that 34 percent of those subjects had a history of other sexual disease and 38 percent had visited prostitutes, the researchers said
the findings suggest that the group with no known risk factors ``probably represents a mixture of persons who either had undetected risk factors or were sex partners of persons in high-risk groups,'' the researchers said
the 2,059 cases were among a total of 41,770 reported to the cdc through september since june 1981, when record-keeping began
by monday, a total of 54,723 cases had been reported. of those, 30,715 died
in the study of pre-surgical screening, doctors at boston's new england medical center concluded that routine testing for the aids virus was unjustified
for a surgeon to get an infection, three things must happen,'' pauker said in a telephone interview wednesday
the patient must have disease, the surgeon has to stick himself or herself, and the infection needs to be transmitted,'' he said. ``the (chance) all three events will occur is quite low.''
pauker and his colleagues said a surgeon's likelihood of getting infected while working on an infected patient is between one in 130,000 and one in 4,500, based on figures for surgical accidents and their frequency of causing infection
the researchers weighed this against prevalence of the aids virus in u.s. populations _ ranging from one in 100 to one in 10,000 _ and the lowest known false-positive test rate for people who are screened _ one in 20,000
the researchers found that for every surgeon saved from infection, between 22 and 130,000 people would be falsely labeled as aids-infected. the researchers said those people then would be told they were infected and perhaps would be denied surgery
aids desroys the body's defenses against disease, leaving a person prey to life-threatening infections and certain cancers. him</head>
jesse jackson accused the democratic party leadership in the south of a ``sustained effort'' to thwart his presidential candidacy, but said it's not working
he said he has a two-pronged message that will reap strong support for him on super tuesday, with its round of caucuses and primaries, concentrated in the south
jackson said one part of his message is the need to rid our society of drugs, a message that brings an enthusiastic response wherever he goes
the other, he said, is that a ``growing body of american working people feel abandoned by the law'' and are turning to him because he addresses their concerns
jackson made the comments in an interview thursday aboard his campaign plane flying here. he declined to predict how well he will do in tuesday's critical primaries. but he expressed cautious optimism that his ``economic justice'' theme is reaching whites as well as his traditional base of black support
one can never be...certain what's going to happen tuesday night,'' he said, but added: ``my sense is there's a higher comfort level,'' among whites about his candidacy
asked about exit polls following february's iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary that showed his white supporters were mostly upscale and well-educated rather than the working class he is appealing to, jackson said:
that is changing. iowa led the breakthrough. people were wrestling with an ancient cultural barrier.''
by the time maine held its democratic caucuses last weekend, jackson contended, the working class had become a main force behind his second-place finish
drugs, he tells his audiences, are the no. 1 ``national security threat'' against the united states today. people respond to that, he said, because ``every parent knows their child is threatened every day by drugs ...people see this as a moral issue of our day.''
as president, jackson says his priorty would be to beef up the customs and border patrol interdiction efforts, press drug-producing nations to develop other crops, and crack down on corruption in law enforcement agencies and banks that work with the drug traffickers
the democratic candidate is criss-crossing the south, touching down at five states per day for rallies at schools, churches, and auditoriums to shore up his widespread black support and woo new white voters
on thursday, jackson held events in arkansas, oklahoma, mississippi, but had to cancel a trip to new orleans because of a tornado watch that grounded his plane. instead he spoke by telephone to a church full of people who were waiting for him
the campaign is filled with made-for-tv events to augment the $100,000 tv ad campaign that begins today in several southern states
casual conversations with voters along the campaign trail reveal some sentiment that white voters are more willing to support jackson than they were in 1984. several said the race issue is far less of a concern
jackson represents something we've needed a long time,'' said thomas delong, a 57-year-old white man who came to hear jackson thursday at mississippi state university
the majority of people in this country are not wealthy, they're not yuppies, they're poor. and they can't get up because the system won't let them,'' he said
jackson said he senses the difference between this campaign and his unsuccessful white house bid in 1984 because ``black and white interests are coming together'' and the racial factors have been overtaken by economic concerns
jackson cited this week's endorsements of his campaign by prominent white politicians _ texas agriculture commissioner jim hightower, oklahoma state sen. gene stipe, and tennessee democratic activist john j. hooker _ as evidence of an expanding base
historical movements in this country have always been kind of race-based. this is becoming a class-based movement for economic justice,'' he said in the interview
he accused southern democratic leaders _ many of whom have lined up behind the other southern native son, sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee _ of a ``sustained effort'' to try and keep democrats from his campaign
all these elected officials are trying to stop me,'' he said
but stipe said that ``regardless of what the power brokers say, they cannot stop that momentum'' that jackson is building
hooker said that in 1984, many whites who would not accept jackson are taking a new look after he garnered substantial white totals in the early primary and caucus states
regardless of how the convention turns out this summer, jackson said he will work with the party leaders and push for the party platform to include planks addressing his priorities on raising the minimum wage and other concerns of working people
he will also seek foreign policy planks on renewing trade with nicaragua and working with banks to relieve latin countries' debts so those nations can afford to buy more u.s. goods, he said
physicians must be more aware of self-destructive impulses in aids patients, who are much more likely to commit suicide than the general population and even victims of other terminal illnesses, a new study says
the study, published in today's journal of the american medical association, found that the risk of suicide among men 20 to 59 years old with aids was 36 times greater than for other men in that age group and 66 times greater than for the general population
other studies have shown that cancer victims are up to four times more likely than the general population to kill themselves
while suicide is statistically rare, the study found that the threat to aids victims comes first when they learn they have the disease, then again when it begins to affect the central nervous system
the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome has been associated with secondary depression and other psychiatric syndromes ... all of which are associated with higher suicide rates,'' the researchers wrote
the lesson is that physicians treating aids patients must be aware of the possibility of suicide, said one of the researchers, dr. peter m. marzuk of cornell university medical college
physicians should evaluate suicide risk in these patients carefully,'' he said. ``because of the risk for suicide, the presence of concomitant psychiatric syndromes, especially depression and delirium, should lead to early psychiatric intervention.''
an accompanying editorial emphasized the potential suicide risk for people who test positive for the aids virus, even though some of them might not have the disease
the presence of aids antibodies in a person's blood does not mean he has the disease, but only that the virus that causes aids has entered his system and provoked a natural disease-fighting response
the risk of suicide is one more reason that such tests should never be considered as `routine,''' dr. richard m. glass, an associate professor of psychiatry at the university of chicago hospital, wrote in the editorial. ``the enormity of this problem is indicated by estimates that approximately 1.5 million americans have hiv antibodies.''
there were reports last spring of seven suicides in the miami area among people who had tested positive
roger lane, hotline coordinator for miami's health crisis network, said in a telephone interview thursday that others tried unsuccessfully to take their own lives on the basis of very preliminary tests
the suicide outbreak coincided with the opening of new aids-testing centers, many of which offered no counseling and some of which merely gave test results over the telephone, he said
if you were notifying someone they had terminal cancer, you wouldn't do that over the phone,'' he said
doctors must specifically ask patients about any suicidal feelings, glass said
the study reported in jama focused on suicides in 1985 in new york city, where aids is the leading cause of death of men in their 30s. there were 3,828 people who had aids in the city then, of whom 12 were known to have killed themselves
these are conservative estimates (of the number of suicides),'' marzuk said. ``we don't know how many people may have taken an overdose of heroin, for example. these would never have been counted as suicides.''
aids destroys the body's defenses against disease, leaving a person prey to life-threatening infections and certain cancers
stock prices inched up in trading today on optimism about japan's economy, while the u.s. dollar dipped slightly as traders awaited market-affecting news
the dollar closed at 129.22, down 0.08 yen from thursday's close. the dollar opened at 129.16 yen, and ranged between 129.16 and 129.30 yen
on the tokyo stock exchange, the nikkei stock average index of 225 selected issues finished the day at 25,615.62 points, up 19.31 points, or 0.07 percent, from thursday's close of 25,596.31 points
the market is strong,'' said yoshio ogawa of nikko securities. ``there aren't any real factors today, but the market is still looking good for the same reasons as late last month _ japan's economic fundamentals look good, and that is affecting trading.''
there were no important trends today, with the market holding fairly steady,'' said an analyst who spoke on condition of anonymity. ``but trading was very active.''
although volume was a heavy 1.3 billion shares in the first section, share prices closed mixed, with pharmaceuticals up and banks and other financials lower, according to dealers
the u.s. currency topped the 129-yen barrier in active trading thursday, but the market failed to gain momentum due to the lack of new incentives, said a currency dealer with a major commercial bank in tokyo
this was the kind of day that is very hard to comment on,'' said a foreign exchange analyst who requested anonymity. ``very little happened.'' ^by john king</byline>
the reagan administration has suspended new regulations that would have cut off federal funds to family planning clinics which offer abortions or abortion counseling, after a judge ruled the guidelines were unconstitutional
abortion referral and abortion counseling are constitutionally protected speech under the first amendment,'' said u.s. district judge walter j. skinner, issuing a permanent injunction thursday against enforcement of the regulations
denying an otherwise eligible organization a grant because it provides abortion counseling or referral, even with non-federal funds, constitutes an impermissable penalty for the exercise of a constitutionally protected right,'' he said
the regulations are specifically designed to suppress speech, and particularly directed at the suppression of one viewpoint,'' skinner said. ``as a result, they run directly contrary to the dictates of the first amendment.''
he said the regulations also were contrary to the intent of congress when it established the family planning program under title x of the public health service act of 1970
the regulations, scheduled to take effect thursday, will not be enforced while the administration reviews the ruling and decides whether to appeal, said lucy eddinger, a spokeswoman for the department of health and human services
skinner ruled the guidelines would cause irreparable harm to women who receive services from the clinics and violate a woman's right to privacy and to choose to have an abortion
federal judges in denver and new york city had issued temporary injunctions against the new rules, but had not ruled on their constitutionality and it was not clear whether those rulings had full nationwide force
this court has national jurisdiction in federal question cases,'' skinner saidin his 28-page ruling
the regulations had not been expected to affect the estimated 4,000 family planning clinics operated with federal funds because the rules apply only to new grants. about 5 million poor women receive services through the clinics
the injunction was requested last month by the state of massachusetts, the national family planning and reproductive health association and 13 other local and national family planning groups
although the injunction applied only to those clinics represented by the groups, skinner said he expected secretary of health and human services otis r. bowen to scrap the regulations
scott r. sterling, executive director of the washington, d.c.,-based family planning association, said he expected the administration to appeal ``because of political pressure
we expect to be successful at the appeals level as well,'' sterling said
massachusetts attorney general james shannon called the ruling ``a major victory for a woman's right to consult privately with her doctor.''
the new rules would have prohibited federally funded family planning programs from providing abortion counseling, referring women to abortion providers and engaging in lobbying or legal action to increase availability of abortions
if the facility also performs abortions, to keep title x funding for its other programs the clinic would have to maintain completely separate facilities for each type of patient
in its attempt to implement a health care policy which promotes childbirth, the defendant has devised a system which rests in large part of keeping title x clients in ignorance,'' skinner said
the title x budget for fiscal 1988 is $137 million, down from $142 million in fiscal 1987
a factory director whose labor-efficiency plans won him a $2,700 prize has decided to give up the money because of the lingering stigma against wealth and a deluge of request for handouts, a newspaper said today
the prize, 10,000 yuan, is a huge sum for most chinese, equal to 10 years' wages for the average urban worker and double that for a typical peasant
zhang xingrang, director of the no. 1 plastic factory in the eastern city of shijiazhuang, decided not to keep the money after being besieged with petitions for loans, the state-run workers' daily said
the paper said he was receiving dozens of letters each day from strangers wanting to share in his new wealth, with friends and co-workers adding to the chorus
zhang won the prize for developing what he called a ``full-load work plan'' for allocating labor more efficiently at his factory. he became a nationally famous labor hero, winning praise from communist party leader zhao ziyang
the workers' daily said colleagues told zhang, ``old zhang, now that you're rich don't forget we helped you. you can eat meat now, a little soup or some bones is enough for us.''
one letter-writer pleaded for 375 yuan to buy a three-wheeled pedicab so he could take his children _ including 9-year-old triplets _ to school
take pity on these children,'' he pleaded, addressing zhang as ``the god of wealth.''
another writer said he needed 2,000 yuan to get out of ``financial straits,'' adding, ``this amount is nothing to you.''
the paper said zhang feared criticism that has been heaped on other factory directors who have become rich in recent years because of incentives and profit-sharing programs designed to spur production
he put the money in a bank and is busy trying to devise a give-away plan that will satisfy most people, the paper said
zhao declared last october that china is in the ``primary stage of socialism'' and that it is permissible in this stage for some individuals to become rich while others lag behind
egalitarianism was the rule for most of china's first four decades under communism. in recent years, the chinese government has relaxed many of its economic policies, allowing for free enterprise. but many of the new rich have been criticized and even hit with criminal charges for acquiring large amounts of money
ms. magazine will be opening a news bureau in washington and veteran political reporter peggy simpson has been appointed bureau chief
ms. intends to become a force in washington,'' said editor-in-chief anne summers. ``we aim to become an authoritative voice in national political affairs on behalf of women. we will be non-partisan, but will express our views forthrightly.''
simpson ``combines the special qualities we were looking for _ solid experience of political and economic reporting, with a special sensitivity to how these impact on women,'' said summers
simpson, has covered national politics since the early 1970s, first for the associated press and since 1982 for hearst newspapers. she has covered every national political convention since 1972
ms., one of the first magazines focusing on political issues involving women, was acquired late last year by fairfax publications ltd., a major australian publisher
the state department has violated ``the spirit and letter'' of a new law by denying a visa to the head of the legal political wing of the irish republican army, says a new york-based group advocating the end of british rule in northern ireland
gerry adams, president of the ira's sinn fein, was denied a visa because of his alleged involvement in terrorist activities in northern ireland, donna sherman, a state department spokeswoman, said thursday
he was ineligible under (the section) of the immigration and nationality act which excludes from admission to the u.s. people who are personally involved with terrorist activities,'' sherman said
but martin galvin, spokesman for the irish northern aid committee in new york, said in a statement, ``irish-americans are outraged by the refusal of the state department to comply with the spirit and letter of the new visa provisions.''
he was referring to an amendment to an appropriations bill, passed last year, which in effect overturned that portion of immigration law allowing the u.s. government to deny visas to aliens who participate in political activities in their native countries which would be legal for u.s. citizens in the united states
the ira is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland and is outlawed on both sides of the border, although sinn fein is legal
usair says it has agreed to buy 50 boeing 737 jetliners with options for 30 additional aircraft, a deal worth $2.4 billion if all the options are exercised
delivery of the new jets will begin in april 1989 and continue through december 1991, the airline said
the twin-engine, short-to-medium range aircraft is the most popular jet ever sold by the seattle-based boeing co. the deal with usair brings to 2,001 boeing 737s on order
edwin colodny, usair chairman and president, said the order ``is indicative of the health and vitality'' of the airline, which has its headquarters at washington national airport
our track record makes it possible to order these new aircraft which will benefit our passengers and the communities we serve,'' colodny said in a statement
usair group, the holding company for usair as well as piedmont aviation and pacific southwest airlines, recently reported a 1987 net income of $194.6 million on revenue of $3 billion
korean officials shudder and editorial writers sputter when rep. richard gephardt says a mid-sized american car costs $48,000 in south korea because of tariffs _ but they admit the presidential hopeful is three-quarters right
an american car that would cost $10,000 in the united states costs about $36,000 in south korea after taxes, tariffs and duties, according to korean and u.s. officials
the charges limit foreign car sales in south korea to a few hundred each year. last year, south korea exported 442,557 vehicles to the united states that averaged $7,000 in price
gephardt has used the $48,000 figure on the campaign trail to underscore his argument that many nations close their markets to u.s. goods while taking advantage of washington's free trade policy to flood american markets
the argument has appealed to some americans and the missouri congressman has emerged as a frontrunner in the race for the presidential nomination of the democratic party
gephardt's platform has caused resentment in south korea at a time when the country is under american pressure to open its markets to imports. south korea's trade surplus with the united states, its main trading partner, reached $9.5 billion last year
gephardt is a name on many lips here. but the government isn't too worried since there's still a long way to go in the elections,'' said a u.s. trade official in seoul who asked not to be identified
korean newspapers and television have provided regular reports on gephardt since he started singling out south korea. gephardt has been attacked by newspapers as an unreasonable politician trying to blame others for america's failure to keep its economy healthy
the charges gave the impression that malicious korean trade practices are responsible for the sad state of the u.s. economy. it's really shocking to us,'' said the kyunghyang shinmun in a feb. 13 editorial
but the government has not challenged gephardt because trade restrictions do exist, officials said
it is true to a certain extent that there exists some discrimination against imported cars,'' said one offical, who spoke on condition of anonymity
korean officials say their country has many economic problems and is only just emerging as a modern nation. they say the economy is fragile and needs protection, including some import barriers
the gross national product is below $3,000 per person and the economy is weighed down by $35 billion in foreign debt
radical students have seized on american trade pressure in recent weeks in a bid to attract public support. farmers worried about cheap u.s. agricultural products have dumped cow manure at government buildings
most koreans agree that the economy must be protected, but the small, scattered protests have attracted little support
the korean attitude is to wait until it really becomes a problem,'' a u.s. diplomat said
the government has pledged to open its markets wider to american and other imports as quickly as possible, but u.s. pressure to move more quickly is rejected as bullying
they're promising changes, but if it's going to happen is anyone's guess,'' said one u.s. business representative based in seoul, who asked not to be named
the united states has been pressing south korea to drop import restrictions on a wide range of goods. recent talks have centered on allowing beef imports and lowering the price of american cigarettes
the disparity in the car industry is a good example of the problems and discrimination faced by american companies, u.s. diplomats said
our figures show about 10 foreign cars have been sold in south korea so far this year. we don't think any of them were american,'' said one, noting that the only levy imposed by the united states on imported korean cars is customs duty of about 4 percent
the massive rioting and arrests of opposition leaders that followed this week's re-election of president abdou diouf have shaken this west african nation's belief in itself as a democracy
two days of rioting in the capital that followed sunday's national balloting took the government by surprise. it denounced the hail of stones as stemming from the opposition's ``reckless manipulation of youngsters.''
opposition parties had claimed diouf's socialist party rigged the voting
a state of emergency and curfew were imposed, and soldiers and riot police flooded the capital's streets. officials were granted sweeping arrest powers and authority to curb the media
more than 80 buses were damaged, dozens of gas stations and stores looted or gutted by fire, the homes of some officials of the governing socialist party ransacked. police raided the university and opposition party headquarters and fought running battles with stone-throwing protesters
several top opposition leaders were arrested, including the main opposition presidential candidate abdoulaye wade of the senegalese democratic party
wade's fiery rhetoric and call for change clearly struck a responsive chord. opposition supporters say the socialists, after 28 years in power, had themselves become the state, losing touch with the country's 6.7 million people
a senior government official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the nation's leaders were shocked:
they did not understand the depth of the feeling. they don't want to face it and since the campaign began they have been shrinking away from the real issue. they talk about democracy but they won't relinquish power.''
no black african government has ever handed over power to an opposition party after an election defeat
there are 17 registered political parties in senegal, but just six participated in the elections. a free press regularly lampoons the government and even pokes fun at diouf without fear of reprisal. senegalese are proud of those freedoms
but the opposition parties act more like rip van winkle than real parties. every five years, they wake up to watch the political parade, then nod off again
many senegalese, including diouf supporters, said the 52-year-old president was not powerful enough to control his own party, which they say has too much at stake to allow the freedom people demand
diouf supporters joined those who expressed frustration with nepotism in government
serigne mor diop, an out-of-work carpenter, said he thought diouf was a good leader and an honest man whose party had gone unchallenged for too long
we need diouf's leadership but we don't need the ps and their corruption,'' he said. ``no party should be allowed such power.''
a senior western diplomat, whose government strongly supports diouf, said the president's commitment to democracy was not matched by the government bureaucracy
democracy has been an evolutionary process going on here since 1848,'' said the diplomat, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``these elections are one way of viewing how far it's come. in the long run, there will have to be further evolution.''
the senegalese are outraged when they think their rights have been abused
in riot-torn sections of dakar and in the industrial city of thies about 45 miles away, senegalese young and old angrily denounced what they saw as police brutality and violation of their rights this week
with tear gas-reddened eyes and tear-stained faces they angrily demanded, ``is this what diouf calls a democracy? we have a right to peaceful assembly, our government has no right to stop us.''
jacques nzouankeu of dakar's center for studies and research on pluralistic democracy in the third world sees such violence as a serious threat to the handful of democratic countries in africa and those moving towards democracy
it is a catastrophic thing, because those who don't want democracy are numerous'' he said. ``they are looking for a chance to say, `see, democracy doesn't work, we need a new system.'''
omar bongo, who heads the one-party central african state of gabon, called the senegalese troubles proof pluralism is not for africa
see what this leads to?'' bongo said. ``we are for democratization of our states, but not for the multiplication of anarchy.'' friday to today.</note>
republican presidential hopeful pat robertson said god had spoken to him, calling him to usher in the second coming of jesus christ, a newspaper reported today
in a tape of a december 1984 address to a religious seminar in dallas, robertson said christ's return is imminent and would be accompanied by christians ``taking dominion'' over the wealth and property of non-believers, the los angeles times reported
in a reference to dallas' downtown office buildings, robertson said: ``imagine the time the people of god have inherited that property, because the bible says that the wicked lay up and heap up treasures for the righteous.''
in the 1984 tape, robertson said god had told him ``i have called you to usher in the coming of my son.'' he also briefly speaks in tongues, a form of unrecognizable language uttered by those who practice charismatic christianity, during his closing prayer
robertson has said he received the prophecy in 1968 through harald bredesen, a close associate who laid his hand on robertson's head and spoke as if god were speaking through him
however, when questioned about the prophecy, both bredesen and robertson characterized it as applying to robertson's ministry, the christian broadcasting network. robertson resigned from cbn before undertaking his presidential campaign
bredesen said, ``we would all be appalled and pat would be appalled,'' at the prospects that robertson's remarks would be construed to mean that god's words applied to him personally
asked thursday to comment about the 1968 prophecy, robertson said bredesen ``may have been referring to middle east television,'' and predicted robertson's role in ``spreading the gospel thoughout the middle east'' via cbn's transmitter in lebanon
however, in an april 1982 letter to cbn contributors, robertson quoted the bredesen prophecy and said god has assigned a ministry to cbn ``to prepare the way for the second coming.''
robertson has rebuked reporters for referring to him as a former television evangelist. he insists on being evaluated on the basis of his record as a businessman, educator and founder of the multimillion-dollar christian broadcasting network
robertson contends that examinations of his religious beliefs in the context of his presidential campaign constitute bigotry. and he maintains that his fervent evangelical beliefs would not interfere with his execution of presidential power
police arrested two men in the slaying of a rookie patrolman who was shot in the head as he guarded a drug witness last week, a spokesman said today
the suspects were picked up thursday afternoon in the borough of queens and questioned for about six hours before their arrest around midnight, said officer peter o'donnell
two women picked up with the men were released, o'donnell said
the suspects' names, the charges and other details will not be released until a news conference today, o'donnell said
officer edward byrne, 22, was shot three times in the head at point-blank range early feb. 26 while sitting alone in a patrol car outside the queens house of a man who had complained to police about neighborhood crack dealers
the daily news and new york times, quoting unidentified sources, said one of the four picked up was 24-year-old todd scott of queens. the newspapers said scott works for howard ``pappy'' mason, an associate of reputed drug kingpin lorenzo ``fat cat'' nichols
nichols, 29, was sentenced feb. 25 to 25 years to life in prison on drug and gun charges, and is awaiting trial on charges he had his parole officer killed for revenge. mason is awaiting trial on charges he helped carry out the killing
police have speculated that nichols may have ordered byrne's killing as retribution for his long sentence
since the slaying, police have rounded up 294 suspected drug dealers in their investigation
shooting at cops, it's just bad for business. i think experienced criminals know that; perhaps these inexperienced ones will learn it,'' police commissioner benjamin ward said thursday
the community has been very helpful,'' ward said
the reward for information leading to a conviction grew to $130,000 thursday with a $25,000 contribution from members of the new york stock exchange
wnbc-tv reported wednesday night that investigators had identified two men, including the gunman, and two women believed to have been in the car that quietly coasted up to byrne's police car before he was shot
wnbc-tv said police believe the women accompanied the men so it would look like they were out on a date if stopped. police declined to comment on the report
vice president george bush has added former u.s. attorney general elliot richardson of massachusetts to his list of endorsements in the republican presidential primary
bush supporters announced the endorsement thursday at a news conference in the historic union oyster house attended by new hampshire gov. john sununu and former massachusetts gov. edward j. king
richardson, who served massachusetts as attorney general and held several cabinet posts under republican presidents, was traveling in japan. but bush organizers issued a statement in which richardson praised bush for his ``leadership ability'' and ``personal familiarity with the world's leaders.''
state sen. paul cellucci _ the bush coordinator for massachusetts _ said the vice president welcomed the endorsement
we think it's going to give us a big boost as we move to super tuesday,'' he said. according to recent polls, bush leads kansas sen. bob dole by about 20 percentage points in massachusetts
about 200 democrats in the tennessee legislature and in state government have endorsed the candidacy of albert gore jr., their junior senator, for the democratic presidential nomination
the gore campaign has probably received more legislative endorsements ... than any other campaign. and we need a president that can work with the legislative branch,'' gov. ned mcwherter, gore's southern campaign manager, said to the applause of the group gathered in the capitol rotunda thursday 
gore was in louisiana, where he received the endorsement of gov.-elect buddy roemer
also thursday, it was learned that former virginia gov. charles s. robb would back gore's bid for the democratic presidential nomination. in washington, the office of u.s. rep. buddy darden, d-ga., on wednesday announced the congressman's endorsement of gore
fourteen democratic state legislators have formally endorsed the presidential campaign of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis
they joined senate president john russo, d-ocean, who signed on as a dukakis supporter last fall
thursday's announcement came three days after several leading state democrats _ including a russo colleague, senate majority leader john lynch _ detailed plans to elect an uncommitted slate of delegates in new jersey's presidential primary june 7
russo again criticized those plans. organizers of the uncommitted slate say new jersey democrats might be able to enhance their clout by remaining neutral until late in the race, when they would throw their support to one candidate and help that person win the nomination
we believe it is the responsibility of the leadership of the democratic party in new jersey to stand up behind a presidential candidate,'' russo said
washington gov. booth gardner and sen. brock adams, citing his free-trade stance, have endorsed massachusetts gov. michael dukakis for president
the state's senior senator, republican dan evans, also made an endorsement, embracing vice president george bush. evans, a former three-term governor and titular head of the party in washington, chose bush who is locked in a tight race with sen. bob dole and pat robertson in next tuesday's precinct caucuses across the state
i'm supporting mike dukakis, not just because he's a friend, and he is, but because i think he's extremely good for the state of washington,'' the governor said. ``he believes more strongly than any of the candidates running on the democratic side in the issue of free and fair trade
dukakis organizers were delighted with the two endorsements. ``to have top democrats in washington state picking mike dukakis is a big boost for us,'' said steven akey, a spokesman for the dukakis campaign in boston. opponent</head>
rep. trent lott, r-miss., who has no republican opponent in his bid for a u.s. senate seat, reports he has spent $250,275 in campaigning this year
lott's opponent in november will be decided in next tuesday's democratic primary between rep. wayne dowdy, d-miss., secretary of state dick molpus and biloxi pipe fitter gilbert fountain
despite the absence of a challenge for the gop nomination to succeed the retiring sen. john c. stennis, d-miss., the lott campaign since january has employed an expensive series of tv commercials telling mississippians about his accomplishments during his 16 years in congress
campaign finance reports on wednesday show lott, from jan. 1 to feb. 17, had raised $118,839 and spent $250,275
the reports also show lott had $599,250 in cash on hand at the end of 1987. with the new funds coming in this year, it boosts his campaign receipts to $718,090
even as a late bloomer, you can come into the scene and be a player.'' _ commerce secretary c. william verity, 71, the oldest cabinet member, who took the post in october
we do not choose to be gay or lesbian and are not seeking special rights, merely the right to live openly in dignity without losing our jobs or homes or being subjected to violence.'' _ svend robinson, the first canadian parliament member to declare his homosexuality
it was like revenge on the press. those settlers went crazy.'' _ israeli news photographer eli hershkovitz, who witnessed jewish settlers in the west bank punch another photographer in the face and knock a third unconscious by hitting her in the head with her camera
share prices rose in early trading on the london stock exchange today, continuing the market's recent upswing
the financial times-stock exchange 100 index was little changed when the market officially opened at 9 a.m. up 0.1 points at 1,813.4
but it started rising immediately and at 9:45 a.m., the index was up 7.8 points at 1,821.1
enterprise oil showed the largest gain, with the stock gaining 13 pence to 315 pence. enterprise was boosted by rumors of a successful drilling result on one of its north sea permits
the early trend followed losses in new york thursday, where the dow jones industrial average fell 7.80 to 2,063.49, and gains in tokyo overnight, where the nikkei index rose 19.12 to 25,615.43
the first egg produced by a pair of captive california condors is a huge success for biologists trying to save the endangered species, even if it proves to be infertile, a curator says
the egg, laid thursday at san diego wild animal park, will be inspected for fertility monday, officials said
if it's not fertile, we would still remain happy,'' said bill toone curator of birds for the san diego zoo, which is affiliated with the park. ``we (now) know they will breed in captivity.''
only 27 of the giant birds exist, all in captivity at the park or the los angeles zoo
the 10-ounce, pale blue-green egg was moved from a nest to an electronic incubator, said park spokesman tom hanscom. if fertile, the egg is expected to hatch within two months
the egg may be infertile because the female is old and her mate may be sexually immature, park officials said
by taking the egg from its parents at an early point, scientists hope to induce the pair to produce a second egg to replace the one they lost
the incubator will maintain a constant temperature and humidity for the egg. handlers will turn it 180 degrees twice a day, imitating the behavior of a mother condor's care in the wild
california condors, which have a wingspan of about 9 feet, are dark reddish-brown, with a curved beak. they were decimated in the wild by lead poisoning from eating lead shot in animal carcasses, biologists said
the last one living in the wild was captured and brought to the wild animal park last april in the effort to save the species
since 1981, scientists have successfully hatched 13 condors in captivity from eggs taken in the wild
wildlife biologists hope to breed sufficient numbers of the condor in captivity and release the captive-bred birds into a safe environment in the wild
garrison keillor, former star of ``a prairie home companion,'' has sued national public radio and a new york distribution company for allegedly violating his copyright by selling a recorded speech
in the lawsuit, filed thursday in u.s. district court here, keillor claims he never gave the nonprofit radio network permission to commercially use a speech he gave last year at the national press club in washington
an author is entitled to decide which of his works he wants sold to the public,'' said keillor's attorney, samuel heins. he said keillor wants to stop sales of the 45-minute cassette, which is called ``garrison keillor, back home'' and sells for $10.95
npr spokeswoman cate cowan said the network handled keillor's speech no differently than it does other press club talks by prominent people, and that npr's lawyers do not believe the network infringed on keillor's copyright
npr included the speech in its catalog of cassettes for sale, and according to the suit, sold rights to the speech to a record distributing company
that company, spoken arts inc. of new york city, took out an advertisement last month in publishers weekly to promote keillor's tape and three others to bookstores. spoken arts entitled the cassette ``garrison keillor: beyond lake wobegon'' and listed its price as $9.95
keillor's suit names both npr and spoken arts as defendants. spoken arts employees who answered the company's telephone thursday said president joel klein was unavailable for comment
the speech was given last october while keillor was promoting his book, ``leaving home.'' national public radio regularly broadcasts press club luncheon speeches. according to cowan, it announces at the end of each speech that cassette recordings are available for purchase
in the speech, keillor spoke about his feelings on having left minnesota just as his beloved minnesota twins were about to win the world series
he also invited recordings of the speech. ``if you have tape recorders, you are welcome to turn them on at this point,'' he said. ``you are welcome to use any of this if you want.''
heins says in the suit that keillor filed for a copyright on the speech feb. 26. he also said that he asked npr and spoken arts to stop sales of the tape but that neither has agreed to
the suit asks for a court order to impound and destroy all unsold tapes. it also requests a list of people who have bought the tapes, and asks for unspecified damages for keillor and attorney's fees for heins
keillor's nationally broadcast live variety show was produced by minnesota public radio and distributed by american public radio before it was discontinued last june
a storm coated parts of the midwest with ice and snow, while rain fell in much of the south and sections of the west coast. snow also fell in the nation's central region
freezing rain was reported across central indiana into central ohio late thursday. overpasses and bridges in indiana were covered by up to 2 inches of ice, resulting in numerous accidents and power outages
a half-inch of ice was reported in ohio, where slippery roads were blamed for at least four highway fatalities
three to 8 inches of new snow was reported across parts of northern indiana and northern ohio, including 6 inches at peru, ind., and findlay, ohio
snow also fell from pennsylvania and much of new york into central parts of new england. one to 3 inches was reported late thursday across parts of northern pennsylvania, with up to 6 inches expected
up to 3 inches of snow was reported at binghamton, n.y., late thursday, and up to 6 inches was expected in central new york by the time the storm ended today
showers and thunderstorms dampened the mississippi and tennessee valleys through the gulf coast into northern florida. heavy rain, small hail and gusty winds accompanied the storms across the south
more than 3{ inches of rain was reported in the 24 hours ending at about 2 a.m. at tallahassee, fla., and nearly 3 inches at new orleans
snow developed late thursday across southeast kansas, southwest missouri, northeast oklahoma and northwest arkansas. nearly an inch fell early today at monett, mo., and 1 to 3 inches was reported across southeast kansas late thursday
light rain was scattered across eastern montana along a stationary front that reached from southern alberta into the northern high plains. snow was falling across parts of north-central wyoming
a frontal system off the pacific coast brought scattered rainshowers along the coast of oregon and northwest california
for today, snow was forecast from northern and western pennsylvania across new york and new england; scattered rain or snow across southeast missouri, southern illinois, and northern sections of the ohio valley; rain from kentucky and tennessee through the middle atlantic coast region, with showers and thunderstorms likely over northern florida, alabama, georgia and the carolinas; scattered rain or snow showers across the northern high plains; snowshowers widely scattered over the mountains of wyoming and colorado; and rain across the pacific northwest
much of the nation will have highs in the 40s or 50s. highs will be in the 20s and 30s from the dakotas through the great lakes and new england; in the 30s in the middle mississippi valley and northern sections of the ohio valley; the 60s and 70s from california across the desert southwest, and from southern and central texas to the southern half of the atlantic coast; and about 80 over southern and central florida
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 6 below zero at marquette, mich., to 74 at miami
other reports:
_east: atlanta 58 rain; boston 34 drizzle; buffalo 27 cloudy; charleston, s.c. 60 showery; cincinnati 31 foggy; cleveland 25 snow; detroit 21 partly cloudy; miami 73 partly cloudy; new york 42 foggy; philadelphia 43 foggy; pittsburgh 32 rain; portland, maine 29 snow; washington 44 foggy
_central: bismarck, n.d. 24 fair; chicago 26 partly cloudy; dallas-fort worth 36 fair; denver 33 fair; des moines 20 fair; indianapolis 28 cloudy; kansas city 25 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 19 fair; nashville 60 showery; new orleans 65 foggy; st. louis 28 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 35 fair; anchorage 34 cloudy; las vegas 55 cloudy; los angeles 58 cloudy; phoenix 57 fair; salt lake city 47 partly cloudy; san diego 57 cloudy; san francisco 51 partly cloudy; seattle 40 cloudy
_canada: montreal 10 fair; toronto 16 partly cloudy. says</head>
rose cipollone was so hooked on cigarettes that she smoked a pack while in labor with her first child, even though she had tried to quit, an addiction expert testified in support of her family's liability suit
dr. jerome jaffe cited several instances on the stand thursday to show that mrs. cipollone was so dependent on cigarettes that smoking governed her behavior until her death of lung cancer at age 40
he depicted a smoker who picked butts from the garbage, ordered groceries just to have cigarettes delivered and puffed away even after part of her lung had been removed
mrs. cipollone became a vivid presence for the first time during the five-week federal court trial. after her death in 1984, her widower, antonio of lakehurst, carried on the suit against three tobacco companies
the defendants _ philip morris co., lorillard inc. and liggett group inc. _ deny they are responsible for her death. one of their arguments is that mrs. cipollone smoked of her own free will
jaffe, a clinical psychiatrist and director of the national institute of drug abuse's research center in baltimore, described what he learned about mrs. cipollone's smoking habits during a 75-minute interview at her lawyer's office months before she died
she was dependent, and i thought heavily dependent, on tobacco and cigarettes,'' jaffe said
under cross-examination by liggett lawyer james v. kearney, jaffe acknowledged that he did not examine mrs. cipollone physically and never saw her smoke
until now, testimony in the case has centered on allegations that the companies failed to do enough research on the health effects of smoking, tell the public what they did know or put a safer product on the market
as the focus shifted to mrs. cipollone, jaffe related that when she was in labor with her first child in 1947, she was asked by doctors what she wanted. her answer was a glass of water and _ despite having nearly quit during her pregnancy _ a cigarette. the doctors brought her a pack
she said, `i smoked a whole pack before the baby was born,''' according to jaffe, who referred to his notes of the interview while being questioned by marc z. edell, an attorney for her estate
in 1964, when the surgeon general's report linking smoking and disease came out, mrs. cipollone consciously tried to ignore it
it's typical,'' jaffe said. ``it's the heart of most dependences. ... denial is the cardinal symbol.''
in 1981, when a spot was found on her lung, mrs. cipollone threw away her cigarettes. but jaffe recalled her saying ``i was smoking when i went into the hospital'' for a lung operation
she continued to smoke after the operation, he said, stopping the following year when her right lung was removed
jaffe also served as a special consultant to the president for narcotics and dangerous drugs from 1971 to 1973
the cuban government forced some lepers to join the 1980 exodus for the united states from the port of mariel, cuban exile leaders claim
the charges came during a campaign by cuban exile groups seeking to have their homeland's communist government declared in violation of human rights
the exile leaders say expelling the lepers against their will violates their rights, and they hope to bring up the matter before the commission on human rights meeting now in geneva
castro did not show any respect for the human rights of lepers or for the american people,'' said jorge mas canosa, head of the cuban american national foundation
about 30 of the patients being treated in miami for leprosy, or hansen's disease, arrived during the 1980 boatlift, which brought about 125,000 refugees to the united states
a leper now living in louisiana said he was forced onto a florida-bound vessel on may 3, 1980
they said `you go or we will put you in prison,''' jose antonio perez ortiz, 41, said in an interview taped last week. ``i could not work. i said `send me there.'''
angel pino, spokesman for the cuban intrests section in washington, denied the charge, saying all who left cuba did so voluntarily
paramedic michael flaherty jumped into his emergency vehicle and recognized the address: one of his parents was in trouble
if you walk in and see your mother on the floor, you react,'' flaherty said. ``i gave her mount-to-mouth ventilation. everything worked.''
his parents were having breakfast wednesday when his mother, theresa, 65, collapsed about 8:45 a.m
when i heard the address, i could have run there faster than the ambulance, if that had been necessary,'' flaherty said. ``nobody was going to beat us to that address.''
flaherty's father, peter, who is not trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, applied chest compressions before the younger flaherty and his partner, jake willens, arrived
mrs. flaherty was rushed to st. francis hospital in evanston where she was in fair condition, apparently suffering from inadequate blood supply to her heart
chief fire department paramedic ronald smith praised flaherty's actions. ``he saved his mother's life. he brought her back,'' smith said
i didn't know if it was a heart attack or respiratory arrest,'' flaherty said. ``no paramedic or firefighter wants to resuscitate or work on his own parents or children or friends
but when something happens and you have to do it, you react,'' he said
indian troops prevented tamil students from holding demonstrations they called for today, warning people that they would be shot if they gathered, reports from the region said
sri lankan military officials said four tamil rebels were killed thursday in a shootout with indian troops in a village near the northern town of jaffna
the officials, who cannot be identified under briefing rules, said the rebels were killed after they attacked an indian patrol. they said one indian soldier was badly wounded
india has about 45,000 soldiers in sri lanka to enforce an indian-sponsored peace accord signed last july to end the tamil rebels' four-year separatist insurrection
the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, the largest of the rebel groups, has rejected the accord. the tigers have been the focus of indian search operations in and around batticaloa, a town 140 miles northeast of colombo
protest marches were called for in batticaloa by the eelam revolutionary organization of students, which has endorsed the peace accord but alleges sri lankan soldiers are violating it through shootings and arrests. under the accord, the sri lankan army is to be confined to barracks
in telephone interviews, batticaloa residents said that indian troops drove through the town warning civilians they would be shot if they violated orders prohibiting public gatherings
the residents, speaking on condition of anonymity, said no incidents were reported
tamils, who are mostly hindus, make up 18 percent of sri lanka's 16 million population. they claim they are discriminated against by the island's majority sinhalese buddhists, who control the government and military
the peace accord signed july 29 calls on the tamils to lay down their arms in exchange for more political autonomy in the northern and eastern regions where they live
india has become involved because it has about 60 million ethnic tamils in its southern states who are sympathetic to their sri lankan brethern. nimitz</head>
england's duchess of york watched apprehensively as her husband, prince andrew, rocketed off the bow of the world's largest nuclear-powered aircraft carrier for a thrilling jet ride
it was incredible. a sensational end to a great visit to the nimitz,'' andrew said thursday following his catapult in an s-3a viking anti-submarine warfare jet
the flight and an air show were highlights of a day at sea for the duke of york and his pregnant wife, sarah, both pilots, who also inspected one of the vessel's catapults and massive chains that hold the ship's two 60,000-pound anchors
the couple, on a 10-day tour of southern california to promote british culture and trade, began the day visiting park century school for learning-disabled children accompanied by british actress joan collins
today's schedule for the royal couple includes visits to the offices of armand hammer, chairman of occidental petroleum corp., and the university of california, los angeles
as the prince proceeded to the jet plane for the afternoon flight, he said, ``this is one of the loneliest walks i've ever done.''
the engines screamed, and sarah, wearing a flight helmet of her own, clutched a gift teddy bear as she watched the jet soar off the ship. it turned back for a low fly-by and the pair waved to each other before the duchess boarded a helicopter for her own flight to long beach, where the royal yacht britannia is docked
the duke and duchess returned to the britannia to host a thursday evening dinner
earlier, the duchess was presented a boatswain's mate's whistle, used to pipe dignitaries aboard, and she playfully tooted on it as she and the duke rode up to the flight deck on a huge aircraft elevator
sarah also chatted with sailors on the mess deck, asking airman michael mcamis, 25, of akron, ohio, if his sleeping quarters were roomy enough
it's all relative,'' mcamis replied, drawing a smile from the duchess
sarah then headed to the ship's port side, which drew laughter from mcamis, who said, ``we only cleaned the starboard side today.''
the nimitz, powered by two nuclear reactors that drive four propellers, had sailed from san diego heading north to its home port at bremerton, wash., with 3,000 men, half its full flight compliment, and only a few aircraft aboard
the couple were presented leather flight jackets bearing the inscriptions ``duke of york'' and ``duchess of york,'' then sat down to watch an air show from the main deck
jet after jet touched down on the deck at 160 mph, catching one of four cable arresters on the carrier's stern and stretching them 150 yards before coming to a halt
the policy-making body of the assemblies of god will resolve an unprecedented rift between national and state church leaders over the punishment of fallen tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, a spokeswoman says
this will be a final decision with no right of appeals,'' said juleen turnage, assemblies secretary of information. ``our executives feel that this is a situation that needs to be ... expedited quickly.''
g. raymond carlson, the general superintendent of the pentecostal denomination based here, said in a statement thursday that the general presybtery would meet march 28 to make a decision
meanwhile, in new orleans, three state appeals court judges heard arguments on whether they should revive a $90 million lawsuit filed against swaggart by a preacher he accused of adultery
a lawyer for preacher marvin gorman said evidence gathered by private detectives who investigated swaggart will be made public in court if the lawsuit is reinstated. if the judges refuse to revive the suit, attorney thomas frasier said, the evidence will be made public in some other manner
the judges gave no indication when they would rule
swaggart, a baton rouge, la., evangelist with a $150 million empire and a worldwide television following, confessed to undisclosed sins after reports linked him to prostitutes
swaggart has admitted sinning against his wife, but has not gone into detail. what others are saying he has done, depending on the specifics, might best be described as voyeurism, sexual perversion or pornographic acts
an investigation to determine if swaggart can keep his ministerial credentials has grown into a circle of meetings with the louisiana district council and the executive presbytery debating his punishment
the louisiana officials recommended swaggart be suspended from the pulpit for three months, but national leaders have said such a short suspension for a minister who has confessed to moral misconduct would be unprecedented
national officials asked the state leaders to reconsider their recommendation, but in another unprecedented move, the state refused
mrs. turnage said the executives had hoped to have the march 28 meeting earlier, but previous commitments by some of the 250 general presybters prevented it. the general presbytery meets annually, usually in august
the general presbytery consists of the 13 executive presbyters, representatives of the assemblies' districts, foreign missions and colleges and honorary members. it is described as the policy-making body for the church and serves as the court of appeals on ministerial credentials
only once within the last 25 years has it convened in special session to deal with a church matter. the matter then was the founding of evangel college in springfield, mrs. turnage said
the majority vote prevails,'' she said. ``the only item on the agenda is jimmy swaggart. they will have open discussion and a vote will be taken.''
she said the presbyters can request that swaggart attend the meeting, ``but at this time, that point has not been discussed.''
mrs. turnage said figures will not be available for another three weeks to determine whether the swaggart situation has had any effect on contributions to the nation's largest pentecostal denomination
last year following the ptl scandal, contributions rose 6 percent, and the assemblies gained more church members and churches, she said
new york city's new schools chancellor says he will begin shaping up one of the nation's most troubled school systems by abolishing time clocks and paring down the bloated central bureaucracy
richard r. green's inaugural message, delivered amid unprecedented pomp and splendor thursday in the ornate chapel of erasmus hall high school, was that new york city's schools are ``on trial. business as usual must come to an end, and it must do so today.''
green left behind a 30-year career in minneapolis schools to lead the 939,000-pupil system, the largest in the nation with a $4.8 billion annual budget
green was ushered into the oak-paneled chapel by six children wearing sashes reading ``the class of 2000.'' greeting him on the speaker's podium were gov. mario m. cuomo, mayor edward i. koch, board of education president robert f. wagner, jr., and other dignitaries, all wearing academic robes
frequently departing from a prepared text of a 20-minute inaugural address, green took a generally conciliatory tone toward the many problems and constituencies he faces. but he vowed that the infamous central bureaucracy would likely face cuts, especially with mayor koch pressuring the board to find $28 million in budget savings
i have heard that 110 livingston street has been immobilized by the twin abuses called apathy and cynicism,'' he said. ``this is a new day.''
by july 1, i will have a management team in place that i can rely on. and there will be some transfers out of 110 livingston,'' he said, referring to the brooklyn headquarters of the city board of education
he also vowed to remove the time clocks that teachers are required to punch. and he said that ``we are going to find a way to open schools to parents who want to use facilities and i am certain we can reach a new accommodation with our custodians.''
green did not mention his controversial suggestion of an 11-month school year which he made off-the-cuff on wednesday while touring several schools
united federation of teachers president sandra feldman called the 20-minute speech ``an exciting beginning. he was both tough and caring. i was especially gratified that he singled out the work done by the city's teachers and the fact that they don't get enough recognition as professionals.''
the city's first black chancellor has his work cut out for him. the system, which has 32 autonomous districts, has a dropout rate pegged by the school board at 30.7 percent. an independent panel put the figure at 50.4 percent
many of the city's 1,050 school buildings are deteriorating, and an estimated 25 percent have serious problems
green's staff of 61,000 teachers exceeds the number of students in the minneapolis system, yet officials expect the city will need 40,000 new teachers by 1994
the newest house rejection of aid for the nicaraguan contras has put the rebels on the defensive as they near face-to-face peace talks with the sandinista government, a contra spokeswoman says
the house rejected a $30 million humanitarian aid package thursday night, only hours after contra leaders agreed to meet the sandinistas inside nicaragua without a mediator
every time the united states turns its back on the contras, it puts us in a less favorable position,'' said contra spokeswoman marta sacasa. the sandinistas ``will become even more intransigent and more hard line.''
the failed bill had limited the use of the funds to food, clothing and medical supplies and a plan to help young war victims. the 216-210 vote against the package meant the rebels, whose last u.s. aid ran out tuesday, would be left without new supplies unless congress passes another measure
we of course wanted a positive vote, but the death or survival of the nicaraguan resistance is not tied to the u.s. congress,'' ms. sacasa said. ``we have adapted and we will continue to adapt.''
she said this setback, coupled with a feb. 3 house rejection of a $36.2 million aid package proposed by president reagan, makes it clear the contras cannot count on the united states
we are fighting against an enemy that doesn't have these kinds of problems. the aid from the soviet union has not stopped flowing to the sandinistas,'' she said
while a date for the peace conference has not been set, the contras on thursday accepted in principle an offer of face-to-face talks made by nicaraguan president daniel ortega
but the contras insisted in a communique that cardinal miguel obando y bravo of managua, who was dismissed by ortega as a mediator after two previous negotiating sessions, be present as a ``witness and guarantor.''
ortega has proposed that the talks take place in southern nicaragua with his brother, defense minister humberto ortega, heading the government delegation
the contras appointed adolfo calero, considered to be one of the more hardline directors, to head their delegation
we are accepting a face-to-face meeting in nicaraguan territory,'' director alfredo cesar said after a daylong meeting of the directorate
ortega had suggested that the meeting be held in the town of sapoa near nicaragua's costa rican border on march 10-12, but cesar said the time and place should be worked out later
the communique signed by the five directors of the nicaraguan resistance, as the contra rebels are formally called, lambasted ortega for dismissing obando y bravo as a mediator
it called the action ``unilateral and dictatorial,'' and praised the cardinal for his help in pushing the peace talks
when kate reed ambled into her bathroom early one morning and flipped on the light, she found she didn't need a cold shower to wake up _ there sat a 6{-foot long boa constrictor on her toilet seat
she went back to her husband, rob, and calmly said, ``honey, please wake up. there's a snake in the bathroom
he sat bolt upright in bed and said, `what?'''
meanwhile, their dog, tootsie, slept calmly on the bathmat
the snake escaped jan. 28 from upstairs neighbor brian wycoskie, who, after a call from rob reed, came downstairs to retrieve his wayward pet, named cleopatra
wycoskie said he hadn't told the reeds about the escape because he thought someone had stolen it
cleopatra apparently slithered down wycoskie's toilet on thursday and picked the wrong pipe to return home
i found out they're a water animal,'' said wycoskie, who also owns connie the florida cottonmouth rattlesnake, hercules the tarantula, sting the scorpion, vince the black widow spider and tropical gecko lizards named abbott and costello
caught in rush-hour traffic with his wife in labor, ray snyder stopped at a convenience store to call for help _ but left with a baby boy born in the back of his pickup truck
it happened in five minutes, but it seemed like a lifetime,'' said debbie spivey, a schoolteacher who stopped at the store to buy a soda but wound up helping to deliver the 8-pound, 9{-ounce baby thursday
mrs. snyder and son were doing fine at holmes regional medical center in nearby melbourne in east central florida
she said she hopes her next child is born in a hospital. ``you don't ever want to have a baby in a pickup truck,'' she said
a 12-year-old girl who earned $500 by going without television for a year says she doubts she'll revert to heavy tv watching, even though she's now free to do so
i think i'm going to continue on doing my homework first,'' jenny machalleck said thursday after watching her first television program since march 2, 1987
i'm really happy with how my grades have come out,'' she said. ``they weren't bad before, but now they're at the head of the class.''
earlier in the day, she received the $500 check her parents had promised if she could go a full year without tv. they made the deal to cure her of her six-hour-a-day addiction to the tube
but jenny said she was too busy doing homework thursday night to celebrate by watching the show she had wanted to, ``cosby.''
she said she finished in time to watch the last half of ``cheers.''
her first tv viewing in year was fun, she said, ``because i hadn't watched in so long. but i found i hadn't really been missing anything. i was just not as enthusiastic as i thought i would be.''
communist gunmen killed a soldier and a policeman in a suburb of the capital today in the second deadly attack by urban guerrillas in two days, police said
elsewhere, the military said about 200 communist new people's army rebels raided a northern mountain village, set fire to a police detachment and kidnapped a policeman
president corazon aquino vowed today to crack down on crime and pursue an ``unrelenting campaign'' against communists
she told a conference of 1,700 newly elected mayors and governors that their main task will be to restore order
the first and most important is law and order throughout the land,'' the president said. ``this calls for curbing criminality and the destruction of rightist and leftist elements in our society that are bent on the overthrow of our government and our democracy.''
she also called for breaking up illegal gambling syndicates and ``flushing out and shutting down the vice dens.''
in suburban pasig today, four gunmen opened fire on tech. sgt. norberto fungo as he was walking near the public market, police said. as they were escaping, the rebels opened fire on patrolman severino francisco as he tried to draw his pistol, police added
the gunmen commandeered a passenger jeep and escaped
the killings occurred one day after two men and two women gunned down margarita tenorio, 62, a ward leader and president of the anti-communist vigilante crusaders for peace and democracy
police said the assailants scattered leaflets claiming responsibility in the name of the ``jun somono squad'' of the alex boncayao brigade, a rebel urban guerrilla group that killed scores of police and soldiers in the capital last year
somono, an urban guerrilla, was slain last year by police
the attack on the police detachment occurred thursday in sadanga, about 180 miles north of manila
a constabulary report said police manning the outpost put up a brief fight but surrendered after two defenders were wounded. the report said the rebels confiscated police firearms, burned down the outpost and took a patrolman hostage before fleeing to the forest
mrs. aquino was swept to power in a february 1986 military-civilian revolt that ousted president ferdinand marcos after 20 years in power
the military chief of staff said today he did not believe the time was right to allow marcos to return from exile in hawaii
if you would ask me personally, it is not advisable for him to be back at this time,'' gen. renato de villa told reporters
the general's remarks follow reports that two of mrs. aquino's relatives met with marcos in hawaii to discuss terms for his possible return
de villa said former military officers implicated in coup attempts remain at large in the country and marcos' return might jeopardize security. but he expressed doubts that the marcos groups could muster enough support to topple the government. closed</head>
a university of pennsylvania fraternity that sponsored a strip show in which white students jeered black dancers has been ordered to close for 1{ years, and a black student activist received a death threat he believes stemmed from a protest of the incident
blacks and feminists at penn have complained bitterly during the past few weeks about the rush party at the all-white fraternity. during the party last september, two black women stripped, performed sexually explicit acts and danced naked before an audience that shouted racial epithets, according to the university
the school on thursday ordered the 112-member zeta beta tau to close for at least 1{ years because of the incident, the fraternity said
zbt president zane brown, in a statement, apologized for the incident but said the decision by the penn judicial board was ``unjust.''
the death threat was made earlier this week against conrad tillard, director of the organization of black consciousness, in a letter sent to a reporter at penn's student newspaper, the daily pennsylvanian
the writer claimed to be a student member of the jewish defense league, but school officials did not believe the claim, and the jdl denied any connection with the threat. the fraternity that was ordered closed is primarily jewish
the main thing it said was that i was a target on their hit list,'' tillard said. ``it also said that in general they're trying to stop the rise of this black power group that i'm helping bring about.''
tillard will receive around-the-clock protection by campus police that will continue ``as long as is necessary,'' said security spokeswoman sylvia canada. philadelphia police said they were investigating the letter; the fbi also acknowledged receiving a copy but declined to comment
tillard said he believed the letter stemmed from a rally monday sponsored by his group, which called on the school to oust zbt. however, the letter did not mention the fraternity incident, tillard said
black officials said the fraternity incident and the death threat reflect growing racial tension not only at the ivy league campus but at colleges around the country
what is happening now, in terms of the real tensions on campus, is just the tip of the iceberg,'' said jacqueline wade, director of penn's afro-american students department. ``i think we're going to see across the nation something that's very reminiscent of the '60s.''
racism never left the university environment,'' she said
meanwhile, at dartmouth college in hanover, n.h., about 300 people rallied thursday to protest bigotry. the day before, police guarded the offices of a conservative weekly campus newspaper that revived stinging attacks on a black professor and reawakened charges of racism at the school
rabbi howard alperg, director of penn's jewish campus activities board, said ``black radicals'' are trying to turn the fraternity controversy into a black-jewish issue
but daniel gamulka, chairman of the jewish student council, said the fraternity incident enraged both white and black students
the jewish community does not support what happened at zbt,'' said gamulka. ``they find it offensive, just as anyone would.''
relationships between black and jewish penn students have been strained since a verbal confrontation between the groups in 1986, when the black student unity conference planned to feature a keynote address by louis farrakhan, nation of islam leader. farrakhan's critics say he is anti-semitic
a driver who secured his teddy bear with a seatbelt but failed to do the same for himself died after being thrown from the car in a crash, authorities said
the 31-year-old victim, whose name was being withheld until his family could be notified, died late wednesday on the long beach freeway, said california highway patrol officer richard perez
for unknown reasons, he drifted to the right and struck a guardrail,'' perez said. ``he went airborne about 35 feet and down into a chain-link fence.''
paramedics pronounced the man dead at the scene, said chp dispatcher ruth frias
the teddy bear remained in the vehicle, perez said
the investigating officer was telling me that (the driver) was alone in the car, but he had a little teddy bear with him,'' perez said. ``he had the teddy bear seated in the passenger seat with a belt on.''
increases in federal seizures of imported cocaine and marijuana raise the demand for greater amounts of drug imports and likely fatten the coffers of latin american drug producers, a study concludes
the study, released thursday by the rand corp., found that more and more narcotics shipments are being stopped at the borders, but an even greater number are getting through to meet demands of american drug users who are ``relatively insensitive'' to higher prices that may result
while interdiction raises smugglers' risks, they adapt in the short run and learn in the long run. very large increases in expenditure might lead to more seizures and arrests, but not to large decreases in consumption,'' said the study by the research institute
between 1981 and 1986, the government tripled its spending in the war against imported drugs, from $237 milion to $801 million, the study said. the military portion of that rose from $1 million to $196 million
despite the increase, the amount of cocaine reaching u.s. users rose from between 38 and 68 metric tons in 1981 to between 111 and 153 tons in 1985, the latest year for which figures were available
the amount of marijuana entering the united states during the same period rose from between 8,700 and 12,700 metric tons to between 9,447 and 12,228 metric tons
seizures of cocaine rose from less than 2 metric tons to more than 25 metric tons, while seizures of marijuana were halved from 4,000 metric tons to 2,000 metric tons
the figures were based on official estimates of the u.s. drug enforcement adminstration, the study said
in addition, latin american drug manufacturers may be getting even richer because they make money whether the drugs are successfully smuggled or not, said the study
meanwhile, it added, a stepped-up seizure of cocaine from colombia has caused a shift to mexican and domestic sources
the study, which looked only at cocaine and marijuana, comes as congress considers a proposal that would make the defense department a primary agency in the interception of drugs at substantially increased costs to taxpayers
the defense department now serves a secondary role, mostly by providing radar surveillance and limited air and sea pursuit, to the three agencies that have primary responsibility in stopping the drug flow: the coast guard, the customs service and the immigration and naturalization service
meanwhile, on thursday the u.s. coast guard said it has ended its routine drug-smuggling patrols by land and sea off the west coast because of budget constraints
the decision to stop routine sea patrols and surveillance flights will result in more smugglers successfully delivering their cargo, rear adm. a. bruce beran said
beran, commander of the coast guard district that includes california, oregon, nevada and arizona, said he ended the patrols six weeks ago in an effort to trim some $1 million from his district's budget
he cited as an additional budgetary pressure some $100 million in cuts to coast guard funding contained in a proposal for the 1989 federal budget
a tugboat leased by a company in this small fishing village in northern baja california was repossessed, reportedly at gunpoint, by its u.s.-based owners early today, the u.s. coast guard said
coast guard officials in san diego received a distress call in broken english early today on an emergency radio channel reporting that armed men were hijacking the vessel, said jeff d'annolso of the san diego office
the report said six armed americans went aboard the tugboat northern warrior,'' said petty officer reid crispino of the coast guard station in long beach
the report was called in by the chartering panama co., which runs a fleet of tugboats that escort tankers in and out of rosarito beach, about 30 miles south of the u.s.-mexico border, crispino said
the tugboat was leased to the mexican company by seattle, wash.-based stabbert &amp; associates, he said
we contacted the owners in washington and they confirmed they were repossessing the tugboat due to a lack of payments by the lessee,'' crispino said
investigators had not determined how many men boarded the boat, which was in port at the time, or confirmed whether they were armed
crispino said the coast guard had no control over the matter because it took place in mexican waters
if (chartering panama co.) wants to pursue the matter, they'll have to go to a civil admiralty attorney. it's now a legal matter,'' he said
a chicago obstetrician has been indicted on federal charges that he lied on the witness stand about his role in tests concerning the safety of the dalkon shield birth control device
dr. louis g. keith, 53, an obstetrician-gynecologist at northwestern university medical school at chicago, testified falsely about transfer of bacteria by the tail string of the intrauterine shield, the justice department said thursday in announcing the indictment
keith faces eight counts of perjury and one count of obstruction of justice. if convicted on all counts, he faces 45 years in prison and $85,000 in fines. an fbi spokesman said keith was expected to surrender in chicago today and be arraigned march 17 in tampa
dr. keith is innocent and will be vindicated,'' said his lawyer, matthew kennelly. ``that is all i will say.''
on march 15, 1983, keith told jurors in a tampa lawsuit against a.h. robins co., the manufactuer of the iud, he had performed experiments that verified the safety of the birth control device. in fact, he did not design, direct, conduct or do the scientific experiments ``about which he testified,'' the indictment announced in washington said
the alleged perjury came during the suit brought by linda harre of tampa, who alleged that the shield caused her to become sterile. she lost the $12.5 million suit
mrs. harre won a new trial in march 1985 when the 11th u.s. circuit court of appeals in atlanta issued a scathing opinion attacking the veracity of keith's testimony
five months later, a.h. robins filed for protection from its creditors in federal bankruptcy court in richmond, va., a measure which barred future action on pending lawsuits, including mrs. harre's
john d. taylor, a spokesman for a.h. robins in richmond, va., said thursday evening that keith had testified for the company in several lawsuits, and the firm has no reason to believe he ever lied
the company halted production and sale of the dalkon shield in the united states and abroad in 1974, although distribution continued in some foreign countries until early 1985, said taylor
some 200,000 claims have been filed against a.h. robins by women who contend they suffered pelvic infections, sterility or spontaneous abortions because of the dalkon shield. a.h. robins sold 2.8 million of the devices between 1971 and 1974 and has paid more than $300 million in legal damages involving its shield
robins spokesman roscoe puckett said the firm is awaiting court approval of a reorganization plan that would set aside $2.375 billion to settle claims relating to the dalkon shield. increasing majority in parliament; corrects that parliament has 330 sted of 300 seats; adds details on 1986 results and number of eligible voters. no pickup.</note>
president hussain muhammad ershad's jatiya party increased its majority in parliament today after national elections marked by violence, fraud and an opposition boycott
at least 11 people were reported killed and more than 300 were injured during voting thursday for 299 contested seats in the 330-seat parliament. turnout appeared very low and even jatiya party members acknowledged ballot boxes were stuffed
with results in for 194 races, jatiya candidates had won 176 seats. in 18 of those contests, they ran unopposed. one race was postponed because one of the candidates for the open seat was killed
a coalition of 73 minor opposition parties won nine seats, according to election commission figures. two other small parties had one seat each, and independents gained seven
another 30 seats in parliament are reserved for women, who are chosen later
opposition leaders alleged that the outcome was due to rigged voting, which is common in bangladesh politics
the opposition, which launched a campaign nov. 10 to demand ershad's ouster, succeeded in shutting down most of dhaka on election day with a general strike. but the government said the election, the fourth in bangladesh's 17 years of independence from pakistan, was ``successful and peaceful.''
foreign reporters who visited polling stations in and around dhaka noted a low turnout and much vote tampering
ershad, a former army general who seized power in a 1982 bloodless coup, called the elections in a failed attempt to appease the opposition
at separate news conferences today, chief opposition leaders sheik hasina and khaleda zia vowed to continue the campaign to oust ershad, who was elected president in 1986 in balloting they say was rigged
in those elections, the jatiya party won 152 seats in parliament. the main opposition awami league won 102, and small parties held the rest
the two opposition leaders said rallies in dhaka were planned for saturday to protest the balloting
ershad scheduled thursday's elections after he dissolved parliament last december, 3{ years ahead of schedule. the move was aimed at working out a compromise with his foes, but they demanded instead that ershad step down and said elections held under him wouldn't be fair
election officials and some jatiya party said ballot boxes were stuffed to favor the governing party and inflate the turnout
the independent bangladesh observer newspaper reported on polling in nine cities and did not list any with heavy voting. the descriptions it used for turnout in various cities were ``very negligible ... very meager ... 1 percent to 2 percent'' of the 47.8 million eligible voters
home minister abdul matin claimed there was a good turnout
he told reporters that on the basis of 12 voting centers he visited in dhaka, he estimated voter turnout at 50 percent
a teen-ager accused of fatally bludgeoning a classmate with a baseball bat for a thrill smiled while denying any knowledge of the boy's fate two days after the slaying, a detective testified
he was very calm, almost bored, sort of like, `don't bother me.' he grinned, when i asked if he knew where shaun was,'' detective john devine said during the second day of rod matthews' trial in norfolk superior court
devine said thursday he questioned matthews twice about 14-year-old shaun ouillette's whereabouts
prosecutors say matthews, a 15-year-old being tried as an adult in the 1986 slaying, showed the body in the snowy woods to friends, who stayed mum for weeks
defense attorney john philip white has not denied that matthews killed his classmate. but white said matthews was a mentally ill child from a troubled home and whose use of the prescribed drug ritalin, used to counter hyperactivity in children, contributed to his actions
devine testified he went to matthews' home after a bus driver said he had seen matthews and ouillette together the previous afternoon
when asked where ouillette was, matthews, then 14, said he had not seen him the previous day and suggested he might be in a neighboring town, the detective said
during later questioning, matthews said he played pool at home with ouillette on nov. 20, two days before matthews' initial questioning, but still denied knowing anything about his whereabouts, devine testified
forensic pathologist george katsas, who performed an autopsy, testified the victim had three head injuries, the largest six inches long, which fractured the skull
chemist robert pino of the state police crime lab said blood and hair on the bat matched ouillette's
other former friends told a shocked courtroom wednesday of viewing ouillette's body only hours after a pre-thanksgiving pep rally, then bicycling with matthews to a shopping mall pizza parlor for a snack
he said it could happen to us. he said, `you never know,''' testified robbie peterson
the former friends said matthews named several potential victims before settling on ouillette, an overweight high school freshman who had moved to the community south of boston a year earlier
nicaragua called for direct talks between president reagan and president daniel ortega and said congress' rejection of aid to the contras would help peace in central america
the lefist sandinista government thursday also urged the reagan administration not to interfere in cease-fire talks between it and the contras, the u.s.-backed group that has been fighting to overthrow it
a statement released by government spokesman manuel espinoza said the u.s. house of representatives' rejection of aid for the nicaraguan rebels ``must contribute to the peace efforts taken by the presidents of the central american countries.''
the house voted 216-210 to kill the $30 million package of ``humanitarian'' aid
the contras, meanwhile, accepted ortega's proposal to resume negotiations in nicaragua march 9-11, but said cardinal miguel obando y bravo must be kept on as mediator
ortega said the talks should go on without the roman catholic archbishop of managua, who mediated two previous rounds
the president proposed that the new talks be held in the town of sapoa near the costa rican border. the government also reiterated its call for direct talks between ortega and reagan
the government of nicaragua urges one more time that the president of the united states undertake direct negotiations with the president of nicaragua that take into account security aspects (and) the normalization of relations'' between the two countries, the statement said
the united states has insisted on talks between the contras and sandinistas and has refused to talk to the nicaraguan government
the nicaraguan talks are being held in line with a peace plan signed by five central american presidents on aug. 7. japanese firm</head>
the washington metropolitan area transit authority has rejected a $49.2 million low bid from a construction consortium that included a japanese firm, citing a congressional ban on awarding federally funded contracts to japanese companies
the provision, signed by president reagan in december, bars the awarding of contracts to firms of any country that discriminates against foreign bidders in its own public works projects
it was aimed at japan, which has prohibited foreign participation in more than $60 billion worth of public works projects it plans during the next 10 years
the metro board made its decision thursday as u.s. and japanese negotiators were meeting at the state department in an attempt to resolve the construction dispute, a major source of contention between the two countries
sen. frank murkowski, r-alaska, who co-authored the provision with rep. jack brooks, d-texas, hailed metro's decision
the japanese private sector needed to know that america is ready to use the leverage at our disposal to open their market. if they didn't think we meant business before, they know it now,'' murkowskiaid
no one is going to take a chance of using a japanese firm in any capacity for any project,'' said metro deputy general counsel robert polk. the law ``will have the desired congressional effect,'' he said
the low bid came from a joint venture between kiewit construction of omaha, neb., and the kajima construction company of japan to work on tunnels and rails for a new subway line, which is to run beneath an existing station in northeast washington. kajima was a 30 percent partner in the plan, and kiewit 70 percent
john f. mcelhenny, metro's assistant general manager for design, said bidding on the project will be reopened. he said rejection of the contract is not likely to delay construction, which is scheduled for completion in 1993
a 77-year-old man accused in the mercy killing of his ailing wife received reassurances from family members as he attended her funeral in the company of the county sheriff
you know i really loved her, don't you?'' a weeping oscar carlson asked his daughter, marcene cole, as he reached to hug her after the service thursday at faith lutheran church
of course,'' mrs. cole said through her tears as they embraced
carlson, described as a kind man and a regular churchgoer, was escorted to the funeral by douglas county sheriff terry eilers and three deputies. the frail former farmer did not wear handcuffs or leg chains
asked if carlson's family had forgiven him, nephew gordon johnson said, ``right after it happened.''
look at what oscar was going through,'' johnson said. ``you live with someone for 40-some years ... they were always together ... and then it all falls apart. i think there's a lot of sympathy for oscar.''
carlson was charged with first- and second-degree murder after authorities said he used a .22-caliber weapon to shoot his 71-year-old wife, agnes, four times monday at a nursing home
carlson said he killed his wife of 47 years to spare her from the agony of alzheimer's disease, a debilitating ailment that leaves its victims disoriented and often unable to care for themselves. agnes carlson exhibited the first signs of the disease four years ago
just before the service thursday, carlson was allowed a moment alone at the open casket. he held his wife's hand for a time and then relatives came up to embrace him
pastor george larson did not mention the circumstances of mrs. carlson's death. instead, he urged the family to take comfort in the biblical promise of life after death
agnes believed in the lord,'' larson told the approximately 120 mourners. ``when we believe in the lord jesus christ we have already begun our eternal life and death is just a passing.''
carlson was returned to jail in alexandria after the service to await a monday hearing, at which his attorney plans to request that carlson's $100,000 bail be reduced and he be allowed to use his house as collateral. pvs: `on wednesday...'</note>
a british official of the oxfam relief organization was kidnapped with a syrian colleague in the southern port city of sidon, oxfam headquarters said today
peter coleridge, 44, and omar traboulsi, 31, were seized thursday night, oxfam spokesman john magrath said in oxford, england. coleridge is the organization's middle east coordinator and traboulsi is its lebanon representative, he said
we've had conflicting reports as to whether they are still being held or not,'' magrath said
no one claimed responsibility for the abductions, which brought the number of foreigners missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon to 24
there were no eyewitnesses confirming the abduction, said nissrine rawda, an official at oxfam's beirut office
oxfam is a british charity that aids refugees and poor people around the world
ms. rawda said coleridge went to sidon thursday accompanied by at least two local oxfam staff members and had been expected back in beirut later today. sidon is 25 miles south of beirut
she said coleridge arrived in lebanon two days ago on his first visit in three years to inspect oxfam's operations. he lives in oxford with his wife and two daughters
magrath said he could not give any other details of the abduction. a police spokesman said lebanese authorities had no information about a missing briton
we have ideas about who might have done it, but we don't want to speculate,'' magrath said
the people we work with on the ground have told us not to panic. we know they're making contacts in sidon to find out exactly what's happened and see that peter and omar are released.''
the christian-controlled voice of lebanon radio station earlier reported in beirut that coleridge and trabousli were missing shortly after their arrival in sidon
a british embassy official termed the report at that time ``a false alarm.''
sidon is lebanon's third largest city with a predominantly sunni moslem population of about 250,000
on wednesday, pro-iranian shiite moslem militants released a west german captive, ralph schray, 30, in beirut five weeks after he was kidnapped
two u.n. relief and works agency officials, jan stening, 44, of sweden and william jorgensen, 58, of norway, were kidnapped near sidon feb. 5, apparently by palestinians acting independently of guerrilla groups
their abductors handed the two over to the palestine liberation organization on tuesday after 25 days in captivity
twenty-two other foreigners are missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon. they include nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an italian, an irishman, an indian and two unidentified men
the hostage held longest is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was seized march 16, 1985. figures. picks up in 3rd graf, ``productivity among.</note>
unemployment slipped 0.1 percent to 5.7 percent last month as half a million new jobs were created, the government said today
the february decline brought unemployment to its lowest level since the summer of 1979 and followed no change in jobless levels in january, the labor department said
employment grew by 280,000, with the number of jobless americans falling by 108,000 to 6.9 million, the department said in its survey of households
a separate survey of business payrolls showed a net increase of 531,000 jobs in february, 40 percent of which were in service industries
on thursday, the department said the nation's productivity rose just 0.9 percent last year, only slightly more than earlier estimates and the lowest since the last recession, the government says
meanwhile, the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks slipped 7.80 points to 2,063.49, the dollar was mixed in foreign exchange and bond prices barely budged in lethargic trading
productivity among non-farm businesses that are responsible for three-fourths of the nation's economic activity rose at an annual rate of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter, the labor department said. that contrasted with a 0.2 percent deterioration reported in preliminary figures last month
productivity is a measure of the amount of labor required to produce goods and services
the revisions raised the productivity improvement for the entire year from 0.8 percent to 0.9 percent, slightly more than half the 1.6 percent gain of 1986
the efficiency improvements for the year were the smallest since 1982, when an economic recession depressed output so much that productivity actually declined 0.6 percent from 1981
anything less than 1 percent is a disappointing number,'' said roger brinner, an economist for data resources inc. of lexington, mass. ``it gives you very little room to buffer pay increases and not much leeway to improve the standard of living.''
the revised figures on productivity showed output of goods and services by non-farm businesses rising by an annual rate of 5.6 percent in the fourth quarter
that was the greatest increase in nearly two years and compared with a rise of 5.1 percent in the preliminary figures before the gross national product was revised upward last week by the commerce department
but in achieving that higher output, businesses increased the total hours worked by their employees by 5.3 percent
frankly, we don't foresee much improvement in productivity this year,'' said donald straszheim, chief economist for merrill lynch. ``productivity improvements require rapid growth and we haven't been experiencing much of that lately.'' edits to trim. no pickup</note>
a twin-engine commuter plane flying from nancy to paris crashed near the capital this morning while waiting to land, killing all 22 people aboard, aviation authorities said
the fairchild 227 turboprop, owned by the small aviation company tat, apparently hit high-tension wires and crashed in a field in pamfou, a town near melun, 25 miles southwest of paris, police said
the force of the crash gouged a huge hole in the plowed land, police said. officials said there was snow in the region and temperatures were below freezing
the aircraft was carrying 19 passengers, including a baby, and three crew members, tat commercial director patrice decourt told the associated press. earlier reports said 21 people were aboard
debris from the plane was spread out over hundreds of square yards and workers were combing the field and surrounding forests
the director of the nancy-essey airport, jean-claude philippe, said the plane had been circling the melun area in the seine-et-marne region, 25 miles southeast of paris, waiting for orders to land at orly airport
planes are landed sooner or later. so they are stacked up, waiting for a free runway,'' philippe said. ``they don't wait long, of course. several minutes.''
decourt said the plane was in the holding pattern for six to seven minutes after the 50-minute flight from nancy, then ``plunged very rapidly'' to the ground
the cause of the accident was not immediately known. police and rescue workers were searching the area for the aircraft's black box
the plane ... was perhaps in a situation of intense icing, but tat's experience with this type of plane leads us to believe that circumstances which we are not yet aware of led to the accident,'' said a statement issued by tat
the u.s.-made fairchild 227 is built under license from the dutch company fokker
the last ground contact with the plane was at 7:32 a.m., according to the control tower at orly. the aircraft disappeared from the radar five minutes later
a trainee flight attendant, helene guillou, said in nancy that she missed the flight because she overslept
i was an intern hostess and this morning i didn't hear the alarm clock,'' ms. gillou said in a telephone interview with the associated press
she said the same plane made a trip without problems thursday night but that the pilot had mentioned icy conditions
today's crash was the worst plane accident in france since 1981, when a yugoslav dc-9 went down near ajaccio, corsica, in the mediterranean, killing 180 people. returning to pakistan. no pickup. najib, one name, is cq.</note>
peace talks on afghanistan recessed today so pakistan could decide if it is willing to sign a settlement with the soviet-backed afghan government. the mediator said all substantial differences had been worked out
the head of the pakistani delegation, acting foreign minister zain noorani, flew back to islamabad for weekend consultations with the country's political leaders, including opposition representatives
the meeting will mark the first time the pakistan government has sought direct contact with its opposition since president gen. mohammad zia ul-haq seized power and imposed martial in july 1977 coup
pakistan has represented afghanistan's anti-marxist moslem guerrillas in the peace talks
the two sides agreed thursday to a nine-month timetable for the pullout of soviet troops from afghanistan, with half the estimated 115,000 troops to be withdrawn in the first 90 days
u.n. mediator diego cordovez said no major differences remained. but the negotiators did not resolve the issue of what government would be in power in afghanistan to oversee implementation of a settlement
over the weekend, pakistan will try to decide whether it is willing to sign a settlement with president najib's government, which it does not recognize
noorani said there was no change in pakistan's position that the settlement should be accompanied by formation of a transitional government in kabul to prevent more bloodshed
not all opposition parties have declared their stand on afghanistan but most have urged the government to sign a soviet pullout accord, then worry about a political settlement later
the geneva talks are set to resume monday
cordovez told reporters that that the withdrawal issue had long stalled the almost 6-year-old negotiations. he said its resolution meant a ``significant step'' toward concluding a settlement
i am not going to consider that these documents are absolutely ready until they are signed and sealed,'' he said, but also stated repeatedly that the ``remaining differences are not of substance.''
there is no doubt about the political significance of the agreements reached this week and also of some understandings that have started to evolve'' regarding other oustanding problems, he said
he did not elaborate but made plain that he is increasingly confident that there will be an eventual accord on the future shape of the kabul government
cordovez said that both kabul and islamabad recognized that a broad-based afghan government would make a settlement ``more effective,'' although their concepts differ
he also said he believed that the afghan resistance movement, which is flatly opposed to any power-sharing with the present leadership, will change its attitude once a settlement is complete
the chief afghan delegate, abdul wakil, reiterated thursday that kabul was ready to talk with all political forces, including the resistance movements, about the formation of new government
a three-member team from the office of the u.n. commissioner for refugees returned to geneva today from a fact-finding visit in afghanistan
a spokeswoman, judith kumin, said the team followed an invitation of the kabul government. she said it was evident that the office would have a role in repatriating the more than 5 million afghan refugees once a settlement was reached
an estimated 3 million refugees are in pakistan, and another 2 million are in iran. differences</head>
police today dragged away dozens of protesters demanding the release of political prisoners and trying to march into the presidential mansion
about 30 family members of imprisoned dissidents gathered in front of the blue house, the presidential residence, demanding an interview with president roh tae-woo
riot police took away the protesters, who shouted anti-government slogans and tried to march into the residence
at seoul national university, about 200 students called for the release of political prisoners and denounced a recent government amnesty as insufficient
the government released about 130 political prisoners last saturday, saying only dissidents guilty of violent crimes or subversion remained in prison
the joong-ang ilbo, an influential seoul newspaper, said the freed dissidents are under surveillance and that their daily activities were reported to security authorities
also today, the governing and opposition parties resolved their differences over electoral rules and other issues, clearing the way for national assembly elections expected in mid-april
in addition, senior officials of the two main opposition parties, controlled by kim young-sam and kim dae-jung, agreed on basic rules for their merger before the balloting
in december's presidential election, the two kims split the opposition vote. roh won with 36.6 percent of the vote
the officials said after a three-hour meeting that they would propose the elections be held under a system picking one lawmaker instead of two in each district
the governing democratic justice party welcomed the opposition proposal
the governing party, which had favored a system electing one to three members in each district depending on the size of population, changed its position today on the order of the president
before today's meeting, the opposition camp was itself divided over the election formula, forcing a delay in adopting the new laws needed before balloting can be held
the proposed reform would increase the overall number of legislators from 271 to 300 by increasing the number of districts
the government today decreed a ban on smoking in public places and launched a campaign to try to convince this nation of smokers to give up the habit
the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez also outlawed the selling of tobacco to anyone under 16
the ban will take effect in july, three months after its publication in the official state bulletin. it was in keeping with directives issued by the european economic community
representatives of spain's tobacco industry agreed to accept a complete ban on television advertising and restrictions limiting outdoor advertising to the name of their brand
according to eec statistics, 41 percent of spain's 38.8 million people smoke, the second highest figure in the 12-nation community after greece
the same statistics indicate about 60,000 spaniards die each year from smoking-related diseases
the decree requires cigarette and cigar packages to carry the warning that smoking causes cancer and endangers the life of the smoker as well as unborn babies
it bans smoking in hospitals, department stores, elevators and places where pregnant women work and prohibits the sale of tobacco products to minors under 16
the decree says that the rights of non-smokers over those of smokers will take priority in all legal questions. it carries fines on infractions ranging from $4,400 to $880,000, but its enforcement mechanism remains unclear
spanish explorers who traveled to central and south america in the 16th century returned with string-tied rolls of tobacco leaves that became the rage among their wealthy countrymen under the name ``cigar.''
etymologists believe the word comes from ``sik'ar,'' the term the mayan indians of central america used for smoking
cigarillos'' or ``little cigars'' were devised by street beggars in seville from the butts of cast-off cigars and are the forerunners of today's cigarettes
the government will hold an unprecedented meeting with its political opposition to discuss whether pakistan should sign a peace accord with afghanistan, officials said today
saturday's meeting will mark the first time the pakistan government has sought direct contact with the opposition since before july 1977, when president gen. mohammad zia ul-haq seized power and imposed martial law
officials said nearly all 19 parties have accepted an invitation to meet with prime minister mohammad khan junejo
the chief of the pakistani delegation to the u.n. afghanistan talks in geneva, foreign state minister zain noorani, was to return to islamabad today, after the third day of indirect negotiations with the communist afghan government
pakistani officials said junejo wanted to discuss whether pakistan should link an accord over a soviet troop withdrawal from afghanistan with the formation of an interim coalition government in kabul
about 115,000 soviet troops are in afghanistan. the soviets have been fighting afghan rebels since 1979 when they entered the country and replaced the existing communist government with another one
almost all opposition leaders pledged to attend the extraordinary meeting except pakistan people's party leader benazir bhutto, who was reported ill with influenza. her karachi office said she would at least fly to islamabad to consult with her representatives
ms. bhutto's father, ousted prime minister zulfikar ali bhutto, was hanged in 1979 after he was convicted of plotting a political murder
zia lifted martial law on dec. 30, 1985, after the installation of junejo's muslim league government the previous march
most opposition parties boycotted the election that brought junejo to power and still refuse to recognize his government
pakistan's largest opposition alliance, the nine-party movement for the restoration of democracy, decided to accept the government's gesture because it was not founded in protest over foreign policy, said sheikh rafiq ahmed, an official in mrs. bhutto's party
not all opposition parties have declared their stand on afghanistan but most have urged the government to sign a soviet pullout accord, then worry about a political settlement later
in a recent turnabout, pakistan has threatened not to sign a geneva accord that does not provide a safe environment for the return of the 5 million afghan refugees living in pakistan and iran
islamabad has said it fears that the soviets' absence will clear the way for a new bloody internecine struggle between the pro-moscow government of president najib and afghan moslem guerrillas, based in pakistan
saturday's meeting could give the pakistanis a face-saving pretext to soften their controversial stance at geneva. it also could serve to enhance the muslim league government's own legitimacy at home
about half the city's ambulance workers scheduled for the day shift called in sick today, but police and supervisory employees were helping fill gaps in service, the city said
the emergency medical service instituted a contingency plan to meet the job action, which had been announced in advance as a demonstration for higher pay
sick calls were received from 176 of 347 workers on the day shift, said suzanne halpin of the health and hospitals corp., parent of ems and operator of the municipal hospitals system
the employees calling in are being told they may be violating a court order and the taylor law,'' she said. penalties ranging from loss of two days' pay to dismissal were possible. the taylor law is a state law that prohibits strikes by public employees
some of the gaps in ambulance service were being filled by police and other ems employees, including supervisors, halpin said
the sickout, which was announced as a one-day protest, was barred thursday afternoon by supreme court justice edward lehner, who ruled that ems workers could not stage ``any kind of concerted job action.''
the decision to stage a sickout was made by about 400 workers in a vote taken wednesday night while union leaders were kept out of the meeting
the 2,000-member union, without a contract since july, has demanded salary and benefits comparable to police and firefighters, whose starting pay is $26,000, said richard burstein, the union secretary-treasurer
the union has asked that ems starting pay of $21,500 be raised by $6,000 over three years; the city is offering $600
the nuclear regulatory commission is investigating its own offices in atlanta because nrc internal documents involving an investigation of georgia tech's reactor program were found at tech, a newspaper reported today
leaks from the nrc may have tipped tech to the identities of employees at the school's neely nuclear research center who had complained about lax safety procedures, the atlanta constitution said, quoting unidentified sources with congress and the nrc
the two employees, members of the physics staff responsible for safety of nuclear materials, were dismissed and then rehired and given other jobs by tech three weeks ago. they claim they were fired because they complained to the nrc about reactor safety
nrc officials in washington declined to comment
dr. nelson grace, administrator of nrc's southeast regional office in atlanta, acknowledged he had asked the agency's office of inspector-auditor to ``investigate to determine whether or not internal nrc documents may have come into the possession of'' a reactor manager
grace declined to name the reactor, but the constitution quoted other unidentified sources as confirming that it was the now-idled five-megawatt reactor at tech
georgia tech president john p. crecine ordered the reactor out of service until the nrc investigation is completed
the baltimore city school board has banned telephone beepers because school officials said they were being used by students acting as go-betweens in drug deals
effective march 14, students found carrying a beeper face suspension, under the new policy adopted by the board thursday
school officials say the telephone pagers are a status symbol in the drug world, and are also used by students who want to portray the image of being involved in narcotics
when i see a beeper i assume the worst,'' said arthur pierce, principal of francis m. wood high school. ``at the high school and middle school level, if a child is in possession of an operational beeper, they are usually dealing drugs
`at the elementary level, kids are wearing inoperative beepers to appear tough or macho and mimic the older kids. and that's not something to encourage,'' said pierce, who has been confiscating the pagers at his school for the past three years
beepers also were banned from schools in nashville, tenn., in december. similar problems have been reported from florida to michigan
virtually all drug possession arrests in baltimore schools involve marijuana, said larry burgan, school police chief, with a few instances of cocaine or cocaine derivatives
from my standpoint, i don't see any time a student would need to carry a beeper,'' said burgan. ``it's basically a disruptive influence, whether the kids are carrying them to traffic drugs or just to project that image, it's no good.''
pierce said it is hard to determine the scope of the problem because most beepers go undetected
new beepers no longer emit the three short beeps from which their name was derived
the more sophisticated ones vibrate against the body or are fitted with a silencer that keeps them from being detected,'' pierce said
burgan said the drug problem is kept under control largely because city high schools have officers patrolling the halls
the 800-year-old round tower at windsor castle, one of queen elizabeth ii's homes, has been damaged by shifting foundations, the department of the environment said today
the castle overlooking the river thames is reportedly the queen's favorite home and is one of britain's top tourist attractions. the monarch's royal standard is flown from the tower when she is in residence
there has been a slight movement to the round tower at windsor castle. we are looking into it,'' the government department said in a brief statement
the statement added that the cause was not known and gave no details about the extent of the damage
the daily telegraph, which first broke the story, described the damage to the five-story tower as serious following a shift in its ancient foundations
the london newspaper said the tower moved two weeks ago, bringing down plaster, causing cracks to appear in the stonework and jamming a door and two windows
it said the queen had inspected the tower. buckingham palace said in a statement: ``the queen is obviously concerned and is being kept informed.''
the queen and her husband, prince philip, live for much of the year at buckingham palace in london but they and their family spend each christmas at windsor castle. windsor is 21 miles west of london
the round tower is the most imposing feature of the castle. the foundations of the tower and the rest of its lower part were built by king henry ii in 1172. the upper part was added 6{ centuries later in the reign of king george iv
the round tower is built on a mound thrown up by the saxons, the teutonic invaders who conquered britain between the 5th and 7th centuries. they ruled until their army under king harold was beaten at the battle of hastings in 1066 by duke william of normandy, who then became king william i of england
the original castle was built by king william around 1070. graf pvs, cohen suggested.</note>
the senate, kept in the dark by the reagan administration during the iran-contra affair, today rejected an effort to let the white house withhold details about covert actions from congress
the 65-23 vote came as the chamber worked on a bill requiring that congress be notified of all covert actions within 48 hours
the decision came on an amendment by sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, that would have allowed a president simply to tell congress that a covert action was underway but withhold details and specifics until later
this is a compromise. it gives the president some flexibility,'' said mcclure
but sen. william cohen, r-maine, chief author of the bill, opposed mcclure, telling his colleagues, ``this is not a compromise; it's a capitulation. ... this lets the president play `i've got a secret' but not tell.''
this cannot guarantee that future abuses such as iran-contra will not occur, but it will certainly minimize them,'' cohen, vice-chairman of the intelligence committee, said late thursday as debate began
the bill overhauls procedures for notifying congress about intelligence activites. the central feature would require that congress be notified within 48 hours of the time a covert, or secret, action begins
cohen suggested that the requirement could have helped expose the iran-contra affair, in which u.s. weapons were sold to iran and some of the profits were diverted to the nicaraguan contra rebels
reagan's approval of the iranian arms deal was withheld from congress for 10 months in 1986, until it was revealed by a beirut publication
cia director william webster, testifying last month to the house intelligence committee, said the 48-hour notification requirement ``will not be acceptable to the president.'' but webster did not say whether reagan would veto the bill
cohen noted that presidents normally have notified congress of most covert actions ever since congressional review committees were created 14 years ago in the wake of revelations about a series of abuses by the cia
he said it is time to close the last loophole by requiring notification of all such actions
the iran-contra affair shows what happens when a president seeks to circumvent congress,'' cohen said
sen. david boren, d-okla., chairman of the intelligence committee, called the measure ``landmark legislation.''
reagan has promised to notify congress about future covert actions, but boren said, ``we feel a need to put these changes into statute'' to make sure a president does not go back on his word
we do not want our country ever again to go through what it did these last few months because of the iran-contra affair,'' boren said
there's an old saying that two heads are better than one'' said boren. ``in the intelligence committee, we try to give those in the intelligence community our best judgment.''
sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, opposed the bill because he said the notification provision ``could endanger american lives and the lives of others who have taken the risk of assisting the united states.''
sen. malcolm wallop, r-wyo., agreed with mcclure. ``this bill will cost lives,'' he said
the bill was approved by the senate intelligence committee last december on a 13-2 vote. if passed by the full senate, it will need house approval before it would go to reagan's desk
a group of nationalist legislators today asked the taiwan government to drop its 40-year-old policy of having no contact with the communist government in beijing
huang shu-wek, one of the 12 lawmakers questioning the no-contact policy during a legislative yuan session, proposed a ``temporary two-china policy'' to precede eventual reunification
huang said the taipei and beijing governments must ``compete on an equal footing so we can show all chinese people the achievements of taiwan's development and let them accept our system.''
huang proposed that the nationalist government provide financial and technological aid for china's modernization and discuss bilateral trade and other relations with beijing
the two countries already have a secret trade estimated at more than $1 billion a year through third parties such as hong kong and singapore. taiwan recently began allowing its citizens to visit their families on the mainland
the nationalists have refused official contacts with china since 1949 when they fled to taiwan after losing a civil war on the mainland to the communists. both governments claim to be the rightful government of the mainland and taiwan
premier yu kuo-hwa said in response that ``communist china has never treated us equally and the time has not yet come for peaceful competition'' between the two governments
yao chia-wen, chairman of the opposition democratic progressive party, said, ``we don't care too much about the nationalists' claim to represent china.''
dozens of political activists held a torch-light run today through downtown taipei echoing the demands of president lee tung-hi that elderly nationalist chinese legislators elected on the mainland four decades ago should retire
this is the time for our elderly legislators to step down. most of those who voted for them 40 years ago on the mainland have already died,'' opposition legislator you ching told about 100 people outside the national assembly after the run
led by legislator chu kao-cheng of the opposition democratic progressive party, about 60 runners began at the legislative yuan building and finished an hour later outside the national assembly, where opposition leaders delivered speeches from a pickup truck
many elderly members of the legislative yuan, taiwan's highest lawmaking body, and the national assembly, the electoral college, have rejected a proposal for them to retire voluntarily
last saturday lee urged the elderly legislators to resign in accordance with the government's plans to reform taiwan's political system
we must place national interests and public welfare above our personal opinions,'' lee told the national assembly
lawmakers elected on taiwan now account for 73 members of the 312-seat legislative yuan and 106 members of the 934-seat national assembly
the other seats are either empty or held by aging nationalists
opposition leaders said the elderly legislators, who have been frozen in office to support the nationalists' claim to be the legitimate government of mainland china, should yield their seats so all lawmakers can be elected in taiwan
during the run, some activists distributed flyers listing telephone numbers of 120 aging assemblymen. chu has urged taiwanese to call elderly lawmakers and ask them to retire
an engineer testifying in delta air lines suit against the government used an animated videotape recreating the final two minutes of delta flight 191 in an attempt to disprove government claims that the flight crew could have escaped a violent wind shear
charles bautz, a performance engineering manager for the atlanta-based airline, testified thursday that the pilots reacted properly to the turbulent winds during their approach to dallas-fort worth international airport on aug. 2, 1985
in a non-jury trial being heard by u.s. district judge david o. belew jr. of fort worth, delta contends that the federal government should bear legal responsibility for the crash and pay all or part of more than $90 million in death, injury and damage claims delta has paid in connection with the crash
bautz, who worked as a member of a government technical team investigating the crash, presented the videotape recreation based on recorded flight data, which he said shows the crew encountered a second, fatal wind shear seconds after pulling out of the first downdraft
the co-pilot applied maximum power and attempted to abandon the landing, bautz said
a national transportation safety board investigation said the crash that killed 137 people and injured 25 others was caused, in part, by the sudden downdrafts of wind
the airline claims government air traffic controllers and weather forecasters failed to warn the flight crew of the storm
testimony in the trial could last several more weeks, attorneys said
crocodiles in zambia's kafue river have devoured five people since the beginning of the year, and villagers have asked the authorities to shoot the reptiles, a local official said today
dickson ponde, chairman of kasiba ward council in the central copperbelt province, called for immediate action to stop the crocodiles, which he said are attacking several people each week
the five deaths occurred since the beginning of the year. ponde made his plea to rankin sikasula, a senior member of president kenneth kaunda's governing party, when he was inspecting a pontoon bridge on the kafue river
sikasula promised that hunters will soon be sent to the area to reduce the crocodile population. pvs bgng ``dukakis has...</note>
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis today promised to pursue economic and energy policies to help texas ``come back and come back strong,'' including expanded natural gas sales to northeast states
in a speech to 300 people in this west texas city before flying on to denver, cheyenne and seattle, dukakis said the natural gas of the southwest could provide ``clean, efficient, non-polluting, non-acid rain energy'' at a quarter of the cost of nuclear energy from the controversial unlicensed seabrook, n.h., plant that he opposes
dukakis, wrapping up a two-day, 1,200-mile swing through the state with the biggest super tuesday prize, promised he would help texas' distressed oil industry ``come back and come back strong.''
on thursday, dukakis said the last few days to super tuesday may get ``a little dicey'' because of what he characterized as desperate tactics by democratic rival richard gephardt. the missouri congressman has runs ads accusing dukakis of favoring tax increases and knowing nothing about agriculture
dukakis has responded in kind with ads suggesting gephardt has voted to protect the interests of big banks and corporations from which he has collected political action committee money
after a meeting with community organizers at a church hall in houston thursday night, dukakis told reporters, ``i think the next three, four days may be somewhat difficult, only because things may start getting a little dicey between now and tuesday...i think some people are getting desperate.''
asked if he meant gephardt, dukakis said, ``the record is clear. he's running negative ads right now
the folks that attack are usually those that are behind,'' he said
to gephardt's charge that dukakis has accepted campaign money from businesses that have major dealings with the state of massachusetts, the governor replied, ``i don't know what he's talking about. i have over 65,000 individual contributors to my campaign.''
dukakis, who refuses to accept money from pacs, said he has never taken contributions from state lobbyists, or more than $100 from a state employee
what is clear is that the pac system is a very bad system. ... it's time it ended,'' said dukakis, who blamed sen. bob dole of kansas, a republican presidential hopeful, and his gop colleagues for filibustering a bill to curb pac contributions
if i'm president of the united states, the first bill i will send to the congress is the (campaign contributions) bill,'' he vowed
texas offers the biggest prize, 183 delegates, and dukakis was headed back to san antonio saturday night after stops in spokane and little rock, ark
he picked up endorsements thursday from washington gov. booth gardener and sen. brock adams
dukakis also won the backing of the 95,000-member texas state teachers association, which withdrew its earlier endorsement of illinois sen. paul simon, who is for the most part sitting out the south's primaries
dukakis charged gephardt's retaliatory trade legislation could provoke a global trade war and harm u.s.-mexican relations
before largely hispanic audiences at airport rallies in the border towns of harlingen and laredo, dukakis related how gephardt asked him in a recent debate if he was running for ``president of mexico.''
i said, `dick, if i'm president of the united states, i'm going to pay attention to our relationship with mexico and i'm going to make sure that our proposals do not wreck the economy of mexico,'' dukakis said to cheers
we're going to .. work with our neighbors in mexico as partners to create opportunity on both sides of the border.''
in both harlingen and laredo, the multilingual dukakis, who grew up speaking greek and english _ spoke at length in spanish
in houston, dukakis stood with his wife, kitty, before a two-story lone star flag draped against the glass elevators in the atrium of the hyatt-regency hotel. he told 600 supporters: ``i don't have to tell you how important `super martes' is.''
he ended his appeals with this: ``poco a poco, paso a paso, mano en mano, juntos, vamos a ganar,'' or, as he translated, ``little by little, step by step, hand in hand, together, we shall succeed.''
the cleveland teachers union has recommended that its 5,100 members ratify a tentative agreement reached after a weeklong strike that closed city schools for most of the district's 73,000 students
schools were closed today but probably will reopen monday, superintendent alfred tutela said
the school board scheduled a meeting for saturday night to consider ratifying the agreement and discuss plans for reopening the schools, he said
eugene kolach, president of the teachers union, said the union's executive board voted thursday night to endorse the pact, which was reached earlier after nearly 24 hours of negotiations
our executive board has voted to suspend our strike beginning monday,'' kolach said. ``it's not a case of being happy with the pact, it's a case of understanding when we've gotten the best possible situation.''
both sides declined to discuss the terms of the agreement until after teachers vote on it. kolach said the union planned a five-day voting period for its 5,093 members following an information meeting sunday
teachers walked off their jobs feb. 25, but district officials canceled classes that day because of snow. cleveland schools have been closed since then because of the strike, except for classes that began wednesday for some of the district's 3,600 high school seniors
at least some of the missed school days will have to be made up to meet state requirements
the union's contract expired in september, but union members continued working. the district's teacher salaries range from $17,600 to $37,450, based on education and experience. the average annual salary is $29,500
the last teachers' strike in cleveland, ohio's largest school district and the 30th largest school system in the united states, was an 11-week walkout in 1979. background. pick up 14th pvs, `among the...'</note>
militant sikhs burst into a courtyard and opened fire on a crowd celebrating a hindu holiday, killing at least 34 people and wounding about 45, police said today
the attack in the northern state of punjab was one of the bloodiest since sikh extremists launched their guerrilla war for an independent homeland there in 1982. it occurred shortly before midnight
a. siddiqui, a deputy inspector general of police, said most of the victims were hindus, but nine sikhs were among those killed
about 900 hindus, sikhs and christians had gathered outside a hindu temple to celebrate holi, the festival of color. the national holiday commemorates the triumph of the hindu god lord krishna over evil
the attack brought to more than 370 the number of people killed this year in attacks blamed on sikh extremists. sikhs are a religious minority in india and claim they are discriminated against by the majority hindus
in an apparent peace overture today, the government freed four sikh high priests. the release of 40 sikh militants was also planned, the united news of india reported from the punjab state capital of chandigarh
there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the attack in kari sari, which is about 80 miles east of the sikh holy city of amritsar. police blamed the kalistan commando force. kalistan is the name sikh militants would given to their envisioned nation
mahavir prashad, who was inside a building and escaped injury, said:, ``people ran helter-skelter. there were bodies on the ground, and the injured were crying
i tried to save some of the injured by giving them water, but most of them died in my arms.''
siddiqui, addressing a news conference in the nearby town of hoshiarpur, said the shooting lasted about 20 minutes. he said six to eight gunmen participated
brij kishore, deputy superintendent of police at chandigarh, the state capital, said villagers had gathered around two bonfires and were singing songs when the gunmen drove up in three cars, opened fire with ak-47 assault rifles and machine guns, and fled
police said 23 people were killed on the spot and 11 others taken to hospitals died later of their injuries
punjab security forces and new delhi police were put on alert after the killing to prevent any backlash
the attack was the worst in punjab since last july, when sikh gunmen waylaid three buses and slaughtered 72 people, most of them hindus. thirty-eight hindu pilgrims were killed and 24 injured july 6 when a bus was attacked near chandigarh. the next day, 34 people died in attacks on two buses in neighboring haryana state
among the priests released today was jasbir singh rode, a nephew of the late sikh radical leader jarnail singh bhindranwale
the other three are jaswant singh, kashmir singh and savinder singh, who were arrested in october
rode was the chief priest at the golden temple in amritsar when he was arrested during a june 1984 army raid that drove militants out of the temple, the sikh's holiest shrine. bhindranwale was among the 1,200 killed in the raid
indian prime minister indira gandhi, who ordered the raid, was assassinated by two of her sikh bodyguards four months later. her son and successor, rajiv gandhi, signed a peace accord with sikh leaders in july 1985 to try to end the hostility. the accord later fell apart
on thursday night, punjab representatives from parliament met with leaders of gandhi's party and urged freedom for the priests ``so they can use their high position to restore normalcy'' in punjab, uni reported. 0793</first> praised.</note>
the national research council said today its 14-month review of the challenger disaster has found ``no show-stoppers'' to prevent nasa from resuming manned space flights in august
we are all quite comfortable with what has been done to get ready for the next flight,'' said alton d. slay, a retired general who headed a 12-member committee that audited the space agency's efforts to recover from the accident
but, he cautioned, ``no matter how good you are, you never reach mecca; there is always room for improvement.''
the committee's central finding, he said, is that nasa has the ability to assess and manage risks associated with space flights, but uses so many review boards and safety organizations that the result is ``a fragmented picture of the safety and reliability of the total space transportation system.''
further, he said, those organizations rely on subjective assessements of risk posed by thousands of individual space shuttle components, rather than on engineering evaluations
we are both favorably impressed with nasa's progress thus far in addressing space shuttle safety issues and full of suggestions for further improvements,'' slay said
although we have criticisms, we did not find anything that will delay the next space shuttle launch,'' said slay, a former head of the u.s. air force systems command. launch of the shuttle discovery is scheduled aug. 4
slay praised nasa for having made ``real strides'' in enhancing the safety of the shuttle and said ``we found no show-stoppers.''
in a brief response, the space agency said it acted on early drafts of the committee's report ``and most of the recommendations made by the council essentially are in place.''
the nrc review was recommended by the presidential commission that investigated the jan. 28, 1986 accident that destroyed the challenger and killed its crew 73 seconds after liftoff. the nrc acts as a scientific advisory group to the federal government and is administered by the national academy of sciences, the national academy of engineering and the institute of medicine
as the challenger accident made painfully obvious, no probe into space is routine and the space shuttle is still a developmental vehicle,'' said the nrc committee. ``the risks of space flight must be accepted by those who are asked to participate in each flight as well as by those who are responsible to the nation for achieving its goals in space.''
the report said that one of the key failures that led to the challenger disaster was that the history of problems with the shuttle booster o-rings was not known by the officials who gave the go-ahead for the ill-fated launch. an o-ring that allowed hot gases to escape was blamed for the accident
the committee has found numerous indications that data from sts (space transportation system) inspection, test and repair, and inflight operations do not always feed back rapidly enough or effectively enough into the risk management process,'' the report said
it noted that nasa now intends to review all data from each flight before going ahead with the next one, at least during the shuttle's initial flights. but the committee worried that once the pace increases ``the same dangerous preconditions will once again be present.''
the number of items deemed to be of ``criticality 1 and 1r'' _ items whose failure could doom the shuttle _ has increased from 2,369 before the challenger accident to 4,686 because of re-evaluation of the shuttle system and tighter ground rules, the committee said
but, said the committee, all criticality 1 items are not alike and nasa is wrong in not assigning priorities
the most likely and most threatening failure modes merit the most attention,'' said the report
the committee found:
_nasa tends to focus on ``single-event, worst case failures'' in making risk analyses and ``there does not appear to be an adequate integrated-system view of the entire sts.''
_before the challenger accident, cannibalization of parts from one shuttle to another was routine, introducing greater chance of failure through human error. the committee recommended that enough money be available ``to ensure that cannibalization is a rare requirement.''
_so many boards and panels are watching every aspect of the shuttle system that individuals might ``defer to the anonymity of the process'' and not take responsibility for decisions
_tests on the solid rocket booster are performed at the manufacturing plant in utah and there is a risk that damage may result from the long rail trip to the kennedy space center in florida. the committee recommended that ``non-destructive tests'' _ tests that stop short of firing the rocket _ be performed at the launch site
urban planners eager to revitalize aging industrial centers are urging city dwellers to take charge of their own future, and are looking to britain's prince charles to drive that message home
charles arrived today in cold and rainy to take part in an international architectural symposium and get a first-hand look at the despair and disrepair of once-mighty u.s. steel towns
we see him as somewhat of a catalyst'' for urban renewal efforts from within, said volker hartkopf, an architecture professor at carnegie mellon university here
the prince of wales has emerged as an outspoken advocate of community architecture and inner-city rehabilitation over the past few years
he made worldwide headlines in december when he accused architects of wreaking more havoc on london than german bombers did in world war ii, and said postwar planners were artless, mediocre and contemptuous of public opinion
more than anyone else in his position, he has tried to find out for himself exactly what it (urban decay) is because he is concerned,'' said roger tillotson, lecturer at the university of newcastle upon tyne in england
prince charles is honorary chairman of the four-day remaking cities conference, which is exploring ways to bring prosperity back to depressed communities in the united states and britain
this afternoon, he plans to visit a new jobs center for the region's blue-collar unemployed and a high school computer training classroom
on the conference's last day saturday, he is to address about 350 people attending the symposium sponsored by the american institute of architects and royal institute of british architects
in his speech, the 39-year-old heir to the british throne is expected to comment on recommendations made by conference delegates for helping cities move from single-industry to more diversified economies
before, like it or not, companies took care of life. you may not have liked everything they did. but they were there. it was secure,'' said john clarke, a trenton, n.j., architect
but when that goes away, suddenly you turn around and say, `gee, the leadership used to be the company.' now the leadership has to be you,'' said clarke, who led a 17-member study of the region's depressed steel towns
in its 120-page report presented monday, the team stressed the need for public participation in replacing the darkened factories dominating the monongahela river banks parks, gardens, marinas and shops
that valley is a gold mine, and i think these people would be fools not to take up the opportunity,'' said team member tony mcgann, a planner from liverpool, england. ``it's a golden opportunity that might not come again.'' noriega. removes last 3 grafs pvs to shorten.</note>
the senate foreign relations committee voted unanimously today for a resolution urging the reagan administration to end all contacts with gen. manuel antonio noriega and to consider imposing economic sanctions against his military regime in panama
but the committee took no action on legislation introduced on thursday and co-sponsored by 25 senators which would impose a total trade embargo on panama in an effort to break noriega's hold on the country
the 15-0 committee vote approving the non-binding resolution came after administration officials, seeking to avoid passage of trade embargo legislation, proposed a set of milder alternatives that still would penalize the noriega regime
national security adviser colin powell told reporters thursday night that several economic and financial measures were being prepared for consideration by president reagan, but he refused to be more specific
other officials, insisting on anonymity, said the administration believes a bipartisan congressional proposal for a trade, air, travel and currency embargo against panama would be unwise
the administration believes u.s. interests would be better served if noriega were ousted primarily by panamanian _ and not american _ pressure
the officials said displays of american heavy-handedness could be used by noriega to his advantage and could produce resentment elsewhere in latin america, where u.s. intervention has long been a popular anti-american rallying cry
the committee resolution declares that eric arturo devalle, who was ousted by the panamanian parliament after trying to fire noriega as commander of panama's armed forces, remains the country's legitimate head of state and should reeceive ``the full moral, political and diplomatic support of the government of the united states.''
it called on the white house to ``formally terminate any and all contacts with gen. noriega.''
the government of the united states should consider further measures to support democracy (in panama), including economic sanctions, in the event gen. noriega continues to defy president devalle's lawful order,'' the resolution declared
it also called on the white house to study the impact on u.s. energy supplies if noriega reacts to possible economic sanctions by shutting down the trans-panama petroleum pipeline used to transport alaskan oil to the east coast of the united states
for noriega, panamanian independence from the united states has been his principal line of defense in his struggle to survive. it was a recurring theme at a pro-government demonstration in panama earlier this week when a crowd of 3,000 turned out to cheer noriega
shortly before powell made his comments to reporters while returning with reagan from the nato summit in brussels, belgium, six republicans and democrats introduced the embargo bill
it would prohibit all trade and air travel between the two countries and bar u.s. banks from transferring any funds to panama and its banking system
by stopping the transfer of funds from u.s. banks to panama, we go for the jugular,'' said sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., a principal sponsor of the embargo plan
because of panama's heavy reliance on its economic ties with the united states, the impact of a u.s. trade embargo would be immediate, dramatic and devastating to noriega and his cohorts,'' d'amato said
a ban on panamanian goods would paralyze a $412 million market representing 60 percent of panama's total exports, d'amato said. a ban on u.s. exports to panama would affect a 30 percent slice of all panamanian imports, he said
other sponsors of the embargo bill are sens. edward m. kennedy, d-mass.; david durenberger, r-minn.; bob graham, d-fla.; john kerry, d-mass.; and jesse helms, r-n.c
the administration has been sending mixed signals about the degree to which it is willing to pressure noriega, who is under federal indictment on drug smuggling charges and who forced out the constitutionally elected president last week
some officials are sensitive to charges that the administration has not done enough to oppose noriega while others believe broader u.s. interests require a cautious approach
in any case, there appears to be a consensus within the administration that a trade embargo is too ambitious a step. the administration is hopeful a combination of other pressures will force an end to noriega's rule
the issue of whether to withhold a $7 million u.s. payment due in mid-march to panama for canal-related fees and services has underscored the split in the administration
assistant secretary of state elliott abrams has said that the administration will refuse to deliver the funds if such a request is received from ousted president eric arturo delvalle
but on thursday, state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley said no final decision has been made on that issue even though the administration has had the request in hand since earlier in the week
she acknowledged, however, that the request probably will be honored
with an assist from the administration, panamanian authorities apparently have been denied access to official funds on deposit in u.s. banks
at a news conference thursday night at the panamanian embassy, an attorney for delvalle said federal courts in new york and boston have issued temporary restraining orders to prevent withdrawal of the funds
we believe that whatever funds are in those institutions are at this point frozen and cannot be transmitted to the noriega regime,'' said daniel resnick, a washington attorney. ahead</head> topping with 11 grafs, picking up in 6th graf pvs, kemp battered, and subbing 14th graf pvs, in the; cuts last 5 grafs</note>
most of the presidential candidates campaigned hard in the south today, four days before the region's super tuesday primaries, but albert gore jr. detoured to connecticut to raise money for a southern campaign that he said was turning in his direction
in washington, meanwhile, attorneys for former rep. paul mccloskey filed notice in court that they oppose pat robertson's effort to drop a libel suit filed after mccloskey questioned his war record
unless a federal judge dismisses the case, as robertson has asked, a legal matter that has become a clear distraction for robertson could tie him up even further beginning on tuesday when the trial is scheduled to begin
in appearances today:
_vice president george bush, campaigning in a state that votes on saturday, told a cheering crowd of 1,500 students in west columbia, s.c., ``your state is going to have a mobilizing effect. if we're successful in south carolina, i think you'll be able to say, the next president of the united states was here in our school.''
_massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, in lubbock, texas, told voters in the biggest super tuesday state, he would to pursue economic and energy policies to help texas ``come back and come back strong.''
_gore, in new haven, conn., raised an estimated $50,000 for his campaign during a breakfast with state democrats. he said there is a shift going on to his advantage in southern states, and ``the undecided vote, which has been very large, is now breaking in our direction.''
elsewhere, richard gephardt was gunning for democratic rival dukakis over special-interest campaign contributions. and robertson lashed out thursday night at what he called ``the real fanatics'' opposed to prayer in public schools
a poll published today gave bush a big lead over republican opponent bob dole in south carolina, whose gop primary on saturday rings the opening bell on tuesday's 20-state punchup
the super tuesday contests, with a prize of 1,307 democratic delegates and 712 republican ones, are concentrated in the south
in south carolina, bush had the support of 49 percent of likely voters to dole's 26 percent, robertson's 14 percent and rep. jack kemp's 7 percent, the washington post poll indicated
kemp, battered by weak results in early contests, insisted he has a shot at a respectable showing in south carolina
i don't throw `hail mary' passes,'' said the former pro football player as he campaigned thursday in columbia, s.c
dole, who picked up the endorsement thursday of former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick, conceded he was running behind bush in south carolina, but pointed to bright spots that day _ a caucus in wyoming, and the election of 14 national gop delegates in kansas, dole's home state
all four republicans were campaigning in south carolina today
robertson bought half an hour of television time on stations around the state thursday night, saying he wanted to ``set the record straight'' about religious issues
the former television evangelist said he believes in the separation of church and state but added: ``the real fanatics in america today are those who try to tell us ... that we should tear down the crosses and the manger scenes at christmas time, that our children should be denied the right to pray in school and that traditional moral values are out of style.''
meanwhile, more polls today pointed to a strong southern lead for bush, while dukakis and jesse jackson dueled for support among democrats
a cbs-new york times survey gave bush a better than 2-1 lead over dole in 14 southern and border states. a survey by cable news network and usa today had similar findings
in the cbs-times poll, jackson led dukakis and tennessee sen. gore in the south. the cnn-usa today survey suggested dukakis and jackson were neck-in-neck in the region
dukakis, in texas, attacked gephardt's plan for mandatory retaliation against countries whose trade practices are judged unfair
there's always somebody who suggests that: throw up the walls, hunker down,'' the massachusetts governor said
gephardt, for his part, sought to turn the tables on dukakis, who has been running ads excoriating the missouri congressman for accepting campaign contributions from the political action committees of banks, defense contractors, utilities and other big businesses
i'll give back every penny of money that i've gotten from political action funds if he will return the money to all the people who have given him money who do business with or are licensed by the state of massachusetts,'' gephardt said
dukakis spokesman leslie dach said the campaign has taken no money from any corporate pacs or registered lobbyists in massachusetts
gephardt told reporters at a news conference at the baltimore-washington airport that he would unveil today ``a partial list of some of the interests that have given money to his campaign.''
he's got appointees of his own state government who are awarding contracts to many of the people who have given money to his campaign. is that a conflict of interest?'' he said
gephardt said his votes in the house have not been dictated by special interests
the missouri congressman, who had the house's worst attendance record for roll call votes last year, was absent thursday night as the house, by a 216-208 vote, rejected a package of $30 million in ``humanitarian'' aid for nicaragua's contras
when the house voted on contra aid last month, just prior to the iowa caucuses, gephardt delivered the weekly democratic radio address on the subject a few days beforehand and made himself a prominent figure in the house debate
geneticist sewall wright, known for his pioneering studies of genetic changes in evolving species, died of complications resulting from injuries sustained in a fall. he was 98
wright, a professor emeritus at the university of wisconsin-madison, remained active until his death thursday. he published his last scientific paper in the january 1988 issue of american naturalist
he broke his pelvis sunday when he slipped on an ice patch while walking near his apartment
wright advocated a mathematical theory of evolution; one of his important theories was that chance happenings can have a significant effect on modifying the gene pool
wright received 10 honorary degrees and was awarded the darwin medal, the national medal of science and, in 1984, the $100,000 balzan prize
he was one of the great thinkers in all of genetics and evolution,'' said james crow, a university of wisconsin colleague and longtime friend
he was responsible _ along with r.a. fisher and j.s.b. haldane _ for our modern theory of evolution, selection and mendelian inheritance.''
wright, who was born in melrose, mass., was a faculty member at the university of chicago for 30 years until 1954, when he retired from that school. he then accepted a position at uw-madison, where he has been emeritus professor of genetics since 1960
wright is survived by two sons and a daughter
british archaeologists discovered fragments of 16th century chinese porcelain at iron age ruins in southeastern zimbabwe, a newspaper reported friday
the porcelain was unearthed by a 12-member research team at great zimbabwe stone ruins of the 13th century tribal settlement from which modern zimbabwe draws its name. the find shows for the first time that the site was occupied in the 16th century, according to the newspaper, the herald
previous research indicated the ancestors of zimbabwe's majority shona tribe abandoned the stone-built settlement by the year 1450
the herald quoted archaeologists david collett and gwilyn hughes as saying the chinese porcelain was probably brought to the african interior by traders from arab trading posts along the east african coast
it proved that parts of the 1,720 acre ancient settlement, the onetime capital of a vast tribal empire, were still occupied after the year 1500, the expedition members said
an electrical problem struck a theater where the musical ``me and my girl'' had just gotten under way, and the audience of more than 1,000 had to be sent home when the show couldn't go on
the problem at the adelphi theater on thursday night developed only 20 minutes into the show, as star karl howman was midway through the title number, according to a statement from the theater
the unspecified problem couldn't be fixed immediately, the statement said
arrangements were being made to get the disappointed theatergoers into other performances of the show, which is in its fourth year playing to capacity crowds
me and my girl,'' about a cockney from london's tough east end who becomes an aristocrat, is a revival of the 1930s noel gay hit which launched the song ``the lambeth walk'' that became part of cockney folklore
hans raffert, who joined the white house kitchen staff 18 years ago, has been named to the top position of executive chef, it was announced today
he is the first to have been promoted to the position from within the ranks of the kitchen staff
raffert has been acting executive chef since january, when jon hill left after five months in the position
raffert, 60, was born in germany and is a naturalized american citizen. he was hired as an assistant chef in 1969 during the nixon administration
here are the latest, unofficial results in the republican presidential primaries tuesday

2,184 of 4,368 precincts reporting - 50 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,815 of 2,815 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

433 of 4,329 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

252 of 2,526 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

324 of 3,240 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

324 of 3,235 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 -12 percent

1,568 of 1,568 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,193 of 2,193 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

1,864 of 1,864 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent

408 of 4,079 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

238 of 2,378 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
no preference, 234,567 - 12 percent

237 of 2,372 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
masters, 234,567 - 12 percent

531 of 531 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

2,415 of 2,415 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

6,856 of 6,856 precincts reporting - 100 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent

196 of 1,958 precincts reporting - 10 percent

bush, 234,567 - 12 percent
dole, 234,567 - 12 percent
du pont, 234,567 - 12 percent
haig, 234,567 - 12 percent
kemp, 234,567 - 12 percent
robertson, 234,567 - 12 percent
uncommitted, 234,567 - 12 percent
the university of pennsylvania announced friday the 1{-year suspension of a fraternity that hired two black strippers to perform at a party
zeta beta tau ``will be permitted to return only if it meets stringent requirements for its reorganization,'' said penn spokesman william epstein
the exact terms have not been established, but penn president sheldon hackney said the first step is ``an immediate public apology.''
in a joint statement, hackney and provost michael aiken said the charges against the fraternity ``were very serious and deserved the significant sanctions that we are applying.''
behavior that dehumanizes any individual or group will not be tolerated at penn. every one of us has a responsibility to help build a community that values our diversity and the worth of each individual.''
members of zeta beta tau said that have been given until march 20 to move out. the 112-member, all-white fraternity will not be allowed to pledge new members and will not be allowed to reapply for recognition by the university until september 1989
zbt president zane brown, in a statement, complained the decision was unjust, but apologized for the rush party incident
the university charged the fraternity in february with engaging in lewdness, indecent exposure and hazing through activities that were ``indecent or shocking to moral or religious scruples.''
the charges stemmed from a rush party in september, when two black women stripped, performed sexually explicit acts and danced naked with a prospective freshman pledge before an audience that shouted racial epithets, according to the university
the fraternity had offered to pay a $2,500 fine to the campus women's center, make a public apology and attend educational programs on sexual harassment. but black student leaders said they wanted zbt expelled
the alabama beverage control board is making a mistake by planning to open a liquor store near a halfway house for recovering alcoholics, say officials of the halfway operation
the store, to open next month in downtown tuscaloosa, is one door away from the phoenix house, which houses up to 17 men who are trying to get off alcohol
i'm an alcoholic, and i went through the house eight years ago,'' said ted jones, now its acting director. ``looking back on it, during that first year, if something had been that convenient, i would have patronized it.''
most of the residents have been sober ``for only about six weeks when they get here. and like i said, that first year of sobriety is a volatile one,'' jones said
the abc board said that by the time it learned the phoenix house was so close to the store site it was too late because a 10-year lease had been signed for the store
had the board known about this previously, they never would have approved the location,'' said lucricia foster, the abc's alcohol awareness coordinator. ``but now we're entered into a legal contract with the builder, and we can't break it.''
she said an abc employee scouted the location when it was being considered
in this instance, he was just not aware that the halfway house was there. i know there are some signs marking it, but apparently they weren't very noticeable,'' miss foster said
that sounds like some of the excuses we come up with for drinking,'' said alice mclean stewart, chairwoman of the phoenix house board. ``it's raining, so i'm drinking, that kind of thing
more than 100 people applied for the $5-an-hour job of dogcatcher, a measure of the city's tough economic times, says the director of the animal shelter
the huntington cabell wayne animal shelter advertised for three days last month for someone who is in good health and has a high school diploma and driver's license. one hundred-twelve people applied
i think the number of responses we got is a clear indication of the need for jobs in this area,'' the shelter director, pat thomas, said thursday. ``i just wish i had 112 available jobs to offer these people.''
she said she hopes to fil the job next week
a young moose that had fallen through ice on the androscoggin river was destroyed friday after a community effort to save it failed
volunteers and game wardens used blankets overnight in an effort to keep the animal warm ``but she had suffered enough and couldn't even lift her head. so i made the decision to destroy it,'' said fish and game warden martin garabedian
when an animal gets in trouble, garabedian said, ``we usually let nature take its course, but there were so many people who wanted to help that we gave it a shot,'' adding that about 30 volunteers in the community of 300 people brought blankets
garabedian on thursday supervised the rescue of the 2-year-old, 600-pound moose
garabedian said he looped a noose around the moose, and ``it took seven or eight of us to pull her out.''
enhanced images of a 150 million-year-old, fist-sized dinosaur egg did not establish whether there's an embryo inside
columbia scientific inc., a maryland software company, enhanced cat-scan images of the egg, and the high-tech pictures revealed a small piece of shell inside the egg, in addition to a polliwog-like image of a possible embryo, said brent harker, a spokesman for brigham young university
the polliwog image looks very lifelike, much more so than on the unenhanced film,'' harker said
but it would require cracking the egg to be sure, and that ``would destroy it. we're not going to do that,'' he said
the egg will soon be displayed at the university's earth sciences museum
paleontologist wade miller announced last week the egg may contain the oldest dinosaur embryo ever found, dating from the jurassic period, which ended about 145 million years ago. the egg was unearthed last summer from a quarry in utah
i think the chances are good we have an embryo inside,'' miller said wednesday, after studying the enhanced images
a burglar who took a briefcase from a motel room probably didn't know it contained six artificial eyes, police said friday
police lt. harlan lyson said a salesman from milwaukee reported thursday night that someone had taken the briefcase. the eyes are valued at $5,000, lyson said. the burglar also stole four packs of cigarettes, some checks and six shirts, police said
sen. gordon humphrey claimed friday that there has been a sharp decline in the movement of u.s. aid to the afghanistan resistance fighters battling soviet troops
the new hampshire republican, one of capitol hill's strongest supporters of the afghan rebels, told a news conference: ``i want to know if this is negligence or a sell-out of the afghan resistance.''
last week, a top state department official denied a similar charge by members of the afghan resistance
we will not abandon the afghan resistance,'' said robert peck, deputy assistanct secretary of state. he said u.s. support would go ahead ``until that support is no longer needed.''
humphrey spoke a day after afghanistan and pakistan, which represents the guerrillas, agreed on the main elements of a u.n.-mediated peace accord that includes provisions for the withdrawal of some 115,000 soviet troops from afghanistan within nine months
that agreement ``makes it all the more imperative that we get some airlifts under way,'' humphrey said
humphrey said one of his staff members, michael pillsbury, spent four days in peshawar last week talking to afghan resistance leaders and came back with the conclusions that ``the flow of weapons has decreased markedly and suddenly.''
humphrey said pillsbury ``was shown warehouses which he and i had visited a year ago, which were bulging then, but which are all but empty now.''
the united states provides weapons such as stinger anti-aircraft missiles to the guerrillas, but the amount of military aid is classified. however, government sources have said congress increased the level to $630 million this year
rep. william h. gray, d-pa., asked the congressional general accounting office last month to investigate reports that more than $1 billion in covert cia aid to the afghan rebels has been diverted to corrupt pakistani officials or to the nicaraguan contra rebels, congressional sources told the associated press
however, the gao said it had no authority to subpoena material from the cia. update with contra statement. pick up 8th pvs, `</note>
contra rebels kidnapped 13 people in northern nicaragua, including an american volunteer for the witness for peace organization, its local director said today
edward griffin, the local director for the organization, identified the kidnapped american as richard boren, 29, of elkin, n.c
organization officials said boren was a witness for peace volunteer in the jinotega province of nicaragua and had been documenting contra activities, including human rights abuses
witness for peace opposes the contras and the reagan administration's policies in central america
griffin said boren was abducted tuesday in the mancotal area of jinotega province, about 120 miles north of managua. it is a zone where the rebels operate regularly in their six-year fight against the sandinista government
a defense ministry communique said two contras and four defenders of the resettlement village were killed in the attack. it said the contras' leader, identified only as wilmer, was one of the dead rebels
in washington, contra spokesman bosco matamoros denied that the group had been kidnapped, saying they were ``detained'' by rebel forces who suspected them of being foreign military collaborators with the sandinistas
matamoros said the 13 will be released as soon as a ``trustworthy'' nicaraguan can be found to return them to a safe location
generally, kidnapped civilians are held for a few days by the contras and then released
matamoros accused the sandinista government of sending foreigners, especially americans, to war zones. ``its purpose is to put them into a dangerous situation,'' he said
witness for peace said boren had been in nicaragua since november ``documenting contra human rights abuses and leading delegations to areas of conflict.''
the group's statement said boren was a self-employed construction worker and had worked for three years with the peace corps in ecuador before coming to nicaragua
last october, another witness for peace volunteer, paul fisher, was kidnapped and held for 14 days by the contras
in washington, witness for peace said it had contacted the u.s. state department and the u.s. embassy in managua. the state department had no immediate confirmation
dennis marker, the organization's washington director, said two witness for peace volunteers in jinotega were going today into the area where boren was taken to get more details on the incident
marker said witness for peace has no connection with the nicaraguan government and documents abuses by the sandinistas and contras, although ``our experience in the last four years is that the large majority of abuses are contra abuses.''
he said witness for peace has 32 full-time volunteers in nicaragua. the group also sponsors tours to rural nicaragua every two weeks for americans interested in the contra issue
president reagan plans to nominate donna f. tuttle as deputy secretary of commerce, succeeding clarence j. brown, the white house said friday
mrs. tuttle, 40, has been undersecretary for travel and tourism since 1983. before that she was active in a number of republican political campaigns in california
the president also plans to nominate w. allen moore as undersecretary of commerce for international trade administration, succeeding s. bruce smart, the white house said
moore, 43, has been chief of staff of the senate commerce committee since 1985 and before that was director of legislation for sen. john danforth, r-mo
in addition, the white house said, the president will nominate jan. w. mares to be assistant secretary of commerce for import administration, succeeding paul freedenberg
mares, 51, has been senior policy analyst for the white house office of policy development since 1985 and before that was assistant secretary of energy for international affairs and for policy
the white house also said reagan will nominate edward r. hamberger, 37, a washington lawyer, as assistant secretary of transportation for governmental affairs. he succeeds rebecca range, now director of the white house office of public liaison
gordon a. smith, 53, will be nominated as assistant secretary of defense for command, control, communications and intelligence, succeeding donald c. latham. smith has been deputy director of the strategic defense initiative organization at the pentagon since 1986
the madison square garden audience thursday night forgot the elephant man's bones, plastic surgery and other controversies and sat, mesmerized by michael jackson the performer
his high voice, with its controlled vibrato, was enthralling, especially on ``she's out of my life,'' which followed a duet of ``i just can't stop (loving you).'' video screens amplified jackson's stricken expression as the duet ended, with the female singer walking away
the girlish face of jackson, 29, often was shown large on the screens that flanked the stage. but he made no attempt to maintain a ``pretty'' expression, adopting a tearful, grieving pose several times at the end of songs
unlike his 1984 tour, in which jackson was by far the most graceful, dancing in a line with his brothers, this time he was among equals, surrounded most of the time by four men obviously well trained in dance
jackson's kicks and spins were so fast the eye only registered them after they were over. his pelvic thrusts, like different jackets he donned, conveyed little sexual suggestion and much childlike ``dressing up'' like grownups
the stagecraft looked simple but probably was far from it. there were no giant structures, just the smooth front half of the stage where jackson sang and danced and a lower-level back of the stage for four backup singers, seven musicians and modern music's mounds of equipment
much use was made of spotlights, sometimes on four sides of the singer, each filled with his silhouette, and laser beams stabbed the air. once, jackson ended a song and a circle of green lights surrounded his feet
there were tricks, in which he seemed magically to move from one place to another, as in 1984. in one, jackson he stood on a ladder and a cylinder drape dropped over him from above. his next appearance was on the other side of the stage, where a ``gangplank'' lifted up and swung him out over the audience
near the beginning of the evening, a man walked out on stage, shook hands with jackson and began to dance opposite him. briefly, it seemed part of the show, then a couple of large bodyguards walked the intruder offstage, fairly unobtrusively. no abrupt moves were made and the show's pacing wasn't dented
spontaneity was in short supply but the well-planned entertainment being offered was so fascinating that a viewer didn't mind
jackson's dancing and just trotting around stage is grace itself. a couple times he did a robot sequence, but obviously is playing down his ``signatures'' of one jeweled glove and the moon walk. he used both only once, during ``billie jean.''
jackson's solo tour began in september in japan. in america it began feb. 23 in kansas city, mo., and will run till mid-may. this first of three shows at madison square garden was a benefit for the united negro college fund, to whose president jackson presented a check for $600,000 on tuesday
israel blocked journalists from major trouble spots in the occupied territories friday in an effort to limit news reports of explosive palestinian protests following weekly moslem prayers
the media clampdown came after complaints from politicians, soldiers and settlers that the presence of journalists often inflamed arab protests in the west bank and gaza and caused more violence
despite the absence of cameras and notepads, palestinian revolts occurred friday in most of the west bank's major cities
friday also marked the first time since the start of arab unrest on dec. 8 that israeli soldiers had blocked major roads and turned back journalists from cities and refugee camps that typically are the sites of post-prayer protests
brig. gen. ephraim lapid, the army's spokesman in tel aviv, told the associated press the barricades did not represent an official change in military policy
there are a few localities that are closed according to existing policy which allows local commanders to shut an area based on operational needs,'' lapid said
the army declined to say how many cities and refugee camps were off-limits to journalists. but in the west bank, soldiers barred reporters from more than half a dozen major cities. only bethlehem, the traditional birthplace of jesus, was open
this is a closed military area,'' one soldier told an ap photographer outside nablus, 40 miles north of jerusalem. ``if you don't leave now, we will arrest you.''
an army jeep then followed the photographer's car for about three miles, apparently to make sure it was headed toward jerusalem
journalists were permitted to enter the gaza strip, but kept from the area around gaza city's main mosque and the major commercial street
the decision to bar journalists from the occupied territories drew mixed reviews from israelis
the right to see bang-bang is not protected by the first amendment,'' said zeev chafets, a former director of the government press office and a native of pontiac, mich
i would support closing off the west bank to the world press in a minute, but keeping it open to the israeli press,'' chafets said in an interview. ``the world press is only an asterisk here. to me, what's important is my press.''
but israel peleg, also a former director of the government press office, disagreed
it is better to let the media operate freely and without any obstacles than to be depicted in the world as a country that restricts journalists,'' peleg told the ap
israel's image may be immediately harmed by these pictures (of protests), but in the long run, the fact that these pictures can be circulated speaks for israel's democracy,'' he said
prime minister yitzhak shamir of the right-wing likud bloc twice this week publicly referred to the possibility of restricting media access and accused journalists of bias against israel
some soldiers serving in the west bank also have said journalists make their jobs more difficult. angry settlers in hebron attacked foreign photographers thursday, accusing them of impeding troops' efforts to arrest an arab who stabbed a 15-year-old settler
four soldiers were arrested after a cbs news crew photographed them beating palestinians with rocks last week
but foreign minister shimon peres of the left-leaning labor party has warned that barring media access to the occupied territories will simply spark rumors of atrocities that journalists will be unable to refute from on-the-scene reporting
other israeli officials have warned that denying media access could lead to unfavorable comparisons between israel and south africa, which the government has been sensitive about
in south africa, police can declare areas off-limits to journalists on the spot and demand that all reporters leave. in israel, local commanders also are permitted to declare an area closed if they deem the presence of journalists will make the army's job more difficult
in addition to limiting access, israel has military censors who, in an effort to prevent what they consider to be incitement, carefully control arabic-language newspapers based in jerusalem which circulate in the occupied territories
but the censorship controls on foreign press coverage of the occupied territories have been less stringent
robert slater, chairman of the foreign press association, said he was ``appalled but not surprised'' by israel's decision to bar journalists from large portions of the territories friday
from the prime minister's statements and comments by cabinet members, it appeared increasingly likely the government would do something to keep us away from this story,'' slater said in an interview. ``we have fought it for three months, and we will continue to fight it.''
the vast majority of americans view ties with europe as very important for the united states, but at the same time they recognize that trans-atlantic links have waned over the past 10 years, a poll commissioned by the european economic community shows
the gallup poll of ``national opinion leaders'' and the general public, published in the march edition of the eec magazine, ``europe,'' also shows the majority of respondents believe u.s. troops must be stationed in europe to prevent a soviet attack
of those polled, 86 percent said u.s. ties with europe ``matter a great deal,'' compared with 65 percent who answered the same way in a 1973 poll commissioned by the magazine
asked how today's ties compare with those of 10 years ago, 33 percent of the respondents said they were closer, but 53 percent said they were ``not as close.''
the united states should strengthen its links with europe, according to 53 percent of those polled. thirty-one percent favor the level of current ties and 11 percent support reduced ties with the continent
although about one-third of the respondents said west european countries engage in unfair trading practices, both the general public and national opinion leaders _ which the magazine defined as business and academic leaders and policy makers _ cited japan as an unfair trading partner more than twice as often as the countries of western europe
for example, 30 percent of the public said they view europe as an unfair partner, while 65 percent cited japan
respondents are more likely to know about the u.s. trade deficit with japan than about the one with western europe, according to the poll. the 1987 deficit with japan was $59.8 billion _ the largest chunk of the $171.2 billion overall deficit _ while the deficit with europe was $30.2 billion
of those polled, 47 percent said they ``mostly agree'' that europe is a good market for the united states, while 31 percent said they ``completely agree.''
those polled generally said they respect european achievements in arts, but gave higher credit to u.s. achievements in science, encouragement of individual creativity and equal opportunity
among the general public, 54 percent said the united states provides an excellent education for its citizens, while 21 percent said europe has a good educational system. but among the opinion leaders, 33 percent said the united states provides an excellent education and 34 percent credited europe with the same service
the poll, conducted late last year by telephone, surveyed 1,300 adult americans and 387 opinion leaders. the poll results had a 3 percentage point margin of error
a man arrested after a 17-day manhunt was acquitted in the execution-style murders of four suspected drug dealers but was returned to jail to await trial next month on charges of attempted murder of police officers
the jury returned its verdict against larry davis, 21, on thursday night after nine days of deliberations
davis' attorneys, including william m. kunstler, argued that he was framed and police tried to kill him because he knew about police corruption involving drugs in the south bronx
besides the trial stemming from the shootout with 27 police officers, davis also faces separate trials for two other murders
the nov. 19, 1986 shoot-out, in which six police officers were wounded but davis escaped unharmed from a bronx apartment, set off the manhunt. police said they had gone to the apartment to question davis about the deaths of the alleged drug dealers
the winter olympics won the february rating sweeps for abc, putting it into second place for the season and breaking nbc's 11-sweeps win streak
based on a.c. nielsen co. ratings for the 28-day sweeps period, abc won with an average prime-time rating of 17.3 and a 27 share, thanks to the average 19.3 rating for the olympics, which dominated 59 percent of prime time
nbc, which won each of the 12 nights that didn't include olympics coverage, came in second with a 15.9 and 25. cbs was third with 13.8 and 21
the rating is a percentage of the nation's 88.6 million households with televisions. the share is a percentage of sets in use
unless cbs beats abc by 1.5 rating points each week for the remaining seven weeks of the television season, it will end the season in third place for the first time ever
february is one of four sweeps months each year when rating companies measure local station audiences for use in negotiating advertising rates. to help affiliates, the networks load their schedules with special programming
nbc and cbs insist the february sweeps will have less impact on local advertising rates than other sweeps, because stations can refuse to negotiate based on ratings for the unusual olympics programming
nevertheless, the win was a boost for abc, which hasn't won a sweeps since 1984. the games were also a boost for the networks in general, since the three-network share of the viewing audience rose to 75 percent from 71 percent
the olympics also apparently helped abc's ``world news tonight'' take the top spot in the network evening news race for three weeks. but the games didn't help ``good morning america'' out of the no. 2 position it has occupied behind nbc's ``today'' show for 15 weeks in a row
of the four miniseries that aired during the month, ``elvis and me'' on abc was the highest-rated, with a 24.4. ``windmills of the gods'' on cbs was second with an 18.2 and cbs' ``bluegrass'' was third with 18.0. nbc's ``noble house'' was last with a 16.3. all were two-part, four-hour miniseries, except ``noble house,'' which aired eight hours over four nights
the top-rated specials of the months, not counting the olympics, were: ``super bloopers'' on nbc with a rating of 21.3; the special prime-time ``late night with david letterman'' on nbc, with a rating of 19.3; the premiere of the new nbc series ``day by day'' with 18.6; the ``miss usa'' pageant on cbs with a 16.2; and ``the wizard of oz'' on cbs with a 15.3
the top-rated movies of the sweeps were: ``hostage'' on cbs with a 19.4; ``perry mason'' on nbc with 17.4; ``moving target'' on nbc with 17.2; ``police academy ii'' on nbc with 16.7; and ``return of desperado'' on nbc with 16.0
a high-ranking tibetan official confirmed friday that a buddhist monk jailed for advocating tibetan independence had died in prison, the official xinhua news agency said
xinhua said gyamco, vice-chairman of the tibetan autonomous region government, told foreign reporters in tibet that lobsang wangchuk died last year of lung cancer while serving an 18-year term
tibetan exile groups in india said last year that wangchuk died nov. 4 of injuries suffered in a beating after he refused to admit he was wrong to support tibetan independence. he was 74
at the time, chinese authorities in beijing dismissed the report of wangchuk's death as ``sheer fabrication.''
xinhua's report did not say why authorities initially denied the report. however, his death came during a time of great tension in the remote himalayan region. one month earlier, three anti-chinese demonstrations were led by buddhist monks and at least 14 people were killed
in the people's republic of china citizens can freely air their views,'' the report quoted gyamco as saying. ``but advocating independence for any part of the nation is a crime.''
wangchuk was first arrested in 1959, nine years after chinese troops entered tibet, for taking part in an uprising against chinese rule. tibet's god-king, the dalai lama, fled to india during that uprising
according to exiled tibetan groups, wangchuk was detained without trial until 1962, when he was sentenced to a 10-year term. he was released at the end of his term but was arrested again in 1981
xinhua said wangchuk ``renewed his splittist activities by distributing leaflets advocating the independence of tibet'' and was sentenced to three years in jail. the term was extended to 18 years because he refused to change his views, the report said
splittist is a term coined by the chinese to refer to individuals who advocate independence for regions in china
xinhua also quoted gyamco as saying last year's protests ``had no impact at all'' on china's policy of allowing religious freedom in tibet
on the contrary, it (the policy) will be more effectively implemented,'' it quoted him as saying
tibetans traditionally are deeply religious, and before the chinese red army entered in 1950 were governed by a theocracy headed by the dalai lama and the buddhist monasteries
the chinese smashed the temporal power of the monasteries and for many years banned public worship. thousands of monasteries were destroyed and their monks forced to marry during the 1966-76 cultural revolution
since then, public worship has been restored and some monasteries have been rebuilt. however, most monks and many lay tibetans remain hostile to chinese rule
an eight-day great prayer festival that ended this week in lhasa, tibet's capital, was boycotted by many monks because of the heavy chinese police presence. attendance by pilgrims also was sharply down, according to tibetan sources and westerners who observed the festival this year and in the past
the vast majority of americans view ties with europe as very important for the united states, but at the same time they recognize that trans-atlantic links have waned over the past 10 years, a poll commissioned by the european economic community shows
the gallup poll of ``national opinion leaders'' and the general public, published in the march edition of the eec magazine, ``europe,'' also shows the majority of respondents believe u.s. troops must be stationed in europe to prevent a soviet attack
of those polled, 86 percent said u.s. ties with europe ``matter a great deal,'' compared with 65 percent who answered the same way in a 1973 poll commissioned by the magazine
asked how today's ties compare with those of 10 years ago, 33 percent of the respondents said they were closer, but 53 percent said they were ``not as close.''
the united states should strengthen its links with europe, according to 53 percent of those polled. thirty-one percent favor the level of current ties and 11 percent support reduced ties with the continent
although about one-third of the respondents said west european countries engage in unfair trading practices, both the general public and national opinion leaders _ which the magazine defined as business and academic leaders and policy makers _ cited japan as an unfair trading partner more than twice as often as the countries of western europe
for example, 30 percent of the public said they view europe as an unfair partner, while 65 percent cited japan
respondents are more likely to know about the u.s. trade deficit with japan than about the one with western europe, according to the poll. the 1987 deficit with japan was $59.8 billion _ the largest chunk of the $171.2 billion overall deficit _ while the deficit with europe was $30.2 billion
of those polled, 47 percent said they ``mostly agree'' that europe is a good market for the united states, while 31 percent said they ``completely agree.''
those polled generally said they respect european achievements in arts, but gave higher credit to u.s. achievements in science, encouragement of individual creativity and equal opportunity
among the general public, 54 percent said the united states provides an excellent education for its citizens, while 21 percent said europe has a good educational system. but among the opinion leaders, 33 percent said the united states provides an excellent education and 34 percent credited europe with the same service
the poll, conducted late last year by telephone, surveyed 1,300 adult americans and 387 opinion leaders. the poll results had a 3 percentage point margin of error. events</head>
former defense secretary caspar w. weinberger will serve as president reagan's official representative in australia this month during the country's bicentennial celebration, it was announced friday
he will be accompanied by his wife jane, visiting canberra, melbourne, brisbane and sydney from march 16-22
the weinbergers were married in australia in 1942 while both were serving in the u.s. army
a white house statement said the couple will participate in ``a wide range of activities underscoring u.s. admiration and appreciation of australia at this historic time.''
while in australia, weinberger will meet with prime minister bob hawke and other government leaders
in connection with the bicentennial, the united states has made a $5 million gift to the australian national maritime museum. in addition, the u.s. coast guard's sailing vessel, eagle, will participate in the parade of tall ships in sydney harbor on australia day. a u.s. pavilion will operate at brisbane's world expo '88, which will run from april through october
six hundred florida national guard troops will go to panama for a two-week ``total warrior'' training exercise despite riots and a general strike there, officials announced
the political turmoil has no effect on the training there,'' florida guard spokesman maj. ken forrester said thursday. ``this has been scheduled a year in advance, and we see no reason to change it.''
u.s. army maj. gen. bernard loeffke in panama sent assurances wednesday that troops training in the canal zone would be safe, said forrester from guard headquarters in st. augustine
and with 10,000 regular army troops down there, i can't see us doing anything but the training we have scheduled,'' said forrester
troops from the 3rd battalion, 124th infantry based in panama city, fla., won't be allowed off u.s. bases during the jungle training, he said
there's been some concern, but i haven't had any hysterical moms saying their son or husband isn't going,'' lt. charles boss said
during total warrior _ 12 days of mock raids and ambushes _ troops would have little time for sightseeing, he said
we're going to fly into howard air force base and go directly into the jungle,'' boss said. ``after 12 days ... they'll only be interested in a shower, a cold beer and getting back to sleep.''
two florida guard battalions have trained in panama for each of the last three years, forrester said
the battalion troops are to leave tyndall air force base near this gulf coast resort area march 12 and return march 27
the unit will be the first u.s. troops sent to panama for training since then-president eric arturo delvalle's failed feb. 25 effort to oust strongman gen. manuel noriega. panama's de facto leader was indicted last month by tampa and miami federal grand juries which accused noriega of involvement with drug dealing
james b. odom, a veteran engineer with the national aeronautics and space administration, has been appointed head of the agency's most ambitious program in the next decade: putting a manned space station into earth orbit
odom, currently director of science and engineering at the marshall space flight center in huntsville, ala., will succeed andrew j. stofan, who is leaving nasa on april 1
odom headed nasa's space telescope project, was actively involved in developing earth satellites and unmanned space probes and guided the external tank project for the first space shuttle
the commerce department celebrated its 75th anniversary friday as commerce secretary c. william verity cut a 10-foot-by-6-foot cake and president reagan issued a special proclamation
this moment is an historic snapshot in time of the development of our government which goes back over 200 years,'' verity said at a celebration attended by an estimated 1,600 agency employees
reagan issued a proclamation declaring friday as department of commerce day
the employees of the department of commerce have always reflected the finest traditions of public service. that was surely true of the department's late secretary, malcolm baldrige, and our present secretary, c. william verity jr,'' reagan said in the proclamation
verity, who became commerce secretary in 1987 after the death of baldrige in a freak horse-riding accident, was joined by one of his secretaries, willa petty, in leading the audience in a rendition of ``happy birthday'' before cutting the cake, a replica of the commerce department headquarters
ms. petty was a stand-in for singer pearl bailey, who had been scheduled to preside over the proceedings but who canceled at the last minute
six men have been indicted on 23 felony counts of fraud and conspiracy, alleging they stole timber worth ``hundreds of thousands of dollars'' from the olympic national forest
among those indicted late thursday are the former owner and crew chief of one of the most powerful independent logging operations on the olympic peninsula, glenn t. anderson inc
after a four-year investigation, the government accused the six of stealing forest service timber from the national forest, conspiracy to steal, filing false statements and conflict of interest
federal court documents filed last october allege the thefts to be in the range of ``hundreds of thousands of dollars.''
court files accuse five of the men of devising scams to cheat the forest service of revenue on logs harvested off public land. the alleged scams included forging log brands, sawing up unscaled logs, and recycling log-truck load identifier tickets, the documents say
the documents also say one defendant, gregory b. maurer, 43, of aberdeen, former u.s. forest service timber sale administrator on the olympic forest's quinault ranger district, allegedly looked the other way to allow the scams
the indictment also says maurer ran a secret forest cleanup company that catered to the logging operators he was supposed to regulate as timber sale administrator
the charges carry maximum penalties of up to 10 years in prison and fines of up to $250,000
police were summoned to quell a revolt by angry commuters who vandalized and jammed the doors of a delayed subway train, and refused to get off in protest, authorities said friday
it was the second such mutiny in the underground this week
we got the message the first time. this is only making things worse,'' said david morris, a spokesman for london regional transport, which operates the massive system
the spectacle of rebellion by london's usually reserved and mild-mannered commuters is making headline news in the capital, and a member of parliament says he will raise the issue in the house of commons
morris said the latest incident was ``pretty close to an out-of-control act of vandalism,'' while one of the passengers involved said commuters had grown fed up with delays and shoddy stations
the first whiff of trouble came tuesday night when, in what london regional transport called unprecedented behavior, passengers at finchley central station on the northern line refused a request to get off the train prematurely and forced the driver to take them to their destination
the second incident occurred at the same station. in both cases, the trains had been delayed by track defects and passengers were told to get off and catch the next train
the first incident ended in peaceful victory for the commuters without police intervention. the second incident, by all accounts, was nastier
passengers ripped off pieces of the train and used them to jam the doors,'' said morris. ``apparently there was much jubilation. undoubtedly it was inspired by what happened on tuesday. the staff called the transport police who ordered the passengers off the train, and they obeyed.''
london's evening standard newspaper quoted passenger faz razeen, 34, a leader of the revolt, as saying: ``people were really worked up and annoyed.'' some had waited more than half an hour for their train, he said
morris conceded that half-hour waits were not unusual. ``we are trying to do something. but if people don't use their common sense the whole line will come to a stop. whatever sympathy they got over the first incident will soon be lost.''
morris insisted that in both incidents, the passengers behaved selfishly because by trying to force their trains to take them to their destinations, they made passengers at other stations wait longer
but the standard said this response ``betrays an arrogance which ought to be replaced at once by better management on the misery line.''
john marshall, a conservative party lawmaker and northern line commuter, said the northern line ``is the nearest thing to hell on earth,'' and promised to raise the matter in parliament
replied morris: ``when you're running 460 trains a day for 2.5 million passengers, something always goes wrong.'' he said thursday's delays were caused by a beer can that was thrown onto the line, jamming a track mechanism
meanwhile, the standard tracked down the man said to have started tuesday night's rebellion by quietly declaring his refusal to get off the train
described by fellow-passengers as a mild-mannered, well-dressed man, he turned out to be 49-year-old civil servant barry blain
i am not a natural rebel,'' the standard quoted him as saying, ``but like a lot of my fellow commuters i am fed up with our treatment on the northern line.''
thirty-one people were killed in ethnic rioting in the azerbaijani city of sumgait, the state-run news agency tass reported today
it was the first time the official media reported deaths in ethnic violence between azeris and armenians in the two southern soviet republics. dissident sources had reported that as many as 20 people died in the sumgait riots
the rioting erupted sunday in the industrial city 19 miles northwest of the azerbaijani capital of baku. government spokesmen had previously acknowledged people were killed in the rioting, but refused to say how many. a television worker in baku had said one or two people were killed
the tass dispatch blamed the sunday killings on ``hooligan elements provoked by disorder.''
trouble between the azeris, who are predominantly shiite moslems, and armenians, who are christian, began early last month with a dispute over nagorno-karabakh, a region in azerbaijan just north of iran and east of turkey. more than three-quarters of the population is armenian, but it was made part of azerbaijan in 1923
armenians are demanding that the region be made part of the republic of armenia. azeris opposed the move and violence has ensued
earlier today, an armenian nationalist said his sister and at least two other people were killed in ethnic violence in armenia
unstable, immature people, falling under the influence of false rumors about the events in nagorno-karabakh and armenia, involved themselves in lawsless actions,'' tass said. ``criminal elements took part in violent activities and looting. from their hands, 31 people perished.''
an english version of the tass story said the dead included ``members of various nationalities, old men and women.''
on thursday gennady i. gerasimov, chief spokesman for the soviet foreign ministry in moscow, gave the first official confirmation of deaths during the riots in azerbaijan, but would not say how many people were killed
on tuesday, he said he could not confirm reports from armenian activists that up to 20 people were killed in sumgait, in azerbaijan. but he added, ``there was hooliganism, and there can be deaths in such cases.''
the first official hint of deaths in the ethnic unrest came feb. 24, when non-voting politburo member vladimir i. dolgikh said on armenian television that ``in nagorno-karabakh, the matter has gone so far as confrontations between armenians and azerbaijanis, and there have been casualties.''
street rallies began feb. 13 in nagorno-karabakh and later spread to yerevan, the capital of armenia, where dissidents said more than 1 million people demonstrated. on feb. 19 rioting spread to sumgait
mosef gorgisyan telephoned the associated press in moscow to say his sister, avetik gorgisyan, 32, was stabbed today and two other people were shot in their homes in the armenian city of kirovakan. he said the three were killed by azeris
he said six people, all ethnic azeris, were arrested in the killings
gerasimov said he could neither confirm nor deny the report because he had no information about renewed violence in the region
gorgisyan, 26, is a member of an unsanctioned armenian organization called the alliance for national self-determination
gorgisyan said his sister was killed today, but the telephone was cut off before he could say when the two shootings reportedly occurred. he said demonstrations had been held in kirovakan earlier
he said he saw the aftermath of three slayings in kirovakan. he said he had heard 13 other people were killed but could not confirm those reports
gorgisyan said his grandmother and other relatives were in his sister's house when the stabbing occurred
an official at the ministry of internal affairs in yerevan said, ``there were no deaths anywhere in the republic.'' the ministry includes the police forces of the region. the official refused to give his name
an official answering the telephone at police headquarters in kirovakan refused comment. ``i am not obligated to say anything to foreigners about what happens here,'' said the official, who declined to give his name
kirovakan is a city of 137,000 people about 35 miles north of the armenian capital of yerevan. western reporters have not been allowed to travel to the region
since mikhail s. gorbachev became communist party chief, the most deaths previously reported in ethnic unrest occurred in alma ata, the capital of the central asian republic of kazakhstan
up to 3,000 people rioted in that city dec. 17-18, 1986, to protest the appointment of a russian to replace an ethnic kazakh as local party chief. soviet media reported that two people were killed, 200 injured and dozens arrested
a settlement aimed at ending the war in afghanistan appeared to be taking shape friday, and the latest round of peace talks were recessed while pakistan decided if it was willing to deal with the soviet-backed afghan government
still open, too, was the question of whether afghanistan's moslem resistance groups would drop their fierce opposition to future power-sharing with afghan president najib
after a short session of the u.n.-sponsored talks friday, pakistan's chief negotiator, acting foreign minister zain noorani, flew back to islamabad for a rare meeting between the government and leaders of the political opposition
pakistan represents the afghan guerrillas in the negotiations
the meeting in pakistan was convened by prime minister mohammad khan junejo to try to reach a consensus on whether a settlement should be signed with najib's government
it was the first time the government sought such direct contact with the opposition since president mohammad zia-ul haq seized power in a 1977 coup
before leaving, noorani reaffirmed pakistan's position that a settlement must include formation of a transitional government replacing najib's
pakistan does not recognize najib's government and has said it must be replaced if 5 million afghan refugees living in pakistan and iran are to return safely home
most of pakistan's opposition parties have urged the government to sign an accord clearing the way for the withdrawal of soviet troops from afghanistan, then worry about a political settlement later
diego cordovez, the u.n. mediator who has been the go-between in the nearly 6-year-old talks, told reporters that thursday's agreement on a nine-month timetable for the withdrawal of the soviet troops represented a ``significant step'' toward a final political settlement
he stopped short of saying it was complete but exuded confidence that remaining issues would be resolved, noting that all sides showed ``determination and political will.''
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said that if an accord is signed by march 15, the estimated 115,000 red army troops would begin leaving afghanistan in mid-may. the soviets intervened in 1979
afghanistan has accused pakistan of ``undermining'' peace prospects by linking the withdrawal to formation of a transitional government
the head of the afghan delegation, foreign minister abdul wakil, told a u.n. human rights commission on friday that his nation's concept of a multiparty government of ``national reconciliation'' has the ``vigorous support of our people.''
opponents say that concept is designed to cement the leading role of najib's governing people's democratic party of afghanistan
wakil said ``political hysteria'' made the opposition reject all attempts by kabul to launch a ``constructive dialogue.'' instead, he said, ``extremist bands'' relying on mounting supplies of american and british arms had stepped up their ``destructive and terrorist deeds.''
the united states has been largely non-committal on the issue and some sources close to the talks said there is a growing feeling in pakistan that washington's prime interest is in sealing a deal before the moscow summit
cordovez indicated friday he is increasingly confident that there will be an eventual compromise on the future shape of the kabul government
he said he was in ``close contact'' with superpower representatives on the problem and was confident the afghan resistance will ``change its attitude once a settlement is signed.''
president hussain muhammad ershad's jatiya party gained a lopsided majority in parliament in an election that brought new calls for protests friday from opposition leaders
an opposition coalition of 21 parties scheduled rallies for a ``day of protest'' saturday and denounced thursday's balloting, which they boycotted
at least 13 people were reported killed and more than 300 were injured in election violence, and reporters who visited polling places found evidence of a low voter turnout and widespread vote rigging
with results announced friday for 218 of the 299 parliament seats up for grabs, the president's party had won 194
a coalition of 73 small factions known as the combined opposition parties won 12, two other small parties had one each, and independents won seven. voting was canceled in one district where a candidate was slain. the other 30 seats in the 330-seat parliament are reserved for women, who will be chosen later
in the 1986 elections, jatiya won 157 seats, but its majority rose to 210 after wheeling and dealing with independents and the addition of the 30 seats for women. those traditionally go to the governing party
the vote did not end the stalemate between ershad and his leading opponents, sheik hasina of the awami league and khaleda zia of the bangladesh nationalist party
the women vowed to persist in their campaign against ershad, and ms. hasina declared, ``we will topple this corrupt government.'' they have been organizing anti-ershad demonstrations and strikes since nov. 10
bangladesh journalists decided to stop work for a night to protest government restrictions on the press that were imposed under a national state of emergency in november
reazuddin ahmed, president of the bangladesh federal union of journalists representing about 1,500 journalists across the country, said government officials had been phoning newspapers each night and telling them not to publish news of anti-government activities
he said they were told not to publish news of a low voter turnout or election violence
most newspapers seemed to have kept low profile about reporting violence or election fraud
the action will result in non-publication of about 15 dhaka-based dailies and half a dozen more outside dhaka on saturday. two national news agencies will also be affected
ershad said he expected the new parliament to serve out its full five-year term
ershad dissolved the parliament last december, 3{ years early, in a move to compromise with the opposition. the opposition declared a boycott of the election
the former lieutenant took power in a bloodless coup in 1982 and was elected president in 1986. congress</head>
the senate, trying to avoid another iran-contra affair, on friday voted down an effort to let the white house withhold details about covert operations from congress
the 65-23 vote came as the chamber worked on a bill which would require that congress be notified about all covert actions within 48 hours after they start
the vote killed an amendment proposed by sen. james mcclure, r-idaho, which would have allowed a president simply to tell congress that a covert action had started, but withhold details until later
mcclure called his proposal ``a compromise'' which he said ``gives the president some flexibility'' about when to tell congress
but sen. william cohen, r-maine, chief author of the bill, said mcclure's amendment ``is not a compromise; it's a capitulation. ... this lets the president play `i've got a secret' but not tell.''
the bill's future is unclear. the reagan administration strongly opposes the measure as an unconstitutional limit on a president's ability to conduct foreign policy. a similar measure is pending in the house, but has not yet reached the floor
cohen is vice-chairman of the intelligence committee and was also a member of the iran-contra committee which investigated the sale of u.s. arms to iran and the diversion of some of the profits to the contra guerrillas. president reagan withheld notice from congress for 10 months about the iranian arms sales
the bill overhauls procedures for notifying congress about intelligence actions. the chief provision requires that notification be sent to capitol hill within 48 hours of the time a covert operation begins, replacing the current requirement that congress be given ``timely notification,'' which is not defined
cohen said the bill ``cannot guarantee that future abuses such as iran-contra will not occur, but it will certainly minimize them.''
sen. orrin hatch, r-utah, an opponent, called the bill ``an overreaction to the iran-contra situation.'' he termed it ``unnecessary, unwise, and unconstitutional.''
but sen. lloyd bentsen, d-texas, said, ``the requirement for this legislation has certainly been demonstrated.''
there is no question but that not being advised for over 10 months (about the iran arms sale) was not a timely notification,'' said bentsen. ``what this legislation does is close that loophole.''
sen. patrick leahy, d-vt., said the bill contained ``small, but necessary steps,'' although he warned ``we can write every law conceivable, but unless the people follow them, they are no good.''
sen. john chafee, r-r.i., said, ``many people believe that if we had this requirement in place, iran-contra would never have happened, but that's not so.''
cohen agreed, noting that ``there's no piece of legislation we can enact that would prevent a president from exercising poor judgement.''
pat robertson was accused in court papers friday of abusing the judicial process by trying to dismiss the $35 million libel suit he filed against an ex-congressman who questioned his war record
lawyers for former rep. paul n. mccloskey jr., r-calif., formally opposed robertson's motion to dismiss the case that is set to go to trial next tuesday, the campaign season's super tuesday when the former television evangelist is hoping make a good showing in southern states
robertson, though still denying mccloskey's allegations, says he felt he had to abandon his libel suit because he couldn't take part in the trial and effectively campaign at the same time
however, mccloskey's lawyers said in court papers friday that robertson ``initiated this action for political purposes and has conducted this litigation in bad faith, putting the defendant to substantial, unnecessary and improper expense and public denigration.''
robertson's ``last-minute tactics to avoid trial are just the latest, most flagrant example of his abuse of the judicial process and his attempt to treat this forum as a court of convenience,'' the lawyers said in papers filed with u.s. district judge joyce hens green
the judge must now make a decision on robertson's motion to dismiss the lawsuit
the libel suit against mccloskey was filed in 1986 following publication of mccloskey's charges that robertson used the help of his father, the late sen. a. willis robertson, d-va., to avoid combat during the korean war
the former television evangelist ``agonized over the decision to seek dismissal'' but concluded that the trial date _ which the judge refused to postpone _ presented ``a hobson's choice of either abandoning his campaign during a critical period or forgoing the opportunity for personal vindication,'' robertson's lawyers said thursday in their motion to dismiss the case
mccloskey's lawyers asked the judge to order the trial to proceed to ensure ``the right of mr. mccloskey to have the same vindication of his integrity that mr. robertson apparently sought.''
if the judge decides to dismiss the lawsuit, mccloskey's lawyers asked that she order robertson to pay the former congressman's court costs and legal fees, which they estimated to be about $400,000
they also asked the judge to preserve mccloskey's legal rights to initiate court action against robertson and his attorneys involving ``possible claims'' of malicious prosecution
to allow plaintiff to initiate an action which may require the expenditure of significant legal fees by or on behalf of mr. mccloskey in defending his first amendment right of self-expression, on the eve of the trial to both denounce the defendant in the most outrageous fashion and then request that the court dismiss the case seems to be the very sort of manipulation of the judicial process which this court should resist,'' attorneys george lehner, roger spaeder and leslie blackmon said in their brief
mccloskey's motion also asked the judge to issue an order preventing ``future legal actions against mr. mccloskey based on any past or future repetition of the statements at issue in this action.''
while a dismissal of the case would prevent robertson from suing mccloskey over the statements he made in 1986, the former congressman ``is concerned that mr. robertson may attempt to silence his free speech again, with yet another lawsuit based on repetitions of the alleged libels,'' the brief said
if tammy and michelle walsh were stumped by the pythagorean theorem or baffled by ohm's law when they were doing their school assignments, help was usually just a call away, by ship's radio
while sailing in the bahamas, an engineer from nassau was there with advice on algebra. a vacationing english professor from the university of california at berkeley once offered essay-writing tips
the sisters now are freshmen at babson college, having completed elementary, junior high and high school while sailing on the atlantic with their parents and two cats on a 45-foot boat called high hopes
they studied french in florida and geometry in georgetown via a chicago correspondence school that once a year mailed books and exams. they completed the tests at their own pace and returned them for grading
i think we got a better education,'' michelle, 21, who took some time off before going to college, said in an interview at the 1,550-student undergraduate business school outside boston. ``you learned much more because you read everything. you had a lot of responsibility. we ended up more well-rounded and ready to take on the world.''
in 1971, when the sisters were pre-schoolers, mickey and joyce walsh of oakdale, n.y., on long island's south shore, decided to take the kids sailing. mickey gave up his job working on a clam dredge and the family left for puerto rico, where they lived for a year
they returned to puerto rico in 1974 for another year, and michelle started in correspondence school. the family sold their house in 1979 and decided to move to the boat
they always liked sailing and wanted to live on a boat and travel,'' tammy, 18, said of her parents. ``they were going to wait until we grew up.''
instead, the family went to sea and the girls learned to discipline themselves in their studies. their parents left them on their own almost from the start, they said
they felt we were mature and responsible enough to do it and by doing that we became more mature and responsible,'' said tammy
the walshes spent summers on new york's fire island, then usually left in october and sailed down the atlantic coast. the trip offered maximum study time, often up to eight hours a day
then we'd get to the beach and not (study) for months,'' michelle said
the family spent most winters anchored off georgetown in the exuma islands in the bahamas. books often weren't a priority; michelle needed three years to complete algebra
michelle and tammy admit that while they disciplined themselves enough to finish the required texts, if the sun was shining and the water glistening, boardsailing won out over shakespeare
we didn't have set hours,'' said michelle. ``if it was a beautiful day outside i wasn't going to sit and read.''
mary mckeown, principal of the chicago-based american school of correspondence, said michelle received her high school equivalency diploma in 1984 and tammy in 1987. they had to take at least 16 credits under illinois requirements
she said the school is accredited by the north central association of colleges and schools and serves a variety of students, from young people living abroad to adults seeking to finish high school. tuition and books cost $679 for four years
science and math courses most frequently sent the sisters searching for help on the radio or high seas
people living on boats are very friendly,'' tammy said. ``you don't think anything about rowing up to someone's boat, knocking on the hull and saying `hi.'''
the walshes say they don't regret missing the typical high school scene. and they offer their scholastic aptitude test scores in defense of their academic preparation: 1,280 for tammy and 1,080 for michelle, compared to the 1987 national average of 906 out of a possible 1,600
they gave you a book and you had to read the whole book, no matter what,'' tammy said. ``i think that's a big difference. i know people who say they never finished a textbook.''
the house interior committee is investigating possible government corruption in the u.s. trust territory of palau, including allegations that senior palau officials may be involved in heroin smuggling
the probe was disclosed this week by chairman morris udall, d-ariz., and del. ron de lugo, d-virgin islands, chairman of the interior subcommittee on insular and international affairs
the lawmakers, in statements not disputed by palauan or u.s. officials, quoted the u.s. drug enforcement administration as saying that the pacific islands ``are being used to transship heroin from southeast asia to the u.s.''
in a letter sent wednesday to rep. dante fascell, d-fla., chairman of the house foreign affairs committee, udall and de lugo said ``several senior palauan government officials have been identified to us as being connected to this drug trade.''
the letter cited no basis for the accusation against the unidentified officials. jeff farrow, staff director for de lugo's subcommittee, said: ``it's coming from our investigation. that's all we can say at this point.''
haruo willter, palau's acting washington representative, acknowledged that his country has a drug problem, ``the same as the united states.'' as for the involvement of senior officials, he said: ``these allegations are made by individuals. i have seen no specific accusations with names.''
howard hills, counsel for interagency affairs at the state department, said: ``we've been aware of allegations of drug trafficking _ including allegations of officials being involved _ for years, and we don't understand why the interior committee is treating them as new.''
the letter said the committee investigation also involves allegations of corruption and bribery among high-ranking palau officials, misappropriation of federal and local funds and violence against palauans opposed to a long-term compact linking the united states and palau
palau and the reagan administration are pressing congress to approve a resolution to implement the compact, leading to the end of a u.n.-sanctioned trusteeship the united states has exercised over palau for 40 years. palau is the world's last united nations trust territory
under the arrangement, the united states would provide economic assistance and military protection for palau, which the pentagon sees as a backup location in case this country loses its military bases in the philippines
the interior committee has made no move toward voting on the resolution, which was endorsed thursday by two subcommittees of the foreign affairs committee. there was no mention of the drug allegations before their votes
about 14,000 people live on the eight permanently inhabited islands of palau, which comprises more than 200 islands in the caroline chain. most of the inhabitants live in koror, the capital, some 4,450 miles southwest of honolulu and 720 miles south of guam
in a letter last october to de lugo, dea administrator john lawn said ``it appears that palau's primary involvement in international drug trafficking is as a transshipment point for southeast asian heroin being smuggled to the united states.''
lawn said ``marijuana is grown freely throughout'' palau and that there may be more than 400 heroin addicts in palau _ far higher than the percentage of addicts in the united states
hills said palau, with help requested from the dea and interior and state departments, is trying to combat the problem. he said that 25 marijuana and heroin suspects were arrested in ``a major bust'' tuesday in palau
about the accusation that senior officials could be involved with heroin smuggling, hills said, ``the issue of who's involved is not going to be commented on because it's under investigation by the government of palau.''
he said congress should move to sever the trusteeship because palauan independence and increased u.s. aid would give the islands' government more resources to combat its problems
udall and de lugo also cited last summer's violence in palau surrounding a plebiscite in which a majority of palauans voted to change their constitution's strong prohibition on nuclear weapons in their country
palauan dissidents have questioned the legality of the plebiscite. a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of the vote was withdrawn because of government-fostered intimidation, dissidents have told congress
udall and de lugo said they won't act on the resolution until palau's judiciary rules on the plebiscite's legality or the dissidents say they won't renew the lawsuit
the resolution approved by the foreign affairs subcommittees says the reagan administration can implement the compact with palau unless a legal challenge to the plebiscite is pending
agriculture officials from arizona, texas and louisiana came to see for themselves whether florida was doing all it can to prevent citrus canker from traveling in fruit shipments to their states
we are trying to assess the level of confidence we can place on the procedures being taken so that we can determine what inspection methods we need in our state,'' said arizona's director of agriculture and horticulture, ivan j. shields
shields joined florida agriculture commissioner doyle conner and regulatory and technical officials from the two other states in a tour of florida citrus nurseries, groves and packinghouse facilities in the indian river and interior areas of florida's citrus belt
florida fruit presents no threat to their citrus industries, and we want to assure them of that,'' conner said in orlando prior to their departure in three small airplanes to fort pierce, winter haven, frostproof and lake wales
conner invited the representatives from the three states and california as a partial answer to embargoes on florida fresh fruit shipments imposed by texas and louisiana shortly after the u.s. department of agriculture last month lifted a 3-year-old ban on florida shipments to other citrus-growing areas
florida citrus mutual, an organization representing 12,000 growers, and tuxedo fruit co. of fort pierce went into federal court and obtained a temporary injunction against the texas embargo. the first florida truckloads of fruit were expected to reach texas this weekend
conner said florida also was prepared to challenge a louisiana ban from the southern part of the state, where about 1,000 acres of fruit is grown
california, which did not send a representative to florida on friday, and arizona have not interfered with florida shipments
the usda ban was lifted after a joint state-federal scientific task force determined that there was little threat to other citrus-growing states by the florida nursery strain of the tree and fruit disease, which resulted in the voluntary destruction of 20 million young trees in the last three years
john w. impson, state entomologist for the louisiana department of agriculture, said there was little worry about florida's procedures. ``our concern is monitoring, in our state in particular,'' by the usda, he said
florida, which is the largest domestic producer, has almost 600,000 acres of commercial citrus. most of it is processed into juice, but its fresh-fruit exports to other citrus-growing states constitute an annual market of about $25 million
california has traditionally been the second-largest producer, with texas third, followed by arizona, louisiana and hawaii. a 1983 freeze in texas dropped its annual production to about 115,000 tons on 22,000 acres of groves, however. arizona has 35,500 acres yielding about 485,000 tons
citrus canker threatens commercial citrus groves because it is easily spread. it mars leaves and fruit, making it unmarketable, and can damage stems and twigs, causing a general decline of trees. the fruit is edible, however
florida's juice-processing industry has not been affected because, except for the small gulf coast region, the disease has not spread into commercial groves
canker does not affect humans
the school board has prohibited students from carrying electronic telephone beepers, following administrators' complaints that students were using them to arrange drug deals
when the ban vote thursday takes effect, march 14, students found carrying a beeper face suspension
at the high school and middle school level, if a child is in possession of an operational beeper, they are usually dealing drugs,'' said arthur pierce, principal of francis m. wood high school. ``at the elementary level, kids are wearing inoperative beepers to appear tough or macho and mimic the older kids. and that's not something to encourage.''
pierce and other principals said they don't have figures, but pierce said the number of beepers showing up in schools is alarming. pierce said he has been confiscating pagers at his school for three years
virtually all drug possession arrests in city schools involve marijuana, police said. responsibility. pick up 9th pvs, `it was...'</note>
a car bomb was discovered today about 300 yards from u.s. secretary of state george shultz's hotel and police said the explosives were dismantled safely
in beirut, yasser arafat's mainstream palestine liberation organization guerrilla group, fatah, claimed responsibility said shultz was the target
the car had been driven into a wall and abandoned. a passing officer thought the vehicle looked suspicious and discovered the bomb, jerusalem police commander yosef yehudai said
a u.s. embassy spokewoman said the car bomb was nowhere near the route shultz was scheduled to travel today between the hotel and israeli government offices
fatah, in a communique telephoned to the associated press office in west beirut, said its military command ``instructed the limassol martyrs group to park a bomb-laden car in front of the hilton hotel in jerusalem targeting shultz, the messenger of imperialism.''
three plo officials were killed in a car bomb explosion in the cypriot port of limassol feb. 14. the plo blamed israel's mossad secret service for the bombing
the fatah communique identified the vehicle in jerusalem as a french-designed renault-4 and said it was ``packed with 35 kilograms (77 pounds) of tnt.''
the driver had an accident and the car crashed into a power pole about 30 minutes before the time set for the bomb to explode,'' the communique said. ``the driver deserted the vehicle and managed to escape.''
it said the attack was meant to be ``a response to the zionists' (israelis') brutality against our people in the occupied territories.''
we warn shultz and all agents of imperialism against reaching out for the plo, the sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people,'' the communique added
the vehicle was abandoned near a shopping mall and close to the city's central bus station. it was northwest of the hilton hotel, where shultz spent thursday night
yehudai told the radio 22 pounds of explosives, ``a quantity that could have caused a great deal of damage,'' and a mechanism to set it off was found inside the vehicle. no arrests were reported
it was the second day in a row that a car bomb was discovered in israel. on thursday, a car bomb exploded outside the central bus station in kfar saba, northeast of tel aviv. no injuries were reported
during the night we received a report of a car involved in a regular accident not involving other cars,'' yehudai said on the radio about today's car bomb
later, the chief police explosives expert passed by and through his own experience decided the car was indeed suspicious ... we found it was a car bomb.''
he said the discovery happened by accident
its discovery and dismantling prevented a damaging attack,'' yehudai said of the car bomb. ``it looks like this is the new `hit' tactic of the terrorists.''
an additional police statement said the car was registered to israelis living in tel aviv and had not been reported stolen
the area around where the car was found was closed to all traffic for more than an hour. the vehicle was towed to a police laboratory for further tests, the statement said
president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget would produce a deficit of $165 billion, a congressional report said friday, an amount that would trigger massive automatic spending cuts under the gramm-rudman law
the deficit estimate by the congressional budget office is $30 billion higher than the amount of red ink the white house office of management and budget says the president's spending plan would create
the differences are mainly because cbo is more pessimistic about the how the economy will perform than the administration is
the gramm-rudman balanced budget law calls for a $136 billion deficit target in fiscal 1989, which begins oct. 1. if final figures indicate the deficit will exceed that amount by more than $10 billion, domestic and defense spending would be slashed automatically by whatever amount it takes to shrink the deficit to $136 billion
the final deficit estimate, however, is made by omb, with cbo playing only an advisory role. according to omb, reagan's $1.1 trillion budget would leave $130 billion in red ink and no automatic cuts would occur
some lawmakers have expressed concern about the pessimistic economic and deficit forecasts that cbo has made this year. but with 1988 an election year, congress is not expected to seriously challenge omb's numbers and commence a painful round of spending cuts and tax increases
acting cbo director james l. blum, who presented the report to the senate appropriations committee, told the legislators that deciding which set of forecasts to trust is ``a political judgment call'' for them to make
cbo expects slower economic growth and higher inflation and interest rates in the next two years than the administration does. all of those factors would produce higher government spending and lower revenue collections than the white house anticipates
blum conceded that recent economic statistics have been better than expected
it would appear that the pronounced slowdown we were expecting in the first quarter (of 1988) is not materializing,'' he said
cbo is also more pessimistic than the administration about longer-range efforts to reduce the deficit. while the white house says the deficit will drop to $104 billion in 1990 and $23 billion by 1993, the congressional agency says the deficit will be $157 billion in 1990 and $109 billion in 1993
gramm-rudman requires a balanced budget by 1993
the house and senate budget committees are expected to begin writing their own versions of the 1989 budget soon. but neither is expected to propose any budget-cutting much beyond that proposed in the president's plan. reagan's spending blueprint adheres closely to the so-called budget summit agreement he reached with congressional leaders last november
among its projections, cbo said:
_the economy will grow by 1.8 percent this year, compared with the administration's estimate of 2.4 percent
_inflation will be 4.9 percent in 1988, contrasted with a white house forecast of 4.3 percent
_enactment of reagan's entire budget would reduce the deficit by $12 billion below what it would be if no further deficit-reduction action were taken
sikh separatists sprayed automatic rifle fire into hundreds of people celebrating a hindu religious holiday, killing at least 34 people and wounding about 45, police said friday
the attackers burst into a courtyard where hindus, sikhs and christians had come together to celebrate holi, the festival of light, in the northern state of punjab
people ran helter-skelter. there were bodies on the ground, and the injured were crying,'' said mahavir prashad, who was inside a building and escaped injury
i tried to save some of the injured by giving them water, but most of them died in my arms,'' he said
several hours after the killings, the indian government released five sikh high priests and 40 sikh militants in an apparent peace overture. they included jasbir singh rode, who was arrested in 1984 during an army raid on the sikh's golden temple
rode, the chief priest at the temple during the raid, returned in triumph to the temple. cheering sikhs emerged and fired about 400 rounds into the air from their rifles
sikhs are a religious minority in india and say they are discriminated against by the majority hindus. sikh militants are fighting for a separate homeland in punjab
asked whether his release would pave the way for talks with the government, rode said: ``we shall see how serious and sincere the government is before deciding who will talk and on what basis.''
about 900 people were in the courtyard when six to eight gunmen opened fire with ak-47 rifles about 11:30 p.m. thursday, a senior police official said. the massacre occurred in kari sari, about 80 miles east of the sikh holy city of amritsar
for the past century, sikhs and christians have joined hindus in kari sari to celebrate holi, a national holiday commemorating the hindu god lord krishna's triumph over evil
bonfires had been lighted, the crowd was singing, and a troupe of actors was performing a series of plays about the lives of hindu deities when the gunmen burst in
deputy inspector general a. siddiqui said at least nine sikhs were killed, but he said most victims were hindus
the killings prompted police alerts in punjab, haryana and new delhi
most of the people in the courtyard were men. women and children were sitting on the roof of the hostel. the victims' ages ranged from 10 to 60. at least two children were among the dead
there was no immediate claim of responsibility, but police blamed the kalistan commando force, one of several sikh separatist groups
sohan singh, a 22-year-old sikh, was shot in the leg. speaking from his hospital bed, he said the gunmen spared his life when he obeyed their command to shout ``kalistan zindabad (long live kalistan)!''
kalistan is the name of the nation sikhs envision for themselves
more than 380 people have been killed by sikh extremists in punjab so far this year. plo claiming responsibility. picks up 18th graf, `according to ...'</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz flew in today to discuss american ideas for peace in the middle east with the pro-soviet government of president hafez assad
shultz, on his second stop in damascus in less a week, arrived from jerusalem where he had met with israeli leaders. but his efforts to promote negotiations on a settlement in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip did not appear to have made any significant progrees
shultz was greeted at damascus airport by foreign minister farouk al-sharaa. the two drove immediately to the muhajerine presidential palace for a meeting with assad
he planned to leave for cairo after the talks with assad, a strong critic of washington's middle east policies
shultz, on a second, unscheduled swing through the region in the past week, did not indicate he had achieved any progress in a statement before leaving israel
the president sent me back to work at it some more and while he told me he'd let me come home tonight, he made it clear that we would keep pushing and working,'' shultz said at ben gurion international airport
israel radio reported that shultz presented a written version of his peace proposal to israel's rival leaders, prime minister yitzhak shamir of the right-wing likud bloc and foreign minister shimon peres of the leftist labor party
peres is said to favor the proposal while shamir is believed to oppose it
the radio said shultz expects shamir to reply to the american proposals when the prime minister visits washington on march 14
the draft proposal also was given to jordan's king hussein in london on thursday, the radio said
the plan, which contained no surprises, called for beginning the peace process with an ``international opening which will lead to direct talks between israel and a jordanian-palestinian delegation,'' the radio said
it also called for implementing palestinian self-rule in the occupied territories this fall and then beginning talks on a permanent settlement in december
shamir described his 90-minute session with shultz as ``very friendly, very useful and promising.'' he said he was sure the united states and israel would continue efforts to start peace talks in the area
shultz then met for about 45 minutes with peres, who described shultz's proposals as ``food for thought.''
shultz called the talks ``positive and constructive.''
also today, police discovered a car bomb set on a street about 300 yards from the hilton hotel where shultz was staying, and safely dismantled the explosives. no arrests were reported
in beirut, lebanon yasser arafat's mainstream palestine liberation organization guerrilla group, fatah, claimed responsibility for the car bomb and said shultz was the target
fatah, in a communique telephoned to the associated press office in west beirut, said its military command ordered commandos ``to park a bomb-laden car in front of the hilton hotel in jerusalem targeting shultz, the messenger of imperialism.''
the driver had an accident and the car crashed into a power pole about 30 minutes before the time set for the bomb to explode,'' the communique said
the driver deserted the vehicle and managed to escape,'' the communique said
according to u.n. figures, rioting since dec. 8 in the occupied lands has left at least 76 palestinians dead, mostly by israeli gunfire
palestinians have refused to meet shultz without approval from the palestine liberation organization
islamic fundamentalists circulated leaflets in the gaza strip condemning the shultz mission and referring to the u.s. official as ``the great evil envoy,'' the jerusalem post reported today
in damascus, a leading government newspaper today said the united states seeks to crush palestinian protests in israeli-held territories rather than find a durable peace settlement
the al-baath daily, mouthpiece of the ruling baath arab socialist party, said in a front-page editorial that the united states ``was always determined to make israel the only power in the region
shultz planned a whirlwind last day in the region. after meeting with assad, he was to go to egypt to meet with president hosni mubarak. on saturday, he was scheduled to return to washington
shultz has urged palestinians to form a joint delegation with jordan in peace talks, citing close ties betweeen jordan and the 1.5 million palestinians in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel seized in the 1967 middle east war
hussein wants a separate seat for the plo in peace talks, but israel refuses to negotiate with the plo, saying it is a terrorist organization
a british official from a private relief organization and his syrian aide disappeared in lebanon, and one official of their group said friday that they had been kidnapped
the purported abduction came near the end of a week that saw two scandinavian employees of the united nations and a west german engineer released in lebanon
peter coleridge, the 44-year-old middle east coordinator of oxfam, and oxfam's lebanon representative omar traboulsi, 31, a syrian, were kidnapped thursday evening, spokesman john magrath said in oxford, england
coleridge was on his first trip to lebanon in three years
we've had conflicting reports as to whether they are still being held or not,'' magrath said. but nissrine rawda, an official at oxfam's beirut office, said there were ``no eyewitnesses confirming the abduction.''
sunni moslem leftist leader mustafa saad, whose nasserite militia controls sidon, told reporters the two oxfam officials have been ``detained for questioning'' by an unidentified palestinian group in sidon's ein el-hilweh refugee camp
i expect their release within hours, god willing,'' saad said. ``this is not an abduction. there is a security mishap in the camp.''
he said coleridge had visited the hittin area south of ein el-hilweh in 1982, when it was devastated by israel's invading army
when he returned this time he took pictures of the area's reconstruction and a group inside the camp seized him for questioning, fearing he might be taking espionage photographs,'' saad added
saad declined to name the group which he says is holding coleridge and traboulsi
police in this ancient city 25 miles south of beirut confirmed the two men had been missing since the night before, but could not say for sure how they vanished
they may have been seized by gunmen of the molem ulema grouping,'' said a sidon police spokesman who could not be identified in keeping with regulations. ``we are acting on this assumption in our investigation.''
the moslem ulema is a fundamentalist sunni moslem faction headed by sheik maher hammoud and is influenced by the pro-iranian hezbollah, or party of god
hammoud, however, disclaimed any involvement in the abduction
why should i be blamed for every foreigner who is abducted in sidon?'' hammoud told the associated press
hezbollah is believed to be the patron of underground factions holding many of 22 other foreigners held hostage in lebanon
beirut radio stations had blamed this group for the abduction of u.n. scandinavian relief workers jan stening, 44, of sweden, and william jorgensen, 58, of norway, last month. they were freed unharmed tuesday after 25 days of captivity
the u.n. relief and works agency, with which the two scandinavians served, had blamed their abduction on palestinians acting without a political motive
coleridge and traboulsi traveled to sidon from beirut on thursday morning on a routine visit to inspect relief groups supported by oxfam, a british charity that aids refugees and poor people in many countries
police said the missing pair had lunch thursday in sidon's skandarani district with alia shammaa, who heads the ghassan kanafani foundation, a palestinian charity that receives aid from oxfam
they left mrs. shammaa's house at 3:30 p.m. and went to the suburban ein el-hilweh refugee camp in an orange stationwagon, the police spokesman said
they held a half-hour meeting at ein el-hilweh and left to return to sidon at 4:15 p.m., the spokesman said
the vehicle was last seen at jerusalem square, about a half a mile from mrs. shammaa's house, the spokesman said
jerusalem square is about a 100 yards from sheik hammoud's residence in sidon, lebanon's third largest city
mrs. rawda said coleridge arrived in lebanon two days ago on his first visit to the civil war-torn country in three years. he joined oxfam in june 1981 and lives in oxford with his wife, two daughters and son. traboulsi is a bachelor
british ambassador john gray visited mrs. rawda at mid-afternoon for 15 minutes and said afterwards: ``i have no confirmation of the (abduction) story one way or the other. i am still trying to check out the story.''
the embassy's military attache col. patrick hyland earlier said the reported abduction was ``a false alarm at the moment.''
hyland and rawda said coleridge and traboulsi had been due back in beirut later friday. by sundown there was still no trace of them
the reported abduction came a day after pro-iranian shiite moslem kidnappers released west german industrial engineer ralph schray, 30, from 35 days of captivity in west beirut
the 22 foreigners missing and believed kidnapped in lebanon since 1985 include nine americans, four frenchmen, three britons, a west german, an irishman, an italian, an indian and two unidentified men
longest held is american terry anderson, chief middle east correspondent for the associated press. he was kidnapped march 16, 1985. car bomb. no pickup</note>
soldiers today barred journalists seeking to enter the occupied west bank as demonstrations erupted after noon prayers on the moslem sabbath. two arabs were reported shot to death and eight others wounded by israeli gunfire
authorities also discovered and defused a car bomb near the central bus station 300 yards from the hotel where u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz was staying. yasser arafat's mainstream palestine liberation organization guerrilla group, fatah, claimed responsibility and said shultz was the target
the explosives-laden car was discovered by a policeman after it ran into a wall and was abandoned
shultz met prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres in a final, but apparently inconclusive, effort to promote arab-israel negotiations that would help end riots in the occupied west bank and gaza
hospital officials and arab press reports said mohammed ahmed salah, 18, was shot in the head during a demonstration after noon prayers in the village of khatar close to bethlehem. israeli photographers said the army imposed a curfew
the army said one palestinian was killed and another wounded in the west bank town of araba between nablus and jenin after soldiers opened fire to quell a riot by hundreds of arabs, who attacked them using clubs, bottles and stones
the palestine press service said three arabs were shot and wounded in the northern city of jenin. it also said a 40-year-old woman was wounded in the right leg in the refugee camp of balata near nablus
the agency and hospital officials in nablus reported jewish settlers were involved in the shooting of a palestinian youth in the village of burka. the youth, 18, was wounded in the back
officials at arab ahli hospital said two palestinians were wounded by gunfire at a protest outside al amari mosque
before today's violence, the united nations reported 76 arabs have been killed since the violence began dec. 8
shultz left for syria to meet president hafez assad and then planned to fly to cairo for talks with egyptian president hosni mubarak before wrapping up his shuttle saturday
the u.s. proposal calls for peace talks at an international conference which will lead to direct talks between israel and a jordanian-palestinian delegation
peres, a member of the labor party, has expressed support for the shultz plan but shamir, a member of the right-wing likud, has not. shamir and peres are bitter rivals in the coalition government
the outbreak of violence came despite a crackdown on press coverage. israeli officials contend television cameras and still photographers inflame demonstrations
there is no policy'' to bar journalists from covering the west bank and gaza strip, said a senior defense ministry official who spoke on condition of anonymity
it is not a total closure,'' said brig. gen. ephraim lapid, the army spokesman. he said local commanders had been authorized to bar journalists and indicated some areas were closed because noon prayers often end in violent demonstrations
a tightening of restrictions on press coverage had been expected after shamir warned he was considering closing occupied zones to journalists, whom he accused of being biased against israel
robert slate, chairman of the foreign press association, said restrictions had been expected after shamir's warning
i'm appalled but not surprised,'' slater said. ``the question is whether this is limited to fridays or more general.''
it was not immediately known if army roadblocks were set up in the occupied gaza strip
the u.s. embassy said the car bomb found in jerusalem was not along a route shultz was to travel today. it was not clear when the bomb was to have gone off. police said it had a detonating mechanism, but did not elaborate
the vehicle was abandoned near a shopping mall and close to the city's central bus station. it was northwest of the hilton hotel, where shultz spent thursday night
fatah, in a communique telephoned to the associated press office in west beirut, said its military command ordered commandos ``to park a bomb-laden car in front of the hilton hotel in jerusalem targeting shultz, the messenger of imperialism.''
the driver had an accident and the car crashed into a power pole about 30 minutes before the time set for the bomb to explode,'' the communique said. ``the driver deserted the vehicle and managed to escape.''
authorities said it was unclear if the driver was on his way elsewhere when the vehicle was driven into a wall or had abandoned the car intentionally
the jerusalem post quoted a leaflet issued by the militant islamic jihad, which called for a three-day general strike starting today in gaza. the leaflet linked the strike to shultz's mission
the leaflet called shultz ``the great evil envoy'' and said his mission was designed to stop the three-month uprising by the 1.5 million palestinians of the west bank and gaza, which israeli seized in the 1967 middle east war
secretary of state george p. shultz has invoked the powers of a good luck charm during his middle east shuttle: a white peace dove in his jerusalem hotel lobby
whenever shultz passed through the lobby of the jerusalem hilton, he pulled a silver-and-white ribbon hanging from the dove, sending the bird's wings flapping
when i came here about seven or eight days ago to start the process, i went into the hotel and there, hanging from the ceiling, was a bird _ a great big thing on a little rope you pull and the wings go and the dove flies,'' shultz said friday
so i pulled it when i came in and everybody clapped and i keep pulling it whenever i go through there in the hope that it will bring us good fortune,'' shultz said. he made his comments after meeting with prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres
and that is what i wish to the people of israel, to the palestinians, to the people of all the neighboring countries that i have visited, good fortune and peace,'' shultz said
shultz arrived in jerusalem on feb. 25 for a five-day middle east shuttle, and returned to the region thursday night for a second round of talks with arab and israeli leaders
the wooden dove measures 13 feet by 13 feet and has an aluminium olive branch in its beak. hotel spokesman motti verses said the bird would remain hanging in the lobby because of rumors that shultz would return to the region by the end of march
an outside committee that audited nasa's recovery from the challenger disaster for 14 months said friday it finds no safety flaws serious enough to delay the resumption of space shuttle flights
the first mission, with the shuttle discovery, is scheduled for aug. 4
we are all quite comfortable with what's been done to get ready for the next flight,'' retired gen. alton slay, chairman of the national research council committee, told reporters
we find absolutely no show-stoppers,'' slay said. ``space travel will always entail risks. it cannot be reduced to zero. the key to minimizing those risks is to identify the most likely hazards or failures and to take steps to eliminate them or control them if they cannot be eliminated.''
but coupled with the praise was a strong recommendation that the national aeronautics and space administration tighten the ways it assesses and manages risks associated with the shuttle
no matter how good you are, you never reach mecca,'' said slay. ``there is always room for improvement.''
the committee's central finding, he said, is that nasa is able to assess and manage risks associated with space flights, but uses so many review boards and safety organizations that the result is ``a fragmented picture of the safety and reliability of the total space transportation system.''
further, slay said, those organizations rely on subjective assessments of risk posed by thousands of individual space shuttle components, rather than on engineering evaluations
their procedures and their oganizations need policing up,'' slay said. ``they need to do more to integrate their risk assessment and risk management. they need more to take advantage of all the data that does exist in their decision-making process.''
slay defined risk assessment as ``saying on any particular piece of hardware, what is the likelihood this is going to cause a problem if it is going to fail ... and if it fails, will it cascade into some other system and cause a problem there?''
asked if better risk assessment might have stopped the ill-fated launch of the challenger on jan. 28, 1986, slay replied:
no one can say that for sure. the only thing we can say for sure is if these procedures had been in place, we would have had more information at our fingertips. whether the engineering judgments that they made at the time would have bveen different, who can say?''
challenger's seven-member crew was killed when the shuttle exploded 73 seconds after launch
william lenoir, a former astronaut who flew on the shuttle in 1982, said the bulk of the recommendations in the 144-page report has already been put in effect by nasa and that the report contained no surprises for the agency
nasa said it will carefully review the report. agency administrator james c. fletcher said nasa owes the national research council a vote of thanks
i am particfdularly gratified that the council did not find any show-stoppers that, in their opinion, should delay the next launch of the space shuttle, now set for august,'' he said
lenoir, whose planned spacewalk was scrubbed by a malfunctioning space suit, said he is worried that the challenger accident may have made nasa personnel gun-shy
we need to be careful that we don't go overboard and keep trying to make it safe enough, a little bit safer and a little bit safer, and we may never fly again because we'll never make it 100 percent safe,'' he said. ``i believe the right processses are in place.''
the committee review was recommended by the presidential commission that investigated the challenger accident. the national research council acts as a scientific advisory group to the federal government and is administered by the national academy of sciences, the national academy of engineering and the institute of medicine
the communist party newspaper friday accused australia of interfering in polish affairs by supporting an invitation to solidarity leader lech walesa to attend a trade union congress in melbourne
the government said tuesday it would bar walesa and three top aides from traveling to australia to attend the union congress. officials said they were acting to protect the state's ``basic political interests.''
friday's commentary appeared in trybuna ludu, the official daily of the party
the australian embassy in warsaw said allowing walesa to visit australia would improve relations between the two countries and show that poland was making progress in enacting reforms
it said australian prime minister bob hawke had ``presented the argument that a country's standing is enhanced if it permits a citizen, albeit a controversial one, to go abroad where he can speak freely.''
the australian council of trade unions invited the poles to attend the world congress of the international confederation of free trade unions from march 14-18
trybuna ludu said inviting members of an illegal organization was ``a provocative action against poland'' and ignored ``the real fact of the existence in poland of a ... reborn trade union movement.''
the newspaper was referring to the all-poland trade union alliance, the official labor federation set up with government backing after solidarity was outlawed in october 1982 that claims about 7 million members
walesa, contacted by telephone at his gdansk apartment, said such personal attacks in trybuna ludu were not new. he added that the article showed ``who is standing behind the allegedly independent (official) trade unions.''
he called it strange that the state should try to force international recognition for the official trade unions by barring him from traveling to australia
walesa has not traveled abroad since the december 1981 martial law crackdown that suppressed solidarity, the soviet bloc's first free trade union. the gdansk shipyard worker helped found solidarity in 1980 and won the nobel peace prize in 1983
walesa has not yet received a formal refusal of his application, said an aide. also invited to australia were wroclaw solidarity leader wladyslaw frasyniuk, gdansk leader bogdan lis and senior adviser bronislaw geremek
a computer technician charged with killing seven people during a silicon valley shooting rampage won't have to enter a plea for a week, a judge ruled friday
richard wade farley was to enter a plea friday to charges stemming from the feb. 9 shooting at esl inc., a defense contractor in sunnyvale. judge hugh mullin iii granted an extension at the request of farley's lawyer, gregory c. paraskou, who said he needed more time to review 600 pages of police reports
farley was expressionless throughout the brief proceeding
prosecutor alan nudelman has indicated he will seek the death penalty for farley, who allegedly escalated a fantasy love affair with an engineer into a six-hour siege, shooting his way through the halls of esl. seven people died and five others were hurt
the independent postal rate commission recommended a sweeping series of increases in u.s. postage rates friday, including boosting the cost of first class letters to 25 cents
but the agency also put forth a proposal to charge consumers less than a quarter for paying bills and recommended that advertising mail rates increase by even larger percentages than other groups
the complex series of rate proposals now goes to the board of governors of the postal service, which requested rate hikes 10 months ago. the new rates could be ordered into effect within 10 days to two weeks, with the governors likely to consider the matter next week
overall, the rate commission recommended a series of postage rate hikes totaling 17.5 percent, somewhat more than the postal service request for a 16 percent increase
the higher rates are necessary for the postal service to avoid a deficit which could total more than $5 billion by 1989, rate commission chairman janet steiger said
the agency agreed with the postal service's original request to set the rate for first class letters at 25 cents, up from the current 22 cents
at that rate, sending a letter to aunt maude would take about the same bite from the average wallet as it did in 1932. adjusted for inflation, the 3 cent postage rate introduced in 1932 would amount to 25.5 cents today
noting that typical consumers are one of the few groups that don't get any discounts for bulk mail, the commission made an innovative proposal to give these people a break
it suggested a new courtesy mail discount, in which business could prepare special envelopes with proper coding and zip codes for automatic processing, and which would be addressed to post office boxes to save carrier delivery
consumers using these envelopes, for example to pay bills or respond to an advertisement, would be given a discount on the postage. the agency didn't suggest an amount of the discount, but said the postal service should study the costs and come up with an amount
the rate commission did recommend a 2 cent cut in the current 7 cent minimum cost for pre-paid business reply envelopes in order to encourage companies to provide these for consumers
in the first class category, the price for each additional ounce of mail would rise from 17 cents to 20 cents, as requested by the postal service
but the cost for a post card would increase from 14 cents to 15 cents, a penny less than had been requested
overall, first class rates would increase 14.7 percent, the rate commission said
third class mail, however, which is mostly advertising and is widely termed ``junk mail,'' would have a 25 percent cost hike
the rate commission said in studying costs it determined that this type of mail was responsible for more postal service costs than it was paying, and thus should have a larger increase
the minimum rate for third class mail would jump from 12.5 cents to 16.7 cents, slightly more than the postal service had requested. the per pound rate would rise from 38 cents to 48 cents, 3 cents more than asked
for non-profit advertising mail the minimum rate would increase from 8.5 cents to 8.7 cents, slightly less than the 9 cents suggested by the postal service
second class mail _ newspapers and magazines for the most part _ would face overall increases of just over 18 percent
newspapers sent within the county would rise to 9.8 cents per pound and 3.4 cents to 5.9 cents per piece. the current rate is 9.1 cents per pound and 3.1 cents to 4.9 cents per item
the commission agreed to a postal service proposal for a $8.75 rate for the highly competitive express overnight mail
while some employee retirement costs anticipated by the postal service turned out to be less than expected, the saving was eaten up by other amounts, including a poorer than hoped-for showing in cost-cutting programs, steiger said
when the new rates take effect they will end the prices structure that took effect feb. 17, 1985
compared to other small necessities we commonly purchase _ from toothpaste to ground coffee _ this is a very modest increase,'' postal board chairman john n. griesemer said last may when proposing the increases
he estimated the additional cost of postage to the average individual would be less than $10 per year
the postal service is required to break even _ over time _ by the 1970 law that made it an independent federal agency and ended the taxpayer subsidy for the mail
the postal service has been in the black five of the last 10 years. it finished last year with a $223 million loss after showing a $305 million surplus in 1986
a special, nondenominated ``e'' stamp has been prepared for use when the new rates take effect
because the agency had no way of knowing what rate would be recommended it had the e stamps printed for use at whatever the rate turned out to be
the e stamps features a space-based image of the earth and may be used only for domestic mail
overseas mail rates, currently 44 cents for letters, are not affected by the new recommendation
pat robertson's quest for the republican presidential nomination is approaching a crossroads on his southern home ground
winless one month into the primary season, he has been predicting things will change when he reaches the south. the region's contests kick off with the south carolina primary saturday, followed three days later by super tuesday
at times, his presidential effort has seemed as much crusade as campaign
the former television evangelist's rhetoric is filled with references to morality, religion and patriotism. his campaign song is titled ``for god and country'' and he calls for the nation's return to ``the bedrock of faith in god.''
government doesn't give us our freedom,'' he said at a rally monday night in miami. ``it is a gift of god given every one of us.''
robertson's enemies are communists, congressmen who vote against aid to nicaraguan contra rebels and supreme court justices who won't permit prayer in public schools
although the son of a u.s. senator, robertson has never held public office and stresses he is running as an outsider against the political establishment
i want you to know i am not a politician. nobody has any hooks in me,'' he told about 1,000 wildly cheering supporters at a rally here tuesday night. ``i am free to serve god as my conscience dictates.''
yet his political organization has won the grudging admiration of opposing campaign officials, turning out large crowds of enthusiastic supporters and giving him some impressive showings in caucus states
this is the big one for me,'' robertson said of south carolina after coming in last in the new hampshire primary
he has acknowledged his campaign will be in trouble if he loses south carolina, which appears made to order for his god-and-country message. the state is conservative, rooted in the bible belt and has crossover voting that will permit democrats to cast ballots in the republican primary
however, a new washington post poll on friday indicated that robertson was far behind in the state. the poll, of 1,000 likely republican voters, showed vice president george bush with the support of 49 percent, sen. bob dole with 26 percent and robertson with 14 percent
the survey said that even among voters who said they watch television evangelists almost every week, bush got 44 percent to robertson's 27 percent
robertson's campaign may still be in trouble even if he wins south carolina
in florida and texas, the two biggest prizes of super tuesday, public opinion polls show him a poor third to bush and dole
robertson also has been dogged by questions about some of his public statements during the past couple weeks _ including suggesting the bush campaign leaked information about evangelist jimmy swaggart's sexual indiscretions in an attempt to smear robertson by association
he also has revived a claim that there are soviet missiles in cuba, despite denials from the reagan administration. he raised eyebrows with a contention that his christian tv network knew of the whereabouts of u.s. hostages in lebanon
and he is trying to drop a $35 million libel suit against former rep. paul mccloskey, r-calif. the trial is to begin on super tuesday in washington. mccloskey, an ex-marine who had been on the same troop ship with robertson during the korean war, had written a letter alleging robertson avoided combat duty in korea through his father's political influence
robertson made a swing through florida on monday and tuesday, concentrating heavily on wooing miami's cuban-american voters by repeating the cuban missile claim and pledging to support the exiles' ``right of belligerence,'' although he acknowledged later that he could do so only within the constraints of u.s. law
about 800 people, mostly hispanic, turned out at a miami rally, a disappointment because robertson campaign staffers had been predicting nearly twice as many would attend. but his crowds generally have been bigger than those of other presidential candidates
in orlando, some supporters held up signs indicating they had come from towns miles away. in interviews, several of his orlando supporters said they had watched robertson for years on his ``700 club'' program and christian broadcasting network
the reason i say we need pat ... we've got to have the christian principles that our forefathers founded this nation with,'' said clair baker, an electronics worker from clermont. ``we've got to get back to that or we're all down the tubes.''
former florida republican chairman tommy thomas, who was president reagan's state campaign chairman and now is active in the bush camp, conceded robertson is well organized, his supporters are loyal and a high percentage of them will go to the polls
but, he said, there just aren't enough of them to give robertson a victory in florida where democrats cannot cross over into the gop primary
in texas, bush has a home court advantage over robertson and dole as it is the vice president's adopted home state
bush also has strong florida connections through his son, jeb, former local party chairman in dade county where the cuban-american vote is centered. he is now the state's commerce secretary. also, the gop establishment in florida, from gov. bob martinez, a national bush campaign co-chairman, on down has lined up strongly behind the vice president
a paramedic says his heart pounded as he responded to an emergency call, dashed into the home and found his 65-year-old mother unconscious on the floor
but michael flaherty said professional skills kicked in as he delivered mouth-to-mouth resuscitation
he saved his mother's life,'' said ronald smith, chief paramedic for the chicago fire department. ``he brought her back.''
you always wonder what would happen if it is somebody you know,'' flaherty said. ``you hope it isn't anything serious, but you expect the worst.''
flaherty's parents were having breakfast wednesday when his mother, theresa, collapsed. his father called for an ambulance
when i heard the address, i could have run there faster than the ambulance, if that had been necessary,'' flaherty said. ``nobody was going to beat us to that address.''
flaherty's father, peter, who is not trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, applied chest compressions before the younger flaherty and his partner, jake willens, arrived
mrs. flaherty was rushed to st. francis hospital in evanston where she was reported in good condition friday, said spokesman bob olander. ``it's not a heart attack. it's a condition leading up to a heart attack,'' he said
no paramedic or firefighter wants to resuscitate or work on his own parents or children or friends,'' flaherty said. ``but when something happens and you have to do it, you react.''
flaherty said that after the emergency some people asked him, ``how could you treat your own mother?'
how can you say i can't do it?'' he replied
the fact it was my mother didn't make any difference in the way i treated her,'' he said. ``i would have done the same thing for any other patient. there are 26 nursing homes in the area our ambulance serves. i treat each of those patients like they were my mother or father.''
a teen-ager was jailed friday after police found at his home the remains of confederate army major john david walker, who has been dead for 125 years
police detective t.w. carr said walker's remains were stolen last year from a private cemetery near augusta college
james bruce meyer, 17, of augusta, was arrested thursday night on a felony charge of wanton desecration of a grave, officials said. police recovered walker's skull and pelvis, assorted other bones and the handles from his casket at meyer's home
a relative of the dead soldier, 61-year-old adele shearer, had reported to police last october that his remains had been stolen
meyer was being held on bond friday at the augusta-richmond county law enforcement center, and the investigation was continuing
walker was killed in the second battle of bull run on aug. 30, 1862
here is a rundown of the historical cost of mailing a first-class letter in the united states
in the first half of the 19th century the cost of sending a single sheet of paper 40 miles or less was between 6 cents and 8 cents, with the cost rising by distance. letters going 400 miles and over cost 25 cents to send per sheet of paper
by the middle of that century postage stamps were introduced, along with standard rates regardless of distance traveled. these started at 2 cents per half-ounce in 1863, rising to 3 cents in 1883
in 1885 the current first-class standard based on 1 ounce was started. the 1 ounce rates since then have been:
july 1, 1885: 2 cents
nov. 3, 1917: 3 cents
july 1, 1919: 2 cents
july 6, 1932: 3 cents
aug. 1, 1958: 4 cents
jan. 7, 1963: 5 cents
jan. 7, 1968: 6 cents
may 16, 1971: 8 cents
march 2, 1974: 10 cents
dec. 31, 1975: 13 cents
may 29, 1978: 15 cents
march 22, 1981: 18 cents
nov. 1, 1981: 20 cents
feb. 17, 1985: 22 cents
president francois mitterrand on friday toured the tall glass pyramid capping the new entrance to the louvre museum, finally finished after six years of controversy and delay
the 72-foot-high pyramid is set between the museum's two main wings and tops three underground levels, which are still under construction. the lower levels will house a main foyer, boutiques, information desks, snack bars, storage rooms, restoration studios and other services
the new $17.5 million complex won't be open to the public until the end of the year
mitterrand, accompanied by culture minister francois leotard and other government officials, awarded the legion of honor medal to i.m. pei, the chinese-american architect who designed the pyramid
here is a man who is not only in love with the louvre, but also with french history,'' mitterrand said following the visit. ``i knew he would do nothing to take away from the beauty and the history of the site.''
mitterrand said he had seen examples of pei's work in washington and boston, and was taken with his pure, geometric forms
i guess you could say i like pure and simple shapes better than any others,'' he said
starting next year, the pyramid will be the louvre's only above-ground entrance, though there will be direct access from nearby subway stations and underground parking lots
the three underground levels form a hub and will be connected to the louvre's two miles of painting and sculpture galleries by corridors resembling the spokes of a giant wheel
the pyramid is but a small portion of a $2.6 billion overall moderization
it was met with considerable resistance from public groups, art historians and political leaders after it was unveiled early in mitterrand's presidential term, but he remained committed to it
renovations of the museum have been delayed by finance minister edouard balladur's refusal to vacate the sumptuous offices in the louvre's northern wing, his ministry's preserve for decades. the finance ministry is supposed to move by the end of the year to new quarters in eastern paris
a storm blamed for at least nine deaths spread rain and snow across the east on friday after spraying a thick layer of ice across the midwest that snapped trees and power lines and blacked out more than 70,000 customers
many of the power outages were fixed friday but highways remained slippery
the storm was blamed for five traffic deaths thursday in ohio and four wednesday in texas
up to 4 inches of snow fell friday from pennsylvania across new york state into southern vermont. on thursday, 5 to 9 inches of snow fell on ohio with 5 to 8 inches in indiana
icy roads made travel hazardous and created traffic jams friday morning in ohio, and numerous school closings were reported today because of the storm
slippery roads sent two school buses skidding off the pavement in separate incidents just a few miles apart northeast of albany, n.y., but none of the 13 children involved suffered serious injury, state police said
heavy rain fell over parts of the south and flash flood watches were posted friday for southeastern alabama and the florida panhandle
freezing rain that fell thursday in indiana, ohio and illinois thickly layered roads, bridges, trees and power lines with as much as 2 inches of ice. freezing rain also spread friday into pennsylvania and northern kentucky
we are calling it the most serious storm in our company's history,'' said indiana power &amp; light co. spokeswoman jan lower
erik johnson of ipl said about 56,000 homes had experienced outages at one time or another since thursday afternoon. about 15,000 remained without power at early afternoon friday, but crews were working to restore it
we've got every available crew working, plus we've brought in additional crews from neighboring utilities,'' said johnson. ``we're doing everything possible to restore power, but it could take some time before everyone's power is working.''
falling trees worsened weather-related problems in richmond, ind., where richmond power &amp; light had 75 employees work through the night to respond to 4,000 service calls between noon thursday and friday morning
public service indiana reported that about 8,000 residential customers in central indiana were still without power early friday
the roads are passable, they're beginning to be drivable,'' said indiana state trooper byron westmoreland. ``but we're watching. there are still some icy spots.''
teri morris, a spokeswoman for the springfield-based central illinois public service co., said there were ``widespread, scattered outages'' friday but had no estimate on the number of affected customers. as many as 2,000 illinois power co. customers also lost power, utility spokesman al adams said. most power was restored by friday afternoon
we've got ice building up on the power lines, ice building up on trees and branches falling on the lines and we've got outages reported from poles being knocked down by drivers on icy roads,'' said barry brandt of columbus southern power co. in columbus, ohio. he said the number of customers affected was not immediately known
fred rosenbaum of dayton power and light co. estimated that between 4,000 and 4,500 outages had been reported in his company's western ohio service area. w. duane zumbrunn of ohio power co. said ``several thousand'' outages were reported in east-central ohio, and ohio edison spokesman dave osterland said several hundred outages were reported in the springfield and marion areas
the storm also generated showers and thunderstorms from the tennessee valley south along the gulf coast into florida and the southern atlantic states early friday, with heavy rain along the gulf of mexico coast into the florida panhandle
some roads were flooded in southwestern georgia, where small streams were nearly full, the weather service said
by midmorning friday, 24-hour rain amounts included 3.68 inches at tallahassee, fla.; 3.09 inches at valparaiso, fla.; 3 inches at pensacola, fla.; 2.97 inches at new orleans; and 2.83 inches at dothan, ala. in the six hours up to 7 a.m. est, 1.87 inches fell at mary esther, fla
on wednesday, the same storm system dumped up to 13 inches of snow on parts of the texas panhandle and produced thunderstorms that triggered flash floods in east texas. a tornado ripped the roofs off mobile homes near galveston
in louisiana, at least 35 planes were damaged or destroyed when 65 mph wind whipped across the lafayette regional airport, officials said thursday
contra rebels attacked a village in northern nicaragua and seized 13 people, including an american volunteer for the witness for peace organization, group officials said friday
the contras said the group was ``detained,'' not kidnapped
edward griffin, local director of the u.s.-based witness for peace, said richard boren of elkin, n.c., was abducted during the attack tuesday in the village of mancotal, deep in the mountains of jinotega province
the village is about 75 miles north of managua and is in an area where rebels operate regularly in their war against the sandinista government
four people defending the village and two contras were killed in the attack, a defense ministry comunique said
gail farris, u.s. southeast regional coordinator for witness for peace, said 11 people were wounded in the attack
in washington, contra spokesman bosco matamoros said the group was ``detained'' by rebel forces who suspected them of being foreign military collaborators working with the sandinista government
matamoros said the 13 would be released as soon as a ``trustworthy'' nicaraguan was found to return them to a safe location
witness for peace sources said boren, 30, had been in nicaragua since november, ``documenting contra human rights abuses and leading delegations to areas of conflict.''
in october, paul fisher of mill valley, calif., a witness for peace volunteer, was kidnapped by the rebels and held for 14 days. he was released unharmed
benjamin ernest linder, 27, an american volunteer with another organization, was killed in a contra attack on another jinotega town last april
generally, kidnapped civilians are held for a number of days by the contras and then released. others escape, saying the rebels tried to encourage them to join their fight
dennis marker, witness for peace's washington director, said the organization had contacted the u.s. state department and the u.s. embassy in managua about the abduction. the state department had no immediate confirmation
witness for peace describes itself as a ``politically independent organization which opposes u.s. support for the war against nicaragua, while not taking sides on internal political issues.''
marker said it has documented abuses by the sandinistas and contras, although ``our experience in the last four years is that the large majority of abuses are contra abuses.''
it maintains 32 volunteers in nicaragua building schools and working on other community projects in rural areas. the group also sponsors tours to rural nicaragua every two weeks for americans interested in the contra issue
american arms negotiators in geneva have complained ``very forcefully'' to their soviet counterparts that moscow has failed to submit three key documents, slowing progress on a plan to cut strategic nuclear arsenals by 50 percent, u.s. officials said friday
phyllis oakley, the state department's deputy spokeswoman, said the united states is still waiting for the soviets to submit their drafts of a memorandum of understanding and two protocols on verification, which american negotiators have already provided
both sides promised to submit the papers in time for a review by secretary of state george p. shultz and soviet foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze at a meeting scheduled for march 22 in washington, she said
if the ministers are to have the opportunity to review these key documents at their next meeting, it's clear and imperative that the soviets supply their versions as soon as possible,'' mrs. oakley said
we've set no deadlines, but obviously these issues are complicated and complex and they need time for thorough study and review,'' she added
another official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said s. read hanmer, the u.s. negotiator at the strategic arms reduction talks in geneva, ``very forcefully raised this issue with the soviets.''
president reagan and soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev agreed at their dec. 8-10 summit to work diligently toward a 50 percent reduction in long-range weapons carried by bombers and missiles on land and sea. the aim was to get an agreement in time for signature at a summit meeting in moscow, which is expected to be held in may or june
one of the most difficult elements of the negotiation has been figuring out a way to insure that neither side cheated in its conversion or elimination of the weapons
as in past arms negotiations, the two sides said they would submit drafts of how they thought a verification system should be written and then begin work to eliminate the differences
since october, the united states has provided its versions of two protocols: one on how the conversion or elimination would take place, and one on how the procedures would be monitored and inspected. on wednesday, the united states submitted the final document, a 130-page draft of a memorandum of understanding providing an extensive exchange of factual material
the soviets have not tabled (proposed) their versions, so there's nothing to work with, and they won't convene working groups until they have submitted their versions,'' a u.s. official said
in a speech in st. louis on thursday, edward l. rowny, an arms control adviser to reagan, said vast amounts of work need to be done on a strategic agreement before it can be ready for reagan and gorbachev to sign
verification is among the toughest problems, he said
in start, because of the many different systems on both sides, spanning a wide variety of geographic deployments and operational practices, it is important that the details be tackled now and solved soon,'' he said
u.s. officials conceded on friday that the three documents they submitted contain omissions, reflecting the need for more work just to refine the american position on these issues
the difference is that we've made the submissions anyway, so that at least we can start the process,'' one official said
more missiles flew at baghdad and tehran on friday in the long-range rocket duel between iran and iraq, which has taken scores of lives in the five days since it began
iran said 17 civilians, including four infants, were killed friday and iraq said women and children were among the casualties in baghdad. iraq has not given specific casualty figures since the missile exchange began monday
in tehran, demonstrators marched on the soviet embassy chanting ``death to russia!'' iran says the soviet union supplied the iraqi missiles, but the soviets deny it
police ringed the embassy in tehran and the consulate in the central city of isfahan, iran's official islamic republic news agency said
iraq said it fired three surface-to-surface missiles into tehran and the iranians said they countered with two launched at baghdad. an iraqi military communique confirmed one iranian missile strike on the capital
the attacks began early in the afternoon, breaking a 30-hour lull in latest round in the ``war of the cities,'' which has killed thousands of people since the war began in september 1980
in the five days, iraq says it has hit tehran with 27 missiles and qom, the iranian hierarchy's holy city, with three. iran says it has fired 12 into baghdad and iraq has confirmed only nine
iran has reported 47 people killed and more than 100 wounded in tehran, and no casualties in qom. iraq is not specific about casualties, but speaks of many civilians killed or wounded
although iraq claims to have developed its own missiles, western military analysts believe they are soviet-made scud-b rockets with strap-on boosters that enable them to reach tehran and qom, both slightly less than 300 miles from the border. they say the probable source is north korea
iran also uses scud-bs, supplied by its arab allies syria and libya, but does not need boosters because baghdad is only 80 miles from the frontier
a iranian dispatch said a missile exploded in a ``densely populated residential area'' of tehran on friday, destroying eight houses and 20 cars
the official agency said 17 bodies were found under the debris and 15 civilians were wounded. it reported several civilians wounded in another missile attack
in a sermon at weekly moslem prayers friday, ayatollah mussavi ardebili, the chief justice, said iran would stop the missiles if iraq did, but otherwise would ``retaliate severely by showering missiles and artillery fire'' on iraqi cities, irna reported
it said later that iranian gunners fired two rockets at military targets in baghdad. iraq said one reached the capital and hit a residential area, killing or wounding civilians, including women and children, and destroying houses and shops
the iranian rulers should prepare themselves for further devastating iraqi rocket and air strikes by day and night,'' an iraqi military spokesman said, and the second iraqi missile of the day hit tehran less than an hour later
tehran radio claimed iranian revolutionary guards fired shorter-range missiles that destroyed a mobile iraqi missile platform at tib, near the iraqi city of amarah in the central sector of the 730-mile border warfront
the area is about 180 miles southeast of baghdad and 340 southwest of tehran
if the radio report is confirmed, it would be the first indication of a lauching site for the iraqi missiles. iraq claims they have a 400-mile range
the nuclear regulatory commission indicated friday that the tennessee valley authority may win permission within two weeks to restart its first nuclear reactor since its entire atomic power system was closed in 1985
the commission heard its staff present a generally glowing report about tva's readiness to reopen the sequoyah unit 2 plant near chattanooga, tenn., after a month-long, non-nuclear heatup of the facility
but ``i do not believe that sequoyah is ready to go critical yet,'' nrc executive director victor stello said. ``that may come next week, or the following week.''
the long-postponed restart of the sequoyah plant would mark a significant breakthrough for the tva nuclear system in its long, costly journey to recover from management and safety breakdowns which branded it one of the worst in the history of atomic power
its five operating reactors _ two at sequoyah and three at browns ferry near athens, ga. _ were ordered shut down in 1985, plans for eight other plants were canceled, and construction on four others was delayed for years
the commission heard a lengthy presentation from tva's new chairman, marvin j. runyon, and its nuclear chief, steven a. white, and found little to quarrel with about tva's latest efforts to put the program back on track
we truly are ready'' to resume the production of nuclear power, white said. ``we will be cautious, we will be conservative, we will be deliberate.''
i did not want to apply industry standards to the tva,'' white said. ``i wanted to apply the highest standards, and that's what we did.''
representatives of the nrc's special task force for the tva agreed that most problems confronting a sequoyah restart have been resolved, including major concerns about the durability of rubber-insulated cables and the reliability of emergency diesel generators, necessary for power in the event of a reactor accident
but stewart ebneter, who head the task force, said some concern remains about allegations raised in january by a previous tva employee. after interviewing the man twice, ebneter said, the nrc staff is pursuing whether a fire hazard may be posed by the possiblity of ``cable-to-cable shorts,'' a separate issue than the earlier problem with the silicone-insulated cables
ebneter said he expected to receive new technical data from the tva on the issue, and expressed hope it would be resolved before the commission's next formal meeting, tentatively set for march 10 to consider a sequoyah restart
the commission also is known to be reviewing findings of its office of investigation over allegations that tva's white deliberately misled the commission about safety conditions at sequoyah in a january 1986 document
the case was referred to the justice department late last year, but no mention was made of the investigation during friday's session
in fact, nrc chairman lando zech was effusive in his praise of white and told the tva's board of directors that ``i hope you will continue your support for steve white.''
one of austria's five generals announced friday he was resigning because of a disagreement involving president kurt waldheim and his service in the nazi army during world war ii
gen. karl schaffer said he asked to resign last month to protest a directive from defense minister robert lichal, who ordered the general not to edit an army film used for political education
schaffer wanted to cut out a segment in the film that quoted a historian as saying: ``historians are no apostles of morals.''
he said he wanted to do so to avoid a potential association with a recent report by an international historians' commission that questioned waldheim's moral integrity during his service as a lieutenant in the german army. the commission also said waldheim was in ``close proximity'' to wartime atrocities
but lichal, a conservative backer of waldheim, decreed the segment must remain in the film
schaffer, who is director of the prestigious national defense academy, told the associated press he had tried to keep the dispute over waldheim out of the army
but since it had proved impossible, schaffer said he was resorting to the ``last means available to an officer'' and asking for early retirement
under the austrian constitution, waldheim is commander-in-chief of the federal army
word that the 58-year-old general was stepping down from the officers' training academy drew calls from the socialist party and the small freedom party for lichal to back down
party bickering over the president'' should be kept out of the army, the socialist and freedom parties said
soon after the historians' report was released feb. 9, socialist officers in the army issued a statement calling on waldheim to resign
the defense minister told a news conference friday that schaffer had asked to retire for health reasons, and rejected all other suggestions about the general's departure
the neue arbeiterzeitung said several unidentified officers had declared their solidarity with schaffer and one brigadier _ one of the 90 most senior army commanders _ had returned his membership card to the conservative people's party
two men were arrested and a third was being questioned friday in the slaying of a rookie cop who was shot three times in the head as he guarded a witness in a drug case, police said
todd scott and scott cobb were charged with second-degree murder and criminal possession of a weapon after their arrests late thursday, according to police. a third suspect surrendered friday and was being questioned, police commissioner benjamin ward said at a news conference
officer edward byrne, 22, was shot early feb. 26 while sitting in a patrol car, guarding the house of a man who had complained to police about crack dealers in the south jamaica neighborhood of queens
the killing outraged mayor edward koch, who called president reagan a ``wimp'' in the war on drugs; prompted a roundup of 294 suspected drug dealers and focused new attention on the city's drug lords
a reward fund grew to $130,000 thursday with a $25,000 contribution from some members of the new york stock exchange
city newspapers, quoting unidentified sources, said scott allegedly works for howard ``pappy'' mason, an associate of reputed drug kingpin lorenzo ``fat cat'' nichols
nichols, 29, was sentenced feb. 25 in queens to 25 years to life in prison on drug and gun charges and is awaiting trial on charges he had his parole officer killed for revenge. mason is awaiting trial on charges he was one of the people who carried out that killing
police have speculated that nichols may have ordered byrne's killing as retribution for his long sentence
new york newsday reported friday that the killing was planned feb. 24. the newspaper quoted police sources as saying that two men were approached by men from a nearby housing project and offered $10,000 to ``hit a cop.''
this is from the fat cat,'' the men said, according to the newsday source, and the two drew straws to decide who would pull the trigger
an unidentified detective on the case told newsday that the killers twice went past the guarded house and ``each time they saw a black officer and they didn't kill.''
they also passed by when a woman sat guard. they were waiting for a cop like edward byrne,'' who was white, the detective daid
however, ward said friday, ``i don't think there was anything racial about the assassination of officer eddie byrne.''
officer edward byrne was killed because he wore a blue uniform,'' said ward
the rev. thomas devita, who presided at byrne's funeral monday, said family members told him they plan to go to the home of the witness byrne was guarding to ``offer moral support.''
i think i echo the feelings of others too, that justice should be done,'' said de vita
the community has been very helpful,'' ward said thursday, adding he hoped the drug dealers learned a lesson
shooting at cops, it's just bad for business. i think experienced criminals know that; perhaps these inexperienced ones will learn it,'' the commissioner said
authorities are searching for a band of crooks who broke into the first jersey national bank and stole non-dairy creamer and mouthwash
and sugar. and coffee _ regular and decaf. and soda
the loot was valued at roughly $260
police sgt. robert orlowski said friday that the bank was robbed sometime late monday or early tuesday. the outlaws kicked in several inner doors and made their way to the employees' supply cabinet
when the thiefs departed, the bank was out 12 five-pound bags of sugar, 24 boxes of tea, six cans of decaffeinated coffee, 12 cans of regular coffee, 16 bottles of dish detergent, nine boxes of non-dairy creamer, three bottles of mouthwash and three cases of soda
orlowski said there was no evidence the bandits even tried to get to the vault
they must be big coffee drinkers. but i don't know what they're going to do with 16 bottles of dish detergent,'' said orlowski
police deployed a dozen patrol cars and a helicopter in a late-night chase for a craft from outer space, a police spokesman said friday
the hunt, accompanied by dozens of calls from all over the dutch capital reporting unidentified flying objects, failed to yield anything extra-terrestrial, according to spokesman klaas wilting
we were alerted late thursday night by schiphol (airport) air traffic controllers who observed bright lights in a stationary position over the port area which didn't show up on their radar screens,'' wilting said
after a radio newscast had mentioned the schiphol sighting, calls started pouring in from all over the city, describing objects ranging from ``airplane-like things to fantastic contraptions with darth vader at the helm,'' said wilting
around midnight, 12 patrol cars and a police helicopter were involved, wilting said
after several hours, ``we found nothing except some strong lamps on top of a 50-meter (150-foot) high crane in the harbor,'' which might have been visible from the airport's control tower, wilting said
we think it was a classic example of popular delusion, coupled with a number of jokers trying to pull a trick on us,'' the spokesman said. and film class.</note>
the duke and duchess of york's 10-day dash through california headed for the home stretch friday as the royal couple met los angeles' duke of oil and prepared to visit a ucla film class and a sculpture made of 600 barbie and ken dolls
the visit with occidental petroleum corp. chairman armand hammer, 89, kicked off the eighth day of a whirlwind tour by prince andrew and his pregnant, red-haired wife, the former sarah ferguson
hi, fergie!'' two dozen spectators chanted as sarah emerged from a rolls-royce limousine clad in a navy-blue suit, a brimless rust-colored hat and brown shoes. andrew, in a dark business suit, and his wife waved politely to the small crowd
hammer escorted the couple into his wilshire boulevard corporate headquarters for talks over coffee and rolls. mayor tom bradley showed up for the last 10 minutes of the meeting
as hammer and bradley escorted andrew and sarah back to their car, a teen-age girl gave sarah a bouquet and spectators yelled, ``it's wonderful seeing you'' and ``come back again!''
it's amazing,'' said british-born spectator elaine ball, who has lived in los angeles for five years. ``you never see the royal family over there, but you come 6,000 miles and you can see them.''
the duke and duchess sped to the nearby university of california, los angeles, where they were greeted by chancellor charles young, his wife and a crowd of 200 students _ some yelling ``sarah! sarah!'' _ then swiftly escorted to a luncheon with more than 100 students
sarah's so pretty,'' said student rachel perse, 19
andy looked good, too!'' added 20-year-old roberta salazar
the royal itinerary at ucla included a stop to view sculptures of the barbie and ken dolls and ucla's bruin bear mascot; a gift to andrew and sarah of historical newsreel footage of the royal family; visits to a film-making class and the jules stein eye institute; and a walk across the center for health sciences plaza
the sculpture of barbie and ken dolls, entitled ``off the beaten track,'' was created by 31-year-old scottish-born artist david mach. his work, on view through march 13 outside a ucla art gallery, consists of a two-ton, 20-by-10-foot cargo bin that appears to be supported by the 600 dolls, their arms outstretched above them
mach's sculpture, which purportedly satirizes consumerism, is on display as part of ``uk@la '88: a celebration of british arts,'' which andrew and sarah are promoting on their visit
after leaving ucla by helicopter, the duke and duchess were due in palm springs to open a department store boutique saturday morning. then they will travel to the eldorado polo club in nearby indio to attend a polo match to benefit efforts to rebuild shakespeare's globe theater on its original site on the banks of the thames river
sarah's father, major ronald ferguson, will be captain of the windsor park team in the polo match
on sunday, the royal couple are scheduled to travel from palm springs to los angeles for a flight back to london
a collection of 120 prints of plant drawings made on capt. james cook's first voyage around the world was auctioned in the natural history museum
collectors gathered thursday night in the front hall around the feet of a skeleton of diplodocus, a plant-eating dinosaur that lived 150 million years ago
sotheby's, which conducted the sale, said the prints fetched $94,441
the plants were drawn by sydney parkinson, who sailed with cook and sir joseph banks on a 1768-71 journey that included australia, new zealand, java, argentina and brazil
none of the buyers was identified. the top price was $2,816 for a print of a portia tree
the four republican presidential candidates focused on south carolina friday, searching for support in the waning hours before a saturday primary described by front-runner george bush as an ``all-important super tuesday preview.''
in the hours before the polls opened saturday morning, the vice president said he was concerned that his lead in opinion polls might cause complacency by his supporters
pat robertson answered questions for two hours on a radio call-in show, after complaining during a 30-minute television ad thursday night of ``an effort to discredit me with anti-south, anti-christian bias.'' he paid $75,000 for the ad
kansas sen. bob dole campaigned with sen. strom thurmond and former u.n. ambassador jeane kirkpatrick at his side
rep. jack kemp scheduled appearances in three major cities _ greenville, columbia and charleston
all the gop candidates believe the south carolina primary on saturday will offer a preview of how the south is likely to vote three days later when 14 southern and border states hold primaries or caucuses
this all-important super tuesday preview,'' was how bush described the saturday vote during an appearance before realtors in columbia. ``that message from south carolina is going to shape events on super tuesday nd super tuesday is going to guarantee, in my view, whoever wins the nomination of the republican party.''
later, in beaufort, he told reporters he was concerned about complacency. polls indicate a sizeable lead for the vice president here and elsewhere in the south
one of the reason we're driving down to the wire with the intensity that we are is exactly that. i cannot relax or neglect south carolina because things look fairly strong,'' he said
former television evangelist robertson used his paid broadcast thursday to try an reassure voters about his views of the separation of church and state
i believe absolutely in the separation of church and state and i do not believe that the president of the united states should be subject to the orders or authority of any specific religious body,'' he said
the robertson ad was reminiscent of a tactic used successfully in north carolina in 1976 when supporters of ronald reagan bought television time to broadcast a speech by their candidate in his race against president gerald r. ford
that ad, in which reagan raised the issue of the panama canal treaty, was credited with giving the then-governor of california his first primary victory over the incumbent president
in personal appearances and in ads, kemp was vowing not to turn the canal over to panama if strongman manuel noriega was still in power
there is absolutely no way this country could allow that international waterway to fall into the hands of a dictator like noriega, a drug smuggler like noriega,'' said kemp
defense secretary frank c. carlucci said friday he would strongly oppose any effort to carve out an active law-enforcement role for the military in the war on drugs
that is not the function of the military. we are not the front-line agency in the war on drugs,'' carlucci said in an interview with the associated press
espousing the same approach as his predecessor, caspar w. weinberger, carlucci said he was ``very much against giving the military arrest authority or getting them into law enforcement'' and did not foresee any change in administration policy
carlucci also called libyan strongman col. moammar gadhafi a ``flyspeck'' who wasn't worth listening to and said he thought the u.s. naval force in the persian gulf had been reduced to a proper level
he predicted that a soviet pullout from afghanistan, if it occurs, would have little effect on the kremlin's policies and its support of countries such as nicaragua
carlucci also expressed hope that a meeting later this month with his soviet counterpart, dmitri yazov, would at the least produce an agreement on steps to avoid small, but dangerous, confrontations such a recent ship-bumping incident in the black sea and interference with u.s. military observers in east germany
carlucci, who assumed his post in november after weinberger retired, was asked his views on drug enforcement after education secretary william bennett suggested the united states consider ``a broader use of military force against both the production and shipment of drugs.''
sen. bob dole, who is seeking the republican presidential nomination, adopted the same approach on thursday, calling for use of ``the full force of our military ...''
the defense secretary countered the pentagon should continue to play only a supporting role in the war on drugs _ sharing equipment and intelligence _ because otherwise it would lose sight of its real mission
my own view is that ... the military should be supportive,'' he said. ``but i would be very much against giving the military arrest authority or getting them into law enforcement.''
carlucci reserved his most pointed rhetoric for libya's gadhafi, who earlier this week demanded once again the united states recognize his claim to the gulf of sidra, off the mediterranean sea
the united states recognizes only the standard 12-mile territorial limit in the gulf. u.s. and libyan forces clashed in march 1986 after the navy ignored gadhafi's ``line of death'' in the gulf and a month later, u.s. jets bombed libya in retaliation for libya's alleged involvement in international terrorism
i think gadhafi's a flyspeck,'' carlucci said. ``i don't think he's worth paying attention to. we're certainly not dancing to his tune.''
carlucci refused to say whether the united states was planning any additional naval maneuvers in the gulf, but added: ``if your question is, are we going ahead with the freedom of navigation program, yeah, we're going ahead with that program around the world based on our schedule ....''
the defense secretary said he was satisfied with the state of u.s. forces in the persian gulf, where american ships have been protecting reflagged kuwaiti tankers against iranian attack since last july. the navy fleet was recently reduced in size, with a battleship and helicopter carrier sailing for home
we are now on our 39th convoy, 38 of which have been without incident,'' carlucci said. ``and i think that record speaks for itself. we've obviously got the capability over there that we need.''
turning to his march 14 meeting with yazov in bern, switzerland _ the first such working session between the u.s. and soviet defense chiefs _ carlucci predicted the talks would focus on avoiding ``dangerous activities,'' or confrontations between small military units; arms control and human rights; soviet defense doctrine, and planning for meetings of top-ranking military officers
in the area of what we call dangerous activities, i would hope that we can reach some meeting of the minds ... at least set up a process so that they can be avoided,'' carlucci said
the soviets, he added, are unlikely to change any of their military policies as a result of their setbacks in afghanistan, where they are fighting u.s.-supported rebels
i guess people have in mind the vietnam analogy,'' carlucci said. ``i don't think it works the same way in their system ... the soviet military and the soviet people don't have access to the same amount of information that we have in our society.''
asked about the huge military buildup during president reagan's first term, when he was weinberger's deputy, carlucci said he wouldn't second-guess the pace or manner in which those increases were pursued
while political support for the buildup has evaporated _ forcing budget cuts for three years running _ ``we could have well have ended up with less'' if the spending hikes had been sought on a more gradual basis, he said. ^precede damascus, syria</head> shultz, plo claim of responsibility in car bomb.</note>
secretary of state george p. shultz said friday he has given israel and three arab countries an ``ambitious'' u.s. proposal for middle east peace talks and requested a response within 10 days
under the plan, israel would negotiate with a joint delegation of jordanians and palestinians over the occupied west bank and gaza strip. israel also would negotiate with syria over the golan heights
israel captured the golan heights in the 1967 middle east war. part of it was returned to syria under a 1974 military disengagement agreement, and in december 1981, israel annexed the portion remaining in its hands
shultz said both israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir and foreign minister shimon peres were willing to negotiate over the territory
egypt was the third arab country to get the u.s. proposal from shultz, but it would not be involved directly in negotiations. egypt and israel signed a peace treaty in 1979, and except for the small enclave taba, they have no territorial disputes
there is an attitude of a readiness to work to change things that should be taken advantage of by everybody,'' shultz said. ``the moment can be lost.''
he cast the u.s. proposal for talks on an overall settlement of the 40-year arab-israeli dispute in the form of identical letters to king hussein of jordan and to shamir, with a copy to peres. other versions were submitted to president hafez assad of syria and to egyptian president hosni mubarak
in damascus, syrian presidential spokesman jibran kourieh said after the 2{-hour meeting that shultz handed assad ``a written message from president ronald reagan, containing the american proposal for a comprehensive settlement in the region.''
shultz explained the contents of the letter to president assad and during their discussion, president assad expressed several remarks on the letter,'' kourieh added
after the meeting at the downtown muhajerine presidential palace, shultz left for the aiport and took off for cairo at 7:30 p.m. shultz was expected back in washington early saturaday
earlier a u.s. official said shamir and hussein had not commented on the letter
shultz ``did not get a yes or no from either of them,'' the official said as shultz stopped in damascus for talks with assad
the proposal calls for negotiations to open in early april to provide some self-rule for 1.5 million palestinian arabs who live in the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza
negotiations for an overall middle east settlement would be held by december
the occupied territories have been marked by violence for nearly three months, and scores of palestinians have died in clashes with israeli troops
shamir is expected to give his response to the u.s. proposals when he visits washington on march 14-16 for talks with president reagan and shultz
hussein, who has denounced the reagan adminstration as hopelessly one-sided toward israel, has kept away from washington. jordan's response is expected to go through diplomatic channels
we believe that things have begun to move,'' peres said as he saw shultz off for damascus
not that everything that was difficult disappeared,'' he added
the foreign minister has been far more inclined to accept shultz's plan than shamir. the prime minister objects among other things to the u.s. concept of israel trading land in exchange for arab acceptance of israel's right to exist
shultz met separately with shamir and peres, the two main forces in a divided israeli government
hussein, meanwhile, has sought to gain a seat at the peace table for the palestine liberation organization, which the united states and israel brand a terrorist group
police on friday discovered a car bomb set on a street about 300 yards from the hilton hotel in jerusalem where shultz was staying and safely dismantled the explosives
the palestine liberation organization released a statement in west beirut claiming responsibility for the bomb and said shultz was the target
police said the intent may have been to carry out an attack in a commercial center of jerusalem to protest shultz's visit
no arrests were reported. millions</head>
the navy awarded a jamaican-born jet engine mechanic $27,500 on friday for suggesting a repair procedure that is now saving the government $11 million a year
winston edwards, 34, received the check and a commendation signed by president reagan during ceremonies hosted by vice adm. joseph b. wilkenson jr., the head of the naval air systems command
edwards, a civilian mechanic at the alameda naval aviation depot in california, previously had received $7,500 under the beneficial suggestion awards program for prodding his local depot and the command to make the change in repair and overhaul procedures
the additional money presented friday recognizes the high annual savings now accruing to the government since edwards' suggestion was applied throughout the military system
the combined award of $35,000 is ``the highest cash award that can be given to a civilian employees under the beneficial suggestion awards program,'' the navy said
edwards, who left jamaica at the age of 11, works as a jet engine repairman at the alameda depot. his campaign to save money began when he suggested to his superiors that instead of just throwing out combustion engine liners during overhauls of tf-34 engines, the navy could take two bad liners and fashion one good one
the tf-34 engine is used to power the navy's s-3 viking sub-hunting plane and the air force's a-10 thunderbolt ground-attack jet. each engine liner costs about $18,660 new. the alameda depot overhauls about 500 tf-34 engines every year
edwards originally suggested the change in overhaul procedures in 1981 after a day at work during which he threw away 10 of the liners. the navy wasn't that impressed, however, and turned down the idea
edwards persisted, however, and in 1985 the navy decided to give it a try
according to the service, each of the combustion engine liners has 18 swirlers _ parts that mix and atomize the fuel and air needed for combustion. under the old practice, if any of the swirlers inside a liner were cracked when the engine came in for overhaul, the entire combustion liner was simply replaced
using edwards' suggestion, the navy and air force now salvage enough good swirlers from two bad liners to combine them into one good spare
george harrison scoffs at reports that he and fellow former beatle paul mccartney are having a tiff, saying instead they are considering a reunion with ringo starr to ``write a tune and play together.''
during a recording thursday for a television talk show, harrison, 45, denied a recent british press report of a rift with mccartney
maybe we will write a tune and play together. it won't be the beatles, of course, but it may happen and we are getting on with paul much better than we used to,'' harrison said during the recording for the ``aspel and company'' show
the british tabloid news of the world last sunday reported that ``a bitter feud'' had erupted between harrison and mccartney over a recent pop music festival at san remo in italy
but harrison countered: ``for the last 10 years i did not see much of paul at all. but recently we have been going out to dinner and seeing each other socially quite a lot.''
john lennon, the fourth member of the beatles, was shot dead outside his new york apartment on dec. 8, 1980
the executive producer of ironweed said the movie almost went to the dogs when a pack of angry canines supposed to be attacking another actor turned on jack nicholson
normally, we do five or six takes... by the time we did the fifth take, the dogs were starting to bite jack,'' producer denis blouin said recently
nicholson was getting fed up. he said he was finished, he was furious and said he was going home. it took us an hour to convince him to come back. then, after 15 takes, we finally got the scene finished,'' he said
in the film ironweed, nicholson stars as francis phelan, a former baseball star who returns to his hometown as a bum. his co-star, meryl streep, is helen archer, an educated woman who clings to her friendship with francis
michael jackson will receive an honorary doctor of humane letters degree from fisk university for his support of the united negro college fund
angela radcliffe, a spokeswoman for the black, private liberal arts school, said the university trustees recently voted to award him the degree. the singer has a current hit record, ``man in the mirror,'' and a top album, ``bad.'' he is now on a nationwide concert tour
hurricane hunter robert sheets, who has flown into the eye of more than 200 of the violent storms, has been named director of the national hurricane center
the job makes him responsible for warning the 40 million coastal residents from texas to maine about the onslaught of a tropical storm, one of nature's most destructive and powerful weather systems
his first-hand experience inside hurricanes, gained over 16 years as a researcher, will be a valuable, he said. ``i know as much about hurricane structure and their variations as anyone.''
an enthusiastic audience at the berlin opera recently brought singer luciano pavarotti back to the stage for a record 165 curtain calls after a performance of gaetano donizetti's opera ``l'elisir d'amore.''
berlin opera spokeswoman barbara hering said friday that the number of curtain calls was a record for pavarotti and for the berlin opera house
it may have also been a world record, but we do not have records on that here, so i can not say exactly,'' hering said from her office in west berlin
hering said pavarotti sang the role on two nights in berlin. he returned to the stage for 165 curtain calls on feb. 27, and for 115 curtain calls on feb. 24
anglican archbishop desmond tutu will travel to moscow in june to celebrate the 1,000th anniversary of the russian orthodox church, according to his spokesman
tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize for his fight against apartheid, is leader of the anglican church in southern africa
he was arrested and briefly detained monday when he and other church leaders tried to march to parliament with a petition protesting the recent government crackdown on organizations opposing the south african government's racial policies
a $4 million restaurant and ``boutique'' brewery proposed by chef wolfgang puck met with dis-flavor when a city council committee recommended rejecting the plan
at a hearing before the three-member planning and environment committee this week, residents said the brewery and restaurant would bring drunken drivers, traffic and noise to their neighborhood on the city's westside
city council members ruth galanter and michael woo agreed, but councilman hal bernson, the committee chairman, withheld his vote until he could visit the site
in a telephone interview at spago's, puck's west hollywood restaurant, the chef said he would not push the project against strong local opposition
i want it to be a neighborhood restaurant,'' puck said. ``if the neighborhood doesn't want it, i don't want to spend years fighting them.''
puck envisions building what he called a ``boutique,'' or ``micro brewery'' that would produce a quality beer
the 21-year-old defendant in what has been dubbed the ``preppie murder'' trial peered through trees on a damp, gray friday morning as the jurors in his case tramped over the central park ground where he left a young woman dead
robert chambers, 21, charged with second-degree murder in the death of jennifer levin, sat in the back of a gray car about 40 yards from where her bruised, nearly naked body was found aug. 26, 1986
it was a different vantage point from the low wall behind the metropolitan museum of art where he sat as police investigated the death shortly after miss levin's body was discovered by a passing bicyclist. chambers admits killing her but says it was an accident after she attacked him sexually and hurt him
the cold, damp ground around the tree where the body was found was bare, and the tree was stripped of leaves, a contrast to the green grass and foliage in the park on the warm summer morning when miss levin was killed
the jurors walked over to examine the areas where the victim's body and panties were found and where several police officers testified they had seen a ground disturbance suggesting a body had been dragged
fifty reporters and photographers and a few onlookers watched the proceeding from a distance, kept away by a yellow police ribbon
the trip came a day after a prosecutor testified he was not trying to trick chambers by saying police had not found miss levin's underpants in the park when in fact they had
in a videotaped interview, assistant district attorney stephen saracco is heard telling chambers that his account of how he killed miss levin does not make sense in part because no panties were found
chambers' lawyer, jack litman, has suggested that saracco tried to trick his client by lying to him
chambers and miss levin, 18, went to the park after meeting in an east side bar frequented by children of privilege. both had attended prep schools; miss levin was college-bound while chambers was a college dropout
chambers says the young woman tied his hands behind his back with her panties, sat on his chest facing his feet and grabbed his genitals painfully. he says he freed his hands, threw the panties over his head and reached up with his left forearm and yanked against her throat, flipping her off him
detective michael sheehan testified early in the 9-week-old trial that another investigator passed saracco a note during the videotaping to tell him the panties were found. he said they were recovered some 45 feet from the body
do you remember a note being put in front of you?'' defense lawyer jack litman asked saracco
i don't recall a note _ if there was one,'' saracco said. ``i don't know if there was a note.''
somebody swiped 360 cans of chocolate syrup from a restaurant, and police have issued a statewide alert for ``hot'' fudge
we're looking for somebody with a lot of chocolate on their face and a lot of acne,'' said capt. dan lynch, who as of friday had no suspects
don mcbride, owner of the dairy queen restaurant, said the thief or thieves cut a padlock to a storage area at mid-week and took enough syrup to make more than 19,000 sundaes
mcbride said the syrup, valued at $2,400, was apparently all the intruders wanted
police have notified authorities across the state that someone may try to sell the stolen syrup. target</head> no pickup.</note>
the following dispatch was submitted to the israeli military censor, who ordered a deletion
the plo claimed responsibility for a car packed with explosives that was found near a hotel where secretary of state george p. shultz was staying. the guerrilla group said shultz was the target
police, who defused the bomb safely, said the car had been found accidentally after it was abandoned by its driver. there were no reports of arrests
a u.s. embassy spokesman said the bomb was well off the route the secretary took from the hotel to israeli government offices
but yasser arafat's mainstream palestinian guerrilla group, fatah, said in a statement in beirut that ``the driver had an accident and the car crashed into a power pole about 30 minutes before the time set for the bomb to explode.''
the driver deserted the vehicle and managed to escape,'' the communique said
in a communique telephoned to the associated press office in west beirut, fatah said its military command ``instructed the limassol martyrs group to park a bomb-laden car in front of the hilton hotel in jerusalem targeting shultz, the messenger of imperial'' yehudai said. ``later the chief police explosives expert passed by and through his own experience decided the car was indeed suspicious ... we found it was a car bomb.''
the car carried israeli license plates with a sticker reading: ``contribute to security.''
israel television quoted police officials as saying the car was sold ``to an arab who apparently used a fake identity (card).''
the car was found less than a quarter-mile from the hotel, where shultz spent thursday night
three officials of arafat's palestine liberation organization were killed in a car bomb explosion in the cypriot port of limassol feb. 14
the plo blamed israel's mossad secret service for the bombing
it said the attack was meant to be ``a response to the zionists' brutality against our people in the occupied territories.''
we warn shultz and all agents of imperialism against reaching out for the plo, the sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people,'' the communique added
it was the second report of a car bomb in two days. on thursday, one exploded outside the bus station of kfar saba, a town in central israel, causing no injuries
here, at a glance, is a rundown of some of the new postage rates recommended friday by the independent postal rate commission:
_first class (letters):
first ounce 25 cents, up from 22 cents. additional ounces 20 cents, up from 17 cents
presorted by zip code 21 cents, up from 18 cents
presorted by letter carrier route, 19.5 cents, up from 17 cents
post cards, 15 cents, up from 14 cents
presorted cards by zip code, 13 cents, up from 12 cents
_priority mail:
up to 2 pounds, $2.40, unchanged
_express mail:
under 8 ounces, $8.75, new rate
up to 2 pounds, $12, up from $10.75
up to 5 pounds, $15.25, up from $12.85
_second-class mail (newspapers and magazines):
in county per pound 9.8 cents, up from 9.1 cents. per piece sorted by carrier route 3.4 cents, up from 3.1 cents. the rate for not sorted items would be 5.9 cents, up from 4.9 cents
outside county per pound 12.4 cents to 30.2 cents, up from 11.8 cents to 28.9 cents. per piece 9.9 cents to 16 cents, up from 7.8 cents to 12.3 cents
outside county nonprofit per pound, 9.2 cents to 23.1 cents, changed from 8.5 cents to 28.3 cents; per piece 7.4 cents to 13.1 cents, up from 4.2 cents to 8.7 cents
_third-class mail (advertising):
bulk minimum 16.7 cents, up from 12.5 cents. sorted by zip code, 13.2 cents, up from 10.1 cents.sorted by carrier route, 10.1 cents, up from 8.3 cents. pound rate, 48 cents, up from 38 cents
nonprofit bulk minimum 9 cents, up from 8.5 cents. sorted by zip code 8.2 cents, up from 7.1 cents; sorted by carrier route, 5.9 cents, up from 5.5 cents. pound rate, 28 cents, up from 25.3 cents
_fourth-class mail (parcels):
parcel post: range of $1.63 to $25.46, up from a range of $1.19 to $24.35
library rate: first pound 65 cents, up from 54 cents
_special services:
registered mail, $4.40, up from $3.35
certified mail, 85 cents, up from 75 cents
special delivery, $5.35, up from $2.95
insurance: $25 value, 70 cents, up from 50 cents
money orders: $25 value, 75 cents, unchanged
collect on delivery: $25 value, $2.00, up from $1.50
the best-liked commercials of 1987 included some starring performances from animated characters such as dancing clay raisins, a hamburger chain's moonman and a pizza company's dreaded spoiler called a noid
few of the commercials mentioned most often by consumers polled by video storyboard tests inc. featured traditional show business celebrities, the head of the consumer research firm said thursday
we seem to heading into a period when we see more created celebrities, not necessarily human beings, in commercials,'' said david vadehra, president of video storyboard, in relasing the results of the firm's 10th annual survey of more than 25,000 people
leading the list was the campaign for california raisins, which used clay models of raisins dancing to the sounds of motown music. the ads cost a relatively modest $5.4 million, compared to as much as $344 million for mcdonald's corp. commercials
second was bud light beer commercials, many of which featured the english bull terrier spuds mackenzie while others offered numerous variations of what can go wrong if you simply order a ``light'' without specifying the brand
the ad campaign for pepsi soft drinks placed third, and miller lite beer commercials were fourth. ads for mcdonald's restaurants came in fifth
the noid, the animated imp with the maniacal laugh who threatens the freshness of home-delivered pizza in domino's pizza commercials, was foiled again and wound up 10th
one job title is just like any other _ or is it?
how about ``terminal operator'' for mortician, or ``mobile sanitatian engineer'' for garbage truck driver. or ``vice president, participation and residuals,'' the person in charge of royalties?
these are some of the titles personnel executives from about 100 companies reported in a survey by personnel journal, based in costa mesa, calif., which didn't identify any of the people or companies it quoted
whether humorous or obscure, job titles do serve a purpose, personnel managers insist
titles are accepted as a form of recognition and motivation,'' said an unidentified personnel manager of a chicago-based association management firm. ``they give the feeling of function and stature.''
people need structure and organization to provide a sense of stability and belonging _ where do they fit in the organization? titles help them,'' says a personnel executive at a federal hospital in milwaukee
there are some negatives to titles, the personnel managers admit
they create a class distinction and enhance the we-versus-them attitude,'' said an executive of a mining company in missoula, mont. statement</head>
the ranking republican on the house foreign affairs committee on friday called for a protest to the soviet union, while the state department sought to minimize the significance of its statement on microwave beams aimed at the u.s. embassy in moscow
rep. william s. broomfield of michigan said secretary of state george p. shultz should lodge an official protest over the continuing presence of low-level microwave beams aimed at the embassy
how can we trust the soviets to honor sensitive arms reduction agreements if they are technically attacking our embassy building?'' broomfield said. ``trust is an essential part of improving relations with the u.s.s.r. harassing our diplomats there is unacceptable.''
he added: ``i want the state department to play hardball this time and protest this clear abuse of our fellow citizens'' serving in moscow
in a statement released thursday in response to questions submitted by the associated press, the state department's bureau of diplomatic security said ``microwave signals in the 5-11 ghz (gigahertz) range continue to be detected at the moscow embassy chancery.''
the microwave signal power levels are typically 0.1 microwatt per square centimeter external to the building,'' it said. ``measurements internal to the building are typically less than 0.01 microwatt per square centimeter.''
the current u.s. voluntary safety standard for exposure to microwave radiation _ set by the american national standards institute _ is 5,000 microwatts per square centimeter. by contrast, the soviet union's official safety standard for the microwave frequency range is much lower _ 10 microwatts per square centimeter
the statement thursday said the department could shed no light as to why microwaves have been aimed against the embassy for perhaps as far back as october 1953. it said ``any response would be speculation.''
at a news briefing friday, state department spokeswoman phyllis oakley emphasized the low power levels of the soviet signals currently being detected at the embassy and denied that the situation amounts to ``bombardment.''
the soviets have not resumed microwave bombardment,'' she said. ``we have routinely detected some very low-level microwave activity in our ongoing continuous microwave screening at the embassy. ... there are no known risks from the type of low levels of exposure in moscow that have continued
we are, of course, concerned about this situation,'' mrs. oakley continued. ``in the past, we've protested when levels have exceeded those we consider safe. we're prepared to do so again, should we determine that they pose any threat whatsoever to our staff, however remote.''
she added: ``what we're saying is that there is not a new program of bombardment. we have watched the situation carefully. we continue to watch it carefully. there have been low levels that we have detected, but these pose no risk.'' update with background on noraid</note>
the state department has denied a visa to gerry adams, head of the irish republican army's legal political wing, based on the belief that he is involved in terrorist activity, a spokeswoman said thursday
he was ineligible under (the section) of the immigration and nationality act which excludes from admission to the u.s. people who are personally involved with terrorist activities,'' said state department spokeswoman donna sherman
asked to specify the activities, sherman said: ``our information is that as president of the provisional sinn fein, mr. adams is personally and publicly committed to and abets the armed struggle in northern ireland, and it's on that basis he was denied a visa.''
the ira is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland and is outlawed on both sides of the border, although sinn fein is legal
adams had said on his application that he wished to travel to the united states for ``political work,'' sherman said
martin galvin, a spokesman for the irish northern aid committee, said in a mailgram to the associated press that his group was ``outraged'' by the state department's action, and blamed it on pressure from britain
we regard the continuing denial of a visa to mr. adams as censorship by visa denial,'' galvin wrote
the committee, also known as noraid, charged that the state department was refusing ``to comply with the spirit and letter of the new visa provisions.''
noraid claims to aid the victims of strife between protestants and roman catholics, but the u.s., irish and british governments accuse it of helping finance ira operations
sen. daniel p. moynihan, d-n.y., and rep. barney frank, d-mass., introduced an amendment last year which overturned that portion of the mccarran walter act which had allowed the u.s. government to deny visas to aliens who participate in political activities in their native countries which would be legal for u.s. citizens in the united states
however, sherman said adams was denied a visa based on another part of the law that, she said, ``explicitly preserves the authority of the executive branch to deny a visa to someone who is involved in terrorist activity.''
this was at least the third time that adams, who is also a member of british parliament, has been denied a visa to the united states. earlier rebuffs occurred in june 1986 and february 1985, sherman said
in july 1986, canada denied adams entry because he had been convicted of attempting to escape from prison in 1974 after being held for two years under emergency powers
adams had been trying to reach canada after being denied a u.s. visa to address a conference of irish-americans in buffalo, n.y
police officers from fairfax, calif., weren't libeled by an x-rated film in which actors wore the department's uniforms, a state appeals court ruled thursday
ten past or present fairfax officers, including a policewoman, had sued the filmmaker, distributor and a magazine that had carried a publicity photo from the film for libel, invasion of privacy and emotional distress. they sought $240 million
but the appeals court, upholding a lower-court decision, said in a 3-0 ruling that there was no intent to portray actual fairfax police officers and no danger that the public would confuse the actors with the real officers
the film, ``nightlife,'' made in 1983 by a now-defunct filmmaker, included a segment in which two policemen agree not to arrest two prostitutes in exchange for sex
actors wore surplus fairfax, calif., police uniforms from a costume store in san francisco, the appeals court said
the film did not identify the location of fairfax at a time when there were at least six fairfax police departments in various states, the court said
the court also noted that between 90 and 105 people had been authorized to wear the shoulder patch of the fairfax, calif., police. a0831 on seaton.</note>
henryk szeryng, a virtuoso violinist known for his refreshing and moving renditions of bach and brahms, died thursday in kassel, west germany, of a cerebral hemorrhage. he was 69
szeryng took up the violin at age 7. in 1936, he studied at the paris conservatory, winning the coveted first prize. szeryng studied composition with the legendary nadia boulanger and gabriel bouillon and became friends with jean cocteau, pablo picasso and igor stravinsky
at the outbreak of world war ii, szeryng, who spoke seven languages fluently, was made polish prime minister wladislav sikorski's official translator and later became a personal goverment liaison officer
renowned worldwide for a vast repertoire which he executed with great skill and feeling during a career that spanned more than 50 years, szeryng was to have performed wednesday in brussels at a concert to benefit aids research
louis g. seaton, former chief labor negotiator at general motors corp., died thursday at age 81
seaton joined gm as a graphic artist in 1928, transferring to the industrial relationship department four years later. in 1946, he was named director of labor relations, with responsibility for day-to-day relations with the united auto workers and national contract negotiations until his retirement. he became a vice president in 1957
philip henry alston jr., a confidant of former president jimmy carter's and a former ambassador to australia, died wednesday. he was 76
alston was campaign chairman of carter's successful bid to become governor in 1970 and was chairman of the committee for jimmy carter when carter was elected president in 1976
carter, as governor, appointed alston to the board of regents and, as president, ambassador to australia. he was a co-founder of the georgia foundation, which raised millions of dollars for the university of georgia, where he received his undergraduate degree and was co-chairman of the joint tech-georgia development fund
albert fiala sr., who shot his wife to death in a highly publicized 1985 ``mercy killing,'' committed suicide at the age of 85
fiala shot his wife of 61 years, anna fiala, 79, as she experienced a severe diabetic seizure on aug. 10, 1985
two months later he was charged with second-degree murder. he pleaded guilty. fiala was sentenced to a year's probation and 52 weeks of community service at a bellevue food bank
a 600-pound soda machine toppled and crushed to death a 17-year-old in a school hallway thursday, firefighters said
j.r. strom of lynnwood ``was probably climbing on top and possibly rocking it,'' said shoreline fire battalion chief r. ladue. ``that's the only way it could have come down on him.''
ladue said the boy was found about 15 minutes after the machine fell at king's high school. a teacher needed six male students to help him lift the machine, he said
the house has killed its democratic leadership's proposal for a package of ``humanitarian'' aid for the nicaraguan contras, leaving the vacillating u.s. policy toward central america once again in limbo and the rebels without support
the lawmakers voted 216-208 thursday to reject the democrats' $30.5 million proposal that would have provided four months' worth of food, clothing and medical supplies to the rebels and created a new $14 million program to aid children who are victims of the nicaraguan civil war
forty-five democrats, mostly liberals who oppose any aid to the contras, joined with republicans, who thought the aid proposal too weak, to deal it a fatal blow. only five of 176 gop members present voted for the measure on the final ballot
organizers called off a general strike as support faded, saying a money crunch in the next few days will paralyze the nation and keep up pressure on the government without their help
checks are not clearing, there is no cash and businesses without currency cannot work, so there will be a de facto strike,'' aurelio barria, president of the panamanian chamber of commerce, industry and agriculture, told reporters thursday
the work stoppage, which began monday and was called off thursday night, was aimed at forcing gen. manuel noriega from power after he was fired feb. 25 by president eric arturo delvalle. delvalle himself was promptly dismissed the following day by an emergency meeting of noriega loyalists in the national assembly
the national research council said today its 14-month review following the challenger disaster has found ``no show-stoppers'' to prevent nasa from resuming manned space flights in august
our general impressions are favorable,'' an nrc committee said in a 144-page report
but it also found fault with nasa's way of troubleshooting complex space shuttle systems and recommended a keener and more methodical evaluation of risks and hazards
a late-winter storm blamed for at least seven deaths plastered the midwest with up to 8 inches of snow and ice, toppling trees and power lines and leaving more than 65,000 people without electricity today, officials said
the storm left as much as 8 inches of snow in ohio, while freezing rain in indiana and illinois thickly layered roads, bridges, trees and power lines with as much as 2 inches of ice
it's just a winter wonderland out there,'' said dan mccarthy of the national weather service's severe storms center in kansas city. ``it's like a hockey rink.''
the soviet union still is bombarding the u.s. embassy in moscow with microwave radiation, more than four years after u.s. officials protested a resumption of the tactic, the state department says
microwave signals in the 5-11 ghz (gigahertz) range continue to be detected at the moscow embassy chancery,'' the department said thursday in written responses to questions from the associated press
the statement by the department's bureau of diplomatic security also showed that u.s. officials still don't know the purpose of the low-level radiation bombardment
senior officials of the u.s. trust territory of palau may be involved with smuggling southeast asian heroin into the united states, the chairmen of two house panels charge
the accusation was made by interior chairman morris udall, d-ariz., and del. ron de lugo, d-virgin islands, chairman of the interior subcommittee on insular and international affairs
they quoted the u.s. drug enforcement administration as saying that the pacific islands ``are being used to transship heroin from southeast asia to the u.s.''
federal researchers could find no new or unusual pathways by which aids spread in a study of 2,059 people who apparently contracted the deadly disease from unknown sources, says a report published today
another new study concluded that routine screening of surgical patients for the aids virus is unwarranted because it would wrongly identify as many as 130,000 people as having the virus for every surgeon it saved from infection
even though surgeons are very important people, somehow changing the lives of 130,000 people to protect one of them doesn't seem quite right to me,'' said one of the researchers, dr. stephen g. pauker
ibm researchers say they've set a record high temperature for superconductivity _ a jump of 35 degrees _ by varying the recipe that produced the old mark reported last month
the accomplishment is a significant step toward making superconductors practical, according to a superconductivity expert
the new material lost all resistance to electricity at minus 234 degrees fahrenheit, said edward engler of the international business machine corp. almaden research center in san jose, calif
a sharp increase in methane gas in the atmosphere since 1978 probably will make earth warmer and may worsen seasonal losses of protective ozone over antarctica, scientists say
but the 11 percent increase in methane in the past decade also may slow depletion of the ozone shield over the rest of the planet, said f. sherwood rowland and donald r. blake, chemists at the university of california at irvine
their nasa-funded study was published today in the journal science
for the first time in canadian history, a member of parliament has revealed that he is homosexual, surprising the public, delighting gay rights activists and provoking right-wing ridicule
svend robinson, of the socialist new democratic party, made his announcement in parliament thursday
we do not choose to be gay or lesbian and are not seeking special rights, merely the right to live openly in dignity without losing our jobs or homes or being subjected to violence,'' robinson, 36, said. concern</head>
ten years after the federal government forced a change in the stuff that makes liquid spew out of aerosol cans, some environmentalists are worrying that it was simply a matter of swapping one evil for another
in a sense we did,'' said lon burnam, clean air consultant for the sierra club in dallas. ``but you can easily make the argument that the one that we went to is less harmful than the one that we left.''
most of today's aerosol products are pushed out of the can by hydrocarbons, a propellant that gained wide use when a government ban on chlorofluorocarbons went into effect in march 1978
the order to remove cfcs from most aerosols came after scientists found the propellants might be reaching the upper atmosphere and thinning the ozone layer that shields people and plants from the sun's potentially harmful ultraviolet rays
the hydrocarbons that replaced cfcs help form ozone _ but close to the ground, where it contributes to the smoggy haze that scores of cities are struggling to combat. extended exposure is known to cause or aggravate respiratory problems
although hydrocarbons are found in much greater concentrations in vehicle exhaust and industrial emissions, some officials under pressure to clear the air are looking at limiting the use of aerosols
we're beginning to run out of things we can do in the industrial sector. we've also already done quite a bit with the automobile,'' said les montgomery, director of regulation development for the texas air control board. ``consumer areas are getting to be the remaining area that we haven't done too much in.''
new york city officials, for instance, are seeking the aerosol industry's cooperation in reducing the hydrocarbons given off by air fresheners and spray pesticides
we'll be asking manufacturers by a specified date to submit their own plan for reducing the ozone-creating pollutants in their products,'' said r.w. groneman, a spokesman for the new york state department of environmental conservation
new york officials expect to propose the regulations by early april. new jersey officials are keeping tabs on the effort, groneman said
but the aerosol industry has been opposed to further regulation after its experience with the fluorocarbon ban _ ``the biggest thing to hit the industry in the 1970s,'' according to evelyne mcfeaters of the chemical specialties manufacturers association
the group represents about 400 makers of household products
the ban cost the industry $1 billion to retool,'' ms. mcfeaters said. ``with this proposal, we'd be seeing an even greater cost. they're talking about potentially billions of dollars. the hydrocarbon propellants are the major propellants in use.''
last fall, the texas air control board proposed a ban on most aerosols in dallas and neighboring fort worth, one of 14 metropolitan areas trying to develop air quality regulations acceptable to the u.s. environmental protection agency
the 14 metro areas have been found by epa to be in violation of clean air act standards, but they won reprieves from federal sanctions. now, their plans for reducing levels of ozone and other pollutants are to take effect aug. 31
under the proposed dallas-fort worth ban, state officials wanted different propellants used or wanted stores to clear their shelves of the hydrocarbon aerosol products, ranging from hair spray to insecticides and paint
the ban on so-called volatile organic compounds eventually was scrapped because of opposition from consumers, retailers and the aerosol industry. the industry association estimated the ban could have cost the area more than $77 million annually in sales
besides, consumers probably would have skirted the ban by driving to neighboring counties to buy aerosols, said ralph engel, president of the chemical specialties manufacturing association
aerosol manufacturers are skeptical about substitute propellants suggested to take the place of hydrocarbons
many of the possible substitutes could actually increase the amount of voc (volatile organic compounds) in the air,'' ms. mcfeaters said
one non-aerosol alternative is the pump spray
i would think people prefer aerosols to pump sprays because of the extra effort involved in using a pump,'' said jim may, a spokesman for s.c. johnson and co. but the racine, wis.-based company had no research on consumer acceptance of pump-spray products
the company, known for its johnson's wax products, uses hydrocarbons _ most often propane and butane _ in more than 90 percent of its products, may said
montgomery of the texas air control board says he recognizes an aerosol ban would be difficult to enforce
it would need to be a national thing,'' he said. ``it's unlikely to expect that a major corporation with a national or international market is going to reformulate its propellant just for the dallas-fort worth market.''
but burnam noted that automakers have accommodated california's stricter air pollution laws by offering cleaner-operating versions of their cars in that state
it's not only practical, but a reasonable thing to do,'' he said of banning aerosols. ``there's a whole range of products that are a waste of the consumer's dollar and are counterproductive to healthy living.''
besides aerosol air fresheners and cleaning products, the proposed texas ban also would have limited solvents used in house and car paints, as well as other products that give off fumes
montgomery expected similar proposed limits on consumer products may become more widespread
if the current federal clean-air act requirements keep driving areas to try to work on this ozone problem and, as we run out of other things, i guess it's a type of control that other areas may look at.''
nestled in the lush jungles of the hawaiian islands is a multibillion-dollar industry that the local growers protect, the government destroys, the vistors bureau rarely mentions and tourists often overlook on secluded mountain trails
it is marijuana, and despite the government's best efforts to eradicate it, the state's largest cash crop continues to flourish and enjoy the reputation as some of the best ``pakalolo'' in the world
the government destroys more pot plants here than anywhere else in the united states, but still the crop thrives, nurtured by year-round, near-perfect growing conditions
a prayer goes into the ground with every plant,'' said roger christie, spokesman for the marijuana political action committee in hilo and a member of the cambridge, mass.-based cannabis corp. ``these islands are a magic place for growing pakololo. the sun, the rain, the energy of the volcano all combine to create the right conditions.''
the islands' light, misty rain, which was considered a blessing by ancient hawaiians, is also a boon to pot growers, christie said, adding that the year-round sunshine is rarely intense enough to scorch the plants
oh, the stuff here is definitely legendary,'' said george auflick, agent in charge at the drug enforcement agency here. ``hawaii pot is so highly prized that a lot of growers from other pacific islands ship their stuff to honolulu first, just so it can go to the mainland with a hawaii postmark. it's just got sort of a mythical reputation.''
that reputation is reflected in the price, auflick said. locally grown marijuana goes for about $150 an ounce on the islands, he said. but on the mainland, what is known as maui wowie, kona gold and puna butter sells for about $300 to $500 an ounce, with the highest prices on the east coast. in comparison, an ounce of mexican or californian marijuana fetches $60 an ounce in los angeles, with colombian selling for about $200 an ounce, according to the narcotics division of the los angeles police department
prices here rise after each big raid, and lately the going rate has been steep. that pleases capt. richard carter, the head of the criminal investigation unit of the police department on the ``big island'' of hawaii, where an estimated 66 percent of the state's crop is grown
every time the price goes up, that means there is less of it around,'' carter said. ``and that means we're doing our job.''
law enforcement officials say marijuana harms the younger population that has grown up with it and creates crime and violence
in 1987, 1.25 million marijuana plants and 752 pounds of dried pot were seized on the big island alone, carter said. each plant is considered to be worth $1,000, which means more than $1.2 billion worth of marijuana was recovered last year on the big island alone
authorities figure about 1.8 million plants were destroyed throughout the state. but for every plant destroyed, two or three were left to flourish, carter said
they (the growers) know we can't get to it all,'' carter said. ``so they sort of plant some for us and some for them. but lately we've been getting to a lot of the stuff they'd thought they'd hidden.''
the department patrols well-known growing areas daily, carter said, but ``operation green harvest'' is the department's twice-a-year all-out effort to get rid of the crop. coinciding with the major harvesting times, the joint effort between the local police and national guard has all the makings of a hollywood movie
helicopters swoop over acres of green fields, carrying specially trained officers. when a sizable marijuana crop is spotted, the cops rush into the fields, armed with machetes, and leave a swath of destruction, carter said. some officers even rappel down from the helicopters into hard-to-reach, mountainside gardens. and police have a new weapon _ diesel oil _ which is even more efficient, he said. sprayed on crops, it destroys them, ``roots and all,'' he said
arrests are infrequent during ``operation green harvest,'' carter said, because the whirring helicopters warn growers of the impending raid
the authorities' increased efficiency has forced growers to be more careful about camouflaging their crops _ scattering them with as few as 25 plants to a patch, or planting under the leafy canopy of ohia trees or in remote canyons or rocky mountainsides
still, many growers are not secretive at all, and plant marijuana at the edge of papaya or sugar cane fields, carter said
that kind of defiance has some officials on the mainland worried about whether hawaii law enforcement officials are really doing all they can to rid the state of a drug trade that is said to bring in more than $4 billion a year, second only to the tourist industry
the issue got national attention recently after rep. charles rangel, the chairman of the u.s. house select committee on narcotics abuse and control, released a report claiming that the drug trade in hawaii was a major industry that had bought influence in the state government
local reaction to the new york democrat's allegations was swift and angry, with rep. daniel akaka, d-hawaii, calling rangel's contentions unjustifiable. after the outcry, the committee agreed to hold hearings on the issue in hawaii this spring
anybody who lives here _ unless they have their head in the sand _ knows we have a drug problem. but we're doing everything we can to fight it,'' said carolyn tanaka, press secretary to hawaii gov. john waihee
illegal cultivation brings a lot of money to the growers, but not to the state in general,'' she said, adding, ``we don't care how much money marijuana would bring in, trying to legalize it just so it can be taxed is out of the question.''
but the marijuana pac's christie, who is leading a drive to legalize marijuana for medical use in hawaii, said the state is giving up a valuable source of revenue in it's zeal ``to dictate the public morality.'' a derivative of marijuana has been used to relieve some side effects of chemotherapy in cancer patients
eradication of marijuana is ``not an issue of the government caring for the people,'' christie said. ``if that were the issue, they'd ban the shot glass and the beer mug.''
he said marijuana can be used to make rope, paper and canvas
the best efforts of local, state and federal law enforcement officials will not stop the marijuana farmers, christie said
backyard growers with just a few plants can make up to $20,000 a year, he said, while those with larger plots rake in $80,000 and up annually
the bottom line is that more people than ever want the stuff,'' he said, ``and there is plenty of it here.''
mister rogers is introducing his young viewers to a new neighbor this week, and he'd like nothing more than for everyone to be friends
the land is the soviet union, which he visited last year as a guest on moscow's ``good night, little ones.'' the neighbor is tatiana vedeneeva, the soviet television program's host who subsequently dropped by ``mister rogers' neighborhood.''
the aim, both say, is to foster a better understanding between the two countries through the eyes and ears of the young
that's the goal of the neighborhood anyway, to be able to understand and care for yourself better and as you understand and care for yourself, you look through understanding eyes at your neighbor,'' said fred rogers, creator and host of ``mister rogers' neighborhood.''
just like children grow little by little, one increment after another, that's the way human beings grow. i think that that's the way countries grow in trust, just one step at a time,'' he explained with the same gentleness that has become his on-screen trademark
this exchange of pint-sized culture, a year in the making, could turn those steps into leaps, according to rogers and vedeneeva. an inspired rogers, in fact, is considering trips to other countries
even though they (children) are tiny, it's a big bridge,'' vedeneeva said during her november visit to pittsburgh's wqed-tv, home of ``mister rogers' neighborhood'' for the past 20 years
rogers' visit to ``good night, little ones'' last september will be aired by the public broadcasting service on tuesday. the show includes street scenes of moscow
even though i can't see those people right now, i can think about them and know that they're somewhere,'' rogers tells his viewers. ``and they're not pretend. they're real. just like you. even though you're not in this room on this couch with me, you're somewhere and you're real.''
ms. vedeneeva's visit to ``mister rogers' neighborhood'' will be shown thursday. rogers greets her with a song he composed just for the occasion
we would like to welcome you. it's good to be in touch. we would like to welcome you. our friendship means so much,'' he sings, accompanying himself at the piano
the message of this week's programs, according to rogers, is ``that children in the soviet union start out as babies and get to be toddlers and get to be pre-schoolers and school-age children just like children here.''
it's (also) trying to demonstrate that adults throughout the world care for children and that people as far away as the soviet union have tender feelings about their children, just the way americans do,'' he said
for vedeneeva, the similarities are just as striking
our children love the same thing as your children love to do,'' she said in russian. ``they would love to get acquainted with american children and especially with mister rogers.''
soviet children last december got their first glimpse of the cardigan- and sneakers-clad rogers, the first guest ever to appear on ms. vedeneeva's nightly 15-minute show. the broadcast coincided with soviet leader mikhail gorbachev's summit meeting with president reagan
except for a few words of russian, the 59-year-old rogers spoke english on the soviet set. still, he managed to master one phrase that he repeated again and again to the many children he met: ``boodish li ti moy sawsed?'' or ``won't you be my neighbor?''
ms. vedeneeva, who speaks little english, was assisted by a translator for ``mister rogers' neighborhood.'' the interpreter figures prominently on thursday's show, narrating a segment showing how russian matrouska dolls are made
i don't think we've ever had an interpreter on the set. so that could help children see what that's like,'' rogers said
rogers was accompanied to moscow by hand puppets daniel tiger and `x' the owl. vedeneeva made her first journey to the united states with stepashka the rabbit and xrysha the pig
the puppets _ kukli in russian _ seemed to have as much fun as their creators. daniel tiger and xrysha the pig, in fact, shared a shy smooch in moscow
oooh, you're such a big pig. a bolshoi pig,'' daniel tiger told xrysha. ``i like you.''
stepashka, however, seemed to put it best
girls and boys, we're going to be your good neighbors. it means good friends, too,'' the rabbit said before leaving ``mister rogers' neighborhood.''
goodbye,'' it said, waving at the cameras. ``i love you.''
elsewhere in television:
marcos miniseries _ hbo plans to present next fall a six-hour miniseries tentatively titled ``the four-day revolution'' about the fall of the marcos regime in the philippines. one of the central characters will be an american journalist played by gary busey. the miniseries is already in production in manila. the script is by david williamson, who wrote the screenplay for ``the year of living dangerously.''
the white house, business groups and some political office seekers, such as george bush, just won't let go of the matter, and so it is seems destined to grow into a major issue
issues are created by differences of opinion strongly held, and on this there are many opinions. it is controversial, debatable, emotional. it can be construed as a battle of haves versus have-nots, rich vs. poor
the question: should the capital gains tax, which was raised in the tax reform act of 1986, be reduced _ perhaps to a rate even lower than before?
central to the issue is another question: can revenues be raised by cutting the capital gains tax, as the white house and bush suggest?
backers of a cut cite the u.s. treasury's own statistics in support of their view. they point to steady increases in revenues since the tax was cut from 49 percent to 28 percent in 1979, and then to 20 percent in 1981
in 1978, when the 49 percent maximum rate was still in effect, tax revenue amounted to $9.1 billion. in 1984, latest year for which figures are available, the total was $19.6 billion
sharp as these statistical differences are, some critics maintain they are not as significant as they seem. stock market prices, they point out, have risen sharply over the years. they say it is this that accounts for the rise
why should lower taxes raise revenues? because, say defenders of a lower tax, those taxpayers with capital gains wouldn't be afraid to take them. until those gains are realized, they observe, uncle sam gets nothing at all
the crux of their argument is that those with big gains in securities or other investments, including housing, decline to sell because of the 28 percent tax liability. if it were half that, they say, sellers would be more active
they contend that while this added activity would be taxed at a relatively lower rate, the government would earn more revenue because of the greater volume. estimates vary, but conceivably these gains could be sizable
david burton of the u.s. chamber of commerce estimates a reduction to 15 percent would produce at least $3.5 billion more each year. harvard economist lawrence lindsey puts the added revenue at $31 billion over three years
one of the most formidable arguments against the reduction is that it might produce a spurt of selling in the first couple of years, but that the benefits to uncle sam would be decidedly less dramatic after that
in short, say these critics, the cut itself rather than the rate of tax is the important thing. they agree that many taxpayers would take advantage of the cut to take postponed capital gains, but that afterward the impact would erode
defenders also contend that the country _ not just those with capital gains _ needs lower rates in order to spur investment in new businesses, new jobs and new technology _ which, of course, would enlarge the revenue-producing sector
they indicate that as matters stand a goodly amount of potential venture capital is tied up in old enterprises, left there by owners who cannot afford to pay _ or who choose to defer paying _ the taxes that would become due
potentially the hottest dispute of all is the contention that a lower capital gains tax benefits the rich and does very little, at least immediately, for the poor. it could be a dispute loaded with more passion than content
prof. lindsey states that 80 percent of the $31 billion he refers to would be paid by taxpayers with incomes greater than $100,000. inherent in that statement, however, is that most of the tax benefits would go to them also
the subject is at the heart of at least two bills in congress. over the next few months, it could become a political hot potato
just when the winds blowing from the soviet union bring the refreshing possibility of greater openness and reform, hungarians find their once-vaunted economy faltering
the government is warning them to expect a decline in living standards, regarded as the best in the east bloc
all that combined with uncertainty over the tenure of the 75-year-old communist party leader janos kadar is leaving hungarians in a bleak and wary mood
yet, the outward signs of economic trouble are few in this lovely capital on the danube. shops along the glittering vaci pedestrian mall are well-stocked and bustling, traffic clamors along the old chain bridge with bmws and hondas vying with soviet-made fiats and czech skodas, and women are dressed in stylish furs
it's only in the windows,'' said a budapest businessman
scratch beneath the surface, he added, and it becomes apparent that times are getting harder
a government austerity program took effect jan. 1, imposing the east bloc's first personal income tax and value-added tax. in addition, the government says inflation could rise from last year's 8 to 9 percent to 15 percent this year, which would make it the worst in the country's postwar history
compared to some nations in eastern europe, hungary remains an island of prosperity and economic stability. poland is expecting inflation of 40 to 45 percent this year. inflation in yugoslavia reached 170 percent this past fall
but hungary's economic woes arose over the last few years with ``breathtaking suddenness,'' one party member said. ``therefore we are bitter.''
the three-year ``program of consolidation,'' as the austerity measures are called, is intended to raise revenues to bridge yawning government deficits, caused largely by huge subsidies to money-losing industries
the government plans to phase out unprofitable factories, raising fears of increasing unemployment. some analysts say the jobless total could rise from 10,000 (0.2 percent) today to 200,000 (3.3 percent) of the 6-million-member work force
hungary borrowed in the 1970s to build heavy industry. now, its 10.6 million people are burdened with a gross hard currency debt of $16 billion, the highest per capita in the soviet bloc
on the positive side, exports to the west in 1987 were up 13 percent to $5.08 billion and tourism boomed, with more than 18 million people visiting the country. hungary's state-dominated agriculture continues to produce more than the country can consume
the austerity program is the work of 57-year-old prime minister karoly grosz, who took over government administration in july. since then, he has discussed hungary's problems with a frankness that surprised many of his countrymen
acknowledging calls for greater democratization, a communist party committee has promulgated a set of theses on political reforms and the party's ``leading role'' which has been presented to basic party cells and is to be put before a central committee meeting
if approved, the proposals would probably be forwarded to the first national party conference since 1957, which a party source said is expected early in june
the theses generally endorse greater consultation between the party and the population, more open debate in the party and a retreat from day-to-day party involvement in the government
diplomats said the theses appear to generate little enthusiasm. members of the unofficial opposition said they are disappointed by the proposals, calling them too vague to bring substantial change
there are many words about the necessity of political reform, but i am afraid that the speeches are not so sincere,'' said gyorgy gado, an opposition writer. ``i am afraid they haven't the courage to make the necessary changes.''
meanwhile, the question on everybody's mind is whether kadar will retire and who will take his place as head of the party, a senior western diplomat said
behind-the-scenes jockeying for position is practically paralyzing the government, the diplomat added. ``nobody does anything except politics right now.''
grosz is considered the leading candidate and the favorite of the soviets, even though his relations with party regulars and the coterie around kadar appear strained, said the diplomat, speaking only on condition of anonymity
also mentioned as possible successors are chief party ideologist janos berecz and, as a darkhorse, imre pozsgay, the leader of the national unity people's patriotic front, who advocates more dialogue with groups outside the party
kadar has been at the helm of the party since the soviet suppression of the 1956 hungarian revolution. described variously by diplomats in budapest as ``a wily old fox'' and ``a declining king surrounded by courtiers,'' he has given no known indication that he will step aside
but sources in and outside the party said kadar increasingly is out of touch with economic problems and is an obstacle to political reform
he has not been a bad dictator. even if you disagreed with him you could work,'' said a party member. ``now people want results.''
people feel as long as he's in power no real changes can happen,'' said ferenc koszeg, editor of the illegal magazine beszelo (talker)
and the public mood?
very gloomy,'' said the diplomat. ``compared to a year ago, the situation is closer to instability, although i still believe it's less than a 50-50 chance.''
said koszeg: ``people are so disappointed that they don't believe anybody any longer. this is an important handicap both for the government and the opposition.''
star wars'' and ``raiders of the lost ark'' made harrison ford one of america's top box office draws, but the actor says both he and his audience are maturing
i'm not an ingenue anymore,'' the 45-year-old actor said
his most recent effort leaves han solo and indiana jones in hyperspace. in the just-released roman polanski thriller, ``frantic,'' ford's cocksure quality disappears as he portrays a bespectacled father and husband caught in a situation beyond his control
it follows ``witness'' and ``the mosquito coast,'' two other movies where ford shucked invulnerability for more complex and sensitive roles. in his next film, the mike nichols comedy ``working girls,'' he has a cary grant-type part
i'm not trying to make a transition into a different kind of persona; i do whatever i think is appropriate for that character to tell the story,'' he said during a recent interview
but this is also related to growing older,'' he said, fingering his reading glasses in his right hand. ``i mean, `star wars' was almost 15 years ago. i am 15 years older. there's no sense denying it. in fact, i revel in it. i've been more interested in those characters that are more mature.''
in ``frantic,'' ford grows more uncomfortable in every scene. he plays a california heart surgeon at a medical conference in paris. terrorists kidnap his wife, but police and u.s. officials believe she willingly left him. he meets a sensuous young french woman who provides clues to the abduction and joins him in a struggle to find his wife
the whole thing depends on this doctor, this fish out of water, reaching this emotional exhaustion, where he does things that are well outside of his nature and experience,'' said ford
a concern for his real-life wife's safety led ford to paris, polanski and the part. he accompanied his pregnant wife, screenwriter melissa mathison (``e.t.''), to meetings in paris on an another project with polanski, the director of ``tess,'' ``chinatown'' and ``rosemary's baby.''
after the first few days, roman described the film to me and it sounded interesting,'' ford said
the script was in french, a language the actor does not speak. ``roman stood up and for two hours _ he told me the movie,'' ford said. ``he played all the parts, and he was great. when it was over, i said, `if you'll right that down in english, i'll do it.'''
ford calls himself ``mono-maniacal'' during filming, but always returns to his ranch in wyoming to ``go grocery shopping, pick up the laundry, work on the fence, plow the snow, read a little, fish a little and go cross-country skiing.''
wyoming is now home for ford. he was raised in a suburban chicago, went to school at ripon college in wisconsin and struggled as an actor and carpenter in southern california. ``star wars'' gave him the success and security to buy the ranch and spend some time there
i wouldn't be able to do it (acting) if i wasn't able to get back when it was over,'' he said
his current project is ``working girls,'' a comedy set in new york about a secretary who fights to retrieve an idea from a boss who has claimed credit for it
one of the pleasures of this comedy is that it's a relatively smaller part,'' said ford, who called the last two pictures ``killers.'' in ``working girls,'' he plays the boyfriend of melanie griffith and sigourney weaver
this fall, production begins on a third ``raiders'' movie. when that's over, ford will head back to his wife, his 10-month-old son, malcolm, and the ranch
and then?
i'm planning to take the next year off,'' he said
actor rob lowe is best known for his ``brat pack'' movie roles and romances with actress melissa gilbert and princess stephanie of monaco
but the heartthrob of the teeny-bopper set also is an active crusader against toxic wastes
he and other young screen actors, such as ally sheedy, judd nelson, daphne zuniga and alexandra paul, are just a few of hollywood's new breed of celebrity political activists
they represent a new generation of artists who have, like athletes, a tremendous effect at being role models for young people,'' said california assemblyman tom hayden
they're taken more seriously with americans than politicians because people know them. ... it's a very healthy tonic for an apathetic generation.''
hayden was a founder of students for a democratic society, one of the most visible student radical organizations of the 1960s, and is the husband of actress jane fonda, another celebrity activist
in 1985, the haydens became curious about the true interests of the so-called brat packers, who had been labeled selfish and self-centered by critics. they invited a few to their santa monica home, including tom cruise, kelly mcgillis, demi moore, emilio estevez, gilbert, nelson and lowe
once the haydens saw an interest was there, they formed network, an educational group that explains political issues to actors and introduces them to politicians
they are incredibly effective at motivating and opening up your minds,'' sheedy said of the couple. ``it's not something where they're trying to brainwash you in any way. there's no pressure at all.''
her involvement in network prompted the young star of ``war games'' and ``the breakfast club'' to throw a mixer with sen. alan cranston (d-calif.) for her actor friends
it was so much fun. it was so exciting,'' sheedy said
another hollywood activist group, young artists united, was formed two years ago by paul, who starred in ``dragnet,'' and filmmaker daniel sladek. yau involves young people in such social issues as teen suicide and drug and alcohol abuse, rather than political issues
some yau members include sarah jessica parker, star of tv's ``a year in the life,'' eric stoltz of ``mask'' and most of the network members
yau plans to put about 30 of the young actors on a bus caravan this april and cruise the southern california beach communities, urging young people to register to vote
i think there's a major transformation going on in the people of this generation from the `me' generation to the `we' generation. they realize they can accomplish a lot united,'' said the 23-year-old sladek
for fear of alienating their fans, actors generally remained aloof from politics until the 1930s, when hollywood threw its support behind president roosevelt and his social policies
hollywood staged massive support for world war ii, with war bond rallies and entertaining the troops abroad. some notables, especially charlie chaplin, supported the soviet cause, and their activities would haunt them later
the postwar period brought mccarthyism, when many careers were harmed or ruined through ``blacklisting'' by association with leftist causes. the reaction caused many actors to eschew support of any issues or candidates, and continued into the 1960s
however, the civil rights movement brought out such actors as marlon brando on marches, sit-ins and rallies. the vietnam war, environmental issues and women's rights also rekindled hollywood's social consciousness
this will be a busy year for network, said spokesman patrick lippert. members will start meeting presidential candidates at private meetings in the spring and will probably become active in the 1988 elections
last september, members of both groups worked against robert bork's confirmation to the u.s. supreme court by staging a post-card writing campaign with their peers
in october, nelson (``billionaire boys club,'' ``the breakfast club''), helen slater (``supergirl''), esai morales (``la bamba'') and mary stuart masterson (``at close range'') traveled to the soviet union to film a documentary for the national committee for a sane nuclear policy
zuniga (``spaceballs'') and paul visited nicaragua, where paul rode in a soviet-made helicopter with sandinistas
everyone was saying two years ago this is the most self-centered, selfish generation in years,'' lippert said. ``but what you see is the most idealistic group of young people. you see them getting involved in so many things, and reaching out to their generation.''
however, not all hollywood observers are jumping with praise for the political meanderings of brat packers
it's striking that not one of these stars has a dissenting view other than what's the norm in hollywood,'' said michael medved of pbs' ``sneak previews.''
it's absolutely nonsensical that alan cranston should follow rob lowe's advice to vote against robert bork for the supreme court,'' he continued. ``rob lowe, daphne zuniga and gregory peck (who did an anti-bork commercial) _ we take their position seriously because they're pretty. it's scary
i think they are sincerely interested in the issues. but part of burnishing your image is not to be written off as a pretty-face airhead. so you become politically involved.''
also dabbling in politics are such hollywood glamour girls as morgan fairchild, donna mills and sally field
field, a two-time academy award winner, was host of a poolside party at her home that featured massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, a presidential contender. mills, the scheming vixen of cbs-tv's ``knots landing,'' talked politics with sen. paul simon (d-ill.), another presidential hopeful, at a gathering at her home
fairchild, who has testified before both the house and senate on environmental issues, has given up needlepoint and instead spends her free time reading such weighty material as ``abu nidal: master terrorist'' or hefty medical reports on the deadly aids virus
i know that going in, a lot of people didn't take me seriously,'' said fairchild, who has no intention of giving up her sexy image. ``but i have a deceptively high i.q. and so when people sat down and started talking to me about some of these things, they started to take me seriously.''
while the stock market has rallied in recent months from its drastic drop last year, some wary analysts caution that it is still following the pattern set in 1929 and 1930
after the great crash in october 1929, the market regained its balance and recovered nearly 50 percent of its losses. but that rise turned out to be a deadly trap
by the time stock prices finally bottomed out in 1932, they were down about 90 percent from their peaks. a drop of the same magnitude today would put the dow jones industrial average at about 275
no market analyst with a wide following on wall street is currently predicting anything close to that. along with the similarities, most observers say, there are many differences in the world of the 1980s from the situation that prevailed nearly 60 years ago
furthermore, they say, if history were prone to repeating itself with any reliability in the market, the pursuit of making money in stocks would be a lot easier than it is
still, a good many people in the business of giving financial advice are very mindful these days of what is now known as the ``sucker rally'' of early 1930
the entire price action of the past few years has tracked the 1928-1930 span like clockwork,'' says martin zweig, a new york investment adviser, in the current issue of his letter the zweig forecast
the odds that this is the start of a new bull market are remote at the moment,'' he argues
eric miller, chief investment officer at donaldson, lufkin &amp; jenrette securities, says stocks at their recent prices reflect some hopes about the economic outlook that may go unfulfilled
we think the probability of a recession, and perhaps a severe one, is fairly high,'' he observes, ``and we also think that the current level of stock prices does not discount a recession.''
optimists on the market outlook, whose numbers have been growing lately, describe the recent behavior of stocks as healthy-looking
one distinct positive, they say, is that many smaller stocks have been rising faster lately than the blue chips that make up the dow jones industrial average, after lagging behind through the latter stages of the 1982-87 bull market. in theory at least, that betokens broad support for stocks
zweig says he is well aware of this view, but questions its validity. in the first three months of 1930, he says, a broad measure of stock prices he calculated rose 24.9 percent, while the dow was up 15.3 percent
`positive' divergence, as most call it, is normal after crashes which lead to continuing bear markets,'' he says
both zweig and miller acknowledge the possibility that they are wrong, and both hold some stocks in their recommended portfolios
as zweig put it: ``if this turns out to be a bull market, which i doubt, then fine. we own stocks now. if it's a bear rally, i'll look for exit signs as we go.''
should the advance turn out to be a ``sucker rally'' like the one in 1930, zweig concedes it will be a tricky mission to pluck the bait out before the trap snaps shut
i suspect that the rally, which looks ok on the tape, will continue to look good. why? to trap the maximum number of people for the next decline.''
japan's latest comic book heros are emperor hirohito and former prime minister yasuhiro nakasone
comic books are widely read in japan by both children and adults and often are used as teaching aids for such topics as history, economics or etiquette and even to explain frictions with the united states over trade
the hirohito comic book, which is in hard cover and is titled ``tenno heika'' (emperor), follows the 86-year-old monarch from childhood through world war ii, including his historic surrender broadcast in 1945, and into his quiet retirement in tokyo's imperial palace
the book on nakasone is called ``yatchan's,'' which was the former prime minister's childhood nickname. it is published quarterly by nakasone's office and sent to supporters and constituents
japanese prime ministers, once they step down, traditionally fade into the political background and take the role of party elder, occasionally seen but seldom heard
but nakasone, whose term in office ended this past november, has stayed in the news through trips abroad and the establishment of a think-tank group. ``yatchan's'' helps keep attention focused on him
the idea for a cartoon newsletter has been gestating for a long time, and it just happens that it was produced after nakasone-san left office,'' said masaki donji, a private secretary to nakasone. ``there was no deliberate timing to keep him in the news.''
while purporting to depict faithfully the characters' lives and careers, the comic books seem overly flattering
hirohito is shown as barrel-chested and cheerful rather than the aged and stooped man he is now
nakasone, now 67, is shown as burly, with round eyes and a uncharacteristic full head of hair
but the comic book presents little-known facets of nakasone's life
an essay by nakasone's wife tsutako says that, in his younger days when he was known as yatchan, nakasone pranced about in his underwear after baths, humming music from swan lake. and on state visits abroad as prime minister, he grudgingly allowed his wife off elevators first, but upon returning to japanese soil, would instantly declare, ``ladies first is over.''
yatchan's'' opens with nakasone's return from the 1987 summit in venice, italy, with photos of the six in-flight meals he was served on his special jet. it then flashes back to the beginning: a fiery-eyed nakasone resigning from tokyo's metropolitan police department in 1946 to work toward japan's postwar reconstruction
he reveals himself as an idealist who patterns himself after sakura sogo, a 17th-century village headman who was executed for seeking reduced taxes for poor peasants
he eats potatoes for lunch _ an expression of humility _ and chooses a white bicycle for his first political campaign because hirohito rode a white horse
subscriptions to ``yatchan's'' are 2,000 yen ($15.50) a year. the booklet also includes reproductions of nakasone's paintings, and samples of his haiku poetry
the hirohito book divulges some imperial trivia: the emperor has no surname, reached adulthood at age 18 (20 for ordinary japanese), and cannot adopt children or vote
it also explains that his duties include opening sessions of the diet (parliament), closing sessions of the house of representatives, receiving foreign ambassadors, and formally approving laws, government decrees, amendments to the constitution and treaties
hirohito, once regarded as a living god, remains a sensitive subject in modern japan, and ribbing of royalty by the press is neither tolerated nor attempted
but the comic book touches on some sensitive points in the emperor's life, including an assassination attempt, the great kanto earthquake of 1923 for which hirohito was later criticized for not doing enough for his people, and a 1936 military rebellion that led to the death of one of his favored ministers
it also touches briefly on his role in world war ii, although it reveals little about his activities or motivations during the conflict, and portrays hirohito's famed speech imploring the nation in august 1945 to bear the unbearable _ surrender
the emperor's trips to europe and the united states are shown, including protesters waving signs saying ``go home'' and ``fascist hirohito.'' it ends with him enjoying his favorite pastimes, walking along the beach and studying marine biology
an official of the imperial household agency, which tends to the imperial family's duties and needs, said the agency had nothing to do with the comic book and extended neither approval or assistance in its production
first el salvador, then nicaragua, now panama. like chain reactions, crises spread through central america. despite protests, despite u.s. pressure, panama's military leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega, the real boss of the country, remains in power, surviving charges of drug dealing, illicit money laundering, election fraud and violations of human rights. here is a look at how it all came about in a country the united states deems vital to its security
many panamanians have lived for years with the belief, if not the sure knowledge, that their government is corrupt, their elections are unfair and their leaders lust for money and power
there were protests from time to time, but they seldom lasted more than a few days. then the nation would sink back into a tropical lethargy abetted by prosperity. the voices of opposition were few
now the lethargy seems to be gone
the country is in turmoil over the military rule of gen. manuel antonio noriega, who has been indicted in the united states on drug charges. prosperity is threatened by a large foreign debt, u.s. economic pressure and the freezing of panamanian funds abroad
in recent years, money poured in from the panama canal, the new offshore banking center, an oil pipeline that helped carry alaskan crude to atlantic coast markets, a thriving re-export industry and a large u.s. military presence
it all helped an economy traditionally based on bananas, sugar and coffee weather the ups and downs of unstable agricultural markets, and made panama by far the wealthiest country on the central american isthmus
they were years of indulgence and indifference,'' says roberto brenes, a panama city investment banker and a leader of the broad new opposition movement that took firm root only nine months ago
the rich were getting richer, the middle class was growing and the lot of the poor was improving,'' said a diplomat with long experience in central america. ``it's always been a tolerant society, and few people saw any need to rock to the boat.''
neither did the united states, which saw in panama enough stability to make a treaty in 1977 that will deliver control of the vital canal between the atlantic and pacific to the panamanian government at the turn of the century
omar torrijos herrera, a charismatic army colonel, seized the government in 1968, broke the traditional rule of wealthy merchants and land barons and began a costly series of reforms
he built schools, schools, hospitals, health clinics, farm-to-market roads and other public works. with fervent nationalism, torrijos brought a new sense of pride and identity to the country, even its wealthiest citizens
much of his popularity came from his ability to tweak uncle sam's nose while maintaining relations with washington. few panamanian leaders had risked the slightest impertinance with the united states
his ideology became known as ``torrijismo'' and survived his death in an airplane crash in 1981, four years after he signed the canal treaty with president jimmy carter and fulfilled one of the fondest dreams of the panamanian people
although the country maintained the fiction of a president, torrijos ruled supreme as ``chief of government'' and commander of the national guard. he had no real opposition and the nation prospered from economic growth and public spending financed with money borrowed abroad
noriega came to power in 1983, four years after torrijos was killed, and the first presidential election since the 1968 coup was held the following year
nicolas ardito barletta, a respected economist, was elected president despite the fact that he had spent years with the world bank in washington and was little known at home
his election, by a margin of fewer than 2,000 votes, was tainted by charges of fraud. opponents held marches and auto caravans, honking horns, waving white banners and banging pots and pans in a traditional panamanian form of protest
like those before them, the demonstrations died within a week
the united states and the rest of the world recognized ardito barletta, as they had six other figurehead presidents installed and removed by the military since 1968. the first vice president was eric arturo delvalle, in his first elective office
less than a year later, in september 1985, it became ardito barletta's turn to go
he was summoned to military headquarters and held for 12 hours after calling for an impartial investigation into the murder of hugo spadafora, one of noriega's chief opponents. ardito barletta announced his resignation and delvalle was sworn in to replace him
once again, government upheaval was greeted largely by public apathy
noriega kept building his power, increasing the size of the military with the help of the united states
washington poured millions of dollars into the general's newly renamed panama defense forces, a single command encompassing 15,000 members of the army, air force, navy, police forces and state security agency in this nation of 2.2 million people
the canal treaty gives panama primary responsibility for the security of the waterway beginning with the year 2000. the carter administration, then president reagan, wanted the defense forces to be up to the task
rumors of military corruption recurred. then col. roberto diaz herrera, one of noriega's top aides, told reporters last june after his forced resignation that his former boss had rigged the 1984 elections, was engaged in the illegal selling of visas and had engineered the spadafora murder
spadafora's headless, mutilated body was found in august 1985, stuffed in a canvas u.s. mail bag just across the border in costa rica. he had threatened to offer proof of noriega's involvement in drug trafficking, and his family and friends insisted the general ordered the brutal murder
until diaz herrera began talking, however, no one in the military's tight inner circle had accused noriega of so much as fixing a traffic ticket
the former aide's frequent press interviews caused a sensation they also spawned the national civic crusade, a movement begun by a few wealthy businessmen whose disgust and anger at the military's increasingly heavy-handed interference in the government and economy had been building for some time
within weeks, the crusade grew to an umbrella organization covering about 200 professional, business, labor and political groups and had gained support from panamanians of the middle and lower classes
the crusade called its first strike june 10. it had little success but was followed by others and a series of mass protests, despite a state of emergency decree that forbade public gatherings and closed opposition newspapers and broadcast stations
by july 10, noriega had enough. he sent soldiers and riot police to break up a mass rally. more than 100 people were injured, many peppered by birdshot, and up to 600 were arrested and detained for four days
the movement appeared to lose heart, but bounced back with a successful strike in late july and a rally aug. 6 that attracted 30,000 anti-noriega demonstrators, despite the threat of repression. leaders of the civic crusade began seeking foreign support
delvalle's government responded with pro-noriega rallies and increasingly virulent attacks on the united states in speeches and government-owned newspapers
it all was done under the cloak of ``torrijismo,'' but the garment did not fit noriega well. in late august, a gallup poll indicated three of four panamanians wanted him to step down
after an attack on the u.s. embassy in june, the reagan administration had suspended all military and economic aid, which would have totaled $21 million this year. that brought howls of ``economic aggression'' from delvalle and other panamanian leaders
loss of the aid was particularly painful because panama faced a fiscal crisis, brought on by years of deficit spending that piled up a $4.5 billion foreign debt and capital flight caused by the civil unrest
early in february, two federal grand juries in florida indicted noriega on charges of drug trafficking, money laundering and racketeering
among other things, he is accused of helping colombia's notorious medellin cartel by providing safe airstrips for its cocaine shipments and safe haven for its hired killers
what he did was utilize his position to sell the country of panama to the traffickers,'' said u.s. atty. leon kellner of miami, who led the investigation for one indictment
events began unfolding rapidly feb. 25 when delvalle, scorned by the opposition as a puppet, decided he had had enough and ordered noriega's dismissal. the united states said it knew of his intentions, and continued to recognize him as president through the ensuing trouble
noriega arranged for the legislative assembly to remove delvalle the next day _ the special session lasted 10 minutes _ and hours later devalle went into hiding
the civic crusade called another strike, its sixth, last monday but acknowledged it would not be enough to drive noriega from office even the country closed down completely
opposition leaders said only the united states, with or without the support of the rest of latin america, had the financial clout to depose him
at week's end, roberto aleman, a lawyer and civic crusade leader, summed up the alliance's hopes:
the government will find itself besieged by economic and diplomatic measures taken in the united states and latin america. the measures will oblige the regime to take extremely unpopular measures such as raising taxes and firing public employees.''
thomas moscardini talks of manet and warhol in the same breath as undercover stings and doing time
for the new york city police detective, the two are as inextricably linked as oil and canvas
moscardini, an art history student and former undercover narcotics agent, works full time on recovering the stolen art of galleries, museums and patrons. his contacts are interpol, the u.s. customs service, art associations and the art underworld, along with an unspecified number of paid informants
he's part of an elite fraternity of full-time art sleuths, who range in number to perhaps a half-dozen, depending on the criteria used to define them
since moving more than four years ago from the dim back alleys of undercover drugs to the grand halls and cozy galleries of the art world, the 42-year-old detective has created something of a name for himself
among the artworks he's recovered was a $500,000 joan miro. ``my best piece was a $1 million renoir,'' he says
he's great,'' says elizabeth hayt-atkins, director of art theft archives at the new york-based international foundation for art research. ``he plays the part of the knowledgeable art person very well. he knows the lingo. he knows the artists. so i imagine when he goes undercover he's perfectly plausible.''
moscardini looks the part: trim, impeccably groomed down to his manicured nails, articulate and art-wise. the only give-away that he's anything but a connoisseur is the 9mm semi-automatic that hangs from his lizard-skin belt
the same gun as james bond used,'' he quips
and he knows the role
a frequent weekend visitor to new york's metropolitan museum of art, because it's ``one of those places you have to go to quite often,'' moscardini himself dabbles in oils and acrylics. he also is studying for an art history degree and has lectured on museum security the last three years at the smithsonian institution
moscardini at one time wanted to be a commercial artist. he went into police work more than 19 years ago, he says, because he needed a job
when the department went looking for a savvy investigator with an art background, the computer search turned up moscardini among the possibilities
the detective is full of tales of mostly all-purpose thieves, sometimes ignorant of the art they steal or the art world, who've been snared in one of his traps, usually set up in an obliging gallery staffed with undercover officers
moscardini's own undercover work is probably over now, he says. ``i am known out there. my photo's been around.''
he estimates only 10 percent to 14 percent of stolen art worldwide is recovered
although he figures he's recovered $8 million worth of works over the years, there are millions, too, in unresolved mysteries. the most recent is the $6 million heist last month from the colnaghi art gallery, new york's biggest art steal
his small office is filled with his work and passion: file cabinets stuffed with artists' and gallery names, folders each for missing oil paintings, water colors, folk art, photography; auction books from sotheby's and christie's. breaking the monotony of the institutional-white walls, he has hung an andy warhol silk-screen print, a claude monet impression and an erte art deco poster. a family heirloom chinese brass vase sits on a file cabinet
i don't consider myself just a cop. i consider myself a part of the art world,'' moscardini said. affiliation to democrat</note>
members of the mormon tabernacle choir and church president and prophet ezra taft benson attended the inauguration of arizona gov. evan mecham, himself a former mormon bishop. mecham's beliefs are closely tied to church doctrine; his ties to church leadership strong. so when a storm of turmoil engulfed the governor, arizona's mormon community found itself at the center
steve benson has been a life-long mormon, active in church affairs. he is the grandson of church president and prophet ezra taft benson. few would question his devotion
few, except impeached gov. evan mecham and some of his supporters
benson happens to be the award-winning cartoonist for the arizona republic _ and a relentless critic of the embattled governor. mecham happens to be arizona's first mormon governor and an unwavering believer in conservative church doctrine
in arizona these days, politics and religion are mixing in the mormon community. mormon critics of mecham have been scorned by other mormons, who say they are not true to their religion. mecham even once told steve benson his salvation was in jeopardy because of the biting cartoons
sides have been taken and swords drawn,'' said the cartoonist. ``there have been instances of shunning. letters have been written questioning one's devotion to the church _ whether one has the moral rectitude to remain in the flock.''
with the turmoil have come fears that the brouhaha will damage the image of mormons, whose roots trace back to the settling of arizona
officially, the church has remained neutral on the governor's plight. some members say the only mentions of mecham from the pulpit have been reminders of neutrality, and the strife is limited to a small group of mormons
is the church worried? i think not. it's a matter that will pass in the next few months,'' said phoenix attorney dave udall, a church leader designated as the official spokesman
still, individuals within the community say passions run deep. some say families have been split by the issues
ed pagan, a mormon who is a history graduate student at the university of arizona and who criticized mecham in a letter to the editor, called the turmoil ``gut-wretching'' for church members
in a sense, his platform and ideology have the veneer of unofficial church position,'' said pagan, whose criticism drew letters questioning his own faith. ``there are those who say if you criticize mecham, you're ultimately criticizing god.''
an unofficial church newspaper, the latter-day sentinel, has supported mecham, and its editor, crismon lewis, is a sharp critic of the republic's benson. ``most of the church is extremely disappointed in him,'' lewis said
one cartoon that rankled mecham's mormon supporters showed an angel atop the mormon temple in salt lake city, utah. at the end of the angel's trumpet was a banner reading, ``resign, ev.''
some remember the controversy that surrounded benson's grandfather during eight years as agriculture secretary under president eisenhower
his grandfather was attacked so much by the press that he offered his resignation, but eisenhower kept him,'' said lewis. ``now, a couple of decades later, you've got the grandson doing the same thing.''
benson says his grandfather, a personal friend of mecham's, has never pressured him to back off. church-related pressure in arizona, he said, comes from an ultra-conservative sect of the church _ not the mainstream
some individuals _ and it's not unique to my religion _ unavoidably mix religion with politics and as a result think any mormon who does not agree with a fellow latter-day saint who happens to be governor is endangering his position in the church,'' benson said
it's intolerant, and it's silly.''
and benson has support among mormons _ even among some who support the governor
he's got his job to do,'' said democratic state rep. jack brown, who voted against mecham's impeachment. ``he can do that and still be a good member of the mormon church.''
mecham, a 63-year-old native of duchesne, utah, was impeached feb. 5 by the arizona house of representatives on allegations of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan, misusing $80,000 from a special fund and attempting to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat involving a state official
trial on the impeachment is under way in the state senate. if convicted, mecham would be removed from office. he also faces a criminal trial on the campaign loan charge march 22, and a recall election set for may 17
the ultra-conservative governor took office 14 months ago and immediately plunged himself into controversy by rescinding the martin luther king holiday for state workers and making statements that have offended women, homosexuals, jews and japanese
mormons believe church leaders receive divine guidance, and some mecham backers have suggested political leaders do as well. mecham himself has occassionally suggested he's received guidance from god
to shirley whitlock, active in the church and state leader of a conservative political group called the eagle forum, mormons who don't support mecham have lost their religion
i feel if there are other members of the church who do not support the governor they either have allowed themselves to be propagandized or are too liberal and don't understand their own teachings,'' mrs. whitlock said
if members of the church can't see this man is trying to do his duty, then there's false belief,'' she said. ``if they don't support the governor when he supports constitutional principles, then they better do more studying.''
passions ran high in the legislature, too, as the impeachment vote neared. rep. brown, a former mormon bishop, said he received letters from followers who tried to intimidate him
rep. mark killian, a conservative republican from mesa, a popular mormon area and site of the church's arizona temple, broke into tears as he blasted the governor's behavior, but voted against the impeachment because he didn't believe the evidence was strong enough
udall, the arizona church spokesman, said he cringes when mecham's religion is brought into the debate
is religion really a factor? i don't think it is,'' he said. ``and we'd prefer not to be getting the attention.''
brown said he worries about possible damage to the church
but i think people basically understand that you have different kinds of people in the church, and some are not reflective of the whole group,'' he said
it's a concern,'' said wayne arnett, an attorney and mormon. ``there will be those who know mecham is a mormon and think less of me because i'm a mormon.''
most mormons, mesa bishop bob goodman said, ``are sorry the church has been involved in it.''
but i can't say it's hurt any of my members,'' goodman said. ``and i can't say it's hurt the church. the church is just too strong for that.''
scott mccartney is the ap southwest regional reporter, based in dallas. guitarist to matt bissonette, reflecting personnel change made by band.</note>
the child in david lee roth is taking plenty of toys on his next trip: a 28-foot flying surfboard; a huge banner featuring bikini-clad women; and a regulation-size, red, white and blue everlast boxing ring
but this is no ordinary summer vaction for the shaggy-haired rock star with the trademark scream. it's a concert tour, and the playthings are meant to wow audiences for the next nine months in arenas from australia to new york
music should look like it sounds, no matter what kind of music it is,'' roth said in a recent interview. ``a lot of times this music sounds like something thundering up out of the floorboards or raining down from the heavens. sometimes it's like rolling waves of sound. and what's a wave without somebody to surf it?''
despite the props and an endless stream of jokes, roth is a shrewd businessman. he knows the gimmicks will bring attention to his craft _ rock 'n' roll
there's a lot of aerial tricks, but it's all built around the music. the band is doing more musical gymnastics than you've ever heard a rock band do,'' he said
roth, 32, is touring to promote his third solo album, ``skyscraper.'' the record, which includes the single, ``just like paradise,'' marks the first time he has tried on the producer's hat. his tour began on march 4 in lakeland, fla
i wanted to try something different,'' roth said. ``always in the back of my mind i had thought about producing. but i wouldn't try a flight like this unless i had the tools and the know-how to do it, and i didn't feel secure with that until fairly recently.''
the comic book-like showman spoke about his tour, with his long, blond hair tied back in a ponytail, wearing camouflage pants and a torn t-shirt, sitting in the second row of his rehearsal hall. he was careful not to reveal too many of the tour's surprises
during the band's moment of patriotism, i climb a ladder to the ceiling of the arena _ jeez, i don't want to give it all away,'' he said, but added, ``it's death-defying stuff.''
roth's hometown is bloomington, ind., but he moved to pasadena, calif., when he was about 12 and has lived there ever since. as a child, he was inspired by television. he said he figured if all these people were entertaining him on television, maybe he could be some kind of entertainer, too
the influences which led him to music ran the gamut of groups and styles
if i say to you deep purple was a big inspiration to me and so were the ohio players, you'd say, `oh, that's where dave got his scream from, deep purple!' no, no, no, i got the scream from the ohio players, i got the haircut from deep purple.''
he began his career after meeting eddie and alex van halen and michael anthony at pasadena city college. the four formed van halen, a band that set the standard for many heavy-metal bands to come, especially because of eddie's innovative guitar playing, and roth's wild-man antics
the group split up in 1985, and roth moved on to a solo career. his new band includes lead guitarist steve vai, bass guitarist matt bissonette, drummer gregg bissonette and keyboardist brett tuggle
roth's international tour will include some of the old van halen standards, in addition to his solo efforts, including a remake of the beach boy's ``california girls'' and the bluesy ``just a gigolo.''
in his spare time, roth climbs mountains, as seen on the ``just like paradise'' video in which he scales a 3,000-foot-high vertical wall of granite. he said he may be reverting to his childhood, because he got the climbing bug when he was a boy scout. climbing is a kind of therapy for him
you know, the most scariest place you can put yourself in has the most calming effect.''
although experienced, he says the hobby has not made him want to conquer mountains such as mount everest
something like that is a hyper-commitment,'' he said. ``i need all of my toes in order to jump around with great abandon. inevitably, you're going to lose a finger or a toe on a trip like that. somebody checks out early. taking that kind of risk is not my interest. the music gives me enough of that kind of adventure. fooling around with my career burns enough calories.''
roth also fools around with martial arts, receiving a black belt in karate about nine years ago. at one point he experimented with kick boxing. these days, he incorporates both disciplines in his stage show
martial arts has a lot of visceral impact. you can feel it _ pow! and combining it with the music, 10,000 people say, `oh, did you feel that?'''
despite his devil-may-care manner, roth is definitely a success. two previous albums have sold more that 1 million copies, certifying them as platinum, and ``skyscraper'' is well on its way. this does not include his revenues from the six van halen lps that share the same honor
a lot of what stands for success in rock 'n' roll or showbiz after a while seems like so many little trophies and prizes along the way,'' he said. ``if there's any real glory to be had it's in legend.''
all kidding aside, he insists the money he's made is not for things, but rather experiences. he said experiences provide better memories
if anything, roth's whole career is built around making a single point, getting across a single message:
there's a very definite message in all of this music. people say, `dave, what's the message?' that's it. imagination. take a chance. not just take your best shot, that's too dependable.''
sales by the nation's largest general retailers were unexpectedly slow in february, prompting worries that year-old sluggishness in the retail sector has yet to run its course
the nation's largest retailer, sears, roebuck and co., said thursday its sales rose 2.5 percent from february 1987. k mart said its overall sales were up 0.8 percent, but sales at stores open at least a year fell 1.6 percent
the results do not bode well for the economy,'' said fred wintzer, a retail industry analyst for the investment firm alex. brown &amp; sons inc
led by industry-leader general motors corp., automakers sold 25 percent more domestic cars and light trucks in late february than a year ago, the car companies have reported
gm said thursday its sales during the last third of february were the highest for late february since 1972
in the seven selling days from feb. 21-29, gm sold 127,549 domestic cars, up 33.4 percent from a year ago, and 59,709 domestic light trucks, up 46.2 percent from a year ago
chrysler motors corp. has decided not to sell its acustar inc. parts-making subsidiary but says it will close or sell four plants within the next 18 months
the no. 3 automaker said thursday that the four plants _ amplex van wert in van wert, ohio, trenton chemical in suburban detroit, detroit forge and detroit trim _ employ about 2,000 workers
the united auto workers union said it was pleased by the decision but urged chrysler to find ways not to close the four plants
improvements in the nation's efficiency in churning out goods and services slowed by almost half last year despite revised figures showing higher output in the the fourth quarter, the government said
the labor department said thursday that productivity among non-farm businesses responsible for three-fourths of the nation's economic activity rose at an annual rate of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter in contrast to a deterioration of 0.2 percent reported in preliminary figures last month
the revisions raised the productivity improvement for the entire year from 0.8 percent to 0.9 percent, slightly more than half the 1.6 percent gain of 1986, despite the lowest hourly labor cost increases in more than four decades
the democratic-controlled house labor standards subcommittee has voted along party lines to increase the minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.65 an hour over the next three years
the 6-3 vote thursday came on a measure to raise the minimum wage 50 cents an hour on jan. 1, 1989 and 40 cents an hour each of the following years
president reagan's sanctions against japanese electronics imports have halted computer chip ``dumping'' but have failed to boost sales of u.s. chips in japan, according to an industry group
the semiconductor industry association said thursday that by the end of 1987, the u.s. share of the japanese chip market was 10 percent, up only slightly from the 9 percent share that existed when the sanctions were announced last april
batus inc. has raised its hostile bid for controlling interest in farmers group inc., coming up with a $4.5 billion offer for the nation's seventh largest insurer
the $63-per-share proposal was made thursday as a tender offer to farmers' shareholders instead of to the board of directors because the board ``has regrettably refused to talk to us so far,'' said batus chairman patrick sheehy
the los angeles-based insurance concern had rejected the louisville company's initially proposed $60-a-share, or $4.2 billion, buyout offer on jan. 20
a group led by a british construction firm has launched an unsolicited tender offer for koppers co. inc. that values the construction and chemicals company at about $1.3 billion
the pittsburgh-based koppers declined to comment on thursday's offer, but traders on wall street speculated the bidding might go higher by sending the price of koppers' stock well above the $45 a share offer to $51.75 a share
the bid was made by a concern called bns inc., whose biggest shareholder is beazer plc, a london-based general construction company that owns 49 percent
major airlines have raised fares for the second time in about two weeks, reflecting unexpected strength in passenger traffic despite the usually slow winter season
the latest move was initiated thursday by continental airlines, which boosted one-way regular coach fares in amounts ranging from $7 for short flights to $45 for longer trips
american, united and northwest airlines immediately announced they would match continental's regular coach-fare increases in markets where they compete
the transportation department has proposed a wide range of drug tests for more than a half million airline employees from pilots to mechanics, although officials said they have no clear evidence of a drug problem in the industry
thursday's announcement of the drug testing program, which would go into effect after what may be a lengthy rulemaking process, came amid conflicting court cases on whether such tests are legal. a federal judge earlier this week declared random drug tests of civilian army employees as unconstitutional
usair says it has agreed to buy 50 boeing 737 jetliners with options for 30 additional aircraft, a deal worth $2.4 billion if all the options are exercised
delivery of the new jets will begin in april 1989 and continue through december 1991, the airline said thursday
the twin-engine, short-to-medium range aircraft is the most popular jet ever sold by seattle-based boeing co. the deal with usair brings to 2,001 boeing 737s on order
stock prices were mixed thursday in an inconclusive session marked by intense takeover speculation and some selling of blue chips. the dow jones average of 30 big-name industrials slipped 7.80 to 2,063.49
bond prices barely budged in lethargic trading
the dollar ended mixed against most key currencies, while gold prices fell. some cattle futures prices plunged the 1{-cent limit allowed for daily trading, and grain and soybean futures and energy futures also fell
bearish sentiment has sparked a selloff that sent oil and gasoline futures prices skidding lower
on the new york mercantile exchange thursday, contracts for april delivery of west intermediate crude oil settled at $15.50 per 42-gallon barrel, down 17 cents. the april contract also declined in wednesday's trading
among refined products traded on the exchange, april contracts for wholesale no. 2 heating oil also fell, dropping 1.04 cent to 42.89 cents a gallon, and wholesale unleaded regular gasoline slipped .50 cent to 44.40 cents a gallon
the market rallied during morning trading but was unable to sustain the advance, said madison galbraith, senior energy specialist with merrill lynch energy futures
there was no news to support the rally, and profit-taking amid the market's continuing bearish sentiment eroded the advance and caused prices to continue to fall, galbraith said
lending some support to the market was trader nervousness about continuing the selloff below the level of $15.50 for crude, galbraith said
the government's planned sale of the electricity industry in england and wales is by far the biggest and most controversial venture so far in prime minister margaret thatcher's huge privatization program
critics predict poorer service and higher prices, and question the wisdom of putting nuclear power stations in private hands
supporters insist it will produce better service, with safeguards built on the lessons of past privatizations
but investors weighing this debate also harbor big financial concerns. in the wake of october's stock market crash, britons burned by the sell-offs of british gas plc and british telecommunications plc shares understandably are wary of buying into another public utility
the stock offering of the electric company _ now a state body run by the central electricity generating board _ is to be debated march 7 in parliament, and the energy department already is taking steps to fend off criticism
privatizing the electricity industry has been likened to trying to grasp a porcupine,'' the sunday times commented
the complex sale will take two to three years and could raise more money than the entire 16.5 billion pounds, or about $29 billion, raised from all the other state-owned companies sold since mrs. thatcher's conservatives were elected in 1979 promising to roll back socialism in britain
the city, london's financial district, expects the electricity sale to raise from $26 billion to $47 billion
less controversial have been the sales of non-utility companies, such as british airways plc and rolls-royce plc, the airplane engine maker
mrs. thatcher's goal has been to make these companies more competitive and to get more britons to become shareholders. the share-owning public has tripled to 8.5 million in 10 years, the government says
the objections have been to the privatization of monopolies intact without the intention of introducing competition,'' said dieter helm, a research fellow at the london business school
critics also complain that british gas and british telecom were insufficiently regulated when they went private in 1986 and 1984 respectively. consequently, they claim, gas and telephone prices have risen while service has deteriorated
some britons also say they feel less secure without government control over such vital public services. in the electricity sale, critics fear higher prices, deteriorating service and poor security for nuclear stations. labor unions fear job losses
helm said there also were questions over whether the capital markets could absorb all the stock to be sold
moreover, he said, nuclear disasters in recent years at three mile island in the united states and at the chernobyl plant in the soviet union ``increase uncertainty about whether people really want to hold shares in this kind of firm.''
the sale is opposed by lord marshall, chairman of the central electricity generating board, who says the plan is unlikely to serve the consumer's interests
lawmaker john prescott of the opposition labor party attacked the plan as ``a triumph of ideology over common sense,'' and accused the government of selling off assets to finance tax cuts
the government structured the sale defensively, addressing some of the issues raised by the gas and phone selloffs. it set up two competing generating companies and promised to implement regulation that will protect britain's security and consumers' rights
for example, energy secretary cecil parkinson plans rebates for dissatisfied consumers _ a privilege not granted to british telecom users
tony boorman, deputy director of the watchdog electricity consumers' council, called regulatory safeguards ``a welcome change.''
we've always believed that at least in the short term, the structure of the industry has less relevance to the customer than the regulation,'' he said
more than 30 years ago, life magazine took a look at the burgeoning little desert town of las vegas and wondered if it wasn't overbuilt
the year was 1955 and five new resort hotels had just opened, prompting the magazine to question where they would get people to fill them
has las vegas pushed its luck too far?'' life asked
history has proven doubters to be wrong. las vegas has grown from a dusty town of a few resorts into a booming metropolis of more than 600,000 people, with nearly 60,000 hotel and motel rooms to accomodate tourists
now, as las vegas undergoes one of the most ambitious of its periodic building booms, there are few who believe that overbuilding is a problem. tourism is growing and the gaming and resort industries are attempting to capitalize on the trend
there is still a tremendous amount of demand out there that hasn't been satisified,'' said rossi ralenkotter, director of marketing for the las vegas convention and visitors authority. ``we're in a very strong growth pattern and all indications are that it will continue.''
nearly 20,000 new hotel rooms either are under construction or awaiting groundbreaking, as resorts compete to add rooms they hope will bring in even more tourists and gamblers in the near future
part of that optimism is based on figures showing hotels averaged 90.2 percent occupancy during 1987. such extremely high rates meant potential guests often were turned away by a lack of rooms: on weekends, it is nearly impossible to get a room and on three-day holiday weekends it's even worse
visitor volume nearly has doubled in the last 12 years, with an estimated 17 million tourists each expected to spend an average of 2-3 days in las vegas during 1988
gaming revenues kept pace, growing 14 percent in 1987 to a record $2.74 billion in southern nevada
we're penetrating markets we've never penetrated before,'' said dave verbon, publicity director at the riviera hotel. ``there are vast numbers of people out there we never tried to reach before and now we're going after them and getting them.''
already boasting the world's two largest resort hotels, las vegas soon will have five hotel-casinos with more than 3,000 rooms apiece. two resorts _ the riviera and the flamingo hilton _ are about to begin work on expansions that will bring them to more than 4,000 rooms apiece
the riviera opened a new 1,000-room highrise march 1 and plans to begin construction of a 1,700-room tower in the fall
you have to build towers to have a very high volume of business to drive a large casino with a large number of slot machines and blackjack tables,'' said verbon. ``we think there are enough potential customers to support these huge hotels.''
the centerpiece of the new construction is the golden nugget, a massive resort rising from a desert parcel adjacent to caesars palace. when finished sometime late next year, the $550 million resort will have 3,200 guest rooms set in a watery tropical setting that hotel officials claim will be like nothing las vegas has ever seen
it's really on a completely different plane in terms of what we presently have,'' said nugget president bobby baldwin. ``it's very difficult to compare the new nugget to anything.''
baldwin says he has few worries that the nugget will be able to fill its rooms with gamblers and tourists. the company's downtown resort regularly sells out its rooms
we're very bullish,'' he said. ``tour and travel continues to grow and the individual traveler market continues to expand, particularly from southern california. international business has also expanded in the last few months and we hope to see that continue.''
the tourism economy has been helped by the growth in three-day weekends and a national trend toward mini-vacations of 2-3 days. las vegas has also been very successful in landing conventions, which attracted 1.6 million people to the city in 1987
part of the las vegas lure also comes from room rates that average $45 a night, far below the $100 or more charged by non-gaming hotels in other cities
it's the bargain aspect, the ability to have a very enjoyable convention or vacation visit at far less expense than any other destination,'' said ralenkotter
the city's hotels in the past four to five years have begun exploiting the vast middle-class and tourism markets they once eschewed in favor of attracting a handful of high-rolling gamblers
the expanded customer base, hotel operators believe, gives them protection against a recession or sudden rise in fuel prices that could have a negative impact on tourism levels
in the early 1980s, a national recession combined with high fuel prices and the legalization of gambling in atlantic city stopped the las vegas growth rate in its tracks
in good times everybody does pretty well and the better operators do even better,'' said baldwin. ``in bad times good operators don't do quite as well but they still do well. the best operators do great in both times.'' 1987</head>
the best-liked commercials of 1987 included some starring performances from animated characters such as dancing clay raisins, a hamburger chain's moonman and a pizza company's dreaded foil called a noid
few of the commercials mentioned most often by consumers polled by video storyboard tests inc. featured traditional show business celebrities, the head of the consumer research firm said thursday
we seem to heading into a period when we see more created celebrities, not necessarily human beings, in commercials,'' said david vadehra, president of video storyboard, in relasing the results of the firm's 10th annual survey
he said that may be partly due to growing dissatisfaction with the costs and risks associated with using celebrities. the trend occurs even as admakers for some cars, office phone systems, computers and insurance products have tried to replicate realistic situations and dialogue in their commercials
video storyboard, which is based in new york, interviewed more than 25,000 people about what commercials they liked best last year
leading the list was the campaign for california raisins, which used clay models of raisins dancing to the sounds of motown music in a construction worker's lunchbox and across the kitchen counter
the ads took top billing despite relatively modest spending of $5.4 million to put them on television. the survey said makers of other well-liked ads spent as much as $344 million (mcdonald's corp.) on television placements
second was bud light beer commercials, many of which featured the english bull terrier spuds mackenzie while others offered numerous variations of what can go wrong if you simply order a ``light'' without specifying the brand
the ad campaign for pepsi soft drinks placed third, and miller lite beer commercials were fourth
ads for mcdonald's restaurants came in fifth. the campaign included some commercials that featured a piano-playing character shaped like a moon crescent who extolled dinner at mcdonald's to the tune from ``mac the knife.''
the stars of sixth-ranked bartles &amp; jaymes wine cooler ads are a pair of non-actors who were persuaded to pose as the brand's owners
ads for coca-cola soft drinks, which placed seventh, include some with the computer-generated character max headroom
rounding out the top 10 were ads for isuzu automobiles, dupont carpeting and domino's pizza, which features an animated clay character called the noid
consumers didn't turn completely sour on celebrity-filled ads. jell-o dessert ads with actor bill cosby placed 11th. but cosby couldn't keep kodak film from dropping off the list of the 25 most popular campaigns
another casualty in 1987 was burger king advertising, which fell out of the top 25 for the first time in five years with advertising billing it as ``the best food for fast times.'' the chain recently dumped the theme, changed ad agencies and is pitching the taste of its flame-broiled hamburgers in new ads
another hamburger chain, wendy's, placed 12th with an ad campaign that spoofed taste tests by having customers pick a pre-cooked hamburger over a freshly cooked wendy's burger for some very strange reasons
next were campaigns for levi's jeans, kibbles 'n bits dog food, seagrams wine coolers, michelob beer and oscar meyer meats
the partnership for drug-free america, a campaign aimed at discouraging illegal drug use, was the first public service campaign to place in the top 25, finishing 18th
rounding out the top 25 were ads for chevrolet cars, lucky dog dog food, angel soft tissue, energizer batteries, sprite soft drinks, tender chops dog food and long john silver restaurants
koppers co. inc., a huge construction and chemicals concern, has offered no reply to an unsolicited $1.3 billion takeover bid from a group led by a major british contruction company and a u.s. investment firm
but traders on wall street seem to think the bidding might go higher, and sent the price of koppers' stock well above the $45 a share offer
koppers rose $6.62{ a share to close at $51.75 on thursday on the new york stock exchange. it was the sixth most-actively traded stock with 3.1 million shares changing hands
the tender offer for koppers was launched thursday by a concern called bns inc., whose biggest shareholder is beazer plc, a london-based general construction company that owns 49 percent of bns
other participants in bns are subsidiaries of shearson lehman hutton inc., a new york-based investment firm that reportedly owns about 46 percent of bns, and natwest investment bank ltd., a british investment bank
affiliates of bns already own nearly 2.1 million shares, or about 7.45 percent of koppers' outstanding common stock, the company said
based on koppers' nearly 28.6 million common shares outstanding, the tender offer would be worth a total of about $1.29 billion
several securities analysts said koppers, which recently completed a restructuring that shed several engineering and metals products businesses over the past three years, was worth more than the offered price
its main businesses now are construction materials and services, which mainly involve road construction, and chemical and allied products
bns indicated that it planned to sell the chemicals and allied products business if its tender offer is successful
robert kanters, senior vice president for the stock brokerage legg mason masten in pittsburgh, said koppers holds ``a commanding position in aggregates and the coal-based chemicals businesses'' and may be worth $55- to $60-a-share
aggregates are the rock mixtures used in road and bridge construction. among koppers' coal-based chemicals products are substances used to treat lumber
fred siemer, who follows the chemicals business for the firm chemical research, said beazer probably is attracted to koppers' quarries, which are essential to roadbuilding. koppers said it operates about 150 quarries in 20 states
beazer has been expanding rapidly in recent years. it bought gifford-hill &amp; co., a cement-maker based in dallas, in 1986; and also operates phillips builders in nashville, tenn., tidewater construction co. in norfolk, va., and cohn communities in atlanta
the bid is conditioned on, among other things, koppers stockholders tendering a majority of the company's common shares, approval by the non-management directors of koppers, approval by beazer's shareholders and the bidding group's satisfaction that certain elements of delaware antitakeover laws are invalid
the offer expires at midnight march 30 unless extended
brian c. beazer, chairman of beazer plc, told koppers' chairman, charles r. pullin, in a letter, ``we plan to operate koppers as an independent autonomous business and we have no plans to move the headquarters from pittsburgh.''
bns said shearson had agreed to provide $465 million in financing for the offer and that citibank had indicated to arrange additional financing
koppers reported its profit for 1987 fell to $10.2 million, or 36 cents share, from $74.1 million, or $2.59 a share, a year earlier. the results included a charge of $59.4 million in 1987 due to settlement of a lawsuit
revenue rose to $1.52 billion from $1.4 billion in 1986
beazer said it earned $82.8 million on sales of $1.7 billion in its latest fiscal year, which ended last june 30
here are the overall sales reported thursday by the nation's nine largest retailers, for february, the first month of the fiscal year
the 10th largest, r.h. macy &amp; co., is privately held and does not report monthly sales figures
four weeks ended feb. 27: $1.89 billion, up 2.5 percent from $1.85 billion
four weeks ended feb. 24: $1.47 billion, up 0.8 percent from $1.46 billion
month of february: $1.17 billion, up 32 percent from $887 million
four weeks ended feb. 27: $742 million, down 0.5 percent from $746 million
four weeks ended feb. 27: $710.5 million, down 1.2 percent from $718.9 million
four weeks ended feb. 27: $699.1 million, up 16.2 percent from $601.8 million
four weeks ended feb. 27: $598.2 million, down 1.3 percent from $606 million
four weeks ended feb. 27: $269.6 million, down 2.5 percent from $276.7 million
</head>
four weeks ended feb. 27: $270 million, up 9.4 percent from $246 million
the nation's largest general retailers recorded lower than expected sales in february, prompting analysts to underscore their predictions of an economic slowdown this year
retailers in all market segments, from discount chains like k mart corp. to the more upscale federated department stores inc., said thursday that their sales suffered last month. many companies reported sales declines
the results do not bode well for the economy,'' said fred wintzer, a retail industry analyst for the investment firm alex. brown &amp; sons inc. in baltimore
cautious spending, wintzer said, could have a ripple effect throughout the economy. consumer spending is the largest component of the gross national product, and when spending is sluggish retailers order less merchandise and manufacturers in turn cut back production, sometimes causing layoffs
laid off workers then decrease their spending, sustaining the cycle
consumers have been spending slowly for about a year, and analysts predicted the trend would continue despite an expected pickup in sales before easter
after that, we would expect to see a return to slowing or sluggish trends at least for the next few months,'' said jeffrey b. edelman, an analyst with drexel burnham lambert inc
david wyss, an economist with data resources inc. in lexington, mass., said consumers were expected to increase their savings this year as a hedge against economic uncertainty
february generally is one of the weakest months of the retail year, but last month's results were ``disappointing and significantly below expectations for most retail companies,'' said jeffrey feiner, an analyst with merrill lynch &amp; co. inc
the figures ``appear to be miserable,'' but may look worse than they really are because of comparisons with a strong performance by retailers in february 1987, edelman said
the nation's largest retailer, sears, roebuck and co., said its sales rose 2.5 percent from february 1987
k mart said its overall sales were up 0.8 percent, but sales at stores open at least a year _ known as comparable store sales _ fell 1.6 percent
comparable store sales are considered a more accurate reflection of a retailer's performance than overall sales
the rapidly-expanding wal-mart stores inc. reported its overall sales rose 32 percent while comparable store sales rose 13 percent
j.c. penney co. inc. said its sales fell 0.5 percent overall and 1.1 percent among comparable stores
federated, the object of a takeover battle between r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp., said its sales slipped 1.2 percent
dayton hudson corp. said its overall sales rose 16.2 percent, but comparable store sales slipped 1.3 percent during february
may department stores co. said its overall sales fell 1.3 percent while comparable store sales dropped 4.5 percent
montgomery ward &amp; co. said its sales declined 2.5 percent and f.w. woolworth co. said its sales rose 9.4 percent
the results reported thursday were from general retailers and apparel stores. they do not reflect sales of auto dealers or supermarkets
apparel retailers, who have been among the hardest hit by sluggish sales, are unlikely to see much relief during the first half of this year, wintzer said
last summer, consumers became bored with fashions and cut back their clothing purchases through the fall and winter. when sales began to decline, it was too late for retailers to change spring 1988 merchandise that was similar to the 1987 styles, so consumers are not expected to greet the new lines
retailers are testing new fashions in hopes of turning their performance around later this year, wintzer said
general motors corp. benefited from an apparent resurgence of consumer confidence in late february, analysts said, leading a spurt that saw domestic automakers post a 25 percent rise in sales over the year-ago period
in the seven selling days from feb. 21-29, gm sold 127,549 domestic cars, up 33.4 percent from a year earlier, and 59,709 domestic light trucks, up 46.2 percent from a year earlier
gm said its sales during the final third of february were its highest for that period since 1972
among all eight companies that build cars and trucks in the united states, sales totaled 378,308 in late february, up from 302,642 a year ago
aiding sales were the weaker dollar, which pushes prices of imports higher, and what some analysts said was stronger consumer activity
consumer confidence continues to strengthen and is now approaching levels prior to the october stock market collapse. we are optimistic about the (vehicle) market for march and the spring selling season,'' said c.n. moore, gm vice president for customer sales and service
domestic car sales totaled 246,742 during late february, up 24.1 percent from 198,818 a year ago. domestic light truck sales were 131,566, up 26.7 percent from 103,824 in late february 1987, the companies reported
for the entire month, combined import car and light truck sales fell 4.4 percent from february 1987 while sales of domestic vehicles rose 13.9 percent. higher prices helped push sales of japanese cars 4.1 percent lower and european cars 6.1 percent lower against a year ago
foreign automakers have been forced to raise prices to account for the foreign exchange decline of the dollar since 1985
the domestics are going after market share...starting to take advantage of the import weakness. not only have they held down prices, but they have very heavy incentive campaigns,'' said thomas o'grady, industry analyst with integrated automotive resources inc. in wayne, pa
total car and light truck sales, imported and domestic, rose 17.7 percent in february to 2,406,215 from 2,044,426 a year ago. sales are compared on the basis of daily average sales during february, which had 25 selling days this year and 24 last year
korean car sales rose 76.4 percent, continuing an unbroken trend that began when hyundai motor corp. entered the market in 1986
unlike the currencies of japan and most western european nations, the korean won has not risen against the u.s. dollar, so korean cars remain relatively inexpensive in this country
of the four korean makes on the market, two are imported by u.s. makers _ the ford festiva and gm's pontiac lemans _ and one is imported by japan's mitsubishi motors corp
in late february, car sales increased from a year ago for all domestic makers except nissan motor corp., whose sales plunged 44.2 percent to 1,955 from 3,501 a year ago
nissan also was the only domestic maker to sell fewer light trucks during the period. nissan's domestic light trucks sales fell 2.5 percent to 2,633 from 2,701 a year ago
ford motor co.'s domestic car sales rose 18.7 percent to 61,049 from 51,411 a year ago. ford's domestic truck sales were up 10.8 percent, to 41,599 from 37,559 a year ago
no. 3 chrysler corp.'s domestic car sales rose 18.8 percent, to 37,481 from 31,560 a year ago. chrysler's domestic truck sales rose 21.6 percent, to 27,625 from 22,715 in late february 1987
honda motor co., volkswagen of america inc. and toyota motor corp. also reported increased sales from a year ago. mazda motor corp. began assembling cars in the united states last fall
here are the sales results for the eight major u.s. automakers for feb. 21-29. there were seven selling days in the period this year and last year
cars and trucks imported for sales under the gm, ford and chrysler names are counted as foreign. sales of imported cars and trucks are reported at the end of each month
cars and trucks made in the united states by volkswagen, honda, nissan, toyota and mazda are counted as domestic and appear in this table
feb. 21-29: 246,742 vs. 198,818, up 24.1 percent
month: 649,063 vs. 556,953, up 11.9 percent
year: 1,180,284 vs. 984,631, up 19.9 percent
month: 234,274 vs. 219,915, up 2.3 percent
year: 467,084 vs. 406,649, up 14.9 percent
feb. 21-29: 131,566 vs. 103,824, up 26.7 percent
month: 349,426 vs. 284,835, up 17.8 percent
year: 634,755 vs. 504,512, up 25.8 percent
month: 51,314 vs. 66,829, down 26.3 percent
year: 124,092 vs. 148,634, down 16.5 percent
feb. 21-29: 378,308 vs. 302,642, up 25 percent
month: 998,489 vs. 841,788, up 13.9 percent
year: 1,815,039 vs. 1,489,143, up 21.9 percent
month: 285,588 vs. 286,744, down 4.4 percent
year: 591,176 vs. 555,283, up 6.5 percent
feb. 21-29: 127,549 vs. 95,588, up 33.4 percent
month: 331,917 vs. 277,956, up 14.6 percent
year: 595,557 vs. 510,463, up 16.7 percent
feb. 21-29: 61,049 vs. 51,411, up 18.7 percent
month: 176,878 vs. 157,031, up 8.1 percent
year: 336,910 vs. 265,301, up 27 percent
feb. 21-29: 37,481 vs. 31,560, up 18.8 percent
month: 98,819 vs. 81,009, up 17.1 percent
year: 169,898 vs. 136,883, up 24.1 percent
feb. 21-29: 14,470 vs. 14,104, up 2.6 percent
month: 27,604 vs. 27,851, down 4.9 percent
year: 49,975 vs. 47,749, up 4.7 percent
feb. 21-29: 1,874 vs. 1,572, up 19.2 percent
month: 3,981 vs. 3,808, up 0.4 percent
year: 7,163 vs. 6,627, up 8.1 percent
feb. 21-29: 1,955 vs. 3,501, down 44.2 percent
month: 4,723 vs. 7,200, down 37 percent
year: 9,837 vs. 13,769, down 28.6 percent
feb. 21-29: 1,458 vs. 1,082, up 34.8 percent
month: 3,315 vs. 2,098, up 51.7 percent
year: 7,776 vs. 3,839, up 102.6 percent
feb. 21-29: 906 vs. 0
month: 1,826 vs. 0
year: 3,168 vs. 0
feb. 21-29: 59,709 vs. 49,849, up 46.2 percent
month: 146,548 vs. 113,339, up 24.1 percent
year: 258,143 vs. 197,421, up 30.8 percent
feb. 21-29: 41,599 vs. 37,559, up 10.8 percent
month: 119,510 vs. 108,135, up 6.1 percent
year: 222,133 vs. 188,755, up 17.7 percent
feb. 21-29: 27,625 vs. 22,715, up 21.6 percent
month: 76,471 vs. 56,663, up 29.6 percent
year: 139,910 vs. 105,209, up 33 percent
feb. 21-29: 2,633 vs. 2,701, down 2.5 percent
month: 6,897 vs. 6,698, down 1.1 percent
year: 14,569 vs. 13,127, up 11 percent
otis spunkmeyer inc. is wagering a few million cookies that it has goodyear out-blimped when it comes to midair advertising
the gourmet baking company embarks today on a sky tours business featuring a vintage 1945 dc-3, hoping to capture the romance of aviation's golden era along with the hearts and wallets of well-heeled customers
kenneth rawlings, chairman and chief executive officer of otis spunkmeyer, sees the tour business as a can't-miss proposition: even if planefuls of customers don't line up for hour-long flights at $75 a pop _ or $1,200 to charter the entire 18-seat aircraft _ the promotional value is high
we look at it as our goodyear blimp,'' rawlings said, noting that a 95-foot-long sign bearing the company's name under the wing should grab the attention of ground-bound consumers
we're just trying to find a way of flying it full at the same time we're promoting our product.''
the company inaugurated its ``sentimental journeys'' venture on thursday, whisking press and invited guests on half-hour trips around san francisco bay in the two-propeller airplane, complete with champagne and crew in 1940s style uniforms
otis spunkmeyer, which expects $30 million in sales over the next 12 months, bought the dc-3 for $165,000 two months ago
rawlings took his first airplane ride on a dc-3 as a child and says he's been mulling over the sky tours idea for some time. last summer he decided to go ahead with it after his wife linda _ the company president and a white-knuckle flier _ accompanied him on a commercial dc-3 flight from cape cod to boston and was lulled to sleep by its comfort
victory lap inc., the spunkmeyer subsidiary that operates the tours, has spiffed up the inside of its dc-3 and offers deluxe limousine service as well
inside the plane, crew members wear 1940s-style uniforms, the in-flight music features doris day and glenn miller, and stewardesses distribute champagne, gourmet hors d'oeuvres and _ of course _ cookies as the slow but steady aircraft flies past the golden gate bridge at 1,500 feet
the dc-3 revolutionized air travel in comfort and safety, and accounted for 90 percent of the world's airline traffic in 1939. rawlings estimates there are more than 1,000 of them still operating, mostly flying cargo in other countries
aviation historian ed davies of nearby millbrae, calif., said he believed the dc-3 venture was the first of its kind
if the tours venture is successful, rawlings envisions a fleet of refurbished dc-3s serving the nation's major metropolitan areas, starting with seattle, san diego or los angeles
such a move would mark a new chapter for san leandro-based otis spunkmeyer, founded by rawlings in 1977 as a california chain of fresh-baked cookie stores. the company moved into selling frozen gourmet cookie dough wholesale in 1983 and now employs 250 people
only about a quarter of mexico's creditor banks submitted bids in a unique debt-for-securities swap aimed at reducing the nation's $105 billion foreign debt, according to the treasury department
the government said thursday it had accepted 55 percent of the $6.7 billion in bids that 139 creditor banks submittd under the swap plan, which has been hailed by some as a major new initiative in dealing with troubled third world debtors
under the plan, the government will issue over $2.5 billion in new, 20-year bonds to its creditor banks to replace $3.66 billion in old bank debt, a swap that will save mexico over $2.6 billion over 20 years
mexico had invited its international bank creditors to trade their mexican loans at a discount for the 20-year bonds, which are backed by u.s. treasury securities
the plan unveiled last december was seen as a way of reducing the banks' exposures to troubled mexican loans while minimizing the impact on the banks' ledgers from having to write down the value of those loans
but there were indications when the plan was announced that a number of major foreign lenders would not participate. citibank, for example, indicated it was satisfied with its loan portfolio and viewed the swaps instead as a way for banks to get out of third world lending
mexico's approximately 560 creditor banks had until feb. 25 to submit their sealed bids to morgan guaranty trust co., which acted as exchange agent for the plan
of the $6.7 billion in bids received from 139 creditor banks, mexico accepted bids representing $3.66 billion in old loans at an average discount exchange rate of just over 69 cents on the dollar, the treasury department said
the remaining 45 percent of the bids were rejected because they sought a price for the old debt that was higher than that sought by the government, the department said
by agreeing to issue the $2.557 billion in new bonds, mexico will reduce its debt principal by $1.108 billion. it also will save $1.537 billion in interest over the 20-year term of the bonds, for a total savings of $2.645 billion
the government will back the bond issue by buying $520 million in zero-coupon u.s. treasury bonds. it had been prepared to invest up to $2 billion to purchase up to $10 billion of the u.s. securities
the department did not identify the banks which had bids accepted or detail the amounts
it did state that the government would continue ``to actively explore new mechanisms to reduce its external debt.''
it is hoped that in the future...international financial organizations can play a more active role in designing and assisting other solutions to alleviate the weight of the debt,'' the department stated
robert j. birnbaum is stepping down as president and chief operating officer of the new york stock exchange when his contract expires at the end of may and will be succeeded by executive vice president richard a. grasso
birnbaum, 60, who became nyse president in 1985 after eight years as president of the american stock exchange, said in a statement thursday that he is ``interested in pursuing other interests and opportunities,'' including membership on corporate boards and possibly an association with a major law firm
his successor, grasso, 41, is a 20-year veteran of the nyse who has served as its executive vice president for capital markets since 1986 and is a member of the exchange's management committee
there was no indication that birnbaum's departure was related to the oct. 19 stock market collapse, when the nyse was strained to the breaking point by the plunge in prices and an unprecedented volume of trading
nyse chairman john j. phelan jr. stated that ``bob birnbaum has been a valuable asset to the new york stock exchange during one of the most turbulent periods in its history
his many years of experience in operations and extensive knowledge of securities industry issues contributed significantly to the nyse's ability to operate smoothly and efficiently during the market crisis,'' phelan said
grasso is known for his expertise with the exchange's computers and communications systems, which are becoming increasingly critical. he is responsible for upgrades of the systems that will allow the nyse to manage volume of 600 million shares a day by june as efficiently as it manages 225 million shares currently
in an interview, grasso said the exchange is working with member firms to remove bottlenecks so that the whole trading system will be able to handle 600 million shares a day _ the record volume of last oct. 19 and 20
i can't give you the categorical statement that all 600 member firms will be at the point where we will be by june, but progress is being made,'' grasso said
phelan said in a statement that ``it is imperative that the president and chief operating officer of the nyse be thoroughly familiar with these systems.''
the nyse said grasso was designated by the board of directors on thursday and would be formally elected on june 2
southland corp. announced the sale of its reddy ice operation to the investment firm kaminski-engles capital corp. for an undisclosed amount of cash
reddy ice is the world's largest producer of fragmentary ice and operates seven plants in texas, florida and nevada
most reddy ice employees will be retained after the sale, said officials with dallas-based kaminski-engles
southland also said it plans to divest its snack foods and chemical-food labs divisions and other retail operations
southland, the parent company of 7-eleven convenience stores, plans major asset sales to help pay off debt incurred in its $4.9 billion leveraged buyout. the company on tuesday announced the sale of 473 7-eleven stores in 10 states to circle k corp., its chief competitor, 
unexpected strength in passenger traffic during a typically weak travel season has prompted major airlines to raise fares twice in recent weeks
continental airlines initiated the latest move on thursday, boosting one-way regular coach fares in amounts ranging from $7 for short flights to $45 for longer trips
continental also tightened restrictions on some of its discount fares used by business travelers, effective march 15. they will have to book tickets four to seven days in advance and pay a 25 percent cancellation or change penalty
american, united and northwest airlines immediately announced they would match continental's regular coach-fare increases in markets where they compete. other carriers were expected to do likewise
under the revised fare structure, for example, a one-way regular coach ticket from new york to denver rose from $350 to $395. a one-way coach ticket from newark, n.j., to rochester, n.y rose from $118 to $125
last month, airlines raised their deepest discount fares by about $10 per round trip, partly because of surprisingly higher passenger traffic. in january airline traffic rose about 4 percent, more than most industry analysts had expected. february traffic also appeared to be strong
american, for example, reported a 25.7 percent jump in passenger traffic for the month over a year earlier and said it flew a record 4.61 billion revenue passenger miles. a revenue passenger mile represents one paying passenger flown one mile, an important measurement of an airline's business. continental said february traffic increased 8.8 percent over a year earlier
airline traffic ordinarily slows in the winter, which prompts carriers to woo travelers with fare-cuts. concern about a winter slump intensified after the october stock market crash, which raised fears that leisure and business travel would decline
industry analysts have attributed the surprisingly strong growth in airline traffic to eased concern about the impact of the stock crash. they also say the dollar's lower value has attracted thousands of europeans to the united states, where they can exploit the buying power of their stronger currencies
the fare increases announced thursday helped boost airline stocks on wall street, reflecting an investor belief that earnings would benefit if greater numbers of passengers are paying more money to fly
delta air lines rose 87{ cents to $48.87{; amr, parent of american, rose $2.12{ to $42.12{; nwa, parent of northwest, rose $1.12{ to $44.75, and allegis, parent of united, rose $1.25 to $77
batus inc. said it launched a $4.5 billion hostile tender offer for farmers group inc. because the insurance giant's board of directors declined to negotiate over batus' earlier $4.2 billion proposal
batus began the $63 a share offer on thursday, sweetening its initial unsolicited $60 a share proposal that farmers had rejected on jan. 20 as inadequate
a spokesman for los angeles-based farmers, the nation's seventh-largest insurer, said that while the farmers board would consider the higher price, ``this highly conditional offer changes very little.''
wall street reacted to the latest development by sending the price of farmers' stock up 75 cents _ to $62.75 per share _ on the over-the-counter market
in a statement, batus chairman patrick sheehy said the tender offer ``represents a pemium of 47 percent over the $43 price at which farmers' shares closed on the day before our initial proposal.''
he said batus would be willing to meet farmers' directors at any time to discuss all terms of the proposal
one new york analyst, who has followed the maneuvering, said batus' latest attempt ``may be a ploy to get some action out of farmers. they have been sitting there ignoring everything that is done.''
i wouldn't be surprised to see a further offer down the line,'' said d. gordon luce, of brown brothers harriman
other analysts had said previously that batus needed to sweeten its offer by $5 to $20 a share before farmers would consider it
the tender offer was conditioned upon batus obtaining at least 51 percent of farmers' 69 million outstanding shares and on batus gaining required state regulatory approval. the offer expires march 30
batus is a subsidiary of british-based bat industries plc, a tobacco, retailing and insurance conglomerate
batus announced last month that it had lined up a $3.2 billion revolving line of credit from an international group of banks for use in its takeover bid
after rejecting batus's $60 a share offer, farmers chairman leo denlea jr. said his shareholders would be best served if the company remained independent
farmers has about $11 billion in assets, mostly in insurance. it ranks third in the united states in home and auto insurance behind state farm and allstate and is the seventh-largest property and casualty insurance company. chairman</head>
five directors of kaisertech ltd. have filed suit against alan clore, the company's chairman, to keep him from turning over control of the board to houston financier charles hurwitz
the lawsuit, filed thursday in alameda county superior court, was the second against clore involving kaisertech in three days. on tuesday, the world's fifth-largest aluminum maker sued the british investor for illegal insider stock trading
among the minority group of directors that sued clore on thursday was retired kaiser chairman cornell maier. the suit said that clore's resignation ``is in order'' because of an alleged breach of contract
clore agreed earlier this week to sell his 32.1 percent stake in kaisertech for up to $234 million to hurwitz, who acquired pacific lumber co. in 1986
the five directors wanted clore to sell his shares more broadly. they also are concerned that all board positions expire in may
the minority directors claim clore has breached the so-called clore agreement, which gave clore the right to nominate a majority of the board in exchange for a $140 million investment last year
they said in the lawsuit that ``driven by his financial desperation and (in) violation of delaware law and his agreement with kaisertech, clore has entered into agreements with hurwitz under which clore will pretend to nominate his own (slate of directors), but in fact will nominate only those hurwitz selects.''
in plain english,'' the suit continued, ``the foregoing agreements and schemes are a sham designed to enable hurwitz to obtain board control, all without stockholder approval.''
clore and his lawyers could not be reached for comment on the suit. a representative for hurwitz, not a defendant in the complaint, said the suit is ``without merit.''
besides maier, those suing include stephen hutchcraft, corporate president under maier and now president of kaisertech's only operating subsidiary, kaiser aluminum; john beckett, retired transamerica corp. chairman and the bankamerica corp. director who helped persuade tom clausen to return as chairman of the san francisco-based bank corporation; charles lynch, chairman of dhl worldwide express in redwood city; and john merow, kaiser's former vice chairman. all but lynch were directors under maier
bond corp. holdings ltd., the australian company that bought the g. heileman brewing co. last fall, has decided to sell the brewer's bakery division, according to a letter sent to employees
michael d. moon, president of the heileman baking co., said in the letter sent thursday that the division was being offered to sale ``to a wide variety of american and international companies and investors.''
about 4,700 people are employed nationwide at the division's 12 bakeries, which have annual sales of about $350 million
moon said management had made an offer two weeks ago to buy the bakeries. ``our goal is continuity of the company and jobs for all of its people,'' he said
a federal judge has ruled that trans world airlines did not bargain in bad faith to precipitate and prolong a 1986 strike by flight attendants, a decision that could save the airline $300 million
the ruling thursday went against the independent federation of flight attendants, which represents about 5,000 twa flight attendants who were seeking reinstatement with back pay to the jobs they lost in the strike
u.s. district judge howard f. sachs rejected contentions by the union that twa and its largest shareholder, carl icahn, bargained in bad faith in violation of federal labor laws to precipitate the bitter 72-day walkout. the union demanded its jobs back with back pay at prestrike wage rates
union president vicki frankovich said she was disappointed by the judge's ruling but was ``confident we will win on appeal.''
if sachs' order is upheld upon appeal, it will lift from the airline a potential financial liability that has been accumulating at the rate of $8 million to $15 million a month since the strike began march 7, 1986
we are very pleased the court made this decision,'' icahn said. ``we try to be fair to our employees. we tried to negotiate with iffa. we are happy the court vindicated us.''
icahn said the decision would not alter twa's financial plans because ``we never put any reserves aside because we always thought we could win it.''
the walkout began after icahn bargained unsuccessfully for cost-saving concessions from the union. freed from the supervision of a federal mediator who could not resolve the differences, icahn cut flight attendant wages by 22 percent, increased working hours and changed work rules. the union struck
twa hired 2,700 new flight attendants to replace the strikers. about 1,300 attendants resigned from the union, crossed its picket lines and continued to work
on may 17, 1986, the union offered unconditionally to return to work without a contract
in one of several lawsuits it filed, the union alleged that the airline had bargained in bad faith to bring about and prolong the strike
while chastising both sides for their sometimes angry and abrasive conduct in negotiations _ particularly icahn for allegedly sexist comments _ sachs found that the actions of the airline were legal responses to economic conditions
i cannot conclude from the evidence presented that twa's bargaining was in bad faith,'' the judge wrote in his 78-page opinion
sachs said case law permitted an aggressive union to bargain for benefits that will increase an employer's costs. an aggressive employer can lawfully bargain for reductions in total expenses of a group thought to be considerably overpaid and much less productive than is feasible, he said
sachs went on to say that ``it is not a function of the court to insist that an employer cheerfully accept strike losses or show generosity in victory.'' fact. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
a flight attendants' union official said today that transportation department plans to test airline crews and ground workers for drug use would be unfair and unnecessary
but transportation secretary james burnley defended the proposal announced thursday, saying he did not want to wait until hundreds of people are killed before taking action to stop any potential problem
vicky francovich, president of the independent federation of flight attendants, said that in the 50-year history of the industry, there have been no accidents blamed on employee drug use
ms. francovich, interviewed with burnley on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' said the department should be looking for ways to combat fatigue among overworked airline personnel and to tighten certification procedures
i think there are more responsible ways to deal with the problems,'' she said, adding that false positive drug tests could lead to an unfair stigma against an employee
while the government is not dealing with problems in the deregulated industry ... it is attacking a problem here that doesn't really exist,'' she said. ``this is not a necessary approach.''
burnley acknowledged that no airline accidents have been traced to drug use, but he cited a pittsburgh press survey showing that six hospital emergency rooms had treated 23 cockpit crew members or flight attendants for drug overdoses
burnley, who was also interviewed on ``cbs this morning,'' said one airline reported that 16 percent of job applicants for mechanics jobs were found to be using drugs and, at another airline, 6 percent of flight attendant applicants were drug users. he did not name the airlines
there is nothing beyond that anecdotal evidence that would indicate that the airline industry is somehow exempt from this problem that is plaguing all of american society, so i think it's pretty clear that we need to move in this area,'' he said
burnley said he expects a final rule to be implemented before the end of the year, despite several pending court challenges to mandatory drug testing
testing would cover the more than half a million commercial aviation employees who hold safety-senstive jobs: from pilots and flight attendants to mechanics and security workers at airport checkpoints
a fact sheet provided by the department suggested as many as 7.5 percent of the 511,000 workers who would be subject to the tests might show evidence of drug use. but burnley sought to distance himself from the estimate, saying it was included only as a means of roughly estimating the possible cost of such a program and not meant to indicate the extent of drug use in the industry
the pilots and otherairline unions promised to challenge any random drug testing rule in court once it is made final. drug testing already is the subject of numerous lawsuits and several federal courts of appeal have either upheld testing or knocked it down
we can't wait for weeks and months while these (drug testing) cases wind themselves through the courts,'' burnley said
in addition to pilots and flight attendants, the testing requirements would cover aircraft mechanics, other cockpit crew member such as flight engineers and navigators, aircraft dispatchers and security personnel who work at screening checkpoints at airports
under the proposal, employees would be subject to a pre-employment test, periodic testing whenever a person is taking a physical, post-accident testing and random testing as well as test for reasonable cause. an employee would be subject to an initial test on a sample of urine and a more sophisticated test if the first test shows the presence of drugs
japan posted an unadjusted current account surplus of $3.52 billion in january, down 27.4 percent from $4.84 billion a year earlier, the finance ministry said friday
january's surplus in the broadest measure of trade was also down from $9.44 billion in december, said finance ministry official toshio naito. the current account includes services and investment income as well as merchandise trade
when adjusted for seasonal fluctuations, the current account surplus for january stood at $8.03 billion, down from $8.71 billion a year earlier but up from an adjusted $7.47 billion in december
japan's seasonally adjusted trade surplus in january fell 19.6 percent from its level a year earlier, marking the seventh consecutive monthly decline, naito
the seasonally adjusted surplus in merchandise trade, a narrower measure, came to $4.58 billion, down from $5.70 billion last january and $10.06 billion in december, naito said. it was the seventh straight monthly decline in the trade surplus compared to its year-earlier level
imports of aluminum, platinum, textiles, food and crude oil increased, apparently because of the yen's continued rise against the u.s. dollar and stronger domestic demand, naito said. the higher yen has raised prices of japanese exports overseas and made imports cheaper, encouraging japanese to buy more foreign goods
in 1987's january-march quarter, the current account surplus rose 65.5 percent from a year earlier. on the other hand, it declined 1.5 percent in the april-june quarter year-on-year, 13.2 percent in the july-september quarter and 15.2 percent in the october-december quarter
exports rose 16.1 percent in january from a year earlier to $17.0 billion, compared to $14.6 billion a year earlier, but down from the holiday-impacted $22.8 billion in december
imports rose 38.8 percent to $12.4 billion from $8.94 billion a year earlier
toshiaki kakimoto, chief economist for sumitomo bank ltd., said january's unadjusted 16.1 percent surge in exports was ``somewhat disturbing.''
kakimoto said japanese exporters, in part, had boosted their shipments in december and january on fears the yen would rise against the dollar and make their products less competitive
in a separate report, the japan automobile importers' association said imported cars sold in japan reached 8,212 autos in february, up 39.4 percent from the 5,890 sold in the same month last year
the number of imported autos sold in japan has increased every month since january 1984, said kunihiko ono of the association. recommendation to open bargaining early and include analyst comment.</note>
a massive protest and other strong opposition from the united auto workers union influenced chrysler corp.'s decision not to sell its acustar inc. parts-making subsidiary, the automaker says
chrysler said thursday it would keep acustar, but would close or sell four plants within the next 18 months because of their ``competitive position.''
the uaw had threatened plant-by-plant strikes if chrysler sold the subsidiary, which employs 28,000 in the united states, canada and mexico and had $3 billion in sales last year
last thursday, more than 1,000 sign-waving workers protested the proposed sale outside chrysler's highland park headquarters
furthermore, workers at chrysler plants throughout the no. 3 automaker also had stopped attending management-union meetings and participating in other joint activities since the automaker disclosed the possible sale
that played a role,'' chrysler spokesman john guiniven said of the company's decision. ``(workers) stated very strongly that they wanted to remain a part of chrysler.''
chrysler had said it was considering selling the subsidiary, which represents a fifth of its worldwide operations, because it didn't want to invest in the research needed to upgrade some operations. chrysler already buys about 70 percent of its parts from outside sources
the uaw had opposed the sale of acustar on the grounds that it would threaten the job security of all chrysler workers
we looked at all the offers, took into account the feelings of our employees and decided not to sell,'' guiniven said
we certainly welcome this announcement, since we have maintained all along that chrysler is a stronger company with its own internal parts-making capacity,'' uaw president owen bieber and uaw vice president marc stepp said in joint statement
chrysler said the four plants it plans to close or sell _ amplex van wert in van wert, ohio, trenton chemical in suburban detroit, detroit forge and detroit trim _ employ about 2,000 workers
the largest of the four plants is detroit trim, which employs 1,177 workers and makes trim for automobiles
trenton chemical employs 189 and makes chemicals used in auto paints, amplex van vert employs 333 and makes powered metal products and detroit forge employs 419 and makes forged parts
we are going to sell all four and if not, they will be closed,'' guiniven said. ``but we feel strongly that ampex and trenton chemical will be sold.''
the union would not have been able to call a national strike over the sale of acustar, but union locals were given permission to authorize strikes on a plant-by-plant basis over unresolved issues such as health and safety grievances
at least seven locals had voted to ask for strike authorization, including workers at trenton chemical. workers also had stopped participating in union-management meetings at plants throughout chrysler in protest
chrysler said it expected the company-union joint activities suspended last month would resume in the wake of its decision
bieber and stepp said they believed workers who had stayed away from the meetings probably would begin cooperating as a result of the decision
the company also said it was ready to open negotiations for a national contract to replace the agreement that expires sept. 14
stepp said thursday he would recommend to the union's 140-member chrysler council that negotiations, which normally begin in midsummer, be started early this year
it surprised me a bit that they offered to open talks early, but i'm, very interested in getting a new agreement like ford and gm that covers workers being laid off by plant closings,'' stepp said thursday night
harley shaiken, a professor and labor relations expert at the university of california at san diego, said chrysler misjudged its workers when it said acustar was up for sale
chrysler miscalculated, thinking that they might only have problems with acustar workers,'' he said. ``instead acustar became a lightning rod for union discontent throughout the corporation.''
the upjohn co. and a tokyo-based pharmaceutical company have announced a joint venture to bring japanese health products to the united states
upjohn and chugai pharmaceutical co. ltd. will form a third company, which will be named later. chugai will own 55 percent and upjohn will own the rest. the new company will be based in the united states, the companies said friday
the agreement announced today calls for chugai to license products to the new company and for upjohn to be the exclusive distributor for seven years. among the products heading for the united states are erythropoietin, which stimulates production of red blood cells, and granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, which stimulates white blood cells
they can be used to treat anemia associated with kidney dialysis and in transfusions and cancer chemotherapy
upjohn and chugai have had an excellent business relationship since 1982,'' said lawrence c. hoff, upjohn president and chief operating officer
kimio uyeno, chairman of chugai, said, ``we intend to establish our capability to develop chugai's new products and technologies through the joint venture. ..
with upjohn's help, the corporation is expected to become a fully integrated pharmaceutical company through gradual transitions in the future,'' he said
upjohn spokesman robert d. larue said the location of the new company's headquarters and its employment level haven't been decided. he declined to speculate about the new company's sales level
here are some facts about chrysler corp.'s acustar parts subsidiary. chrysler announced thursday it would not sell the subsidiary, but would close four plants in ohio and michigan instead
headquarters: warren, mich
chairman: robert a. lutz
employees: 28,000
plants: 31
products: automotive trim, heating and cooling systems, chassis systems
1987 sales: $2.9 billion
a michigan congressman is urging unionized flight attendants at northwest airlines to strike the company, saying a cooling off period has ended
rep. william ford, a democrat from taylor in suburban detroit, said thursday the teamsters union should strike the airline since talks between the two sides have reached an impasse
the demands the company are making now would provoke a strike in any factory in my district,'' said ford, whose district includes detroit metropolitan airport, one of northwest's three major hubs. the others are in minneapolis and memphis, tenn
teamsters airline division leader william genoese sr. said he met thursday with ford and michigan sen. donald riegle, also a democrat, and was pleased with their support for his union
a teamsters strike deadline passed nearly a week ago as negotiations between the minnesotat-based company and the union representing its 6,700 flight attendants continued. since then, talks have broken off and no new negotiations have been scheduled
the union has said there will be a strike, but has not said when or to what extent
the stock market declined slightly today as interest rates jumped following a stronger-than-expected report on employment
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 6 points in early trading, was down 4.47 at 2,059.02 by 11 a.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 6 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 544 up, 657 down and 527 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 83.35 million shares at midmorning
before the opening the labor department reported that the civilian unemployment rate dropped a tenth of a percentage point last month to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent
nonfarm payroll employment increased by 531,000, considerably more than most advance estimates on wall street
the news was seen as an emphatic signal that the economy remains strong several months after the stock market crash last october. but it was not well received in the credit markets, where traders interpreted is as a likely portent of upward pressure on interest rates
prices of long-term government bonds fell about $15 for each $1,000 in face value, raising their yields to the 8.4-8.5 percent range
american cyanamid rose } to 54 in active trading. the stock is one of many that have been caught up in takeover rumors and speculation this week
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped .37 to 150.33. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .15 at 292.66
usair officials have agreed to buy 50 boeing 737 jetliners with options for 30 additional aircraft in a deal worth $2.4 billion
edwin colodny, usair chairman and president, said thursday the order ``is indicative of the health and vitality'' of the airline, which is headquartered at washington national airport
the 50 aircraft on order will include some of the smaller series 500 models that will be introduced by boeing in early 1989. the boeing 737s have a seating capacity ranging from 108 seats for the series 500 model to 150 seats in the series 400 jet
delivery of the new jets will begin in april 1989 and continue through december 1991
the twin-engine, short-to-medium range aircraft is the most popular jet ever sold by seattle-based boeing co. the deal with usair brings to 2,001 boeing 737s on order
usair, which traditionally has concentrated its flights in the northeast, became the fifth largest airline company last year with the acquisition of psa and piedmont. while the three airlines still operate as separate carriers there are plans to merge them into a single carrier in the future
wheat futures opened higher while other grains and soybeans opened lower today on the chicago board of trade
wheat prices advanced in reaction to the agriculture department's announcement thursday afternoon that it had sold just 1.4 million bushels of surplus wheat wednesday in the second of three auctions slated for this week, analysts said
the usda had set a target of 10 million bushels for each of the auctions, which are designed to meet increased demand by selling government-owned stocks of the grain
the agency hit its target on tuesday, but fell far short on wednesday, easing fears among traders that the increased availability of wheat could depress cash prices. another auction was scheduled for this afternoon
the usda also announced thursday that american and soviet negotiators would meet next week to start work on a new, long-term grain agreement. the announcement prompted further confidence in the wheat market, said richard loewy, an analyst in new york for prudential-bache securities inc
he said prices for future delivery of soybeans fell on technical factors while corn was nearly unchanged
in early trading, wheat was 2 cents to 2{ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.06{ a bushel; corn was unchanged to { cent lower with march at $2.00{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to 1 cent lower with march at $1.86 a bushel; soybeans were 2{ cents to 3{ cents lower with march at $6.19{ a bushel
livestock and meat futures were mostly higher in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were .10 cent lower to .18 cent higher with april at 70.52 cents a pound; feeder cattle were unchanged to .35 cent higher with march at 79.25 cents a pound; hogs were unchanged to .50 cent higher with april at 42.70 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .75 cent to .88 cent higher with march at 53.05 cents a pound
cattle futures settled sharply lower on thursday. pork futures finished slightly lower
bonds prices tumbled in heavy trading and interest rates jumped sharply this morning in reaction to the government's surprisingly strong february employment report
the treasury's key 30-year issue fell more than 1{ points or $15 per $1,000 in face amount. its yield, which moves inversely to price and is a barometer of interest rate trends, surged to 8.44 percent from 8.31 percent late thursday
the deterioration is quite obviously a response to the employment situation,'' said william sullivan, director of money market research at the investment firm of dean witter reynolds inc
the labor department said the economy created half a million jobs last month, dropping the civilian unemployment rate to 5.7 percent, its lowest since the summer of 1979. the january rate had been 5.8 percent
credit-market analysts said the job-creation figure was more than twice the general estimate and suggested there would be heightening demand for credit and rising inflation, which depresses bond prices
nevertheless, some saw elements of weakness in the labor department report, particularly a slowdown in the creation of manufacturing jobs, suggesting future inventory buildups and production cutbacks
after a detailed analysis of the report filtered through the bond market, prices were likely to stabilize or recover somewhat, some analysts speculated
in the secondary market for treasury bonds, prices of short-term governments fell { point, intermediate maturities fell one point and long-term issues fell more than 1{ points, the financial information service telerate inc. reported
the movement of a point equals a change of $10 in the price of a bond with a $1,000 face value
the merrill lynch daily treasury index, which measures price movements on all outstanding treasury issues with maturities of a year or longer, fell 0.76 to 113.25. the shearson lehman daily treasury bond index, which makes a similar measurement, dropped 8.05 to 1,184.34
among corporate bonds, industrials and utilities fell between } to 1 point in heavy trading
moody's investment grade corporate bond index, which measures price movements on 80 corporate bonds with maturities of five years or longer, fell 1.07 to 285.09
yields on three-month treasury bills jumped 13 basis points to 5.73 percent. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. six-month bills rose 12 basis points to 5.98 percent and year bills rose 13 basis points to 6.16 percent
the federal funds rate, the interest on overnight loans between banks, traded at 6{ percent, up from 67-16 percent late thursday
tektronix inc. will lay off about 1,000 employees by may 28 to cut the growth of expenses, which has outpaced sales growth, the electronics manufacturer announced
there's just no question that we must reverse that trend to get tek back on the track to growth and profitability,'' said david p. friedley, president and chief executive officer, on friday
tektronix employs about 16,900 workers, with about 11,000 in oregon and southwest washington. most of the layoffs will affect managerial and professional workers in the portland area, the company said in a news release
the first phase of the layoffs will affect about 300 employees in the company's information display group. they were notified of the layoffs friday. employees in other divisions will be notified of their job status in the next few weeks, the company said
the layoffs follow a recent companywide review by a new management team
the reductions cause us to lose some very fine people,'' friedley said. ``their talents will be missed. but the fact is, we've been operating at less-than-maximum efficiency and our appetite for many projects and programs is greater than our pocketbook can adequately fund.''
friedley was chosen to succeed earl wantland on nov. 1. friedley's new management team was announced jan. 12
we have a number of growing, profitable businesses which are performing well, including portable oscilloscopes, television-related units, and the graphics printer and terminal division,'' friedley said. ``we are also aggressively pursuing other growth opportunities, such as telecommunications equipment, workstations and measurement systems.''
the company said it expects to record a loss for the third quarter, which ends march 5. the layoffs will result in significant expenses for severance pay and restructuring during the quarter
employees will be offered one week's severance pay for each year with the company, with a minimum of two weeks' pay
the company's sales in 1987 totaled $1.39 billion
ten employees have purchased standard chemical manufacturing co. of omaha, a 102-year-old livestock feed firm, from a group of new york and st. louis investors
the price of the leveraged buyout was not disclosed
after 98 years of profitability, the company was unprofitable the last couple of years,'' executive vice president bill dyer said
dyer and greg kluck, who becomes the seventh president in standard chemical's history, are the firm's majority owners
james m. paxson will remain as chairman, dyer said. paxson joined the company in 1953 as assistant to the president and became president in 1961
in october 1983, paxson, the majority stockholder in the employee-owned company, sold to a buying group headed by tom m. reese of st. louis, who became president, and r.b. halaby, president of ibec agri-finance co. of new york, who became chairman of the finance committee
dyer said standard chemical, which sells its feed items via the standard quality feeds label, would remain intact
standard chemical, has plants in malvern, iowa, and marshall, minn. it sells livestock feed in nebraska, iowa, wisconsin, south dakota, minnesota and montana
the company was founded in 1886 as the standard stock food co. by f.e. sanborn, a veterinarian. the company adopted its present name in 1912
the stock market suffered a broad setback today as interest rates jumped following a stronger-than-expected report on employment
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 6 points in early trading, was down 21.55 at 2,041.94 by noontime on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 455 up, 913 down and 456 unchanged
before the opening the labor department reported that the civilian unemployment rate dropped a tenth of a percentage point last month to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent
nonfarm payroll employment increased by 531,000, considerably more than most advance estimates on wall street
the news was seen as an emphatic signal that the economy remains strong several months after the stock market crash last october. but it was not well received in the credit markets, where traders interpreted is as a likely portent of upward pressure on interest rates
prices of long-term government bonds fell more than $15 for each $1,000 in face value, raising their yields to the 8.4-8.5 percent range
financial and utility issues, which are often especially sensitive to swings in interest rates, ran into selling. federal national mortgage, for example, dropped 1\ to 35\
in the telephone utility group, nynex lost 1\ to 68}; bell south } to 39}, and southwestern bell { to 37{
among actively traded blue-chip industrials, american telephone &amp; telegraph fell \ to 28|; eastman kodak ] to 43[; ford motor ] to 45|, and general electric ~ to 43~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped 1.46 to 149.24. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .90 at 291.61
volume on the big board came to 118.92 million shares at noontime, against 109.12 million at the same point thursday. baker had said; also moving on general news wires.</note>
treasury secretary james baker said today that the new commission created to find solutions to the government's huge budget deficits would be making a mistake if it became embroiled in election-year politics
the national economic commission was holding its initial meeting today behind closed doors with baker scheduled to address the group. before entering the session, baker told reporters he would urge the commission to keep a low profile during the 1988 presidential campaign
we will simply be making a point that the commission will be more effective if it is not politicized. to be effective it should not be viewed as a political apparatus of the 1988 campaign,'' baker said
the treasury secretary's position has drawn criticism from one member of the commission, house budget committee chairman william gray iii, who on thursday charged that the white house was trying to dictate how the commission would function before it had even had its first organizational session
he claimed that the administration, in an effort to cover up its biggest economic failure, was lobbying to keep the national economic commission under wraps until after the presidential election
the blue ribbon panel, which includes chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca and new york investment banker felix rohatyn as members, was expected to select a chairman today
sources close to the panel said robert strauss, a washington lawyer and former head of the democratic national committee, was a likely pick to head the group
gray, one of six democrats on the panel, took issue thursday with remarks made by baker, who had suggested that the commission should hold its deliberations in secret and not release any reports before the november presidential election
baker had said earlier this week that the administration was eager for the commission ``to go to work,'' but he also said that the commission's findings would carry more weight if the panel did not become embroiled in election-year politics
baker said the best way to avoid this was to meet in secret and not release any interim reports. the panel, which was created by congress, is scheduled to present its final recommendations by march 1 of next year
i don't think this commission should start off being dictated to by the white house,'' gray told reporters. ``someone is suggesting that we meet in a cave and roll a stone over the opening.''
supporters of the deficit commission hope that because of its bipartisan nature it will be able to break the logjam which has prevented the government from crafting solutions to the budget deficit, which this year is expected to top $150 billion
gray suggested that baker and other republicans were trying to keep the commission under wraps so that it would not become a forum for airing the administration's biggest economic failure, the doubling of the national debt
i don't think it is appropriate for the white house to say there should be nothing said or done until they get out of town,'' gray said. ``that is like the guilty party saying don't hand down sentence until we leave town.''
the commission is considered by many to be the best hope the next president will have to reach a quick consensus with congress on significant ways to reduce the budget deficit. foley's</head>
campeau corp. today said may department stores co. has agreed to buy two divisions of federated department stores inc. _ filene's and foley's _ if campeau completes its hostile takeover bid for federated
toronto-based campeau said the agreement with may would make it easier to obtain the financing for its bid for cincinnati-based federated and reduce the amount of long-term debt that would be needed after the acquisition
may said the purchase of filene's and foley's would strengthen its business. filene's is based in boston and foley's in houston. campeau said they were worth about $1.5 billion together, but did not say how much may had agreed to pay
on thursday, campeau threatened a court challenge to a merger agreement between federated and r.h. macy &amp; co
campeau, which had its rival buyout offer snubbed by federated, stated it intended to challenge provisions requiring federated to pay macy fees of up to $45 million if their merger fell through under certain conditions
macy late tuesday agreed to acquire federated for cash and securities in a deal valued by some analysts at a total of about $6.1 billion
in accepting macy's offer, federated spurned campeau's bid to pay about $6.18 billion in cash for the retailing company
under its current offer, campeau would pay $75 per share in cash for 80 percent of federated's shares, and after a merger would pay $44 per share for the remaining 20 percent. the company said the offer _ revised from a previous $68 a share offer for all federated shares _ had a total value of about $68 a share on a fully diluted basis
campeau also has offered to raise its offer by 50 cents a share if the breakup fee provision was withdrawn
the macy-federated merger will take six to 12 weeks to conclude, when it will be submitted to federated's shareholders for a vote
uruguay is scheduled to sign a $1.8 billion refinancing agreement with about 100 commercial banks on friday, bank officials said thursday
the eight-member bank advisory group for uruguay said the pact covers medium- and long-term external debt to commercial banks maturing from jan. 1, 1985 through dec. 31, 1991
uruguay currently has around $4.6 billion in outstanding debt, of which $2.2 billion is with commercial banks
the terms of the refinancing agreement include an interest-rate margin of seven-eighths to 1 percent over the london interbank offered rate, and maturities extending to the year 2004, the group said. commission did not propose specific rate cut for suggested new type of mail; also running on general news wires.</note>
mailing a letter will soon cost 25 cents, 3 cents more than at present
the independent postal rate commission today recommended a series of postage increases including boosting the price of a first-class stamp from 22 cents to a quarter
a final decision on implementing the new rates is up to the board of governors of the u.s. postal service, which requested the increases 10 months ago, calling for a 25-cent stamp for first class mail
the detailed and complex package of rate hikes recommended by the rate commission included increases in most classes of mail. the postal service had wanted increases averaging 16 percent
the new rate decision called for:
_raising the rate for post cards from 14 cents to 15 cents. the postal service had requested a 16-cent rate
_increasing the second-class rate for periodicals from 9.1 cents to 9.8 cents per pound and the per-item rate from a range of 3.1 to 4.9 cents to a range of 4.9 to 5.9 cents
_for third-class advertising mail, the minimum bulk rate would rise from 12.5 cents to 16.7 cents. the non-profit minimum would rise from 8.5 cents to 9.0 cents
_the postal rate commission also recommended establishing a special type of mail to give consumers a break in paying bills or answering advertisements
the commission urged the postal service to come up with a discount from regular first-class rates for such mail, but did not propose a particular amount
the rate decision did, however, suggest giving businesses a two-cent cut from the present seven-cent minimum in their cost for business-reply envelopes. that, the agency said, would encourage the use of such envelopes
the last increase in postage rates was feb. 17, 1985, when first-class stamps climbed to 22 cents
the planned higher rates are not related to recent cutbacks in postal hours and collections, which resulted from budget cuts mandated by congress in december
the commission ruling will go to the postal service board of governors, probably early next week. it can put the new rate into effect within a few weeks, institute the rates under protest or ask the rate commission for reconsideration, depending on its opinion of the recommendation
because it had no way of knowing what new rates the commission would settle on, the postal service has printed non-denominated stamps to cover eny eventuality
when the new rates take effect, the first class stamp will carry the letter ``e.'' the stamp carries a colorful space-based image of the earth and the word ``domestic,'' to indicate that it can be used only within the united states, not for mail going to other countries
the same procedure was used the last four times rates were raised, with those undenominated stamps all carrying images of eagles and the letters ``a'' through ``d.''
in seeking the rate hike, postal officials noted that the agency is required to break even. it lost more than $220 million last year
after the postal service was made an independent agency in the early 1970s, its taxpayer subsidy was eliminated
john n. griesemer, chairman of the postal service's board of governors, said the proposed increase should cost the average individual less than $10 per year
in addition to raising the price of a first-class stamp from 22 cents to 25 cents, the postal service proposed a multitude of changes in its complex structure of rates for the various types of mail
prices for the expensive but highly competitive overnight mail would drop somewhat, for example, while rates for advertising bulk mail would rise
the postal service has been in the black five of the last 10 years. it finished 1986 with a $305 million surplus after an intensive campaign to cut costs, but had losses of $200 million or more in both 1985 and 1987
in addition to increasing the first-class base rate to 25 cents, the postal service called for an increase in the charge for each additional ounce of weight for first class mail from 17 cents to 20 cents. post cards would increase from 14 cents to 16 cents. the congressional.</note>
president reagan's fiscal 1989 budget would leave a federal deficit of $165 billion, $35 billion higher than the white house says, the congressional budget office reported today
most of the difference results from the administration's more optimistic view of the economy, said james blum, acting director of the non-partisan agency, in testimony to the senate appropriations committee
cbo foresees less rapid real growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates,'' said blum, who defended his agency's prognosis as in line with private forecasts
the projection provoked sen. ted stevens, r-alaska, to express frustration over the differences between the cbo and administration forecasts
why haven't you gotten together with omb (the office of management and budget)?,'' he asked
blum noted that over the years, white house economic forecasts have been more optimistic than those coming from cbo, and said choosing between them is ``a political judgment call'' congress must make
the congressional agency also sees federal programs, including entitlement programs, as costing more than the administration predicts in its $1.1 trillion plan, he said
the administration's budget would cut the projected deficits only modestly,'' said blum. fiscal 1989 red ink would be $12 billion higher, or $177 billion, if the president's proposals or other deficit reduction were not enacted, he said
the house and senate budget committees will soon begin drafting their versions of the government's spending program. however, they are not expected to do more deficit cutting this year than the president proposed, since his plan was crafted under the guidelines of a budget agreement he reached last fall with congressional leaders
the cbo estimates that the economy will grow 1.8 percent in calendar 1988 and 2.6 percent in 1989, compared with white house growth predictions of 2.4 percent and 3.5 percent. the cbo also sees consumer prices rising more quickly, with higher interest rates and higher unemployment
lower growth cuts into tax revenue projections, while higher interest rates force the government to pay more to finance its programs
the gramm-rudman law calls for slashing the deficit to $136 billion in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1 as an interim step toward a balanced budget by fiscal 1993. it also mandates automatic, broad-based spending cuts if congress and the president don't approve legislation to come within $10 billion of the target
the cbo's projections show those targets being missed by a large margin. but the congressional agency's figures carry little legal weight, since official gramm-rudman estimates are done by the white house alone. a revised version of gramm-rudman approved last year left the cbo in only an advisory capacity
the cbo's latest revised projections show deficits higher than the administration estimates from this year straight through fiscal 1993. the white house predicts only $23 billion in red ink remaining by then, while cbo estimates an annual deficit still in excess of $100 billion
long-range economic estimates can vary widely. but the cbo and the white house deficit estimates also show a wide gap in the current fiscal year, which is nearly half over
the white house predicts $147 billion in red ink for fiscal 1988, which ends sept. 30, while cbo figures $161 billion will be added to the national debt
the former chairman of a connecticut bank and a stockbroker were charged today in connection with a two-year federal investigation into insider trading that allegedly preceded the bank's 1986 merger with a maine bank, authorities said
robert digennaro, 40, who resigned as chairman of the suffield savings bank last july, faces one count of obstruction of justice, two counts of perjury and one count of encouraging perjury, said assistant u.s. attorney gary c. crossen
he also was charged with one count each of insider trading, wire fraud and mail fraud in a federal indictment today in new haven, conn
arthur silverman, 62, a west hartford, conn., stockbroker, was charged with one count of perjury in the boston indictment and the same three counts as digennaro today in new haven. silverman was not in court in boston to enter a plea
digennaro, who was arraigned in boston before u.s. magistrate joyce london alexander, pleaded innocent on all four charges and was released on his own recognizance. his travel was restricted to within new england and he was ordered not to try to obtain a passport, crossen said
it was not immediately clear if silverman and digennaro had entered pleas to the charges in new haven
the charges are came out of a federal securities and exchange commission investigation into the merger between suffield savings and coastal bank of portland, maine
the boston charges were based on allegedly perjured testimony by the two men before sec officials in boston in 1987
u.s. attorney frank mcnamara said his office is conducting a comprehensive investigation into insider trading across new england
mcnamara said no one involved in the case made more than $50,000 and that the total amount of profit was in the ``mid-six figures.''
you don't have to be an ivan boesky to be concerned about the problem of insider trading,'' mcnamara said. ``insider trading and perjury in the white-collar world of the kind we deal with is a problem federal authorities in new england are going to ferret out.''
crossen said a federal investigation of digennaro on insider trading charges is pending in the u.s. attorney's new haven, conn., office
according to the indictments, digennaro was not personally involved in insider trading but did profit from the alleged deals. it said silverman purchased more than 2,000 shares of coastal stock for clients and family members in the days leading up to the merger
the indictments charge digennaro with providing a number of people with secret information about the merger while he was discussing the possibility of a merger with coastal between february 1986 and july 1986, when the sale became public
based on information they got from digennaro, a number of people purchased stock in coastal before the announcement of the merger, the indictments say. the indictments said silverman learned about the secret merger discussions from a man who said he got his information from digennaro
each count carries a penalty of up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine
suffield savings was purchased by coastal on july 9, 1986, for $5.2 million, or $40 a share. authorities began investigating the case because the day before the merger, coastal stock rose $2 a share on heavy trading to close at $31.25. the stock rose another $3 a share the day the merger was announced. originial.</note>
here are the seasonally adjusted civilian unemployment rates for february in 11 large states, as reported friday by the bureau of labor statistics:
_california, 5.4 percent, up from 5.1 percent in january
_florida, 5.3 percent, up from 4.9
_illinois, 7.5 percent, up from 6.7
_massachusetts, 3.4 percent, unchanged
_michigan, 8.4 percent, down from 10.2
_new jersey, 3.4 percent, down from 3.8
_new york, 3.9 percent, down from 4.7
_north carolina, 3.6 percent, down from 4.7
_ohio, 6.4 percent, down from 6.5
_pennsylvania, 5.2 percent, down from 5.7
_texas, 8.4 percent, up from 8.0
japan's toshiba corp. sold machines for making computer parts to czechoslovakia and east germany but broke off a third deal last summer after it was discovered by u.s. officials, according to congressional sources
a pentagon spokesman denied that the deals had occurred, but several members of congress said intelligence analysts have prepared reports that the illegal technology transfers did take place
toshiba has been involved over the last seven years in enhancing the microchip capability of the warsaw pact nations,'' said an aide to rep. duncan hunter, r-calif
the aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he had no direct knowledge of classified reports from the central intelligence agency and the military defense intelligence agency
those reports were described in today's editions of the washington times. another congressional source, also speaking on condition of anonymity, confirmed those allegations, which come six months after toshiba admitted that a subsidiary had sold the soviet union machine tools for making quiet submarine propellers, thereby neutralizing a portion of u.s. anti-submarine defenses
according to congressional sources, toshiba sold czechoslovakia a complete factory in 1979 to make computer chips, sold east germany a similar but more advanced computer-chip assembly line in 1986, and negotiated a deal for a second assembly line in east germany in 1987
the deals have become known as toshiba 2, toshiba 3 and toshiba 4. toshiba 1 is the submarine case
a pentagon spokesman, col, arnold williams, said that ``the information that we have is that we feel these actions, toshiba 2, 3 and 4, have not occurred.''
williams said he was unable to discuss the cia and dia reports
officials in the office of stephen bryen, the deputy undersecretary of defense for trade security, also declined to discuss the allegations
according to congressional sources, the czechoslovak deal was of questionable legality, and the 1986 east germany deal was illegal under western export laws
defenders say the first deal was legal, the second never happened and in the third instance, toshiba voluntarily acted out of public-relations concerns to halt what would have been a legal sale
toshiba attorney david houlihan called the allegations the result of a ''vendetta'' by a group of cia analysts against toshiba and japan, according to the published report
as a result of the sale to the soviet bloc, house and senate conferees are working on a bill that could ban toshiba sales in the united states for two to five years, said duncan's aide
the congressman has organized classified briefings for about 30 lawmakers by cia and dia analysts who are convinced that the transactions did occur, said the aide
intelligence officials have confirmed them to our satisfaction,'' said the aide
there has been a lot of pressure from the administration'' not to damage trade relations with japan, said the aide. ``the strength of the conflict between the congress and the administration is intense.''
american standard inc. today intensified a struggle to escape a hostile $2.1 billion takeover from black &amp; decker corp. by sweetening a rival recapitalization plan that analysts valued at about $2.3 billion
the move disclosed by the new york-based plumbing and air conditioning giant would add $5 cash to the payment of cash and securities that american standard has offered shareholders to woo them away from the $68-a-share cash payment black &amp; decker has offered for each of the target's 31 million shares
wall street analysts figured the sweetened american standard offer of $64 in cash, $5 in debt securities and one share of stock in the recapitalized company was worth about $74 a share. the company's stock surged $1.50 a share to $70.12{ on the new york stock exchange by early afternoon
black &amp; decker, a tool and appliance maker based in towson, md., said it was studying the sweetened american standard offer but had no other comment
american standard's move came a few days after it disclosed discussions with unidentified parties regarding the possible sale of debt securities to sweeten the cash portion of its recapitalization
under the revised proposal, american standard will sell $160 million worth of debt securities to emerson electric co. as part of the transaction, american standard also will purchase some unidentified products from emerson, a st. louis-based maker of electronics, tools and cooling and heating systems
a recapitalization, in which a company restructures its amount of debt and equity, is used often to thwart unwelcome takeovers. the strategy usually plunges a company into debt, making it less attractive as an acquisition
american standard's revised plan, which would raise the company's long-term debt from $412 million to about $2.46 billion, would pay shareholders about $2.06 billion plus give them a stake in the recapitalized company
black &amp; decker has been attempting since late january to acquire american standard. 110,000 to 10,000. also moving on general news wires</note>
the nation's economy created half a million jobs last month, dropping the civilian unemployment rate to 5.7 percent, its lowest since the summer of 1979, the government said today
total employment grew by 280,000, the labor department's monthly household survey said, with the number of jobless americans falling by 108,000 to 6.9 million
january's civilian jobless rate had been 5.8 percent
presidential spokesman marlin fitzwater applauded the news, saying that ``these strong employment gains confirm that the longest peacetime expansion in u.s. history continued into its 63rd month. jobs are the best indicator of a sound economy.''
a separate survey of business payrolls showed a net increase of 531,000 jobs in february, 40 percent of which were in service industries. health services added 60,000 workers while business services added 55,000
retail trade employment, adjusted for seasonal variations, climbed by 110,000 despite evidence of declines in consumer spending
the commissioner of labor statistics, janet l. norwood, said the gains in retail-trade employment reflect ``post-christmas cutbacks this year that have been much smaller than usual.''
the only service industries that did not show job gains were finance, insurance and real estate. in fiance, which includes banks; savings and loans, and investment houses, employment actually fell by 10,000 after several months of minimal increases
this probably resulted from the employment retrenchment following last october's financial market upheavels,'' ms. norwood told the congressional joint economic committee
meanwhile, factory job growth, which had been averaging 50,000 jobs a month, moderated in february, with a gain of just 20,000. employment in the furniture and electronic equipment industries fell by 3,000 while automobile industry employment held steady at 822,000
construction jobs jumped by 105,000 after a drop of 60,000 in the preceding month
the percentage of the nation's adult population with jobs rose to a record 62.2 percent in february. the labor department said recent job growth has been particularly strong in the administrative and management areas, accounting for more than one-third of the growth of 3 million jobs in total civilian employment over the last year
the biggest beneficiary of that trend and the recent rebound in manufacturing and construction has been adult men, whose jobless rate has dropped from 5.8 percent in february 1987 to 4.9 percent last month
the jobless rate for women, also at 5.8 percent a year ago, was 5.2 percent in february
jobless rates for minority groups remained high despite the fact that blacks and hispanics have obtained one of every three new jobs over the last year
black unemployment, at 12.6 percent last month, was more than double the 4.8 percent for whites. hispanic unemployment, after declining to 7.2 percent in january, bounced back to 8.3 percent last month to return to the level that generally prevailed through most of the last half of 1987
teenage unemployment fell from 16.0 percent to 15.4 percent last month. among white teenagers, the rate fell from 14.0 percent to 12.4 percent; among black teens, the rate rose from 35.0 percent to 38.3 percent
an alternate jobless rate, including the 1.7 million members of the uniformed armed services stationed in the united states, also dropped 0.1 percentage point last month, to 5.6 percent
all the calculations are adjusted to discount for predictable, periodic influences
with more than a half-million new jobs last month, the nation's civilian unemployment rate dropped to 5.7 percent, the government said friday, indicating a much stronger u.s. economy than most analysts had thought
only once since 1974 _ in may 1979 when the rate was 5.6 percent _ has the percentage of jobless americans been lower. with a one-tenth percentage point drop from december's and january's jobless rates of 5.8 percent, the rolls of the unemployed declined by 108,000 in february to just over 6.9 million, the lowest jobless number since early 1980
the bureau of labor statistics said its survey of households showed 280,000 more americans going to work last month, with an all-time record 62.2 percent of the nation's working-age population _ age 16 and over _ now holding jobs
business and other employers reported in a separate survey increasing their payrolls by a net 531,000 new jobs _ 115,000 of them in business and health services, 110,000 in retail trade, 105,000 in construction, 68,000 in government and 20,000 in manufacturing
these numbers have killed all discussion about no growth this quarter,'' said james cochran, chief economist for texas bancshares in houston
the economy is doing pretty well,'' cochran said. ``and to everyone's surprise, the strength is coming from basic domestic activity rather than companies hiring people to produce things to sell overseas.''
donald straszheim, chief economist for merrill lynch, said the february job numbers were the most surprising economic statistics he has ever seen
there's 400,000 more people working now than we had thought,'' he said. ``the housing market is weak, construction is weak and, except for automobiles, consumers don't seem to be buying anything. some of it just doesn't make any sense.''
nonetheless, straszheim joined a chorus of other economists in saying that the unemployment report effectively negates their earlier predictions of little or no economic growth this year
this report makes it clear there is no recession in the cards,'' said allen sinai, chief economist for the boston co., a new york-based financial consultant. ``the real question is how much steam the economy will gather. as incomes start flowing from this surge in jobs, the future looks pretty bright.''
the jobless report shines brightest on republican presidential candidates seeking to retain gop control of the white house, the economic gurus agreed
the economic statistic that has more political import than any other is unemployment,'' said straszheim, ``and this is a very strong report.''
george bush ought to be running over to kiss the people at the bureau of labor statistics,'' said david wyss, chief financial economist of data resources inc. of lexington, mass. ``people vote their pocketbooks, and right now their pocketbooks look pretty full.''
at the white house, reagan administration officials also basked in the numbers
both the february increase in employment and the decline in unemployment exceeded the expectations of private forecasters,'' white house spokesman marlin fitzwater said. ``jobs are the best indicator of a sound economy.''
sinai said the unemployment rate, down from a full percentage point from 12 months ago, can only be a ``big plus for republicans.''
it certainly doesn't argue that we need protectionism to help our job market,'' said wyss, referring to rep. richard gephardt's campaign theme for winning the democratic presidential nomination
democrats, however, could utilize some of the figures in the report. despite inflation running at an annual rate of 4.2 percent so far this year, average wages dropped by 2 cents last month to $9.12 an hour, the bls said
that's both bad and good news,'' straszheim said. ``if you're working, it means your wages aren't keeping you up. but if you're fearful about inflation, don't be.''
the figures also indicate that 199,000 of the 280,000 increase in the number of americans holding jobs were people working part-time only because they could not find full-time employment
however, the labor department said recent employment growth has been strongest in high-wage administrative and management occupations, accounting for more than one-third of the 3 million new jobs in the past year
the biggest beneficiaries of that trend and the recent rebound in manufacturing and construction employment have been adult men, whose jobless rate has dropped from 5.8 percent in february 1987 to 4.9 percent last month
the jobless rate for women, also at 5.8 percent a year ago, was 5.2 percent in february
jobless rates for minority groups remained high despite the fact that blacks and hispanics have obtained one of every three new jobs over the last year, the government said
black unemployment, at 12.6 percent last month, was more than double the 4.8 percent for whites. hispanic unemployment, after declining to 7.2 percent in january, rose to 8.3 percent last month
an alternate jobless rate, including the 1.7 million members of the uniformed armed services stationed in the united states, also dropped 0.1 percentage point last month, to 5.6 percent. venture</head>
government and construction industry officials friday expressed regret over a u.s. refusal to award a contract to a joint venture between japanese and american construction firms for a subway extension project in the united states
it is indeed regrettable that a concerned japanese firm was excluded'' from an american public works project at a time when japanese and u.s. officials in washington are discussing opening some of japan's large-scale construction projects to u.s. firms, said chief cabinet secretary keizo obuchi in a nationally televised news conference
the washington metropolitan area transit authority thursday rejected a bid from kajima corp., a major japanese contractor, together with peter kiewit and sons corp. of the united states, to construct a 1,200-meter subway tunnel and station in washington d.c., officials said
according to the japan broadcasting corp. (nhk), it was the first time a japanese construction firm involved in bidding for an american public works project was rejected since the u.s. congress last year passed legislation calling for reciprocity in awarding such contracts
local reports said the bid by the two companies totaled 6.3 billion yen, or $48.8 million, the lowest offer among an unspecified number of international bidders
hajime sako, chairman of the japan federation of construction contractors inc., said in a statement that ``...the fact that the japanese firm's tender was actually canceled is extremely regrettable.''
sako, also chairman of taisei corp., a major japanese construction firm, said the local construction industry ``strongly hopes the latest u.s. measure will be retracted as soon as possible, and that such a measure, which will adversely affect friendly japan-u.s. relations, will not be taken again.''
kishio nagayama, president of kajima engineering and construction inc., a wholly owned u.s. subsidiary based in los angeles, california, that handled the latest bidding, also expressed regret over the decision
in a statement issued by the company's head office in tokyo, nagayama said his company will decide how to respond by consulting with its u.s. partner
japanese and u.s. officials resumed working-level talks in washington thursday to discuss access to japan's large-scale construction projects. both sides failed to reach agreement in a previous meeting held in tokyo last month
access to the japanese construction market has been a major trade issue in recent years between the two countries. to date, u.s. firms have had access to only two semi-public projects in japan _ the tokyo bay bridge and the multi-billion dollar kansai international airport project
japanese firms won about $2.3 billion worth of contracts in the united states in 1986, while u.s. companies did about $500 million dollars worth of business in japan, according to construction officials
the stock market declined broadly today as interest rates jumped following a stronger-than-expected report on employment
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 6 points in early trading, was down 17.90 at 2,045.59 by 2 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by nearly 2 to 1 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 495 up, 943 down and 466 unchanged
before the opening the labor department reported that the civilian unemployment rate dropped a tenth of a percentage point last month to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent
nonfarm payroll employment increased by 531,000, considerably more than most advance estimates on wall street
the news was seen as an emphatic signal that the economy remains strong several months after the stock market crash last october. but it was not well received in the credit markets, where traders interpreted is as a likely portent of upward pressure on interest rates
prices of long-term government bonds fell more than $15 for each $1,000 in face value, raising their yields to the 8.4-8.5 percent range
among actively traded blue-chip industrials, american telephone &amp; telegraph fell [ to 28}; eastman kodak ] to 43[; ford motor ] to 45|, and general electric ~ to 43~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped 1.21 to 149.49. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .81 at 291.70
volume on the big board came to 151.84 million shares with two hours to go
here are the major business events and economic events scheduled for the coming week (some dates are tentative):

washington _ consumer credit for january will be released by federal reserve, time uncertain
new york _ the council of institutional investors meet to discuss the texaco inc. reorganization plan
portland, ore., and detroit _ honda of america will export its first u.s.-built car back to japan
london _ parliament is scheduled to debate margaret thatcher's plan to turn the electricity industry of england and wales into shareholder-owned companies

detroit _ ford profit-sharing checks will be distributed

chicago _ the city council is scheduled to take up a controversial law that would ban smoking in large segments of public places

nothing scheduled

washington _ retail sales for february will be released 8:30 a.m. by commerce department. the producer price index for february will be released 8:30 a.m. by labor department
the century-old wente bros. winery has completed its first shipment of wine for japan's bullet train, the winery reported on friday
the delivery to japan railways marks the first order of american wine by the toyota motor co., according to debra sanchez, spokeswoman for toyota motor sales, u.s.a
it's just the beginning,'' she said. ``the japanese are falling in love with california wines.''
the first order was for 29,000 mini-bottles of chablis, blanc de blancs, and white zinfandel, chosen after exhaustive taste tests of the livermore winery's 14 wines, said toyota motor sales u.s.a. vice president robert best
exporting california wines to japan is another example of toyota's commitment to increase japanese purchases of u.s. products,'' said best
i'm excited, not only for wente brothers but the entire california wine industry,'' said wente spokeswoman carolyn wente. her ancestor, carl wente, acquired his first vineyards in livermore in 1883, growing sauvignon blanc and semillon grapes. wente whites have been sold in the united states for 100 years
the wines for japan were chosen for their expected popularity on the trains. the choices virtually parallel american popular tastes. the blanc de blancs is a light, sweet blend that includes chenin blanc. chablis is regarded around the world as the typical dry white table wine
wente has been exporting small amounts of wine to japan for 20 years but thwarted by extremely high tariffs that found a bottle of wine that sold for $4 in califoria selling for $18-20 in japan. the taxes were lowered a couple of years ago, and the retail price in japan is now reported to be about double the california price
the united states today already is the second largest exporter of wine to japan, behind france, with germany in third
best said toyota acted in this instance as a broker ordering the wine, exporting it and selling it to the railway in japan
the 6.3-ounce bottles will be sold on the 120 mph trains that travel from tokyo. the wines will go for about $2.50 each, he said
toyota established a u.s. exports office in 1985 to search out american products appropriate for the japanese market and to reduce the u.s. deficit in the balance of payments, best said. wente is the first u.s. wine taken on by toyota, he said
there has been a doubling in japanese consumption of wine over the last several years, and wine sales have grown over 400 percent in the last five years,'' said best
the u.s. dollar fell against most major currencies in european trading friday. gold prices rose nearly $10 an ounce in london and $3 in zurich
merrill lynch metals specialist ted arnold said gold bullion climbed to $437.50 bid per troy ounce because of a short-covering rally and a dip in monthly u.s. unemployment figures. gold closed at 427.80 an ounce late thursday
he said the figures, which showed that the february rate fell to 5.7 percent from 5.8 percent in january, rekindled fears of inflation
in zurich, gold rose less sharply, to $432 bid an ounce, from $429 dollars, on short-covering prompted by gains in silver and platinum, dealers said
in a short sale, traders sell borrowed gold in expectation of ``covering'' those sales by replacing the gold with new lots bought at cheaper prices
foreign exchange dealers said u.s. unemployment figures briefly pushed up the u.s. currency but the improvement in the rate was not enough to have a lasting effect on the dollar
in tokyo, the dollar inched lower to a closing 129.22 japanese yen from 129.30 yen. in london, it fell further to 128.95 yen
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late thursday, were: 1.6940 west german marks, down from 1.6955; 1.4030 swiss francs, down from 1.4035; 5.7300 french francs, down from 5.7355; 1.9010 dutch guilders, down from 1.9025; 1,248.00 italian lire, down from 1,249.25, and 1.2547 canadian dollars, up from 1.2535
in london, the british pound rose to $1.7740 from $1.7680 late thursday
earlier, in hong kong, gold fell $1.67 to a closing bid of $431.27
silver bullion rose in london to a bid price of $6.41 a troy ounce, up from $6.22 bid late thursday
the biggest investment-grade corporate bond issue ever sold in the united states _ $1.1 billion in 10-year notes _ went off with picture-perfect ease this past week
and experts say they weren't surprised since the seller was eastman kodak co., which priced the issue generously to compensate for a recent drop in its credit rating
a lot of people love to own the name ...,'' explained anthony naylor, a senior vice president in fixed-income securities for rodman &amp; renshaw inc. ``but they've always had to pay through the nose before.''
the record issue _ undertaken partly to help finance kodak's recent $5.1 billion acquisition of sterling drug inc. _ was priced at par to yield 9.125 percent, a percentage point more than comparable treasury securities
the 10-year notes are noncallable for seven years and rated a-2 by moody's investors service and a-minus by standard &amp; poor's corp
both wall street rating services lowered kodak's senior debt rating in response to the sterling deal and legal problems with polaroid corp. over an instant photography patent
but analysts say that probably added to the allure of the $1.1 billion issue because the lower the rating a company receives, the higher the interest it must pay to compensate for the increased credit risk
it was very generously priced,'' said naylor of the notes, noting that previous issues by the blue-chip company have had a much narrower yield spread
for instance, kodak's $300 million in four-year notes issued in october yielded 60 basis points above treasury securities with similar maturities, and $125 million in five-year notes from last spring had only a 25-basis point spread, he said. a basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point
naylor said the fact that the issue was so large also contributed to its success since ``everyone can get in and play, giving it plenty of liquidity,'' or the ability to sell at any time without depressing the market price
kodak also came out ahead by the fact that the bonds were sold at par, or the full face amount. in less successful deals, bonds are sold at a discount to increase their attractiveness
the rochester, n.y., company originally had planned to sell only $750 million in 10-year notes, but increased the size by $350 million because of the strong demand by domestic institutions, explained richard w. swift, a principal at morgan stanley &amp; co., underwriters of the issue
i think it was one of the hottest deals i ever experienced,'' he said, adding that one institution snapped up $75 million of the notes. ``there's magic to the kodak name.''
some analysts said the popularity of the issue could be read as a vote of confidence in kodak's management and its ability to digest the sterling deal, which had been criticized as overly ambitious by some who follow the company
before this past week's issue, the single largest issue by a u.s. corporation with investment-grade ratings came from occidental petroleum corp., which sold $1 billion of debentures in march 1986, swift said. about two years earlier, chevron corp. sold $1 billion in three-year notes, he said
kodak filed a shelf registration dec. 30 with the securities and exchange commission for $1.5 billion worth of bonds. the company has $400 million left from that registration
when new postage rates go into effect, americans will be using special ``e'' stamps on an interim basis to mail first-class letters
the stamps were printed with the letter e on them, instead of the amount of postage, because the new first-class rate was not known
the postal rate commission on friday suggested postage rate increases that included a 25-cent first-class stamp, but those recommendations still must be accepted by the postal service board of governors. the new rates could go into effect in 10 days to two weeks after a decision is made, perhaps as early as next week
a similar procedure has been used four times in the past, although the basic design of the undenominated stamp has changed
the a, b, c and d stamps all showed the head of an eagle, each in a different color
the e stamp carries a multicolored, space-based image of the plant with the word earth printed beneath
the stamp also carries the notation ``domestic'' since it can be used only for mail within the country. mail traveling to other nations requires stamps that show their demoninations
international business machines corp. confirmed friday it has discussed a deal involving its new personal computer line with siemens ag of west germany, but said the executive who made the talks public ``feels his comment on siemens was premature and inappropriate.''
ibm's unusual statement was in reaction to an article friday in the wall street journal that quoted william c. lowe, the vice president in charge of personal computers, on ibm's plans for its personal system-2 line
siemens executives ``were very disturbed by what appeared in the journal,'' but the statement friday will probably help matters, said martin weitzner, a spokesman for siemens' u.s. operations
according to the journal, lowe said that if a pact was reached, siemens would either license or buy from ibm the crucial parts of ibm's ps-2 line and incorporate them into its own computers. lowe said it was even possible that some companies might buy ps-2 computers whole and sell them under their own labels
the journal said ibm was in similar talks with ing. c. olivetti &amp; co. of italy, but ibm said that lowe had only mentioned olivetti as an example of a company that could be considered
such deals would be a major departure for ibm, which traditionally keeps a tight grip on its own technology. but they might benefit the company by helping establish the personal system-2 as an industry standard
irving bank corp., the target of a hostile $1.08 billion takeover bid, said friday it plans to appeal the federal reserve board's recent decision to allow a proposed merger with bank of new york co
irving filed a notice of appeal in the u.s. court of appeals for the district of the columbia earlier this week, saying it would ask the court to reviw the central bank's decision, irving spokesman don phelps said
he said irving also asked the fed to delay the effect of its ruling until the appeals court can review it
irving has rejected takeover efforts by bank of new york, which has offered $60 a share in cash and securities for irving's 18.1 million common shares
the takeover fight, launched last fall, has attracted attention because hostile acquisitions are unusual in banking. some analysts speculate that if it succeeds, it may encourage other unsolicited takeovers in the banking industry
the fed and the new york state banking board concluded last month that a merger of the two new york banks wouldn't hurt competition in the nation's biggest financial center
the central bank said federal law ``does not draw any distinction between acquisitions that are agreed to between the parties and those where, as here, there is no agreement.''
a merger would create the nation's 12th largest banking company with assets of nearly $12 billion
the stock market retreated today as interest rates jumped following a stronger-than-expected report on employment
the dow jones average of 30 industrials, up more than 6 points in early trading, was down 15.08 at 2,048.41 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 8 to 5 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 559 up, 897 down and 481 unchanged
before the opening the labor department reported that the civilian unemployment rate dropped a tenth of a percentage point last month to an 8{-year low of 5.7 percent
nonfarm payroll employment increased by 531,000, considerably more than most advance estimates on wall street
the news was seen as an emphatic signal that the economy remains strong several months after the stock market crash last october. but it was not well received in the credit markets, where traders interpreted is as a likely portent of upward pressure on interest rates
prices of long-term government bonds fell more than $15 for each $1,000 in face value, raising their yields to the 8.4-8.5 percent range
among actively traded blue-chip industrials, exxon fell | to 41|; eastman kodak | to 42~; ford motor \ to 45}, and general electric 1 to 43}
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks dropped 1.01 to 149.69. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .46 at 292.97
volume on the big board came to 170.58 million shares with an hour to go
northwest airlines flew two ``unairworthy'' jetliners, improperly delayed aircraft repairs and broke other safety rules, the federal aviation administration said friday
the faa made disclosures with the release of 110-page report detailing a month-long investigation of the airline's operations. the report drew no overall conclusion and an faa spokesman at its suburban chicago office said the minneapolis-based carrier had a ``very good safety record.''
however, the faa report said the airline also failed to ensure pilots flew no longer than allowed and did not keep proper records of repairs, classifying some major repairs as minor
northwest acknowledged in a statement that the faa inspection identified ``139 findings or areas of concern,'' some of which could result in ``enforcement actions.''
of course, any finding is of concern to us and, as a result, we have told the faa we will respond completely to each and every one of the findings on march 25,'' said benjamin g. griggs jr., northwest's executive vice president of operations
at least two northwest airlines jetliners, both dc-10s, flew several flights between jan. 1 and feb. 11 ``in an unairworthy condition,'' the report said
one of the jets flew while missing ``a small inspection cover'' on top of an engine pylon, the report said. a second jet flew several trips even though the crew ``failed to neutralize or identify the exact cause of'' a problem with a gauge monitoring the speed of an engine turbine
this is not something that would make an airplane fall out of the sky,'' said faa spokesman mort edelstein
faa authorities studied northwest's operations from jan. 20 to feb. 19 as part of an industry-wide program of conducting in-depth inspections of all major airlines, edelstein said
edelstein said the faa would make no decision on whether to fine northwest until the airline had a chance to respond and the inspection report had been reviewed several times by agency officials
a similar inspection at eastern airlines two years ago led to fines totaling $9.5 million for hundreds of violations, mostly involving maintenance discrepancies. pan am world airways was fined $1.95 million in 1986
despite the safety violations identified at northwest, edelstein said: ``the airline has a very good safety record. they fully complied with the safety inspection.''
northwest said ``the findings of the final inspection are likely to change'' after it responds to the faa report, which the agency said was still being checked for accuracy
a number of items already have been resolved,'' griggs said. ``in our view, some of the findings are subject to interpretation, and we will address these with our faa inspectors.''
the faa inspectors found that northwest ``does not have a system to monitor flight and duty time for management pilots to ensure compliance with flight time limitations.''
in another violation, the faa found that the pilot in command of northwest flight 49 on feb. 10 ``smoked a cigarette while the no smoking light was on.''
the inspection also found evidence of deferred maintenance. the report said, for example, that a boeing 757 was operated from nov. 1 through jan. 7 while having problems with its auxiliary power unit. repairs on the unit were deferred 13 times before the equipment was replaced, the report said
the report found that northwest flight dispatchers were burdened with an ``excessive workload'' and contended the airline ``does not provide enough qualified dispatchers at each dispatch center to ensure proper operational control of each flight.''
edelstein and northwest noted that the airline had conducted a five-month internal audit before the faa inspection began
the report said northwest's own audit ``could serve as an industry model'' and enabled the faa ``to conduct a much more thorough and comprehensive inspection than would otherwise have been possible.''
northwest, which calls itself the nation's fifth largest carrier, serves 135 cities in 21 countries in asia, europe and north america. the company acquired republic airlines in 1986 and has a fleet of 313 aircraft
despite the impending increase in u.s. postage rates, mailing a first-class letter in this country remains among the lowest in the industrialized world
here is a list of postage rates for foreign nations, supplied by the u.s. postal service, and their costs in u.s. funds
_italy, 48.5 cents
_west germany, 47.6 cents
_japan, 46.9 cents
_austria, 42.3 cents
_norway, 42.2 cents
_netherlands, 39.8 cents
_france, 38.8 cents
_belgium, 37.1 cents
_switzerland, 36.8 cents
_sweden, 36.5 cents
_united kingdom, 31.8 cents
_canada, 28.9 cents
_australia, 26.4 cents. airlines</head>
here are some of the findings released friday by the federal aviation administration from its report on the results of a monthlong inspection of minneapolis-based northwest airlines
in the area of operations, the inspectors found that:
_``northwest airlines inc. does not provide enough qualified dispatchers at each dispatch center to ensure proper operational control of each flight. anonymous letters, phone calls and flight crew complaints that dispatcher workloads were excessive and that the monitoring of flight progress was untimely were substantiated by observations of faa inspectors at both the tokyo and minneapolis dispatch centers.''
_in several instances, northwest pilots flew more than 30 hours during a six-day period. faa regulations prohibit pilots from flying more than 30 hours in a seven-day period
_``on seven flights, the weight and balance information and flight release data did not accurately reflect the total number of infants@crew members@passengers.''
_``the first officer on northwest airlines flight 455 (on) 2@12@88 did not have in his personal possession an appropriate current medical certificate nor a current pilot certificate.''
_northwest ``has no provisions in their flight training program to check an (individual pilot's) proficiency in hand-flying a non-precision approach.''
in the area of ``airworthiness,'' the inspectors found that:
_on jan. 14, a northwest dc-10 pilot ``indicated a small inspection cover on top of no. 3 engine pylon was missing.'' the jetliner ``flew in an unairworthy condition from 1@14@88 until 2@3@88 when the inspection cover was properly replaced.''
_the airline flew a dc-10 ``in an unairworthy condition several flights between 2@1@88 and 2@11@88'' because it ``failed to neutralize or identify the exact cause'' of a problem with a gauge that monitored turbine speed in the jet's no. 3 engine
_a boeing 747 ``experienced over 40 repeat discrepancies relating (to) performance problems on installed engines. during this period from sept. 27, 1987, through jan. 13, one fuel control and two engines were replaced.'' trade; pickup 2nd graf: a combination...</note>
soybean futures prices plunged as much as 9 cents a bushel friday on the chicago board of trade in a late sell-off led by large investment funds. grain futures closed mixed to lower
a combination of bearish factors, including weak export demand and expectations of a large south american soybean harvest, had weighed on the soybean market for most of the week
heavy selling of soybean futures by the chicago-based professional trading firm c&amp;d commodities late in friday's session sparked fear among other traders that soybean futures prices had reached a seasonal peak, analysts said
what you're really getting here is a delayed winter break that was expected back in january or february, and it's coming now,'' said richard loewy, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc
wheat futures were supported by some new export bids and by news that the agriculture department had sold much less surplus wheat than expected in an auction on wednesday
corn exports were down for the week, which set a bullish tone for corn futures, loewy said
at the close, wheat was { cent lower to 1 cent higher with the contract for delivery in march at $3.03} a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.99{ a bushel; oats were } cent lower to { cent higher with march at $1.86{ a bushel; soybeans were 6{ cents to 9 cents lower with march at $6.16{ a bushel. earnings</note>
j.p. morgan &amp; co. said friday that it expects to have a charge to allowance-for-credit losses as a result of its participation in mexico's debt-for-securities swap aimed at reducing that country's $105 billion foreign debt
the large bank holding company said mexico accepted about $400 million face value of morgan's mexican loans tendered at last week's auction
in exchange for the loans, morgan said, it will be receiving about $263 million face value of new mexican bonds. the face value of the loans is about 66 percent of the loans that were tendered
the mexican government announced thursday that it accepted 55 percent of the $6.7 billion in bids that 139 creditor banks submitted under the unique swap plan
the plan calls for mexico to issue more than $2.5 billion in new, 20-year bonds to its creditor banks to replace $3.66 billion in old bank debt, an exchange that will save mexico over $2.6 billion over 20 years. the bonds are backed by u.s. treasury securities
in a statement, morgan said ``as a result of acceptance of the loans ... a loss determined by the difference between the book value of the loans tendered and the fair value of the bonds received will be charged against the allowance for credit losses in the first quarter.''
the amount of the credit loss provision will be determined at the end of the period, the company said
takeover battles for retail companies, mostly dormant after the stock market crash, exploded into out-and-out war this past week as r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. and campeau corp. fought over who will acquire federated department stores inc
macy and campeau had competing tender offers for federated's stock, and although macy and federated signed a definitive agreement, by week's end no one was sure who would win
federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer, is a likely takeover target. the company owns more than 650 department, specialty and discount stores and supermarkets, including the bloomingdale's, burdine's, lazarus and bullock's department store chains
mergers and acquisitions in retailing and other industries were sharply curtailed after the oct. 19 stock market collapse. many pending takeover attempts were abandoned, including dart group corp.'s $6.62 billion bid for dayton hudson corp., the nation's sixth-largest retailer
but several factors have combined to revitalize takeovers in many business sectors
relatively low stock prices have lured companies into starting tender offers,'' said peter solomon, co-head of investment banking for shearson lehman hutton inc
retail stock prices began to slip before the crash, and remain depressed now because of sluggish consumer spending. a lower stock price makes it easier for a prospective suitor to finance a takeover
the lower dollar has made american companies a relative bargain for foreigners, such as australia's hooker corp. ltd., which in recent months has acquired b. altman &amp; co. in new york and sakowitz inc. in houston
there are political factors, too, including the upcoming presidential election, said monroe h. greenstein, a retail industry analyst for the investment firm bear stearns &amp; co. inc
you have an administration here that has a very liberal interpretation of antitrust laws, which means they're almost not enforced,'' said greenstein
no matter who succeeds ronald reagan in the white house, it is doubtful the relaxed attitude will survive the change in administrations, so many would-be acquirers want to buy companies while there is a more favorable climate, greenstein said
in addition, more and more states are passing anti-takeover laws, and investors want to make their acquisitions before it becomes too difficult, he said
for existing retail companies, buying another retailer means immediate growth. solomon noted that few shopping centers are being built, which cuts down the opportunities for retailers to expand. analysts see this as the primary reason for macy's interest in federated
greenstein cited another benefit of acquiring a retail company: real estate and store divisions that can be sold or mortgaged to help finance the acquisition
when campeau bought allied stores corp. at the end of 1986, he sold 16 of its 24 store divisions to pay off loans taken out to acquire allied. he has already announced he will sell federated's foley's and filene's divisions to the may department stores co. if his tender offer is successful
campeau, a shopping center developer, is said to be interested in federated because many of its stores will provide him with immediate access to malls
one analyst sees the battle over federated as having ramifications that could affect the direction of retailing for years to come
whoever wins federated ``would be sitting in the seat to determine whether the major companies get larger or whether you're going to see entrepreneurs spurring growth in the industry,'' said thomas tashjian, who tracks retailers for seidler amdec securities inc. in los angeles
larger companies may not promote change, he said, adding, ``you're going to end up seeing the same thing everywhere.''
when smaller companies or management groups buy retailers, they may be more inclined to change and update stores, tashjian said
after dillard department store inc. bought the joske's department store chain from allied stores, ``they improved the profitability of those stores. they improved the customers' selection. they improved the pricing structure,'' tashjian said
campeau said it had no plans to sell any federated divisions beyond foley's and filene's, but their sale to may, the nation's seventh-largest retailer, was bad news to tashjian
filene's and foley's, which have distinct franchises, may start to look like a may-california or a lord &amp; taylor,'' two of may's other department store divisions, he said
macy is also a large retailer, but it is more likely than campeau to re-energize federated's stores, having rejuvenated its own stores, tashjian said
federated was not the only retailer at the center of a takeover battle this past week. on monday, stop &amp; shop cos., which had been fighting a takeover attempt by dart group corp., announced it had agreed to a $1.2 billion buyout by the investment company kohlberg, kravis roberts inc. but dart said it remained intent on gaining control of the retailer
the bid for stop &amp; shop was the first takeover foray by dart since its run at dayton hudson
in other retailing news, sears, roebuck and co., the nation's largest retailer, said it was restructuring its merchandise group to make each segment of its retail business more competitive
in other business and economic news this past week:
_in contrasting reports on consumer spending, the nation's largest general retailers said sales were unexpectedly slow in february, while carmakers said sales of domestic cars and trucks increased 25 percent late in the month, compared with a year ago
_the labor department said the nation's economy created half a million jobs last month, dropping the civilian unemployment rate to 5.7 percent, its lowest level since the summer of 1979
_the government's chief barometer of future economic activity fell again in january, but an upward revision in december eased fears of an imminent recession
_the national association of business economists said the october stock market crash would contribute to a significant slowdown in economic growth this year but the country should be able to avoid a recession
_widespread weakness in the building industry sent construction spending down 2.9 percent in january, the biggest decline in 10 months, the commerce department said. meanwhile, a 9 percent decline in new home sales in january pushed sales activity to its slowest pace since the end of the last recession
_improvement in the nation's productivity slowed by almost half last year despite revised figures showing higher output in the the fourth quarter, the government said
_the commerce department reported a 0.6 percent decline in orders to u.s. factories for manufactured goods in january, the first setback since august
_the democratic-controlled house labor standards subcommittee voted to increase the minimum wage from $3.35 to $4.65 an hour over the next three years
_the agriculture department said prices farmers got for raw products in february declined an average of 0.8 percent from january but still were 6.6 percent above those a year earlier
_a management group led by gaf corp.'s chairman raised its buyout bid for the company to $1.4 billion, and the board of directors agreed to submit the offer to shareholders ``without endorsement.''
_a bidding war erupted for textile giant j.p. stevens &amp; co. with rival west point-pepperell inc. offering to buy the company for about $867 million in cash and a management-led group jumping its cash and securities offer to about $850 million. stevens also said it had a third, unidentified offer
_batus inc. raised its hostile bid for a controlling interest in farmers group inc., with a $4.5 billion offer for the nation's seventh largest insurer
_a group led by a british construction firm launched an unsolicited tender offer for koppers co. inc. that valued the construction and chemicals company at about $1.3 billion
_the partnership controlled by t. boone pickens jr. offered to buy homestake mining co., the nation's largest gold producer, for about $1.9 billion in cash
_two companies controlled by television producer burt sugarman proposed taking over virginia-based newspaper publisher and broadcaster media general inc. for $1.75 billion. media general rejected the offer
_southland corp. said it would sell 473 7-eleven stores in 10 states to its chief competitor, circle k corp., for more than $147 million
_the directors of holding companies for dr pepper and seven-up agreed to merge the privately-held soft-drink companies. terms were not disclosed
_the federal aviation administration revealed that northwest airlines committed a number of safety violations, including the improper delay of repairs and the failure to ensure that pilots flew no longer than allowed
_chrysler motors corp. decided not to sell its acustar inc. parts-making subsidiary but said it will close or sell four plants within the next 18 months
_fidelity investments, the nation's largest mutual fund firm, said a slump in stock transaction would force it to lay off 800 workers
_major airlines raised fares for the second time in about two weeks, reflecting unexpected strength in passenger traffic despite the usually slow winter season
_federal reserve board chairman alan greenspan said congress should consider trimming social security and other entitlement programs as it searches for ways to reduce the federal budget deficit
_former fed chairman paul volcker was named to a professorship at princeton university and the chairmanship of james d. wolfensohn inc., a new york city investment banking firm. 7 p.m. est; meeting begins at 4 p.m. cst (5 p.m. est)</note>
shareholders of first city bancorporation of texas inc. gathered friday to consider chicago banker a. robert abboud's $1.5 billion rescue plan that would be the largest government bank bailout since 1984
a two-thirds vote of the bank-holding company's 37 million shares is required to approve the plan, which includes nearly $1 billion in federal assistance, a spin-off of poorly performing assets and an infusion of privately-raised capital
first city, which grew quickly during the oil boom to become the state's fourth-largest bank, was hammered by energy and real estate loan losses when oil prices plummeted
for 1987, the company posted a $1.1 billion loss. it has assets of $11 billion, and operates 59 banks in texas and one in south dakota
abboud, an investor seeking to become first city's chairman of the board and chief executive officer, has promised banking regulators to rehabilitate the wobbly company
in a 200-page, single-spaced proxy statement sent to shareholders, abboud said an investor group he heads would raise $500 million to serve as the primary source of capital for the restructured company
in addition, first city subsidiary banks would spin off $1.79 billion in book value of non-performing and other assets to collecting bank, a new national bank
in exchange, first city would receive about $764 million in collecting bank notes and about $970 million in federal deposit insurance corp. notes
the fdic pledge is the largest such government rescue since the 1984 federal bailout of continental illinois bank and trust of chicago
the proxy statement predicted the new company would become profitable almost immediately, after spinning off the poorly-performing assets
abboud declined comment until after friday's voting, said first city spokesman jim day. abboud has said he hopes to finalize the rescue within weeks of shareholder approval
under the reorganization plan, each 100 shares of first city common stock would be exchanged for one common share of the new holding company, 100 shares of common stock in collecting bank and the right to buy more securities in the new company
the restructuring plan was first announced sept. 9. it was modified on jan. 26 to allow common shareholders and the four classes of preferred shareholders to vote as one group
the first plan had called for each class to vote on the plan separately, with a rejection from any one group sufficient to scuttle the deal
the earlier arrangement inadvertently provided rancher frederick erck, a san antonio preferred stockholder, potential veto power over the deal
erck, a former first city director who resigned in november, has said he opposes the deal, not only because it could hurt him financially, but because abboud's team would reap too much profit from the restructured company
erck said he did not plan to attend friday's meeting, and did not disclose how he planned to vote
harcourt brace jovanovich inc. said thursday its fourth-quarter profit climbed more than tenfold from a year earlier mostly because of the sale of assets
harcourt, which has interests in publishing, insurance and theme parks, reported a profit of $95.1 million, or $1.36 a share, in the three months ended dec. 31, 1987, compared with earnings of $8.9 million, or 23 cents a share, a year earlier
revenue for the quarter rose 21.4 percent to $327.6 million from $269.9 million a year earlier
the company completed the sale of its business periodicals, trade shows and school supply distribution companies for $334 million and of two television station for $10.8 million in the quarter
the latest results included a onetime gain on disposal of assets of $136.9 million and income from discontinued operations of $141.6 million
the sales fulfilled the company's asset sale obligation incurred when it borrowed to finance a recapitalization last may that helped it avoid a hostile takeover bid from british publisher robert maxwell
interest expense in the latest quarter shot up to $78.5 million from $6.1 million a year earlier, and the company said it had a loss from continuing operations of $46.4 million in the latest quarter in contrast to a profit of $6.2 million a year earlier
for the year, harcourt reported net income of $90.5 million, or $1.34 a share, up from $70.5 million, or $1.91 a share, a year earlier
the decline in per share earnings reflected an increase in the average number of shares for the year to 48.1 million from 37 million in 1986
revenue for the year rose to $1.52 billion from $1.11 billion a year earlier
south korea plans to send a large-scale buying mission to the united states in may as part of its effort to ease growing trade frictions with washington, government and industry officials said friday
the mission, to be headed by nam duck-woo, president of the korea foreign trade association, will tour various u.s. cities for 15 days to purchase machinery and other industrial products, the officials said
details of the mission's itinerary and shopping list have not yet been fixed, officials said
in the past, south korea sent buying missions to the united states once or twice a year to help ease trade frictions
the united states is pressuring south korea to open its market wider to american products to cut its growing trade surplus. the united states ran a trade deficit of $9.5 billion with south korea last year
