the merce cunningham dance company, celebrating its 35th anniversary with its longest new york engagement _ four weeks _ presented a premiere by cunningham on wednesday night
the dance at the joyce theater, for 11 dancers, is titled ``eleven.'' the music, by robert ashley, his first for the company, is titled ``problems in the flying saucer.'' the dance does not act that out
as always with cunningham, the dancers are proficient and fluidly graceful. they shift weight and hold poses without stiffness. a viewer may not know why one set of moves follows another, but the dancers are entirely purposeful in performing them
cunningham choreographs to use the entire stage, giving his dancers the look of freedom. a couple dancing together may not touch often but they stay in each other's general area. circles are negotiated slowly or spun with arms swinging broadly. often one leg is extended, while a dancer's body turns profile then turns again to face the audience
once, a woman dancers enters, walking with bent knees. it's amusing because it's so different from the expansive movements that other dancers on stage at that moment are doing
the ``music'' is two men talking, michael pugliese, with a french accent, and takehisa kosugi, in a near monotone. kosugi composed the music for the other two dances on the evening's program, ``doubles'' and ``grange eve.'' cunningham danced in ``grange eve.''
pugliese speaks first, saying a sentence fragment like ``there is no sound'' or ``off in the daytime.'' before he finishes a phrase, kosugi comes in on top of it, saying something like ``the south of france.'' even if one listens only to one speaker, phrases don't add up to sentences and not all words can be understood
there are many pauses between sets of phrases. since cunningham choreographs without music anyway, the dance flows on
program notes explain that ashley's work is an excerpt from a screenplay for an opera, ``odalisque,'' in which a lieutenant in a flying saucer explains to his captain something about a musician they have on board. the cunningham dance foundation commissioned this arrangement and instructions for performance
the present season, which ends march 27, also includes the new york premiere of ``carousal,'' done last summer at the jacob's pillow dance festival; a revival of the 1968 ``rainforest,'' and ``septet,'' which cunningham created in 1953, his company's first year. ``septet'' is danced to satie music; it was revived last year after a 23-year absence from the repertory
after the joyce season, the company will dance in san paolo, rio de janeiro and belo horizonte, brazil, from april 8 through 15. starting june 4, it will play seven german cities in two weeks, including presenting a premiere commissioned by the berlin festival
another dance will premiere at the avignon, france, festival, between july 30 and aug. 3. u.s. summer dates include july 21 through 23 at the american dance festival in durham, n.c., and aug. 22 through 27 at saratoga springs, n.y
many prominent panamanians say the nation's entire system needs changing, not just the leader, and even if gen. manuel antonio noriega goes the united states may be backing the wrong replacement
eric arturo delvalle, the ousted president washington supports, tried to dismiss noriega on feb. 25 as commander of the panama defense forces. noriega arranged for the legislature to dismiss delvalle instead, and the political and economic crisis has deepened since
the united states is mistaken in putting so much behind delvalle,'' said luis moreno, former manager of chase manhattan bank's local operations and until january 1987 a member of the government banking commission. moreno, an independent, met regularly with the president and cabinet ministers
delvalle and his people are spent,'' he said. ``noriega is laughing at this rallying behind delvalle, saying `this guy can't bring me down.'''
the reagan administration continues to recognize delvalle, now in hiding in panama, as the country's legitimate leader and is is applying economic pressure in an effort to get him back in office
noriega was indicted in florida last month on narcotics and money-laundering charges, which he denies, and the reagan administration portrays him as little more than a gangster. washington has indicated the economic heat will end if he steps down or is removed
roderick esquivel, who was delvalle's vice president and was removed with him, said: ``the object is not to change the face on the regime but to dismantle an entire corrupt and repressive apparatus of state.'' esquivel, who also is in hiding, made the comment during an interview at a safe-house
a former top official who left the government in a dispute with noriega said: ``in order to achieve democracy, it is the structure that has to be broken, not mr. noriega
the colonels and majors are involved in the same businesses he (noriega) is involved in. that implies a great degree of solidarity.''
the defense forces control the executive and legislative branches of government through the two political parties linked to them and all judges are political appointees, including the supreme court justices
not only does the military control the three branches of government, but it also controls the fourth estate, the media,'' said the former official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
noriega has closed all opposition media: three newspapers, two radio stations and a television channel
many people ask why delvalle, who had followed noriega's ordered until the february revolt, is seen as the man to change things
delvalle is important in that he changed the sense of hemispheric support for the government (with his attempt to depose noriega), but he has always been on the sidelines,'' said roberto brenes, a leader of the national civic crusade
the crusade, an alliance of about 200 business, professional, labor and political organizations, has led opposition to noriega since it was formed last june
on monday, it joined opposition parties in calling for a government of national reconciliation and transition. the document they issued did not say delvalle would head such a government, but recognized him as ``he who exercises the office of president.''
questions about what will and should happen next also dominate the daily lives of average citizens in this country, which has the panama canal as an integral part of its economy and uses u.s. dollar as its national currency
miguel correa, a truck driver, noted that delvalle, like others of noriega's recent critics, had been involved in his regime
why the sudden change of heart, when they were all part of the same dirty business?'' he said
among noriega's accusers hare retired gen. ruben paredes, his predecessor as defense forces commander; jose blandon, a former top adviser, and retired col. roberto diaz herrera, noriega's former chief of staff
the joint statement by the crusade and the opposition parties said delvalle, by his actions, ``committed himself to the changes necessary for establishment of a legitimate democracy.''
this caution came from the former high official: ``the more time that passes, the less viable becomes the delvalle solution.''
douglas grant mine, former ap news editor in buenos aires, argentina, now reports for the associated press from central america
two brothers pleaded guilty to attacking the son of comedian-activist dick gregory and three other black youths in an assault the judge called a sign of ``a cancer that is growing in our society.''
kevin ferreira, 23, and his brother vernon, 19, pleaded guilty tuesday to assault and violating the civil rights of christian gregory and the other blacks
charges are pending against two other white men in the november 1986 attack at a party in plymouth after a high school football game
kevin ferreira said the fight occurred because he was told that gregory and his friends referred to the other youths as ``white honky trash.''
brockton superior court judge george n. hurd jr. set sentencing for april 15
in this city, jesse jackson is the well-known social activist, a canny player in the back rooms of a world-class political hotbed
in greenville, s.c., he's the hometown celebrity who hasn't forgotten his roots
jackson hopes to cash in on both images and turn hometown sentiment into votes in two contests in the next week
south carolina holds democratic caucuses on saturday; the illinois primary is tuesday
arriving under chilly gray skies back in chicago on wednesday, jackson was triumphant, telling a rally of factory workers, `we get stronger every day.''
here, he founded the social action organization people united to serve humanity. here he makes his home, in a large comfortable house on a pleasant residential street, with his wife jacqueline and five children
halfway across the nation is jackson's other hometown. it was greenville where jackson stopped last week as he launched his final swing through the south on the road to the critical super tuesday contests
jackson came in first in the popular vote in those primaries and caucuses, and second to massachusetts gov. michael dukakis in the delegate count
in greenville, they remember jackson as the youngster who went off to be a college football quarterback, then launched a career as a minister and civil rights activist who followed dr. martin luther king jr
jackson saw familiar faces when his motorcade pulled up to the springfield baptist church last week to address a convention of ministers. it was this church, he told them, that he attended as a boy while his mother sang in the choir
greenville, a medium-sized city set among rolling hills with a rural atmosphere, was a major textile center in those days. but it fell on hard times as the mills began to close, jackson says
jackson took reporters to the projects where he lived as a boy. he went into his old apartment, a spartan brick unit with plastic flowers on display, the home today of a single mother of two who earns minimum wage putting pleats on skirts
the project's residents came out to shake jackson's hand as he strolled through the streets, secret service agents and tv cameras in tow
today, jackson's mother lives in a comfortable split-level home _ walls covered with tastefully framed photo layouts depicting jackson's life _ in a far more affluent neighborhood of greenville
there, a group of friends and family members celebrated jackson's night at home with a feast of sweet potatoes, corn bread, turkey, dressing, cobblers and other home cooking the likes of which is seldom seen on jackson's breakneck campaign
the next morning there was more home cooking _ biscuits and grits, this time with white farmers on a dairy farm near town
south carolina farmers told jackson how the nation's farm policy has brought them hardship. but they were noncommittal about whether they would vote for him
there is no such reticence when jackson gets home to chicago, a big industrial city whose people hurry along skyscraper-lined sidewalks, bundled up against the icy blasts that whistle along the streets and beneath the elevated rail cars
here the crowds that come to see him are his fans
at the general electric plant rally, the crowd knew what they wanted the candidate to do
jesse, help us save our jobs,'' their signs read
i've been working here 23 years,'' said mack fundes, a truck driver for ge's hotpoint refrigerator plant that is scheduled to close in a couple of years
nothing has changed here. it's time for change. i believe jesse would make a change,'' he said
richard gephardt grimaced a bit as he stood in a pole barn on a soggy afternoon, pondering a question from the tiny knot of democrats
the question was: ``do you really think you can beat jesse jackson and al gore here?''
after a pause, gephardt said: ``we're going to try very hard.''
throughout wednesday, the day after his disastrous super tuesday performance, gephardt doggedly trudged across rain-drenched south carolina, trying to explain his showing and pleading with democrats to give him a boost in saturday's caucuses
unless you're willing to stand up for change, it's not going to happen,'' gephardt said. ``if you will stand with me on saturday, we'll change those facts of life.''
only a month ago, gephardt was riding high after a win in the iowa caucuses. from there, he went on to a second-place finish in new hampshire, and won south dakota's primary a week later
but suddenly, he is fighting to keep his campaign alive
the difficulty facing gephardt was summarized at the jim harwell farm just outside this eastern south carolina town
as the recorded strains of country singer willie nelson wailed mournfully in the background, gephardt mingled with a couple of dozen party activists in what was billed as a farm rally for him to push some basic campaign themes he hopes will sway farmers in this heavily rural state
gephardt insisted throughout the day that his problem during the 20-state round of voting earlier in the week was the sheer size of the event. he said it prevented him from telling his story, leaving him victorious only in his home state
when i get my message out to the voters, i win,'' gephardt said. ``they didn't hear what i had to say; that was the problem.''
but when gephardt sounded his familiar tough-talking trade themes they got a lukewarm response
that was partly because the audience was tiny. only a couple of dozen people showed up at the farm. at an event earlier in the day at a threatened textile plant, his audience was composed almost entirely of elementary-school students bused in for the occasion. an evening rally in greenville found the room half empty
that's the price gephardt paid for his showing on the campaign season's biggest event, as attention focuses on other candidates like gore, jackson and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis who have reaped big harvests of delegates
we did not have a good outcome yesterday,'' gephardt said in a significant understatement
but he spent a lot of his time insisting he's in the race for the long haul
the race is on,'' gephardt said. ``i'm not where i'd like to be, but i think i have ample opportunity to make up lost ground and get back in the middle of this race and win.''
gephardt and his aides conceded their campaign could badly use a boost, and they busily drew up scenarios for keeping the effort alive
it's going to be tough; it's an uphill battle,'' said deputy campaign manager joe trippi. ``but that's what we're going to try to do.''
throughout the super tuesday campaign, gephardt was outspent by both gore and dukakis, and campaign consultant bob shrum conceded that a fourth-place showing won't make raising money any easier
it won't be as easy to raise money, but we'll raise money,'' shrum said. ``we're not penniless.''
gephardt insisted his financial picture is not all that bleak. his debts are modest, he says, and more federal matching funds are on the way
we didn't borrow, as others did, to run on super tuesday,'' gephardt said. ``maybe in retrospect we should have.''
but gephardt faces big hurdles if he's to regain momentum
south carolina is where jackson was born, and gephardt aide concede that he best they can hope for saturday is a second-place finish
the gephardt campaign has been downplaying next week's illinois primary, saying results will be muddled by home-state sen. paul simon's presence on the ballot
that leaves gephardt with a long stretch before he's likely to get any positive campaign news
he's pinning his hopes on michigan, which holds caucuses march 26, as a key blue-collar state where he hopes his tough trade talk will sell
it also drastically raises the stakes for gephardt
we're going to do well in michigan,'' he said. ``i need to do well in michigan.''
playboy publisher hugh hefner, standing arm-in-arm with his new girlfriend, announced a countersuit against his ex-lover, alleging she was unfaithful and her $35 million ``palimony'' lawsuit was a publicity stunt
but model carrie leigh's attorney says her action was brought to stop hefner from using and discarding young women
the 61-year-old hefner, who filed the $1 million cross complaint wednesday, said ms. leigh filed her lawsuit to advance her own career and that of her lawyer, marvin mitchelson
you're talking about the criminal misuse of the judicial system,'' hefner told reporters as he stood with his new girlfriend, 24-year-old kimberley conrad, at the playboy mansion. ``i want to put a stop to that.''
ms. leigh could not be reached for comment because her phone number is unlisted
mitchelson, on vacation in paris, said from his hotel:
this is my 32nd year as a lawyer, and i've never filed a lawsuit in my life that didn't have merit
the palimony suit was really developed to remedy situations involving people like hugh hefner,'' he continued. ``he has made a lifelong practice of getting involved with teen-age girls, living with them for a few years and then discarding them.''
ms. leigh's suit filed last month claims hefner reneged on promises to marry her, father her child and support her
hefner's attorney, anthony glassman, said he filed two legal actions wednesday in superior court
one was an answer to ms. leigh's palimony suit in which the founder of playboy magazine denied his former girlfriend's allegations
the second was the cross complaint seeking $1 million plus court costs, attorney fees and an amount of punitive damages to be determined by the court
glassman said the $1 million represents the value of cash, jewelry, furs and other gifts hefner gave to ms. leigh, now 24, while the two were together from april 1983 to january
hefner's complaint also accuses ms. leigh of fraudulently telling hefner she loved him and was faithful to him
on repeated occasions, ms. leigh was sexually unfaithful to him,'' glassman told reporters
hefner said he bears no animosity toward ms. leigh, but believes now that she had planned for years to eventually sue him for palimony
i think what is happening now is something that was in her mind from the beginning,'' he said
he added that friends, relatives and business associates tried to warn him about her but he didn't listen to them
i just saw what i wanted to see,'' he said
hefner, meanwhile, said he has not asked ms. conrad to sign any legal papers absolving him of financial responsibility should their relationship eventually disolve
he said he met the tall, blonde model, playboy magazine's january playmate of the month, when she came to the mansion last may to pose. he said the two didn't become involved until after ms. leigh left the mansion
ms. conrad declined comment on ms. leigh
i'm just here to support hef, and i came after carrie leigh, so i really have no comment,'' she said
anti-apartheid banners adorn the halls at the university of the western cape, and the main plaza is called freedom square. an exile once jailed for terrorism is receiving an honorary degree this week
western cape is the most radical university in south africa. its chief administrator, professor jakes gerwel, said when installed as rector last year that he plans to preside over ``an intellectual home for the left.''
the militance of students and staff contrasts sharply with the government's intent in 1960, when it established a college near cape town for mixed-race students as part of its segregated education system. j.g. miering, a white professor who headed the school in the 1960s, said, ``the white guardian was obliged to provide these facilities for his colored (mixed-race) ward.''
the university remains predominantly mixed-race, but gerwel is determined to increase black enrollment beyond the current 13 percent. his administration is openly committed to preparing students for a post-apartheid south africa led by the now-voteless black majority
we are a political thorn in their sides,'' gerwel said of the government. ``the establishment doesn't know how to deal with us.''
a case in point is the university's decision to award an honorary degree friday to breyten breytenbach, a white poet who left south africa in 1982 after serving seven years in prison for terrorism. the government denied breytenbach a visa, and a relative is to accept the award on his behalf
at the same graduation ceremony, one of the main speakers will be cyril ramaphosa, general secretary of the militant black national union of mineworkers
last month, the university's governing council elected anglican archbishop desmond tutu as chancellor. tutu, winner of the 1984 nobel peace prize for his anti-apartheid campaigning, is the first black chosen for the honorary post
gerwel, who as professor of afrikaans literature was a leading faculty activist, is the second mixed-race rector. the first, richard van der ross, led from 1975-87 and is credited with establishing the school's anti-apartheid orientation
most of south africa's 3 million mixed-race people live in the cape town region. the university's enrollment has soared from 6,128 in 1984 to 11,500 this year, and multiple construction projects can't keep pace with the need for more facilities
sometimes we cannot teach our students because there's no place to put them,'' said owen van den bergh, a white who is dean of education. ``we have to hope they don't come to class.''
the government has cut subsidies to all universities by about 25 percent this year and adopted regulations to allow further cuts at schools that fail to curb campus protest. the university of the western cape and the predominantly white university of cape town successfully challenged the regulations in court, but gerwel expects the government to try other tactics to tame his school
one of gerwel's priorities is to expand the university's ties with the anti-apartheid movement. the campus often serves as a venue for meetings of militant organizations
going to uwc is considered by students to be part of the political struggle,'' said di bishop, vice president of the black sash civil rights organization and a university sociology researcher. ``you're not going off to an ivory tower for a couple of years.''
security forces have entered the campus several times in recent years to break up protests with tear gas and whips. there is animosity among some students toward remaining conservative professors
there also is conflict over language. some of the 600 teachers lecture in english and others in afrikaans, the language that many mixed-race people have inherited from the mainly dutch-descended whites who run the government
van den bergh forsees increasing tension as black enrollment rises. he also sees internal pressures building up in individual students
there are a lot who say the right things politically but are fundamentally conservative,'' he said. ``they are worried about getting a job, getting a house.''
gerwel said the university could ``arm itself'' against government pressure by adding more professional schools. it now offers graduate degrees in law, pharmacy and dentistry. but he also wants the curriculum to accommodate those who have been excluded from power and privilege
in a changed south africa, it's not going to be a first world, high-tech society,'' he said. ``what is this new south africa we are working for? we're trying to find out. the english-language universities are geared to capitalism. we research alternatives.''
although the government provides most of their funds, the university and the 10 predominantly white universities have almost total control of curriculum and campus policies. the black universities are tightly controlled by the government and cooperative administrators, and student protests at these schools has been repressed
gerwel said his job ``keeps one awake at night.''
but i wouldn't want to be in any other position. we're at the cutting edge of adjusting to a black-led society.''
despite prospects for an economic boom the next few years, the northern industrial states face a creeping erosion of their political clout and claim on federal dollars: a demographic bust
a study by the northeast-midwest institute, a public policy group with ties to the region's members of congress, says the industrial north is enjoying bigger income gains but has far less population growth than the sunbelt
the population of the 18 northern states stretching from minnesota to new england will grow by 3.8 percent through the 1990s, only about half the national average, according to the study titled ``the state of the region'' and released wednesday
in recent years, the south and west have drawn industries and jobs from the north. even though the northeast's overall economy has rebounded, the region will not be able to keep up with the competing areas' population growth, the study said. it estimated that the population of the west and south will grow 10 percent in the next decade
for the northeast, the lagging population growth will translate into fewer representatives in the house and fewer federal dollars from programs based on the number of people in a state or area, the study said
political influence, from the selection of the president in the electoral college to appropriation fights in the house of representatives, will shift further to the south and west,'' the study said
the northeast could lose 14 house seats after the 1990 census, the report said. the region lost 15 seats after the 1980 census, for a total projected loss in representation of 13 percent in the 1970s and 1980s, the study said
the lagging population gains in the northeast and midwest result both from lower birth rates and migration to southern and western states, the study said
the short-term economic outlook for the entire region is positive,'' the study said. the northeast shared in the national return to prosperity from 1983 to late 1986, with new england benefiting the most
unemployment has dropped below the national average in parts of the region, but the northeast is unlikely to regain many of the 1.3 million manufacturing jobs lost between 1980 and 1986, the study said. the population that remains, however, is enjoying faster per capita income growth than that of southerners and westerners
the south and west for the first time topped the northeast and midwest in manufacturing employment in 1986. the sunbelt had 9.5 million employees on manufacturing payrolls, compared with 9.4 million in the northeast and midwest
other points made by the study were:
_the northeast and midwest invested more in public school education than did other regions
_the trend toward an older population was more evident in the northeast and midwest than in the rest of the country
northeast states covered by the report were: connecticut, delaware, illinois, indiana, iowa, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, new hampshire, new jersey, new york, ohio, pennsylvania, rhode island, vermont and wisconsin
the privately funded northeast-midwest institute was formed in 1977 at the request of members of the house and senate from the region. the study also was sponsored by two legislative groups: the northeast-midwest congressional coalition and the northeast-midwest senate coalition
international travelers arriving at some major u.s. airports this summer will be greeted by agriculture department inspectors operating x-ray machines to see if their baggage harbors illegal food or plants
the x-rays, in addition to sharp-nosed canine sniffers, will be used to check arrivals at 11 u.s. international airports for illegal sausages, mangoes and other contraband
imported meats can carry exotic diseases that could devastate american livestock,'' james w. glosser, head of the department's animal and plant health inspection service, said wednesday. ``fruits and vegetable coming into the country can carry pests that could seriously damage american crops.''
agency inspectors have used x-ray equipment in puerto rico and hawaii for departures for several years, with interceptions of prohibited agricultural items doubling, he said
the new systems for arrivals were recently installed at international airports in miami; honolulu; san juan, puerto rico; houston; and chicago
additional equipment soon will be installed at international airports in atlanta; new york; washington; boston; los angeles; and san francisco
the usda agency also is installing large signs at the 11 airports telling travelers that x-rays are being used to check their baggage
although most people willingly declare their agricultural products, we do come across some intentional violators,'' glosser said. ``that's only natural, considering that we encountered an estimated 43 million air travelers in 1987. some ignore the regulations and others are not even aware of them, despite all our information efforts.''
glosser said the agency uses several methods to find smuggled agricultural items, including trained beagles to sniff out the errant braunschweiger here, the occasional mango or two there
finally, we rely on the deterrent effect of penalties,'' he said. ``we fine violators $25 to $50, payable on the spot. we currently collect about $30,000 per month, and we have collected nearly $1.8 million since 1984. fines are deposited in the u.s. treasury.''
glosser said the travel industry plays an important role in helping educate the traveling public, including the distribution of booklets about agricultural items that may be brought into the united states
a brochure also can be obtained by writing: travelers tips, usda-aphis, g-187 federal building, hyattsville, md. 20782
an absorbent called super slurper invented in the 1970s is helping tiny worms kill destructive root weevils that threaten citrus trees, according to an agriculture department scientist
william j. schroeder, an entomolgist in the department's agricultural research service, said wednesday the super slurper keeps soil moist so that the microscopic worms, or nematodes, can survive and kill weevils that chew the tree roots
in tests, 60 percent of the weevils were killed, compared with only 25 percent without the help of the worms. schroeder said that weevils can kill up to 30 percent of the trees in a grove if not controlled
the nematodes haven't been used before as a natural weevil control because they die quickly if soil dries out, schroeder said
other agency scientists are looking into the use of super slurper and nematodes to see if they can control pests of corn and vegetables
agency scientists in peoria, ill., invented the cornstarch-based super slurper 14 years ago. it has been successfully used in dozens of commercial products, including body powder, medical dressings and many other items
schroeder, who works at the department's horticultural research laboratory in orlando, fla., said he thought of super slurper in 1985 when he observed nematodes dying in dry soil
i realized that in order to use this biological control (nematodes), we would have to keep the soil moist,'' schroeder said
with its ability to hold up to 2,000 times its own weight in water, superslurper provided the answer, schroeder said.
companies could mass-rear nematodes and ``package billions of them alive'' for sale to growers, who then could mix the worms with super slurper for application on tree roots before planting, he said
for citrus groves already inhabited by the beneficial nematodes, schroeder said he is looking into the possibility of injecting super slurper into the soil with a nozzle
the tiny worms, which survive as long as the soil is kept moist, penetrate the weevils and release lethal bacteria, which don't harm plants or other organisms, schroeder said
a man accused of trying to sexually assault miss usa pageant co-host tracy scoggins contends she invited him to her room, a claim the actress dismissed as absurd
tracy scoggins has turned some very serious charges into a very cheap publicity stunt in a desperate attempt to benefit her sagging career,'' said attorney jose montes jr., who is representing the man
montes said tuesday that miss scoggins met his client, pedro concepcion padilla, in traffic on interstate 10 on feb. 25 and invited him to her hotel room. montes declined to elaborate on the highway encounter
the actress, best known for her role as monica colby in tv's prime-time soap opera ``the colbys,'' told police padilla attacked her that day in a hotel elevator
padilla was arrested and gave police and a judge a false name and address, authorities said. after posting $100 bail, he was rearrested, and then released on $100,000 bail
miss scoggins, who was here for the pageant, described the attack at a news conference on feb. 26, and a first-person account with her byline is in the latest edition of the national enquirer
miss scoggins, in a statement released tuesday by her publicist, said she had never seen padilla until he got on the elevator
the allegations made by mr. padilla's attorney are so blatantly absurd they should not be dignified by comment. but i do want to say, though, that it's a pity a woman has to be a victim twice,'' she said
leave it to ronald reagan to find something good to say about budget deficits
for decades, reagan has denounced the big-spending crowd in washington that he said was dooming future generations to a life of debt and penury
in his seven years in office, he has promised repeatedly to do something about it and blamed democrats in congress for the deficits that nevertheless flourished
in a recent interview with lou cannon of the washington post, however, reagan was reminded of the sizable deficit he will leave behind, and was asked:
do you think that this is going to have a negative consequence on the next generations? is this going to be a real burden for the country?''
reagan's reply:
it's a burden. there's no question about that. but ... not the disaster some people proclaim. ... one of the major factors in our budget right now is the interest. but who gets that interest? and you find out then that a great many institutions, universities, educational institutions of all kinds, that part of their endowment are government bonds. and so a lot of that interest is going to them ... (and) to individual americans ...(as) part of their savings, instead of putting it in the bank or something
so, instead of it being something that's just disappearing down a rat hole, it's a kind of a redistribution ... of national wealth in that these institutions and so forth are getting this interest from the government. now maybe some of them would have to be getting straight grants from the government if they were not getting that interest. so, no, i don't think it's a disaster.''
reagan, still saying that he was ``disappointed that we haven't been able to do better'' and that ``the congress added to that budget,'' conceded that his position was ``really a reversal of roles'' for him
it sure is
as the president noted: ``way back before i ever thought i would be governor, when i was just out making speeches on the mashed-potato circuit about things that i thought should be changed ... i was complaining about the fact that, for almost 60 years now, with only eight single-year exceptions, this country has been running a deficit.''
it still is running a deficit, but now reagan calls it a redistribution of wealth
as the president would say, it reminds one of a story. in fact, one of reagan's favorite stories
the story is about two boys, one a pessimist and one an optimist, who are taken to a psychiatrist. he puts the pessimist in a room full of shiny new toys and finds him crying because he's afraid the toys might break. the optimistic child is put in a room with piles of horse manure and is found joyfully exclaiming, ``i know there's a pony in here someplace.''
it's the same way with deficits. ronald reagan always knew there was a pony in there someplace
a telephone repair crew balked at fixing a downed wire until their customer agreed to hold the lion
they wrote on their work report, `lion in yard. no way,''' said dannie carper, 51, an indiana bell supervisor from south bend who helped indianapolis clean up from an early march ice storm that roared in like a you-know-what
carper verified on monday that the householder owned a year-old lioness named chasta. the owner agreed to leash her so that carper could reattach the wire. ``it was just a big old 225-pound puddy tat,'' he said
carper had his picture taken with chasta. ``i have one where i've got my arms around her and she's chewing on my shoe,'' he said. ``i wasn't scared. but when she was chewing on my shoes i was afraid maybe she thought they were pigskin.''
chasta has found a new home on a farm in suburban noblesville
the man known as the godfather of east european dissidents says the reforms of mikhail s. gorbachev and the promised soviet withdrawal from afghanistan are nudging other warsaw pact nations toward greater independence from the kremlin
eastern european nations will insist on trying to find ways toward greater autonomy from the soviet union,'' said milovan djilas, whose native yugoslavia parted with moscow in 1948
similar nationalistic impulses also are being expressed in the non-russian republics of the soviet union, such as armenia, azerbaijan, and the baltic states, where the kremlin has been cracking down on demonstrations
in the west, said djilas, people ``should have hope, but not illusions, should be strong but not unreasonable'' in reacting to gorbachev's foreign and domestic policy initiatives
djilas, now 77, began his dissidence in 1953, a year later quit his posts as yugoslavian vice president and member of the communist party politburo, and was imprisoned from 1956-61 by yugoslavia's then-president, josef broz tito
from prison, he wrote his best known work, ``the new class,'' in which he argued that communist leaders in the soviet union and throughout eastern europe had created a system in which power, wealth and privilege were as abused as in the governments they replaced. his writings made him an icon in the west, and became a model for dissidents throughout the communist world
djilas, who addressed the heritage foundation last week and later was interviewed by the associated press, last visited the united states in 1968. the government of yugoslavia took away his passport in 1970 and did not restore it until 18 months ago
i am not a good boy,'' he said, grinning impishly despite his advanced age and a nagging heart condition. the yugoslavian government, he said ``is not very happy about my speaking'' but apparently has given up its futile efforts to silence him
western attention to his predicament made life easier, he said
i think the west and america saved me,'' he said. ``certainly, my fate would have been much worse if public opinion had not been aroused on my behalf.''
djilas had warm words for gorbachev, whose reforms he said were an attempt to end the repressive system imposed on the soviet union and eastern europe by soviet dictator josef stalin
even if kremlin conservatives topple gorbachev, djilas predicted, the process will continue
gorbachev is a man in the middle of the party, between the hardliners and more radical elements like (boris) yeltsin,'' who was forced to quit his post as the communist party first secretary for the city of moscow because he criticized gorbachev for going too slow
the reforms and the promised ``soviet withdrawal from afghanistan will strengthen democratic elements in the soviet union'' and encourage other warsaw pact nations in their own economic and political experiments, said djilas
east european leaders are trying to avoid a confrontation with moscow while seeking greater independence, he said. ``there is no sign of an uprising.''
yugoslavia is farthest along in this crisis of communism,'' retaining a communist government while allowing market forces to play a powerful role in the economy, he said
the crisis is also acute in poland, where the army stepped in to preserve communist rule in 1981, and where the economy is mixed between state and private ownership, said djilas
we cannot exclude that poland would develop a different (non-communist) social system, and still remain within the warsaw pact'' and thus pose no military threat to the kremlin, said djilas
world experts on children's health are gathered in a french alpine town to review an immunization project that has been saving millions of young lives and to plan ways of helping more
anyone who is anyone in international aid will be at this meeting,'' said dr. ken warren of the rockefeller foundation. ``people want to come because this is a group that is actually doing something and not just talking.''
the three-day meeting in talloires, france, opens today
among those expected to attend are dr. jonas salk, discoverer of the polio salk vaccine; barber conable, president of the world bank; james p. grant, the unicef executive director; former world bank president robert mcnamara, and joshua cohen, director of the world health organization
they will join leaders of other international aid agencies, physicians and health ministers from at least 13 countries
the symposium is sponsored by the task force for child survival, whose members are the united nations children's fund, who, the world bank, the united nations development program and the rockefeller foundation
these organizations have been working together since the early 1980s on an international campaign to immunize children against polio, diphtheria, whooping cough and tetanus. the project, aimed particularly at developing countries, has been a stunning success
the percentage of children vaccinated against the five deadly diseases has risen from 5 percent in 1974 to 50 percent today. experts predict that by the early 1990s, nearly every child in the world will be immunized
in a little over a decade a public health revolution has quietly taken place,'' said dr. ralph h. henderson, director of who's expanded program on immunization
henderson said the vaccination campaign against measles, neonatal tetunus and whooping cough is saving the lives of more than a million children each year in the developing world. another 200,000 children are being saved from the paralysis of polio, he said
warren, in a telephone interview from london, called the project ``the single most remarkable example of international interagency cooperation i've ever seen.''
one of the 11 papers to be reviewed at the meeting deals with the anticipated eradication of polio from the americas y 1990
if this effort is successful, it may be possible to launch a global polio eradication campaign early in the 1990s,'' said henderson. ``a world without polio would be a fitting gift from the 20th to the 21st century.''
the participants also will discuss controlling diarrheal diseases, caring for pregnant women and providing low-cost vaccines to impoverished nations
dr. william foege, executive director of the task force and former director of the centers for disease control in atlanta, will open the meeting with background for discussions on population control
health ministers or their representatives are expected from china, india, indonesia, brazil, nigeria, pakistan, mexico, egypt, senegal, colombia, morocco, peru and uganda. together, the countries account for well over half the world's children
representatives of donor agencies will represent the united states, japan, switzerland, france, west germany, britain, canada, italy, the netherlands, denmark, norway, sweden and finland
the nuclear regulatory commission has fined the owner of the north anna nuclear power plant $100,000 after operators failed to respond promptly to a equipment malfunction, officials said wednesday
monitoring instruments on two pipes carrying steam to the plant's generators malfunctioned, and operators did not respond for about 10 hours, according to the nrc, which imposed the penalty against virginia power co
under nrc rules, operators must take action within an hour
the incident, which occurred nov. 4 when the utility was restarting north anna unit 2 after refueling, caused no injuries or release of radiation
the nrc said that the violation, involving part of a non-nuclear system, did not pose a direct safety hazard
however, the instruments provide information necessary to reactor safety, and if steam is not moving correctly to generators, the nuclear systems could overheat, utility and nrc officials said
the instruments could also be used in responding to steam-line ruptures. in 1986, at virginia power's surry nuclear plnat, four workers were killed by scalding steam and water from a failed pipe
the commission said because similar incidents occurred previously at north anna, the fine was doubled from $50,000, the typical amount for such violations
the utility said it would not contest the fine and it disputed only the nrc's contention that previous violations were similar
virginia power has taken action to ensure a violation will not happen again, including improved training of operators, said utility spokesman james e. mcdonald jr. no workers were dismissed or disciplined, he said
the north anna nuclear unit has three main steam lines, and each has two of the instruments. in the november incident, one instrument failed on each of two lines
mcdonald said operators initially were unaware the instruments were malfunctioning
virginia power has been fined 13 times since it began operating nuclear plants in 1972
for a brief moment, president reagan was transported back in time _ hurling a pigskin to a wide receiver at a sentimental celebration of notre dame's knute rockne and his own days as a hollywood star
the gipper'' returned to the notre dame campus wednesday to pay tribute to the late football legend and dedicate a 22-cent stamp issued in honor of the coach's 100th birthday
it was a nostalgic trip into the past for ronald reagan, the one-time actor, sports announcer and college football player who clearly reveled in the crowd's friendly applause
the notre dame gathering of students and faculty _ including many wearing roman collars _ roared approval as they were treated to clips from reagan's 1940 film portrayal of notre dame football star george gipp in ``knute rockne: all american.''
the film showed the fresh-faced reagan, playing gipp, as he playfully kicked footballs high above the playing field while pat o'brien, playing rockne, persuades him to join the team
another clip showed o'brien, as rockne, giving a pep talk to his players at halftime of a 1928 game against army, with both sides scoreless. gipp had died eight years earlier, but the coach tells his charges that on his deathbed the young athlete said, ``some time when the team is up against it and the breaks are beating the boys, tell them to go out there with all they got and win just one for the gipper.''
army went ahead in the third quarter, 6-0, but notre dame went on to win the game, 12-6. army was one yard from the tying touchdown as time ran out
reagan's supporters adopted the ``win one'' phrase during his presidency to help garner support for his programs. and the nickname ``the gipper'' has since stuck
at the end of his speech, the filled-to-capacity crowd was silent as reagan tried to repeat the lines from gipp's deathbed scene. few, however, noticed that reagan flubbed the line and instead of saying ``gipper,'' actually pronounced it ``gippet,'' since his listeners erupted in a joyful cheer at the sentimental moment
handed a football, reagan hurled it towards members of the notre dame football team seated strategically near the podium
aiming at one young man who held his arms high, reagan heaved the pigskin _ directly, it turned out, at heisman trophy winner tim brown. again, the crowd roared approval
reagan had told his audience that the role of gipp ``was a young actor's dream'' but that playing in a film about rockne ``was more than that'' to him
i know that, to many of you today, rockne is a revered name, a symbol of greatness and, yes, a face on a postage stamp,'' he said
but my generation, well, we actually knew the legend as it happened _ we saw it unfold. and we felt it was saying something important about us as a people and a nation,'' the 77-year-old president said
most of all, the rockne legend meant this: ... that on or off the field, it is faith that makes the difference, it is faith that makes great things happen.''
rockne, a graduate of the roman catholic college, was its head football coach from 1918 to 1931. he compiled a record of 108 victories, 12 losses and five ties. during his tenure, the fighting irish were undefeated in five seasons and won six national championships
the white house has worked for years to produce picture-perfect events to frame the president as the nation's leader _ but few could have been as nostalgic
he loved it,'' said agriculture secretary richard lyng, a 1940 notre dame graduate who traveled with reagan aboard air force one
the cabinet secretary said reagan particularly enjoyed tossing the football
the president threw a perfect strike,'' lyng added with a laugh
an autopsy determined that heart disease caused the death of divine, the 375-pound female impersonator who starred in the cult film classic ``pink flamingos,'' the coroner's office says
there was no evidence of drugs or alcohol. he died in his sleep of an enlarged heart, probably due to the obesity,'' steve stewart, a los angeles county coroner's spokesman, said wednesday
the cause of death was listed as hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or enlarged heart, stewart said. the coroner's report showed that divine, whose real name was harris glenn milstead, weighed 375 pounds
the 42-year-old actor, who appears in the current release ``hairspray,'' was found dead in his bed monday at the hollywood regency plaza hotel
manager bernard jay said milstead had a long-term weight problem, but otherwise was found to be in excellent health during a medical checkup friday
the democratic party's losing presidential candidates have found one bright spot in the darkness of their defeat: the odds are that nobody will be able to claim victory by the time the primaries are over in june
the big winners in this week's round of primaries and caucuses dismiss that as wishful thinking
if you get within a decent distance, you're not going to be stopped,'' said rick hutcheson, who oversees delegate selection for tennessee sen. albert gore jr.'s campaign. ``i don't think there's any doubt in the world that there are plenty of delegates out there for a first-ballot nominee to develop.''
true, there are enough delegates yet to be allotted that a clear winner could emerge. but the odds certainly are growing longer that any candidate can come up with the magic number needed to win on the first ballot at the democratic convention in atlanta
mathematically and politically this process is in gridlock,'' said terry michael, spokesman for illinois sen. paul simon, who suffered a shutout in tuesday's round of primaries and caucuses
hutcheson, who worked in former president jimmy carter's 1976 presidential campaign, said the then-candidate carter wound up the primary season with about 85 percent of the delegates he needed to win the democratic presidential nomination. the remaining delegates gravitated toward a winner, he said
i think that same scenario will develop here,'' hutcheson said
simon, who held just 35.5 delegates both before and after tuesday's balloting, is banking on nobody being able to gain the 2,082 delegates needed to win the democratic presidential nomination when the primaries conclude on june 7, with california and new jersey, two of the largest states with a total of 423 delegates at stake
the person or persons with the greatest potential to negotiate his way to a first-ballot victory will be the candidate who is hottest at the end,'' michael said
the democrats have yet to allocate 2,524 of their national convention delegates, and another 258.65 delegates list themselves as uncommitted. thus the available pool of delegates to be won between now and early june would be 2,782.65. partial figures result from party rules that divide up some votes at the convention
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who was leading the field of democratic candidates with 456.5 delegates, needs to win another 1,625.5 to wrap up the presidential nomination. or, put another way, he has to win more than 58 percent of all the delegates that are still left to be won _ roughly twice as well as he's done so far
dukakis was followed in the delegate count by jesse jackson with 395.55 and gore with 346.8
the virtual three-way tie prompted carter to observe that ``i think it's accurate to say the chances are less likely that one of the candidates will arrive in atlanta with a clear majority.''
new york gov. mario cuomo, a non-candidate who nonetheless has said he would consider stepping into the void at a deadlocked convention, still says he wants to see his party hold a ``quiet convention.'' but he concedes that it will be difficult for any of the current candidates to secure a first-ballot victory based on results of the primaries and caucuses
michael said if no candidate holds a majority by the time the primaries conclude, the rule of conscience that binds delegates to the candidates will begin to bend and break
but susan brophy, an aide to dukakis, called that assertion ``ridiculous.''
these people get into the process because they believe, a, in the process and, b, in the candidate _ and not necessarily in that order.''
and, jude barry, an aide to missouri rep. richard gephardt's presidential campaign, agreed, saying, ``i think there's going to be loyalty and commitment. we're prepared to protect what we have, as i'm sure the other candidates will as well.''
gephardt, who had 143 delegates after super tuesday, is hoping to hang on with a strong showing in the michigan caucuses on march 26 and the congressional democratic caucuses on april 19 and 20. gephardt also expects to win big when his house colleagues pick 210 of their own to be national convention delegates. another 43 delegates will be picked by senate democrats
our hand certainly will not be weak with that wild card,'' barry said
simon, meanwhile, is hoping to score a victory next tuesday in his home state of illinois
texas on wednesday sued to bar shipments of florida citrus in an attempt to protect its fruit crops from citrus canker
u.s. district judge filemon vela on wednesday denied the state's request for an emergency stay of a federal order feb. 11 lifting a 3-year ban on shipments of fresh florida citrus into texas and other citrus-producing areas
vela scheduled a hearing for monday on the suit, which accuses the u.s. agriculture department of lifting the quarantine without giving proper notice and an opportunity for a public hearing
florida citrus was quarantined after an outbreak of citrus canker in florida in 1984. the bacterial disease can cause defoliation, lesions that render the fruit unmarketable and premature dropping of the fruit from the tree
on feb. 15, four days after the quarantine was lifted, texas imposed an emergency 30-day ban on florida citrus, but a federal court in austin on overturned the ban, ruling that federal action takes precedence over state
paul martin, director of pest management for the texas department of agriculture, said texas at least would like to keep florida fruit out of the lower rio grande valley, where the state's $65 million citrus industry is concentrated
the issue is, we're dealing with a real serious disease in this case that is a threat to the industry,'' he said
florida producers maintain that the canker presents a minimal threat to the texas citrus industry, and some growers there sued to stop the texas quarantine
a major business lobbying group is trying to keep congress from passing new nationwide clean air legislation, claiming it will cost too much, reduce jobs and increase the trade deficit
david m. roderick, chairman of the environment committee of the business roundtable, said wednesday that any legislation should be targeted only at areas with dirty air
however, he did not offer specific suggestions for such regional measures, and said the decisions should be left to the environmental protection agency
roderick commented as the business group released a report claiming that clean air legislation passed by the senate environment and public works committee earlier this year would cost the economy between $15 billion and $73 billion. it said the most likely figure is $32 billion, and also claimed that the measure would eliminate between 300,000 and 600,000 manufacturing jobs
roderick, who is chairman of usx corp., complained about acid rain provisions in the bill. he said the government should wait for the final report of the national acid precipitation assessment program, a 10-year, 12-agency research effort that isn't due for completion for another 18 months
he said complying with the committee-passed bill would cost his own company's u.s. steel corp. subsidiary $1.5 billion to $2 billion
we would import more semi-finished product,'' worsening the trade deficit, he said
roderick said the business group also objects to tougher new controls on toxic chemical and auto emissions
a person who buys a round for a drinking companion may be held liable if the companion gets into an auto accident, an oregon appeals court ruled wednesday
the decision involved a suit filed by the red steer bar in portland against richard howard, whose stepson lonnie d. johnson got into a accident in 1982 that injured another man
the bar settled with the injured man, james solberg, for $425,000 and then sued howard, who according to the suit accompanied johnson to three bars, the two buying drinks for each other, on the day of the collision
lawyers for the bar claim howard should be responsible for some of the damages because he knew or should have known johnson had a drinking problem, had been convicted of drunken driving and had been in accidents while drinking
multnomah county circuit judge lee johnson dismissed the lawsuit, finding noi legal basis for it. but the court of appeals on wednesday reinstated the case
the appeals court said howard could be found to owe damages under a common law negligence theory that says someone who ``substantially assists or encourages'' negligent conduct by another can be held liable
the decision is believed the first ruling in oregon to deal with liability of a drinking companion at a commercial establishment
in dismissing the lawsuit, the lower court judge said it would ``an unprecedented and unwarranted extension of common law liability to hold that howard had a legal duty ... to solberg.''
when a nurse in a hospital waiting room called the name gnau, two cousins who hadn't seen each other in 60 years stood up
i looked at him and asked him his name,'' said 73-year-old elmer gnau, a retired tool and dye maker. ``i knew if he said kenneth, he would be my cousin. not many people are named gnau.''
tuesday's chance meeting was an emotional experience for the two soft-spoken men, who last saw each other when they were children in louisville, ky. elmer was 13 and kenneth 3
i never thought i would have recognized him,'' said kenneth gnau, 63. ``but i looked up, and my stomach came right up to my throat. he has the face of my father. i almost cried.''
elmer gnau, who lives in la grange, ky., said he was in florida to visit his son, jerry gnau, in north lauderdale when the after-effects of a bout with pneumonia sent him to the hospital
kenneth gnau, who retired to margate with his wife, was waiting for an x-ray of a shoulder injury
the cousins, whose fathers were brothers, planned to visit each other later this week after kenneth gnau has shoulder surgery
union members in the south have given the heave-ho to one of the two democratic presidential candidates who courted them most actively and sent a strong signal to their once reluctant leaders to play ball with the other
jesse jackson, shunned by the afl-ci0 in 1984 in its failed effort to help put walter mondale in the white house, received a 37 percent plurality of votes from union households in 12 southern super tuesday primaries, according to abc-tv exit polls
only 10 percent of union voters in the same primaries cast ballots for rep. richard gephardt of missouri, point man the past three years for organized labor's top priority in congress _ retaliatory trade legislation
with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis and sen. albert gore of tennessee equally sharing the other half of the union vote tuesday, the afl-cio is no closer to making a democratic presidential endorsement than it was a year ago
unlike 1984 when mondale's challengers pinned a ``special interest'' tag on labor after its early endorsement of him, union leaders have proclaimed all of the still viable democratic candidates this year as acceptable to them
consequently on tuesday there were none of the union volunteers and phone banks brought into action in the southern primaries four years ago to stop then-sen. gary hart's threat of taking the nomination away from mondale
also absent tuesday was union rank-and-file worker turnout. only 5 percent of those voting in the democratic southern primaries came from union households, according to the exit polls
we have a problem of labor being with everyone, so nobody is doing anything,'' said joan baggett, political director of the bricklayers union who took her vacation the past three weeks to work as a volunteer for dukakis in the south
the up side is we haven't alienated any of our members by endorsing,'' she said. ``the down side is that we haven't excited them either. we're just not getting people to the polls.''
jackson's strong showing among those union members who did vote tuesday indicates he may be the exception. while blacks compose 14 percent of the u.s. population, they represent a larger 20 percent share of 19 million unionized workers nationwide and an even greater proportion in the south
still, for jackson to get 37 percent of the union vote, some of the support had to come from white workers, whose cause jackson has championed on hundreds of picket lines over the past four years
he's been out there on the lines and in the strikes every time labor has called on him and this is a healthy response to that,'' said jerry clark, political director for 1.1-million-member american federation of state, county and municipal employees
loretta bowen, who holds the same title for the communications workers of america, said white members of her union were slated as jackson delegates in the south and have expressed a keen interest in him in new york as well
as a spokesman for the gut issues that affect organized labor, he's articulating them better than any of the candidates,'' she said. ``and the fact there has been no endorsement has helped him a lot.''
but ms. bowen, who personally favors dukakis, and other labor political activists believe jackson's plurality of support will fade as the primaries move next week to illinois and then on to other rust belt states like michigan, pennsylvania and ohio, where unions are much stronger
the buzzword already is electibility, and i've never seen that kind of november strategy ever emerge this early before in our union,'' she said
allen zack of the united food and commerical workers union, noting gore's increased use of tv spots emphasizing his pro-worker record in congress, said all of the democratic candidates are now going after the labor vote
jesse's talking their language better,'' zack said. ``he's not trying to tell some laid off steel worker in alabama about some high-tech job in the future. he's talking about restoring their standard of living today.''
for that reason, zack said he was surprised that gephardt with his emphasis on slashing trade imbalances through retaliatory quotas against foreigners who restrict their imports of u.s. goods got no better than 10 percent of the union vote tuesday
of course he didn't have the money to get on the air as much,'' zack said of gephardt. ``if super tuesday confirms anything, it's the power of tv advertising. it's quite obvious from the turnout and the results that a parade hasn't formed yet for labor leaders to rush out in front of.''
officials for the afl-cio said members of its affiliated unions running on delegate slates for jackson, dukakis and gore all won seats tuesday at the democratic national convention in july after failing to get a single delegate in new hampshire's primary three weeks ago
we didn't do much with gephardt because gephardt didn't do much,'' said rex hardesty, a spokesman for the federation
keith geiger, a vice president of the national education assocation, the nation's largest union with more than 1.7 million members and not a part of the afl-cio, said it also won convention delegate seats for each of the three democratic front-runners tuesday
there's been a coup and rumors of strife on the set of a broadway-bound production of ``macbeth'' starring glenda jackson and christopher plummer, but it wasn't in shakespeare's script
the original director, kenneth frankel, was dismissed five weeks before the tragedy's arrival in new york for a 12-week run. in addition, new sets and costumes were made at a cost of $250,000
the new director, robin phillips of canada's stratford festival, agreed to rescue the production but doesn't want his name on the program
the rumors of strife involve the stars, although they appeared amiable on arrival here tuesday for 16 performances at the o'keefe center, where $1 million in advance sales set a box office record
miss jackson, who is working with plummer for the first time, repeated her old saw that it's not necessary to like fellow actors in order to put on a play
asked if he had done anything to make his co-star dislike him, plummer smiled and said, ``i constantly do.''
she chimed in, ``this is true.''
gov. john mckernan jr.'s musical favorites range from a rocking bruce springsteen classic to a timeless roger miller tune
the 39-year-old republican governor released his list of 10 favorite tunes during a ``capital for the day'' visit tuesday at the request of radio station wwmj-fm for its weekly feature, ``classic nine at nine.''
mckernan's hits list included springsteen's ``born in the usa,'' miller's ``king of the road,'' the beatles' ``when i'm 64,'' willie nelson's ``on the road again,'' billy joel's ``piano man'' and ``feelin' stronger everyday'' by chicago
the others were los lobos' rendition of ``la bamba;'' marvin gaye's ``heard it through the grapevine;'' simon and garfunkel's ``bridge over troubled water'' and carl perkins' ``blue suede shoes.''
the station played all but ``born in the usa'' for the governor, said music director fred miller
mayor ed koch said he learned ``moonwalking'' from singer michael jackson, and now he's going to strut his stuff
at an impromptu news conference wednesday at city hall, koch promised to moonwalk in saturday's inner circle show, an annual parody put on by the city's political writers
koch said he learned to moonwalk, or slide backward while appearing to walk forward, by watching jackson during the singer's recent madison square garden concert
i watched him closely,'' koch said
civil rights pioneer rosa l. parks has received a pacemaker, and is expected to leave the hospital in a few days, a spokeswoman says
mrs. parks was in satisfactory condition wednesday, a day after the operation at johns hopkins hospital, said hospital spokeswoman ghita levine
the 75-year-old detroit woman, who was admitted to the hospital sunday, was in baltimore for medical tests and to help plan a birthday tribute to her in june, ms. levine said
in 1955, mrs. parks was arrested for refusing to give up her seat to a white man on a segregated bus in montgomery, ala. the black community retaliated by boycotting the buses
former gov. charles robb was among the casualties of the super tuesday presidential primaries, and he wasn't even running for anything
robb, one of the architects of the multistate primary election, said he was knocked out tuesday night when he walked into a closed glass door while trying to leave his washington office as he talked to a television cameraman
i haven't had a sensation like that since the last time i played in a football game,'' said the democrat
the door, which is normally open, did not break
robb said he ``blacked out for a few moments'' but did not require medical attention. minutes later, he cut short an appearance on cable news network. ``i couldn't remember why i was there for a few minutes,'' he said. ``finally, i said on the air that i wouldn't be doing the viewers a service by continuing.''
robb said he talked to other news organizations throughout the night, but asked that interviews be kept brief
people kept trying to get me to go to the hospital, but i was hard-headed,'' he said
new york designer alexander julian plans a return to his native north carolina this summer with a new men's clothing store that he hopes will be the beginning of a national chain
julian will open a retail store here in july, said barry miguel, creative director for alexander julian inc. of new york
as a native north carolinian, alexander has a great affinity for the state,'' miguel said in a telephone interview. ``at the same time, he feels charlotte is a growing city and a growing marketplace.''
the new stores will sell an upscale line of clothing and accessories called the alexander julian collection. ``we've expanded our men's collection,'' miguel said. ``we have more sportswear now than previously.''
although, julian, the 39-year-old son of a chapel hill haberdasher, lives just outside new york in greenwich, conn., he makes no secret of his love for north carolina
he's designing uniforms for the charlotte hornets, a new national basketball association franchise. for that work, julian is being paid 10 pounds of north carolina barbecue, delivered once a month to his new york office
actor tom selleck, tv's thomas magnum on ``magnum p.i.,'' is hanging up his pistol this may, and not even the writers guild strike is getting in the way of the show's final episode
fortunately, we already have a completed shooting script,'' producer chris abbott said tuesday. ``what we're trying to do is get the last episode done to the very best of our ability.''
abbott said work on the final episode should end in april. a date for the two-hour episode of the 8-year-old show has not been set, but it will be in may
about 9,600 movie and television scriptwriters went on strike monday after rejecting a final offer by the alliance of motion picture and television producers
non-medical factors like patients' insurance coverage and marital status may influence how aggressively they are treated for lung cancer, a study of more than 1,800 cases suggests
the research raises the possibility that doctors may be influenced by more than simply patients' medical needs in deciding how to treat them
however, more treatment may not always mean better care. the study found that people who received surgery, radiation or chemotherapy for lung cancer lived no longer than those who do not, ``suggesting that the additional treatment was given largely to those who had little or nothing to gain from it.''
other experts cautioned that discrimination against the unwed and uninsured are not the only possible explanations for the study's findings
the study published in today's new england journal of medicine was written by dr. e. robert greenberg and other doctors from dartmouth and the university of vermont
it was based on 1,808 lung cancer cases, virtually all of those reported in new hampshire and vermont between 1973 and 1976
treating lung cancer is often futile. surgery offers the only chance of cure, but in most patients the disease has spread too far for it to help. radiation and sometimes chemotherapy may be used to ease symptoms
the study found that cancer patients were more likely to undergo surgery if they were married or had private medical insurance. those who didn't get surgery were more likely to receive radiation or drug therapy if they had insurance
some doctors may be disquieted to learn that potentially curative or palliative (symptom-relieving) treatments were not provided to patients who seemed less able to pay or who lacked a spouse,'' the researchers wrote. ``our findings do suggest that the presence of inequities in the medical care of poor and socially isolated patients with lung cancer.''
however, in an accompanying editorial, drs. robert j. mayer and w. bradford patterson of dana-farber cancer institute in boston said there are other possible explanations
for instance, they raised the possibility that married people might seek medical attention earlier, when their disease is more treatable, because their spouses are sensitive to symptoms that otherwise might have been ignored. and instead of assuming that the poor get too little treatment, it's possible that those with insurance get too much, simply because they are able to pay
mayer and bradford wrote that it would be ``clearly undesirable'' for such factors as insurance coverage to influence medical treatment
they added, ``it would be premature and potentially dangerous, however, to conclude that worrisome factors such as these do contribute substantially to the decision-making process,'' based on review of doctors' handling a kind of cancer that cannot be effectively treated
jesse jackson collected 2.5 million votes on super tuesday, more than any other democrat and enough to cause a re-examination of the conventional wisdom that a black cannot be nominated for president in the america of 1988
if jackson were white, i think he'd be president,'' says howard university political science professor ronald walters, who was jackson's deputy campaign manager in 1984 and is the author of a new book, ``black presidential politics in america.''
if he were white, he wouldn't be in the race,'' says ben j. wattenberg, a scholar at the american enterprise institute and co-editor of public opinion magazine
walters says jackson's experience in the civil rights movement is more than the equivalent to service in legislative halls. and he cites jackson's electrifying quality
charisma _ say what you will, it still counts in politics,'' he says. ``just ask ronald reagan.''
wattenberg, on the other hand, contends that a black could be elected president in the america of 1988, but not one with jackson's lack of experience holding public office nor his controversial record
jesse jackson went to cuba and said, `viva che guevara,' praising a man who dedicated his life to the export of communism to south and latin america,'' wattenberg said. ``had any other politician in american life ever said anything like that, he might have been scandalized and drummed out of the race.''
the question of jackson's electability takes new relevance in light of his super tuesday showing. network polls said jackson won between 8 and 10 percent of the white vote in the south, twice as much as four years ago
forty-four percent of republican voters and 29 percent of democratic voters polled by abc news in a dozen southern states said they would not vote for jackson if he were the democratic nominee. by comparison, 37 percent of republican voters and 45 percent of democrats ruled out a vote for pat robertson. gary hart was rejected by 44 percent of republicans and 35 percent of democrats
jackson drew more votes than michael dukakis or than albert gore jr., who boycotted the earlier primaries but nonetheless was propelled into the ranks of democratic front-runners on the strength of his showing tuesday
lucius barker, a political science professor at st. louis' washington university who was a jackson delegate in 1984, said the he-cannot-win argument is becoming a code for opposition to jackson on racial grounds
it is going to look more and more odd for people to say that,'' he said. ``if you had a white candidate who had the kind of support jackson has, he would be picking up endorsements, he would have momentum and you would have the next nominee.''
jackson acknowledges the existence of a racial barrier to his winning the nomination. in campaign speeches, he tells the apocryphal story of two hard-hit farmers in iowa. one says to the other he likes jackson's message and politics, ``but...''
declares jackson: ``i want those people to move from `but' to `therefore.'''
some surveys show 15 to 20 percent of the population would reject any black on racial grounds
it is probably higher,'' said robert smith, professor of afro-american politics at howard university, who nonetheless believes the positions jackson takes are a handicap as substantial as that of race
i would say he would not be nominated or elected if he were white,'' he said. ``a substantial number of white persons who object to jackson do so more because of his ideology than his race.''
agreed al thornton, jackson's maryland issues director: ``it may just be that any liberal would have a problem getting elected.''
but paul peterson, director of the center for the study of american government, said, ``whenever any candidate has enthusiastic support within the black community, it is going to cost him support within sectors of the white community.''
joseph grandmaison, democratic chairman in new hampshire, believes the disadvantage jackson suffers from race is offset by the loyalty of his natural constituency
look at super tuesday _ 25 percent of the voters could immediately identify with him,'' grandmaison said
i think that's good. it's healthy,'' he said, comparing jackson's gains from race to the loyalty americans of recent ethnic origin feel toward dukakis, son of greek immigrants
wattenberg said he regards jackson ``as a political genius.'' he says a black ``would surely get the nomination'' if he combined the political skills of a jackson and the moderate positions of a tom bradley, the black mayor of los angeles who narrowly missed being elected governor of california
i'm not saying there is no racism in america; we all know there is,'' wattenberg said. ``but the right candidate could deal with it.''
the earl of carnarvon said egyptian relics found in his family mansion were brought to britain legitimately by his grandfather and howard carter, the man who discovered the tomb of tutankhamen
antiquities officials in egypt have said they may try to recover the trove of 300 objects discovered recently in highclere castle, the ancestral home of the fifth earl of carnarvon, grandfather of the current earl
but they said they will take no action until more is known about the find
the fifth earl, himself an egyptologist, financed the expedition led by carter which found the almost intact and gold-filled tomb of the pharaoh in egypt in 1922
the records we have discovered show these items were brought to england legitimately, with the knowledge of the egyptian government, by my grandfather and howard carter,'' said lord carnarvon
he said he had informed the egyptian ambassador in britain of the find ``but i don't expect any serious claim to be made by the egyptian government as this could involve the major part of my grandfather's collection, which is in the metropolitan museum of new york.''
ibrahim el-nawawy, undersecretary of state for the egyptian antiquities organization, said in cairo on tuesday that he was excited by the find but wants to determine what it includes before taking action
it is difficult to say what steps we will take,'' he said. ``we will have to go back through our records to see if the items were registered and legally taken out of egypt.''
the fifth earl died in 1923 from an infected mosquito bite, nurturing a myth that the 19-year-old pharaoh who died in 1323 b.c. had put a death curse on anyone who violated his tomb
secretary of state george p. shultz says he will press efforts to revive the middle east peace process because he is ``absolutely convinced there is an answer out there.''
talking to reporters after meeting wednesday with the house foreign affairs committee, shultz said his plan for peace between the israelis and palestinians is ``a pretty good and balanced concept.''
shultz had just briefed the committee privately on his recent mission to the middle east
what we really need to have happen is to get started, get started on negotiations,'' shultz said. ``i'm absolutely convinced that if we can ever get the key people talking and negotiating that there's an answer out there.''
committee chairman dante fascell, d-fla., said afterward that ``there was tremendous support for what the secretary has undertaken.''
fascell said stern israeli action to quell persistent violence in the occupied territories has convinced most members of congress of the urgent ``need to find a way into a peace process that will provide security for all of the inhabitants of the middle east.''
if a vote had been taken in there it would have been unanimous in support for what the secretary is trying to do,'' fascell said
the vote of confidence in shultz comes a week before the planned visit here by israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, who on wednesday expressed astonishment at a letter from 30 senators who said israel should be willing to give up control of occupied land in return for middle east peace
shamir has blocked attempts inside the israeli cabinet to force a vote on the shultz plan. the plan calls for an international conference, to be followed by talks on self-administration for palestinians in the occupied territories and negotiations on the final status of the west bank and gaza strip
your letter came as a surprise, at a crucial moment in the peace efforts,'' shamir wrote in a three-page response. ``we were astonished by the words of criticism you leveled at us on the formula of `territory for peace.'''
shamir's letter was sent to sens. carl levin, d-mich., and rudy boschwitz, r-minn., said levin administrative assistant gordon kerr. both senators, strong supporters of israel, were out of town and unavailable for comment wednesday night
twenty-three democratic and seven republican senators had sent a letter to shamir last week in which they noted that israel in the past had supported the idea of ``land for peace'' by returning the sinai peninsula to egypt
they noted that shamir had rejected ``this expression of territory for peace'' and expressed hope that the prime minister's statement ``did not indicate that israel is abandoning a policy that offers the best hope for long-term peace.''
shamir, in his response, said israel accepts the u.n. security council resolution that provides for an israeli withdrawal from land captured in the 1967 war but he did not agree to israel's eventual withdrawal from the west bank and gaza
shamir has opposed an international conference on the middle east on grounds it would put israel at serious disadvantage
but fascell suggested that it might be possible to hold an international conference that would not disadvantage israel, especially if the ground rules for the meetings did not permit an imposed solution or give participating countries veto power
sen. bob dole sounded the first negative note of the tv campaigns leading up to next week's illinois presidential primary with an attack on vice president george bush's iran-contra role
with his candidacy at stake in illinois after losing all 17 super tuesday contests, the kansas senator on wednesday revived an ad that says ``bush approved selling arms to the ayatollah'' at the same time he chaired a terrorism task force that said america would never sell arms for hostages
the ad says bush has ``changed his story nine times'' and owes voters ``an honest answer'' about his role in the affair
bush was nearly two-thirds of the way to the gop nomination after sweeping the super tuesday states. he is hoping to ride tv ads and local endorsements to an illinois victory that would end the senate republican leader's bid
bush's initial tv ads in illinois emphasized his connection with president reagan. in one ad he and reagan are shown walking together, arms around each other, projecting an old-pals image
massachusetts gov. michael dukakis led the democratic field after super tuesday with victories in seven states. he and sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee said they would compete full-tilt in illinois despite the presence of favorite sons jesse jackson and sen. paul simon
dukakis started two ads tuesday night in illinois. in one, a massachusetts official of the international bricklayers union says dukakis's economic policies ``put people to work.'' the other ad highlights dukakis' experience as a chief executive and says it is unique to the democratic field
dukakis spokesman steve akey said dukakis spent $1.5 million on tv advertising for super tuesday. ``we haven't made the decision on a total media buy for illinois but we'll be on a significant amount,'' akey said
gore spent close to $3 million on super tuesday media and won six states. spokesman paul risley said that ``we fully intend to run a full (media) campaign up there'' in illinois, but no spending figure has been fixed
there was some possibility that missouri rep. richard gephardt would buy illinois television time, but spokesman mark johnson said the congressman would save most of his resources for the march 26 caucuses in michigan
we'll definitely do a full-scale (tv) effort in michigan,'' johnson said. as for illinois, ``we're still considering that option.''
gephardt suffered devastating losses on super tuesday, spending $1.1 million on television ads but winning only his home state. part of his problem was being the target of negative ads by both dukakis and gore
akey said the dukakis campaign went negative on super tuesday to counter ``distorted gephardt campaign ads.'' asked if the campaign is ready for a gore offensive, he replied, ``we are always prepared to respond.''
jackson and simon said they planned little or no advertising in their home state. ``i offer illinois 30 years of service rather than a 30-second commercial,'' said simon, who skipped the super tuesday contests
jackson won five states on super tuesday with a minimal $100,000 media campaign and is expected to do well saturday in south carolina, where he was born. his campaign is in debt but raised a substantial amount of money in february and may buy more media time in new york, california and other large states later in the election season, according to campaign manager gerald austin
the nikkei stock average closed at 25,617.82 points, up 12.43 points, on the tokyo stock exchange on thursday
george bush and michael dukakis both have large cash reserves to protect their delegate leads as their rival presidential hopefuls must refill campaign coffers depleted by the super tuesday marathon
dukakis, who leads the democratic delegate chase, was sitting on a cache of $2 million and anticipating $1 million more in matching funds next week, said campaign finance chief robert farmer
it was not known exactly how much cash bush has on hand as he tries to follow up his sweep of 16 gop primaries with a knock-out punch against sen. bob dole of kansas in next tuesday's illinois primary and beyond
but bush's campaign has been better heeled and more frugal all along than dole's or pat robertson's
bush had more than $9 million in the bank at the start of february, the bush campaign's director of operations, ede holiday, said wednesday. the bills are still coming in from the super tuesday states, she said, but ``we clearly have plenty of money left.''
at dole headquarters, spokeswoman dale tate said: ``we aren't in the hole. we have cash on hand.'' she declined to say how much. the dole campaign was anticipating staff cutbacks
thomas rath, a senior dole strategist, said in chicago that the campaign will have enough money to run commercials in illinois. he said the kansas senator raised more than $240,000 last week
robertson said tuesday night: ``i do have resources left. we have the largest donor base of any candidate and i can carry all the way to new orleans.''
the former television evangelist had spent $17.6 million through january, and ended that month with $5.5 million in cash but debts of $6 million
what jesse jackson calls his ``poor campaign with a rich message'' has raised $600,000 since the iowa caucuses feb. 8, according to campaign manager gerald austin. that is more than the civil rights leader has ever raised before in such a short time
austin said the jackson campaign has $250,000 in cash on hand and anticipates $600,000 in federal matching funds in mid-march
jackson said his wins in five democratic primaries in the south came despite being outspent 20- and 30-to-1 by al gore jr. and dukakis on television ads. jackson says he spent just $100,000 on ads in the super tuesday states
austin said jackson will be buying more television time in large states like new york and california, and he anticipates earmarking $30,000 of his $200,000 illinois budget for television
a gore campaign spokesman, paul risley, said the tennessee senator spent ``somewhere close to $3 million'' on ads in the super tuesday states. the dukakis campaign said it spent $1.5 million, while rep. richard gephardt bought $1.1 million worth of air time
gephardt blamed his meager returns on super tuesday _ he lost everywhere but at home in missouri _ on his inability to counter the drumbeat of gore and dukakis ads
with 20 states and a million dollars, we just could not get our message ... in front of the voters,'' gephardt said. he claimed they spent up to $7 million to defeat him
gephardt's deputy campaign manager, joe trippi, said gephardt has $250,000 on hand and debts of only $75,000. trippi said the campaign hopes to raise $500,000 over the next two weeks
illinois sen. paul simon, who bowed out of the super tuesday contests to make a low-budget stand at home, said of his campaign, ``it's kind of a hand-to-mouth operation.''
the simon campaign has missed one payroll and is in danger of missing a second. but simon raised $932,000 in february and soon will get $364,000 in matching funds, spokesman terry michael said
simon owes $145,000, but ``we are in much better financial condition right now than either the gore or the gephardt campaigns,'' claimed michael
the cigarette girl has returned to the fabled rainbow room on the manhattan skyline like a vision from an old movie of wasp-waisted men in tails and gorgeous dames in sequined gowns
cigars, cigarettes?'' she coos to the swells sipping cocktails, a girl with a tray of smokes, a jaunty pillbox hat, puffed sleeves, pumps and fishnet stockings, a neckline down to there and a skirt slit up to here
this is the 1980s, though, and you may call her a ``cigarette woman.'' the people who run the rainbow room atop the art-deco rca building use both terms
the rehabilitation of the famous rockefeller center nightspot reportedly cost $25 million, much of it for new plumbing, lighting, kitchens, carpets and custom work. but there was enough left over to hire cigarette girls
they seem to fit in beautifully,'' said joseph baum, the restaurateur who masterminded the restoration intent on recapturing the nightclub's glory days of the '30s and '40s. ``it's a lighthearted expression of the time
they're in their wonderful flouncy dresses and their little pageboy hats _ it just makes everyone smile. i think that is just part of the scene,'' he said
the four girls _ and cigarette girl katherine reddick prefers that term _ were chosen from the ranks of pagers and coat-checkers. ``it sounded interesting,'' said ms. reddick, 24, of manhattan
i'm here not so much to sell cigarettes, but i'm really adding elegance to the room,'' she said, though sales are brisk, with occasional $100 nights and plenty of generous tips. ``i get lots of comments. people say it brings them back to the '30s and '40s. i'm glad to be able to reminisce with them.''
her costume is a 1930s style created by theatrical costume designer carrie robbins. ``i saw it and said, `no problem,''' ms. reddick recalled with a smile
i wanted it so that it was suggesting rather than suggestive,'' baum said. ``it's lighthearted, rather than what a lot of people have in mind when they think of a cigarette girl. there's plenty of romance without having to add to it.''
and just what do people have in mind? judging from the movies, perhaps a bit of a tart, a young woman in the wrong kind of place at too late an hour?
i've run into so many ladies who were cigarette girls in the '40s,'' said ms. reddick. ``they were flabbergasted to see me. if i help bring back those memories, that's a great feeling. they say being a cigarette girl in those days was a very, very important thing
of course, they did it without having their parents find out _ they were working in bars.''
patrons of the new-old rainbow room welcome the women who sell the cigarettes at $2 a pack with smiles
whenever i thought of a cigarette girl, it was in a 1930s movie, with a big, chic nightclub,'' said tom cordisco, 27, of brooklyn. ``that's what it reminds you of.''
that's just what baum had in mind. ``a lot things that were part of that scene disappeared,'' he said. ``costs went up, places didn't do these sort of things for a long time.''
bringing back cigarette girls, he said, ``brings back the sound of astaire, and lobster thermidor, and dancing, and the rainbow.''
the head of an opposition cultural group was sentenced to two months in prison because of the troupe's latest ``street happening'' satirizing the government, an opposition activist said
in another development, solidarity leader lech walesa criticized police for using force to break up student demonstrations in warsaw and krakow
about 50 supporters of the opposition group orange alternative, some carrying a banner reading ``missiles _ no, sanitary pads _ yes,'' handed out cotton pads to women in wroclaw on tuesday, said jacek kuron, a warsaw opposition activist. feminine hygiene products are in short supply in poland and tuesday was international women's day
police moved in quickly and halted the demonstration in the southwestern city, arresting orange alternative leader waldemar frydrych, 34, and five other people, said kuron
on wednesday, frydrych was sentenced to two months in prison on a charge of causing public unrest. the action marked one of the few times since a september 1986 amnesty for political prisoners that a lower court has sentenced someone to prison for a politically motivated offense
in almost all cases, people were held up to 48 hours and released after being fined
kuron said two other orange alternative supporters were each fined the equivalent of $80
he said the orange alternative members joked with the court by arguing that karl marx, the founder of communism, was actually a bearded lady
frydrych has been detained at least half a dozen times since september for organizing various orange alternative ``happenings'' in wroclaw in which demonstrators have dressed up as santa claus, lenten penitents and even secret policemen to satirize government policies
walesa's comment on wednesday came one day after club-wielding riot police clashed with youths demonstrating for more academic freedom on the 20th anniversary of student protests against censorship and political repression
on tuesday, police charged into hundreds of demonstrators in warsaw and krakow. the government said 83 people were arrested and all but 15 had been released
the students were calling for restoration of academic freedoms won during the 1980-81 solidarity labor upheaval and for legalization of the independent students union
the federal aviation administration has declined to issue tighter restrictions suggested by another agency on planes and helicopters flown by the news media and others over major accident sites
the faa said the restrictions suggested by the national transportation safety board would be impractical
the ntsb had urged that the faa prohibit aircraft flights over major accident sites, especially when they involve spills of hazardous flammable materials or a fire and rescue workers might be endangered
the ntsb had cited a series of accidents - most of them involving train wrecks in which toxic substances were spilled -where news media helicopters flew so close to the accident scene that they endangered rescue workers
but faa administrator allan mcartor wrote to ntsb chairman jim burnett recently that the agency saw no reason to change the rules. a copy of the letter was made available wednesday
current faa regulations require the agency to issue a formal notice in each individual case to pilots when flights over an accident site must be prohibited because of a potential danger
the safety board said that the notice is often not readily available to pilots and that some pilots may specifically avoid asking about a notice so they may legally fly over an accident site
in responding to the safety board, which is in charge of investigating major transportation accidents, mcartor called the current restrictions that are tailored to each accident ``the most effective approach.''
to change the regulations as the ntsb had recommended it ``would be necessary to describe every type of potential disaster or hazard that may occur,'' mcartor said. he also said pilots may not know when such restrictions are in force
while rejecting the ntsb's call for broader restrictions, the faa, nevertheless, said it was calling for tighter enforcement of existing restrictions. it said the faa intends to aggressively enforce sanctions against pilots who intentionally violate the terms of the mandatory notice when it is put into effect at an accident site
violators would have their pilot's license suspended for a minimum of 180 days
the ntsb had said that a number of accidents dating back to 1978 demonstrated a problem with how the faa restricts aircraft at accident sites. in several of the cases the downwash from helicopters interfered in rescue attempts by fanning the flames of a fire or blowing toxic vapors in the direction of workers, the safety board said
there recently have been several incidents in which helicopter pilots helped in rescue attempts or - as was the case in denver -helped apprehend a criminal
faa spokesman fred farrar said, however, that these incidents had no bearing on the agency's response to the ntsb recommendations
the agency agreed with two ntsb recommendations aimed at offering guidance to pilots on obtaining information about flight restrictions that are put in place and developing ways to better educate pilots about the dangers of flying too close to an accident site. terrorists</head>
nuclear regulatory commission officials say the agency's rules provide commercial reactors adequate safeguards against terrorist attacks but its staff will additionally look at the potential threat from truck bombs
nrc chairman lando w. zech told a house subcommittee wednesday that the commission has confidence in the current safety rules, but recently instructed its staff to draft a series of options related to a truck-bomb threat ``as a prudent measure.''
the disclosure came as nrc officials clashed with rep. sam gejdenson, d-conn., chairman of the house interior and insular affairs subcommittee on general oversight and investigations, over commission security requirements
gejdenson urged the commission to beef up its security standards, which require plant operators to protect against a hypothetical threat of ``several'' terrorists armed with hand-held automatic weapons and aided by an accomplice inside the plant
fuel from traditional u.s. commercial reactor cannot be stolen and used to make nuclear bombs. but gejdenson said he feared terrorists could break into a nuclear reactor, hold it and the surrounding region hostage or trigger a nuclear meltdown that would release deadly radiation into the atmosphere
rep. peter a. defazio, d-ore., pointed to a threat last june from state-run tehran radio that said iran could attack u.s. reactors in retaliation against american forces in the persian gulf
you have people here who want to be martyrs,'' defazio said
gejdenson said the regulations should protect against a car or truck bursting through a plant's chain-link fence, attackers invading from a boat, and truck bombs like the ones used in terrorist attacks overseas
simple prudence and common sense dictate that the nrc assume that terrorist have cars and that licensees should be required to protect against this level of threat,'' gejdenson said. in an interview last week, the congressman said ``the gang that couldn't shoot straight could take any one of these facilities'' under the current standards
zech said the regulations are ``adequate and appropriate at this time.'' and he said the nrc is in daily contact with u.s. intelligence agencies monitoring any potential threats
but he added that the nrc told the staff last month to prepare ``a range of options'' regarding a truck-bomb threat for commission consideration. such recommendations could eventually become regulations, said nrc spokesman bob newlin
zech said the staff review stems from a december classified report by the national security council, but gejdenson contended the move was a response to his investigation
gejdenson said that the agency began working on a truck-bomb regulation following the october 1983 bombing of the marine barracks in lebanon, but that the commission never approved the proposal
a top haitian army officer reportedly indicted with his ex-wife and brother on drug charges was the second caribbean military leader in four weeks to be accused here of helping cocaine smugglers
a federal grand jury wednesday indicted col. jean-claude paul, commander of the largest unit in haiti's 6,000-man army; paul's brother antonio; and ex-wife merielle delinois, sources close to the case said on condition of anonymity
a witness has said the colonel allowed cocaine smugglers to land at his ranch
u.s. magistrate william c. turnoff ordered the indictment sealed immediately, but federal authorities were expected to unseal it today
there was no comment wednesday from the colonel or haiti's government
paul heads the feared 700-man dessalines battalion in the capital of port-au-prince. soldiers in the battalion ruthlessly suppressed anti-government demonstrations last year and were accused of protecting gunmen who disrupted haiti's november presidential elections, killing 34 people
paul was considered close to the military-dominated junta that ruled haiti from early 1986 until a military-supported civilian president took office feb. 7
on feb. 5, panamanian strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega was indicted in miami and tampa on charges he accepted $4.6 million in protection money from colombian cocaine dealers, laundered money, supplied drug laboratories and shielded drug kingpins
the investigation of paul has been widely reported for weeks. haitian army officials and the government-controlled media have defended him against reports of his involvement in cocaine trafficking
asked during a recent interview about reports of drug smuggling by the army, president leslie manigat said, ``i can't base my judgment on rumors.''
all interviews with army officials must be cleared through army chief of staff gen. carl nicolas, who refused a written request from the associated press to speak with paul
the junta replaced dictator jean-claude duvalier in february 1986, when he fled to exile in france
during the junta's two-year rule, paul seldom appeared in public
when he did, it often was to serve as bodyguard for two junta members, lt. gen. henri namphy, the junta president and now military chief, and brig. gen. williams regala, now defense minister. paul also appeared on the stage during manigat's inauguration at which the president pledged to stop drug trafficking. the colonel was among the military guards who escorted manigat back to the presidential palace after the inauguration
one of the witnesses in the case was miami businessman osvaldo quintana, 35, who told a news conference last month that the colonel helped him smuggle cocaine into the united states in december 1986
we flew (the shipment) out of his own personal ranch in haiti'' about 90 miles outside port-au-prince, said quintana, who has testified for the government in drug trials
quintana has said haitian military officials routinely aided drug flights from colombia, allowing them to land and be serviced before proceeding to the bahamas to drop their loads
he said he originally was approached by ms. delinois to take part in the smuggling
ms. delinois was arrested in miami on drug charges last march, but skipped bond and is believed to be hiding in haiti, according to the u.s. drug enforcement administration
dea affidavits filed in the delinois case said quintana met with paul and his brother antonio at the ranch, and watched while a plane carrying 220 pounds of cocaine took off
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis, saying he's in an ``uphill battle'' in ilinois, attacked rival sen. albert gore jr. as a regional candidate who would have little chance to win the general election in november
the massachusetts governor is also touting himself as the candidate who has the best track record on the economy
dukakis began airing a television spot here in which a bricklayers' union official tells voters that if they want to go out for a beer they should call their buddy, but ``if you care about your job, mike dukakis is your guy.''
in tuesday's illinois primary, illinois sen. paul simon is expected to garner favorite-son votes and the chicago-based jesse jackson is likely to tap black support in his hometown
that leaves dukakis battling gore for the remaining share. and dukakis suggested that he was a better choice to represent the party as the nominee
i'm not so sure he's a major contender,'' dukakis said of gore. ``a guy from massachusetts beat him in texas, beat him in florida. he wasn't willing to go into the early primaries. but i still take everyone seriously.''
michael bakalis, dukakis' illinois campaign chairman, said white blue-collar voters in chicago could form dukakis' base in illinois
paul simon in the 1984 senate race did not do very well in chicago, particularly in the white, ethnic precincts,'' bakalis said
those were precisely the precincts dukakis targeted wednesday in his first full day of campaigning in illinois in the week leading up to the primary
he met over breakfast with laid-off steel workers and then visited the metron steel warehouse in chicago, owned by one of dukakis' many greek-american supporters, andrew athens
illinois will send 173 delegates to the democratic national convention in atlanta. of those, 113 will be decided next tuesday. the rest are held by various party and elected officials. bakalis said 74 of the 113 will come from the greater chicago area
the dukakis camp plans to wage a traditional campaign in illinois, with an appearance at tonight's democratic party dinner, a spot in chicago's famous st. patrick's day parade and a message geared toward working men and women, said dukakis national political coordinator charles baker
win, lose or draw _ and we don't expect to win _ you want people here to care about this race,'' baker said
the dukakis campaign remains the financial front-runner after the media spending of super tuesday. campaign finance chief robert farmer said dukakis is raising half a million dollars a week. coming out of super tuesday, he said, dukakis has $2 million in the bank and another $1 million on the way in federal matching funds
bakalis said the governor has budgeted $300,000 to $350,000 for the state leading up to next tuesday. that amount could increase, he said, if dukakis decides to increase his media advertising
with two illinois residents in the race, ``obviously it's going to be an uphill battle,'' dukakis said
at this point i think that most people would think that third place would be respectable,'' he said. ``but i want to do better than that.''
the federal aviation administration is coming under criticism from its boss for not being aggressive enough in issuing civil fines against airlines because of airport security shortcomings
transportation secretary jim burnley says he is disturbed that the faa has not been complying with a directive issued last summer and reiterated in october, calling for ``aggressive enforcement'' actions against airlines that allow mock weapons to go undetected at an airport screening point
the faa has been testing security at the nation's airports by passing phony weapons through the checkpoints to see if they are found. last year a report concluded that as many as one in five mock weapons in faa tests go through undetected
the discovery prompted the transportation department to order the faa to get tough with airlines so that security is improved. the airlines are responsible for airport security checkpoints, although the stations are usually staffed through a contractor
burnley said wednesday that the department specifically told the faa to take enforcement actions, including a possible fine, when a security checkpoint allows a mock weapon through without detection
burnley aides released a sharply worded memorandum sent earlier this week to faa administrator allan mcartor. in it, the transportation secretary said he was ``deeply disturbed'' that five months after the crackdown was ordered, ``the faa is only taking action if carriers fail three out of five tests at a checkpoint and is only issuing a fine for the third failure.''
i am troubled by continuing reports of failure by the faa to fully implement these directed improvements and to strictly enforce security requirements,'' he wrote
mcartor said in a statement, ``i absolutely share secretary burnley's concern that faa aggressively implement all security recommendations. i have instructed faa personnel that the rules must be strictly enforced.''
agency officials had no further comment
the incident, however, is likely to further strain relations between burnley and mcartor
the washington post reported earlier this week that burnley was displeased with the faa's top public affairs officer because some regulatory action involving commuter airlines had been disclosed prematurely just when burnley wanted media attention focused on a speech he was making at the national press club
wendy democker, who is burnley's spokesman, denied that burnley had anything to do with the departure of air force lt. col. james c. jannette from the post. jannett, who had been at the job only three months and had been a personal choice of mcartor, was asked by the pentagon to return to his military duties, she said
meanwhile, there have been differences between mcartor and burnley on other aviation matters. last year mcartor told reporters he planned by april to submit legislation to congress on a national policy to deal with noise problems at airports
burnley said wednesday no such plans are in the works and that mcartor had changed his mind. burnley often has said he believes such legislation would be foolhardy because congress has no desire to tell local officials what to do about airport noise
a gully caved in on three teen-agers as they were playing in it, killing two, police said. the third was able to dig his way out from the 5 feet of dirt and summon help
a witness said the cave-in occurred moments after he warned the boys not to play in the gully
joel rogers and damon deakin, both 13 and from albuquerque, were killed in wednesday's accident, said police spokesman tony herrera
herrera said police received a call about 6 p.m. from residents of a north side trailer park who saw the boys digging in the gully, then saw a cloud of dust
a 14-year-old boy who also fell in managed to dig himself out and go for help, said herrera, who would not release the boy's name
neighbors had pulled rogers out and were trying to revive him when officers arrived, herrera said. paramedics then pulled the other boy out
deakin was pronounced dead at the scene and rogers at the university of new mexico hospital
police said the boys were trapped about 20 minutes. a witness estimated they were under about 5 feet of dirt
dave wild, a resident of the trailer park, said he warned the boys it was dangerous to dig in the arroyo
he said the boys continued to play in it and moments later he saw the dust cloud
i didn't think anything of it,'' he said. ``then i remembered the kids digging. i ran out and one of them was yelling that the other two were trapped inside. i jumped into the arroyo and started digging
i kept digging until i got to a foot, then i reached his head,'' he said. ``i pulled him out and he wasn't breathing.''
trailer park manager kaylin morris said she heard the boys talking earlier in the day about digging a tunnel
she described them as good kids who often volunteered to do odd jobs around the trailer park
the three were inseparable,'' she said. ``it was just like the three musketeers.''
a twin-engine plane crashed into a residential neighborhood shortly after takeoff early thursday, killing at least three people, authorities said
the plane took off from detroit city airport and struck one or two houses about five miles to the northwest, said tim stayer, a worker at universal macomb ambulance service inc. of warren
he said the plane was heading for oakland-pontiac airport at the time of the crash
it was not known how many passengers were aboard the plane or in any of the homes involved, stayer said
officials said at least three people were killed
the crash occurred at 12:30 a.m., warren police sgt. richard pytlak said
the plane had been in the air one-to-two minutes before it crashed, said barbara gardner-martin, air traffic manager for city airport. she said that type of aircraft normally is used to carry freight, but she said she did not know what or who was aboard the flight
two years after they crashed the state democratic party and helped to make their leader a household name, lyndon larouche's illinois disciples have resurfaced again on the state primary election ballot
despite challenges from the democratic party, larouche and more than 20 of his supporters are in the running in the party's primary on tuesday for posts ranging from president to county recorder of deeds
for state party leaders, it's an unwelcome reminder of the upset victories of two larouche followers in the 1986 democratic primary, an event that threw the party into disarray
we fell down on our job in `86,'' said state sen. vince demuzio, who became state democratic party chairman after the primary debacle. ``nobody gave them much chance to do anything and we ended up with two of them on our ticket. we don't intend to allow that again.''
for the larouche supporters, it's another chance to air the perennial presidential candidate's world view, in which various conspiracies link aids, drugs, international bankers and the british royal family
the 1986 victories of larouche's illinois followers marked the beginning of a period of heightened scrutiny that culminated in raids by authorities on larouche's leesburg, va., headquarters and his indictment in boston on federal obstruction-of-justice charges
his supporters see these actions as a conspiracy by the democratic party and the soviet union, who they believe are trying to block larouche from gaining political power
if this man is such a wacko fringe candidate, why is the democratic party spending all of this money to keep him out of the election?'' said sheila jones, a leader of the larouche organization in illinois
demuzio has a ready answer
he has repudiated the platform and leadership of the party nationally and in illinois,'' he said. ``we're not going to afford these fringe candidates the chance to have the democratic party as their haven.''
but illinois democrats succeeded in only one of a flurry of challenges to larouche-backed candidacies, leaving larouche and a platoon of followers on the ballot:
larouche's name will appear throughout the state on the march 15 democratic presidential preference ballot. in four chicago-area congressional districts, larouche followers have filed full slates of would-be delegates to the democratic national convention
larouche supporters will be on the ballot for congress in at least five districts, mostly in the chicago area
and janice hart, one of the larouche supporters who won in 1986, is running for cook county circuit court clerk
perhaps as a result of their 1986 success, larouche supporters seem to have focused their efforts in illinois, political observers say
in the 10 other states where democratic primary election filing deadlines have passed, only four congressional candidates have been identified as larouche disciples, said peggy connolly, spokeswoman for the national democratic congressional campaign committee
it's a natural consequence of what they perceive as their success there (in illinois) in 1986,'' she said. ``they've lost their wind in every other region of the country.''
democratic party leaders and candidates say the larouche followers' campaigns in illinois seem to have begun and ended with the filing of nominating petitions to get on the primary ballot
with their legal challenges stymied, democratic party leaders have focused their anti-larouche efforts on mailings to voters in the areas where larouche followers are on the ballot
cook county democrats are circulating almost 3 million brochures warning voters that ``the larouchies have invaded'' the ballot and urging them to be careful when casting their votes
some democrats have discussed the possibility of rewriting state election law to allow party leaders to ``screen'' candidates seeking to run in the party primary, though they acknowledge doubts about the constitutionality of such a measure
but demuzio and other party leaders believe public disdain is the only effective political weapon against larouche followers
i don't know how you keep them from getting on the ballot,'' demuzio said. ``this is america, you know.''
george bush, with the support of gov. jim thompson and most republican party leaders, will stump his way ``through all corners'' of illinois, his campaign says
after a one-day respite from campaign rigors, bush was flying to chicago today to begin an intensive five days of vote-seeking as he tries to pad his formidable lead in the race for nominating convention delegates
between now and next tuesday, bush will have criss-crossed the state several times, with thompson, a four-term governor, at his side most of the way
he was beginning his campaign with a speech to the gop governors club luncheon in chicago, to be followed later in the day with lincoln day dinner appearances in champaign and alton. bush has the endorsements of 93 of 102 county gop chairmen in illinois
the bush campaign style will be similar to the one he used successfully in new hampshire, south carolina and the super tuesday states. he is scheduled to discuss agricultural issues friday and visit a methanol plant later that day
with thompson at his side, bush will enjoy the benefits of having the support of the state's top office-holder
in advance of bush's campaign foray, thompson's press secretary, david fields, said the governor had virtually cleared his schedule of any conflicting events
the governor and bush will be together pretty much through the whole five days,'' fields said. ``we're talking about the length and breadth of illinois _ a pretty good cross-section.''
pete teeley, bush's chief spokesman, said of thompson: ``he's a terrific campaigner and we sure want him to be with us.''
bush campaign manager lee atwater said earlier this week that the vice president, seeking to win the 82 convention delegates illinois offers, would ``go through all corners of the state, campaign directly and forthrightly, discuss issues and get his message out.''
bush, who has amassed 805 of the 1,139 delegates needed for nomination, has refused to accept sen. bob dole's demand that the two meet in one-on-one campaign debates in illinois
rep. lynn martin, r-ill., co-chairman of the bush campaign, said that while bush would travel throughout the state, he would focus on the stronghold of the state republican party, the ``collar communities'' surrounding chicago
she said that dole ``has a right to say to the illinois farming communities, `i'm one of you' and george bush can't do that.''
but martin also said that ``illinois is not iowa, and our farming communities did not have the same difficulties.''
bush finished a distant third behind dole and pat robertson in iowa, and a part of the reason was disenchantment there with reagan administration farm policy
martin said: ``i don't think there's any question that bush will win the popularity vote, but dole will do well in some districts.''
ken wright, one of bush's principal strategists in florida, said: ``i think, going to illinois, we've got a great organization up there. gov. thompson is enormously popular there, and i think he'll do very well.''
forty-four ghanian immigrants occupied a varig airlines's main office and demanded to be taken to canada, upsetting furniture and scuffling with reporters before leaving, the airline said
the 42 adults and two children arrived feb. 3 in rio for a stopover en route from lagos, nigeria, to canada
federal police discovered their passports from trinidad-tobago were false, and the canadian government refused to let them enter the country, varig said in a statement
the group was staying in a hotel but the airline recently stopped paying the bill for meals and accomodations
varig said it would take the group back to ghana, in west africa, if they obtained the necessary travel papers from the ghanian embassy in brasilia
state police surrounded the airline's office but the group left after several hours
here is a list of some of the crashes of the uh-60 blackhawk helicopter, the model involved in a collision tuesday at fort campbell, ky., that killed 17 soldiers
crashes of the blackhawk, used by the army, air force and marine corps, have killed about 40 people since 1978, but the manufacturer, sikorsky aircraft, says the craft is about four times safer than the one it replaced
sept. 16 _ one killed when army helicopter strikes power line during nato exercises at hanover, west germany
aug. 14 _ four killed when air force helicopter crashes at fort bragg, n.c
march 11, 1986 _ three killed during army training flight at fort rucker, ala
dec. 9, 1985 _ one killed when army helicopter strikes power line and crashes 68 miles south of seoul, south korea
april 18, 1985 _ three killed in crash on army training flight at fort rucker
march 13, 1985 _ eight killed in army training flight at fort bragg
feb. 2, 1984 _ four killed when army helicopter crashes during war games in honduras
oct. 18, 1983 _ four killed in crash during army night training mission near mount ranier in washington
oct. 4, 1983 _ two killed when army helicopter crashes in caribbean sea near entrance to panama canal
the fashion king of milan, giorgio the gorgeous, achieved the impossible and bettered his own best
armani's fall-winter collection, shown wednesday, was a power house of ideas. he showed the tiniest jackets, cropping them just above the waist. sleeves were long and tight. the definitely marked the demise of wide armholes and overly-padded shoulders
always a jacket specialist, he offered more new shapes than ever before. the choice ranged from a jacket that was raised in front and dipped at the back. then there was the one with the soft cowl neckline and yet another that sported a side-zipped bandolier in matching fabric
pants were plentiful. they came cuffless in smooth wools, falling loosely from unpressed waist pleats. he also showed some bermuda shorts and accompanied them with the thigh-high suede wader boots that have been a main feature of these milan shows
there were lots of different hat shapes, ranging from a coal miner's cap to a broad-brimmed, flat-crowned felt of the sort that clint eastwood usually favors in his cowboy movies
fabrics, designed thread by thread by armani the perfectionist, were superb
laura biagiotti, the designer who lives and works out of a medieval castle nestled in the countryside outside rome, showed styles that were perfect for an elegant castle dweller
there were soft cashmere ``horse blankets,'' ideal for keeping out the chill along the ramparts. they wrapped up comfy sweater-dresses, oversize twinsets or slim-fitting pants, all in flat knit
daytime colors were rustic: oatmeal, moss-green and maize. and there was moderation in the details with a more natural shoulderline, flat-heeled footwear and skirt-lengths just a fraction above the knee
biagiotti took paisley-patterned fringed head scarves in fine wool and fashioned them into wraparound skirts and did an attractive series of that fashion indispensable _ the ever-popular little black dress in velvet or silk crepe
on a completely different wavelength was the baby doll look of the collection designed by muriel grateau for complice. models, with elfin hairdos, wore short, high-waisted styles with tight-fitting bodices and jauntily gathered skirts
a brand-new girlish look for coats in double wool crepe featured a shoulder-framing cape collar and a broad martingale belt that tied tightly in a bow at the waist in back
party dresses came in the same style with waist gathers transferred to just under the bust while mini-skirts were decorated with frills and ribbon cockades
almost all the clothes at complice came in a rich titian red, lace-up shoes and stockings included
there is a certain style that the italian designers have always done beautifully: understated but elegant tailored blazers, well-cut pants and loose top coats in men's-type smooth woolens
it is a look that is timeless and unbeatable, and the women of milan love it. basile did it for them again, tucking pants into the newly fashionable winter boots and putting velvet on collars for an even more well-bred air
stock prices rose on the tokyo stock exchange in heavy trading today, and the dollar rose slightly
the 225-share nikkei stock average advanced 12.43 points, or 0.05 percent, closing at 25,617.82. it had gained 139.66 points on wednesday
trading was heavy at 1.6 billion shares, compared with 1.3 billion shares wednesday
the dollar closed at 128.20 yen, up 0.12 yen from wednesday's close. it opened at 128.25 yen and ranged between 128.13 yen and 128.42 yen
dealers said dollar trading was affected little by the finance ministry's report late in the day that japan's trade surplus had declined from year-earlier figures for the 10th consecutive month. they said the size of the surplus in february, $5.24 billion, was within the range expected by the market. the surplus was $7.13 billion in february 1987
the u.s. primary elections also provided no surprises, they added, and there has been a lack of interest in trading ahead of the march 31 end of japan's fiscal year
an official of nomura securities co., who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that in stock trading, large-capital issues, including shipbuilding, chemicals, textiles, steel and banks, were popular with investors, reflecting an oversupply of money
construction, real estate and rubber issues were weak, the official said
toshiaki yui, a stock analyst at nomura, said the popularity of the large-capital stocks resulted in part from local government plans to develop waterfront areas along tokyo bay. the plans are scheduled to be announced later this month, he said
a gardener was sentenced to 15 minutes in prison for telling a police officer there was a bomb in the president's office
the mixed-race gardener, basil von dieman, told a magistrate's court on wednesday that he was only joking when he made the comment to a policeman jan. 28 while working outside president p.w. botha's office in cape town
magistrate p.m. louw sentenced von dieman, 42, to three years in prison, but suspended the sentence except for the 15-minute period prior to the court's recess for morning tea
the foreign ministers of the seven warsaw pact member countries will meet in sofia, bulgaria, at the end of march, the czechoslovak state news agency ctk reported
the report wednesday did not disclose other details, but an official at the foreign ministry said the sofia meeting, believed to be a regular session, was agreed to when the soviet bloc foreign ministers met in prague last month
in their meeting on feb. 23, the foreign ministers approved the soviet union's stand in the latest talks in moscow between soviet foreign minister eduard shevardnadze and u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz
shevardnadze briefed the participants at that meeting on his talks with shultz on feb. 21-22. ...' with 6 grafs to restore dropped material about aquino not seeking re-election. picks up 8th graf pvs bgng, `in its report .... adds byline.</note>
president corazon aquino today called ``one-sided'' a report by amnesty international alleging widespread human rights abuse in the philippines during her two years in office
also today, mrs. aquino said she had no plans to run for re-election when her term expires in june 1992. it was the clearest statement of her political intentions to date
mrs. aquino said there have been delays in punishing human rights violators because the philippines respects the rights of the accused to due process
on wednesday, the london-based human rights organization alleged that mrs. aquino's government had used torture, murder and illegal arrests in fighting the country's 19-year communist rebellion
amnesty international called on the government to end killings by military and paramilitary forces, saying they represented the country's most serious human rights problem since mid-1987
i think the amnesty international report was very one-sided,'' mrs. aquino told filipino reporters. she said the organization had relied only on social activist groups, such as the church-backed task force-detainees, in compiling its report
the president urged such groups to cooperate with the government's commission on human rights in providing documented evidence to help find and punish human rights violators
on wednesday, task force-detainees said its investigation showed that 7,444 filipino civilians were arrested illegally in 1987, eclipsing the 5,967 arrests in 1985, when ferdinand marcos was president
mrs. aquino came to power when marcos' authoritarian regime collapsed in february 1986. there has been speculation mrs. aquino would seek a second term, using a technicality in the new constitution
i don't think so,'' she told filipino reporters. she added: ``i have never had political ambitions.''
the constitution, drafted by an aquino-appointed commission and approved in a plebiscite last year, limits the president and vice president to one six-year term
but ``transitory provisions'' in the constitution, temporary measures designed to ease the transition of power, also state that the first regular elections for president under the new charter will be held on the second monday of may 1992
some political observers and aquino supporters have interpreted the wording of the transitory provision to mean mrs. aquino is not bound by the one-term limit
in its report, amnesty international praised the aquino government for ``some very real progress'' in human rights, particularly in restoring legal safeguards and in greatly reducing the use of torture
but it called on the government to reaffirm publicly its commitment to protect human rights. the report said amnesty international knew of no cases where soldiers had been punished for human rights violations
it cited the february 1987 killing of 17 civilians in lupao. the military said the killings took place after a lieutenant was killed by a communist sniper during a patrol in lupao
with regards to no soldier being convicted, in fact charges have been filed against the soldiers involved or implicated in the lupao massacre,'' mrs. aquino said
we are living in a democracy. while it is true there is evidence ... everyone is entitled to due process of law. even those who are accused should have their day in court.''
mary concepcion bautista, chairwoman of the commission on human rights, also criticized the amnesty international report as ``exaggerated.''
she said the government was investigating about 200 cases of human rights abuse, claiming ``there is a serious effort to clean up.''
mrs. bautista said investigations of human rights abuses against the military were often not publicized to avoid demoralizing soldiers who are fighting the rebels
the insurgents don't follow the rules,'' she said. ``soldiers complain that when they fight the insurgents, they have one hand tied behind their back.''
last year about 150 police and soldiers were fatally shot on manila streets. communist rebels claimed responsibility for about half the killings
an average of 10 soldiers, civilians or police officers are killed daily in clashes between government and rebel forces
a swiss concert promoter filed suit against the royal philharmonic orchestra for reneging on an agreement to play 12 concerts in jerusalem in may, officials said
an orchestra spokesman on wednesday confirmed that the orchestra had pulled out of the concerts, but said the suit would be ``vigorously defended.''
we pulled out because we had to review our undertaking to 125 musicians because contractual payments had not been honored,'' said the spokesman, who confirmed the suit had been received and who spoke on condition of anonymity
robin shaw, the lawyer for the geneva-based opera on original sites inc., said in a statement the firm was suing for damages from the canceled booking
the statement, released wednesday, said the action was brought because the orchestra failed to honor a contract to play the concerts may 15-29
the orchestra was scheduled to play in performances of verdi's opera ``nabucco'' as part of israel's 40th anniversary celebrations, it said
chinese universities will sharply cut the rate of growth in enrollment to cope with problems of overcrowding and inadequate facilities, an official newspaper said today
college enrollment increases will be held to between 2 percent and 5 percent annually from this year through 1990, compared to a growth rate of 17 percent in the 1981-85 period, the china daily said
it said college administrators attending a national conference agreed that the current goal of 750,000 undergraduates in 1990 is not practical, and opted for a figure of 680,000
they said junior colleges, correspondence schools and other programs will help satisfy the great demand among young chinese for higher education
three former government ministers are being investigated by a parliamentary committee about a scandal over prison construction contracts
italian media reported that franco nicolazzi, who resigned as secretary of the tiny social democrat party february 29, and two christian democrats, clelio darida and vittorino colombo, were served notice wednesday about the probe to clarify what, if any, links they have to the scandal
the scandal, nicknamed the ``golden prisons'' case, involves alleged bribes to obtain public works contracts
nicolazzi was public works minister in several governments from 1980 through last june and secretary from october 1985 of a party that won 3.4 percent of the vote in the june 1987 elections to the chamber of deputies
sen. antonio cariglia was elected in his place wednesday evening by the central committee of the party
darida served as justice minister and subsequently government participations minister from 1981 to march 1987
colombo last held a cabinet post in 1980 as post and telecommunications minister. from 1979 to 1982, he was vice-secretary of christian democrats, italy's largest vote-getter. says</head>
although the superpower missile treaty has not been ratified yet, the soviet union is already adjusting its nuclear missile force to regain firepower lost through the accord, nato's top commander said
the commander, u.s. gen. john r. galvin, said on wednesday that the moves were expected and were not in violation of the treaty signed last december to eliminate the superpowers' medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles worldwide. missiles covered by the treaty have ranges from 300 to 3,000 miles
they are restructuring their missile force,'' galvin said in an interview with the associated press in his spartan office at supreme headquarters allied powers europe. galvin likened the soviet moves to reshaping a wall from which some stones have been removed
i don't want to get too specific ... but i get some indications that the soviets are readjusting the stones on the wall,'' he said, adding that the western allies would do this, too
galvin added: ``(the soviets) will retarget other warheads into western europe'' to cover military targets previously assigned to the hundreds of ss-20 rockets to be dismantled under terms of the superpower accord
he said it was not yet clear how the soviets would accomplish this. ``they may have to take ... warheads that were aimed in another direction and aim them toward western europe,'' galvin said
the net result, he said, is likely to be that the soviets will partially offset the loss of their ss-20s, which are triple-warhead ballistic missiles capable of striking all of western europe
the overall capabilities of the soviets would still be somewhat lower _ a small amount lower _ because of the treaty,'' galvin said. ``but the adjustments ... will to some degree cover that.''
the north atlantic treaty organization also is seeking to adjust and modernize its remaining nuclear forces in europe to partially compensate for the loss of the u.s. cruise and pershing 2 missiles. but there is disagreement in nato over how and when to do this
according to galvin, it was important for nato eventually to replace its aging lance short-range nuclear missiles, which are not covered by the treaty, with a more modern version of longer reach. but he said a final decision on replacing the lance missiles in west germany was not needed before 1990
he said nato arms modernization is necessary to help defeat one of soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's chief aims: to rid europe of all nuclear weapons
despite gorbachev's recent pronouncements about seeking a more peaceful relationship with the west, galvin said, the kremlin leader has not abandoned the long-standing soviet aim of dominating western europe
he's moving in exactly the same direction,'' he said
galvin said many westerners are responding to gorbachev's softer stance in the same way a hostage feels kindly toward his captor after being released
maybe we're seeing a little bit of that psychology where we have felt ourselves under the pressure of the powerful military forces of the soviet union and the warsaw pact for so many decades ... that when we get some indication of a friendly nod in our direction we respond enormously because it's such a change,'' he said
according to galvin, western governments should not move too quickly to encourage gorbachev's efforts to modernize the soviet economy, since a stronger economy could make moscow a more formidable enemy
nbc must surrender to a judge outtakes from an interview with a former lyndon larouche consultant who said an aide to the political extremist discussed a plot to assassinate henry kissinger, a federal appeals court ruled
the decision wednesday by the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld a lower court order that videotape of the entire interview must be surrendered for possible use at the conspiracy and fraud trial of larouche, six aides and five political organizations
the court also upheld a contempt citation against the network
nbc had contended that surrendering portions of the interview that were not broadcast violated its first amendment right against judicial intrusion into news gathering and editorial decisions
u.s. district judge robert e. keeton ruled that the rights of the defendants to have access to the interview with forrest lee fick outweighed those of the network
at stake in the defendants' side of the equation are their constitutional rights to a fair trial under the fifth amendment,'' the appeals court wrote in concurring with keeton, whose original order called for him to review the entire interview and determine its relevance to the case
nbc attorney floyd abrams said the network would decide within a few days whether to appeal to the u.s. supreme court
it is an opinion which we believe does not sufficiently recognize the first amendment rights of broadcasters,'' abrams said
keeton had issued a similar order requiring cbs to surrender outtakes of an interview it conducted with another larouche aide. cbs complied
nbc interviewed fick for 100 minutes and in april 1986 broadcast a one-minute portion of the interview in which fick said he and larouche aide paul goldstein discussed a plot to assassinate kissinger, the former secretary of state
fick, of reading, pa., worked as a larouche security consultant with another reading man, roy frankhauser. frankhauser was convicted in december of conspiring to obstruct a federal grand jury investigation of alleged credit card and loan fraud by larouche followers during his 1984 presidential campaign
fick was a prosecution witness against frankhauser. both are expected to be called as witnesses at the trial of larouche and aides including goldstein
defense lawyers contend the entire nbc interview will help show fick and frankhauser were among scores of operatives planted in larouche organizations by the fbi and cia to gather information and ultimately to ruin larouche and cripple his fund-raising operation
after a long, hard day of fighting crime on the streets of los angeles, police detective norman nelson gets his kicks by climbing onto the back of a 2,000-pound brahma bull
bull riding's a high,'' explains nelson, 44, a three-time lapd bull-riding champion. ``you can't imagine it if you haven't experienced it. but once you know that thrill, you don't want to give it up.''
and there's more than just kicks
since taking up the sport in 1983, nelson has been hooked, horned, stepped on and knocked senseless. but he says there's a big difference between busting crooks and riding brahmas in a rodeo
with the bull, the danger comes from something you respect,'' nelson said. ``you respect its strength, its power, its ability. the bull doesn't care whether it kills you or not. it's a clean contest between you and the bull.''
a 25 percent increase in attendance at the democratic caucus here was cause for rejoicing among party stalwarts in owyhee county, population 8,272
it meant they'd have a quorum. murphy, a tiny community in idaho's southwestern corner, is reputed to be the smallest county seat in the nation, consisting of the owyhee county courthouse and several mobile homes
sheriff tim nettleton, was one of four democrats who attended the caucus at the courthouse, locally famous as the site of murphy's one parking meter
when a man in a cowboy hat walked into the meeting room, his arrival was seen as increasing attendance by 25 percent. ``i knew there was something i liked about you,'' nettleton said. ``you must be a democrat.''
no,'' he replied. ``i just wanted to see the sheriff for a minute.''
eventually, however, the democrats rounded up a quorum
that put them one up on democrats in heavily republican custer county in central idaho. they had a caucus scheduled tuesday night, but nobody came
the seawolf, the pentagon's newest nuclear attack submarine scheduled to begin production later this year, will help the united states dominate the soviet union at sea long into the next century, the navy says
the ssn-21 will have double the fire power and be faster, quieter and more survivable than the ssn-688 los angeles class sub, which the seawolf is expected to replace as the nation's chief attack submarine, vice adm. bruce demars, assistant chief of naval operations for undersea warfare, told a house panel wednesday
the seawolf, which has been in the research and design stage for six years, has been criticized by some lawmakers who fear the sub is not advanced enough for the soviet's planned successor to their akula attack sub
but demars dismissed that notion, telling the house armed services sea power subcommittee that the seawolf is ``the foundation for far-term submarine superiority.''
last year, a house subcommittee tried to delay funds for the project, but congress restored the money. navy officials have warned that such a delay could severely damage the seawolf program and cause massive cost overruns
demars said the project now is on schedule and on budget
early models of the baby buddy clip-on pacifier holder are being recalled by the consumer product safety commission because of a potential choking hazard
about 9,000 of the holders were distributed nationwide in 1986 and 1987, officials said. they sold for about $3.95 each
while no injuries have been reported involving the holders, parents were urged to return them to the store where purchased for a free replacement. when tested, the small bear figure separated from the holder and thus could pose a choking hazard, officials said
new model holders can be distinguished by the two round holes in the back of the clip. there are no holes in the clip of the holders being recalled
recalled pacifier holders include those with a pink ribbon and white bear, blue ribbon and bear, yellow ribbon and brown bear, red ribbon and white bear and red ribbon and brown bear
persons needing more information can contact baby buddies inc., 615 jasmine avenue north, suite i, tarpon springs, fla., at 1-813-934-3359 or the safety commission at 1-800-638-2772
the justice department has filed notice hat it will appeal a federal judge's decision to suppress the confession of a former lebanese shiite amal militiaman accused of leading an airline hijacking
the government's move wednesday to appeal the ruling by u.s. district judge barrington d. parker stays the march 22 trial of fawaz younis pending a ruling by the u.s. circuit court of appeals here
parker ruled last month that the fbi illegally obtained a confession from younis when he was arrested and interrogated for four days aboard a navy munitions ship in the mediterranean after being lured into an fbi-chartered yacht
the judge ruled that prosecutors could not use the confession as evidence that younis led four other hijackers who seized a royal jordanian airliner on june 11, 1985 at beirut international airport
the plane was destroyed a day later after the passengers and crew were taken off the aircraft. jack ryan</head>
author tom clancy hopes to learn in june whether he or the naval institute press of annapolis, md., calls the shots for cia operative jack ryan
the washington post reported today that clancy and the naval institute are in a dispute over the rights to ryan, a character in clancy's best-selling books ``the hunt for red october'' and ``patriot games.''
the small institute had never before published an original work of fiction when it brought out ``red october'' in 1984 and copyrighted the work in its own name. clancy later signed a three-book, $3 million contract with putnam, a new york publishing firm
the institute now is challenging putnam's publication of ``the cardinal of the kremlin,'' a new novel by clancy with the ryan character. it also is seeking payment for use of the ryan character in last year's ``patriot games'' and wants a percentage of any earnings from a proposed television mini-series of that novel, the post said
clancy refused to comment on the advice of his lawyers, the newspaper said. he took the case to the american arbitration association last month, with a binding decision expected in june
a man bent on revenge after being convicted of reckless driving and weapons violations died in a courtroom gunfight after threatening to kill his prosecutor and critically wounding a bailiff, authorities said
jeremey sigmond, 35, a decertified chiropractor from sepulveda, returned wednesday to los angeles municipal court where he was convicted the day before, and accosted his prosecutor, jessica perrin silvers, 49, threatening to kill her
he's just, in layman's terms, violently crazy, and i knew it,'' the prosecutor said. ``so when i heard him talking in his delusional voice and saying i should come with him i just thought there's no way i'm going to do that.''
a bailiff drew a gun on sigmond. sigmond threatened to shoot ms. silvers and the bailiff dropped the weapon. but ms. silvers broke away and deputy marshal cliff wofford burst into the room and shot sigmond
wofford, 30, of palmdale, was wounded in the abdomen in the gunbattle and was in critical condition after surgery to repair damage to his liver, said betty neilson, spokeswoman for st. joseph's medical center in burbank
police searched sigmond's suburban home wednesday for firearms or explosives, but found only empty gun vaults. a neighbor, maurice netter, said sigmond had told him he was part of a federal witness protection program and living under an assumed name
sigmond was convicted tuesday of four misdemeanors _ reckless driving, evading police, carrying a loaded weapon and carrying a concealed weapon _ stemming from an oct. 22 high-speed chase
he testified at his trial that he thought he was being chased by the mafia instead of the california highway patrol. he claimed the mafia was harassing him in retaliation for a lawsuit he filed against the board of chiropractors, alleging price-fixing and restraint of trade
he had been appealing the revocation of his state license to practice as a chiropractor
when arrested, sigmond was wearing two bullet-proof vests and a crash helmet and carrying a loaded .38-caliber revolver. he was wearing a bullet-proof vest wednesday, said police lt. charles massey
sigmond's attorney, norman edell, described his client as an air force veteran who held a second-degree black belt in karate and was a collector of guns, most of which he recently had sold
he was very distraught because the case meant a lot to him. he didn't take it passively but there was no indication of this,'' he said
at his sentencing, which was scheduled for may, sigmond could have been ordered imprisoned up to 18 months
the courthouse is in the san fernando valley community of van nuys, about 15 miles northwest of downtown los angeles. population to 55,800. picks up 5th graf pvs, `a security ...</note>
port-of-spain, trinidad (ap) _ a strong earthquake shook people awake on the caribbean island of trinidad early today but police said they had no reports of injuries or damage
the quake, the strongest in the area in 78 years, measured 6.9 on the richter scale and struck at 2:17 a.m. about 50 miles southeast of the capital of port-of-spain, said the u.s. geological survey's national earthquake information center in golden, colo
no damage, no injuries. we just got a little shake and that's all,'' said lt. velfukr muhammed at police headquarters in the capital of 55,800 people
i was in bed at the time and that woke me and everyone else in the house,'' said lionel dixon, news editor of radio trinidad in port-of-spain
a security guard at the station, san keralli, said the building shook for about 40 seconds. dixon said some people ran into the street in the suburb where he lives
frank baldwin, a usgs physical science technician in golden, said the epicenter appeared to have been in the caribbean about 420 miles east of caracas, venezuela, in a seismic area lying on the boundary between the caribbean and the south american crustal plates of the earth
the quake was the area's largest since a magnitude 7.2 temblor on jan. 23, 1910
trinidad is an island in the republic of trinidad and tobago, a member of the british commonwealth. about 1.2 million people live in the oil-producing republic, which covers an area about the size of delaware and is one of the caribbean's most prosperous countries
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude
an earthquake of 3.5 on the richter scale can cause slight damage in the local area, 4 moderate damage, 5 considerable damage, 6 severe damage. a 7 reading is a ``major'' earthquake, capable of widespread heavy damage
for the first time, the cuban government has invited delegates of the u.n. human rights commission to visit cuba to investigate the human rights situation on the island nation
one united states delegate called the offer a ``diversionary tactic,'' while another questioned the way it was brought before the commission
the chief cuban representative to the 43-nation commission, raul roa kouri, said on wednesday that six members could go to cuba ``in order to see ... the situation prevailing there in human rights and to inform the commission.''
roa, who is also a deputy foreign minister, said the commission members allowed to visit would be the chairman, alioune sene of senegal, and five other delegates, one from each of the regional groups
reading what he said was a letter to sene from his government, roa indicated that the cuban government would arrange ``the necessary contacts and interviews with the officials and competent authorities of our country who would answer all their questions.''
he also said the representatives would be given access to ``penitentiary establishments,'' but did not elaborate. roa did not give a date for the planned visit
roa's remarks in spanish were translated into english by an interpreter. u.s. delegate daniel pipes said the cuban invitation was made to draw attention away from a u.s.-proposed resolution, which calls for the u.n. secretary-general to investigate charges of human rights abuses in cuba and for cuba to allow the international red cross to visit cuban prisons
they're afraid of the vote'' on that resolution, pipes told the associated press
another u.s. delegate, lewis anselem, told the commission the cuban invitation was ``the first time that the cuban government has shown a willingness to have a united nations organ look into the human rights situation in that country and into the allegations about that situation.''
but anselem said some of the procedures used to bring it before the commission were ``highly irregular.''
the proposed visit was introduced in the commission meeting by colombia, reportedly with the support of argentina, mexico and peru, all members of the commission. cuba is an observer this year
anselem said the united states would not accept the proposed visit as a substitute for its own resolution
the united states for the second year in a row is pursuing its goal of having the commission examine alleged human rights abuses in cuba. this year the u.s. government appointed a former cuban political prisoner, armando valladares, to head the u.s. delegation
the cuban government has attacked the appointment of valladares, a poet who wrote a book about torture and degrading treatment he said he suffered during 22 years in cuban prisons
valladares has said the united states, in pressing the cuba issue, is trying to fight a ``selective sensitivity'' in the commission, which routinely condemns human rights violations in the israeli-occupied territories, chile and south africa
the united states maintains that human rights abuses in cuba include torture, clandestine executions and religious and political persecution
the u.s.-sponsored resolution cites allegations of human rights abuses in cuba made by other international groups, including amnesty international and the organization of american states
the resolution is to be voted on before the commission ends its annual meeting on friday
house speaker jim wright, d-texas, says he's sent telegrams congratulating all the democratic candidates who won delegates on super tuesday and asking them to eschew negative ads from now on in the campaign
candidates with viable ideas and strong ideals do not need to rely on negative campaigning which only tarnishes and muddles the processes of democracy,'' wright said
wright said the use of negative ads had become a ``vogue,'' intensified by the short time between the new hampshire primaries and tuesday's 20-state extravaganza
super tuesday, the brainchild of moderate and conservative democrats, wright said, ``put a great premium on having an enormous amount of money to spend in little quickie tv spots'' and denied candidates the chance to be evaluated by voters on the merits of their ideas
the rush left ``no time to make a sensible ... appeal,'' wright said, and led candidates to ``succumb to the wicked blandishments of those in the advertising fraternity'' who specialize in attack ads
former television evangelist pat robertson finished fourth among republican presidential candidates in a preference poll of board members at the national association of evangelicals' annual convention
vice president george bush received 40 percent of the vote wednesday. kansas sen. robert dole received 32 percent, new york rep. jack kemp 17 percent and robertson 12 percent
the results ``confounded conventional wisdom that he would be the near-unanimous choice of evangelical leaders,'' said richard cizik, research director for the nae in washington
among democrats, missouri rep. richard gephardt was supported by 37 percent of the board members. tennessee sen. albert gore received 33 percent of the vote, massachusetts gov. michael dukakis 16 percent, illinois sen. paul simon 11 percent and the rev. jesse jackson 5 percent
wednesday's voting, conducted without discussion, was by denominational presidents, organizational executives and lay leaders from across the country
assembly speaker willie brown says jesse jackson could win the california primary, which could decide the democratic presidential nomination
brown, jackson's national campaign chairman, also said his candidate could have won two or three more states on super tuesday if he had had money for television advertisements
we may well determine the democratic nomination with the california vote,'' brown told reporters wednesday
probably jackson is the favorite at the moment'' in the june 7 california primary, one of the last in the country, brown said
brown, d-san francisco, said jackson will be in california on march 19 and 20, including a visit to the state democratic convention in palm springs that weekend
brown, who said he will be putting together a series of nationwide concerts, featuring stars who support jackson, to raise money for the campaign, added that jackson will be in california ``four or five times in april and on a regular basis in the month of may
with no seats and no food for the guests of honor, everyone agreed that lunch at sardi's had gone to the dogs
two dogs, to be specific, the city's top police dog and the nation's top show dog
the dog fanciers club organized the event wednesday to honor champion great elms prince charming ii, a fluffy little pomeranian, and nero, a big, amiable bruiser of a german shepherd
he's a very friendly dog,'' said nero's master, officer joseph faraguna. ``in all the arrests i've made with him, he's only bitten four times.''
nero specializes in sniffing out bombs and narcotics. he has helped the police department make hundreds of arrests and has ``apprehended'' more than 50 felons
nero was kept on his long leather leash while prince emerged from his elegant, padded carrying case only long enough to pose for photographers
the pomeranian was named best in show at the prestigious westminister kennel club show in madison square garden last month
prince, long used to being coddled and primped, seemed oblivious to all the attention until nero grew bold enough to prod him on the chin. then he blinked and drew back
but neither nero nor prince got any lunch from the luncheon at sardi's, a prominent midtown manhattan restaurant
prince, said his agent and master skip piazza, ``doesn't have a very large diet anyway.''
high winds howled through sections of the west today after gusts up to 70 mph felled trees and damaged cars in southern nevada as snow moved into parts of the rockies and rain continued falling in the southeast
a tree knocked down by wind late wednesday injured one person in the las vegas, nev., area and did major damage to a trailer and some parked cars. the winds also caused numerous power outages
in southwest utah, the wind reached 58 mph in st. george and a brief, heavy snow hit the area wednesday night. two inches fell in cedar city between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m
light snow fell in other parts of utah and in western wyoming. two inches fell in west yellowstone, mont., in six hours overnight
winds gusting to 50 mph were recorded in california's tehachapi mountains near bakersfield and in foothill communities along the north side of the san fernando valley
a high wind warning or wind advisories were in effect today in southern california and southern nevada
a heavy snow warning was issued for the colorado mountains, where a foot or more was expected. advisories for snow or blowing snow were up in western colorado and the mountains of utah and southwest wyoming
winter storm watches were in effect through tonight for northeast colorado, eastern wyoming and western sections of south dakota and nebraska, and were expected to be issued tonight in central parts of south dakota and nebraska
scattered light rain extended from the mid-atlantic states to new england, with some wet snow in northern maine. light rain fell in parts of tennessee, kentucky and west virginia
vermont experienced its first snow melt problems of the season wednesday night, when water ran over roads in two parts of westford due to frozen culverts and rising streams
today's forecast called for snow from northern arizona and utah to the northern and central rockies and the northern high plains; scattered rain and snow in eastern sections of the dakotas and parts of minnesota; a few flurries over northern maine; rain showers from the mid-atlantic states to the carolinas and georgia and thundershowers in southern florida
high temperatures were expected to be in the 30s and 40s from new england across the great lakes and the northern plains to the rockies; 70s or lower 80s in southern florida and the southern plains; 70s through the desert southwest and southern california and the 50s or 60s in the rest of the nation
temperatures around the nation at 2 a.m. est ranged from 18 degrees at marquette, mich., to 77 degrees at key west naval air station, fla
other reports:
_east: atlanta 47 partly cloudy; boston 47 cloudy; buffalo 30 partly cloudy; charleston, s.c. 62 rain; cincinnati 35 cloudy; cleveland 33 cloudy; detroit 33 cloudy; miami 74 fair; new york 49 cloudy; philadelphia 50 cloudy; pittsburgh 33 drizzle; portland, maine 37 foggy; washington 52 cloudy
_central: bismarck 40 cloudy; chicago 29 fair; dallas-fort worth 43 fair; denver 40 fair; des moines 30 fair; indianapolis 33 cloudy; kansas city 35 fair; minneapolis-st. paul 33 cloudy; nashville 40 drizzle; new orleans 50 fair; st. louis 38 cloudy
_west: albuquerque 38 fair; anchorage 34 snow; las vegas 48 fair; los angeles 58 fair; phoenix 64 fair; salt lake city 32 cloudy; san diego 55 partly cloudy; san francisco 47 fair; seattle 36 partly cloudy
_canada: montreal 32 cloudy; toronto 28 fair
here are some comments wednesday from candidates for the presidency;

jack kemp, who is expected to announce today his withdrawal from the gop race: ``there were rumors we would withdraw after iowa. but i'm not a quitter. i'm an ex-quarterback, and i don't enter a contest lightly.''

bob dole, on the importance of next tuesday's illinois primary to the viability of his campaign after his total defeat in the super tuesday republican primaries and caucuses: ``i've got to win in illinois. i feel like i've just taken the finals, and i didn't flunk but i didn't do too well either.''

george bush, in a telegram to dole after super tuesday's primaries and caucuses gave him two-thirds of the delegates necessary to win the gop nomination: ``i believe it is now time to look ahead to the issues which distinguish us from the democrats.''

paul simon, on why his cash-poor campaign would not run television advertisements before next week's illinois primary: ``i offer illinois 30 years of service rather than a 30-second commercial.''

jesse jackson, who captured five states and the most popular votes in the super tuesday democratic primaries and caucuses: ``we get stronger every day.''

albert gore, on his electability: ``i'm not going to say that any of our candidates are unelectable. but i have the best chance.''

michael dukakis, on gore as his primary rival: ``i'm not so sure he's a major contender. a guy from massachusetts beat him in texas, beat him in florida.''

pat robertson, who had said he would win the south but won only the washington state caucuses in the 20-state super tuesday contests: ``it isn't over yet.''
police clashed today with 200 tibetan refugees who tried to march to the chinese embassy in new delhi, and seven tibetans and nine policemen were injured, authorities said
the refugees gathered near the parliament house and chanted ``china, stop killing tibetans'' in a rally commemorating the 29th anniversary of the abortive uprising against chinese rule in lhasa, tibet's capital
police intervened when the crowd surged toward a police barricade to attempt a march to the chinese embassy
we were not only stopped, but badly beaten,'' said tashi namgyal, secretary-general of the tibetan youth congress. ``the policemen poked bamboo sticks and hit us on our heads.''
it was on march 10, 1959, that tibetans rose in revolt against the chinese red army that invaded tibet in 1949. china claims the region was part of china since the 13th century. tibetans dispute that claim
after the uprising, the dalai lama, spiritual and temporal leader of the tibetans, and 100,000 of his followers fled to india. the tibetan god-king has since maintained exile headquarters in dharmasala in northern india
in a statement issued today from dharamsala, the dalai lama called on tibetans to ``honor the courage of our brethren in tibet who have taken to the streets to draw attention to their suffering under chinese colonial rule.''
it is indeed a sad reflection of the state of the world that violence seems to be required for the international community to pay attention.''
he was referring to a clash in lhasa last saturday which left as many as five tibetans and three police dead
the rally site in new delhi was strewn with stones, shoes, sandals and sticks after the clash with police. the chinese embassy in the nearby diplomatic district was cordoned off
police accused the tibetans of starting trouble
for no reason the tibetans became violent and started hurling rocks at us,'' said police officer shanti kumar jain. ``we had to stop them.''
it was the second rally by tibetans in new delhi this week. on monday, hundreds of tibetans held a demonstration and chanted ``we shall overcome.'' they were prevented monday from marching on the chinese embassy
i've got to win in illinois. i feel like i've just taken the finals, and i didn't flunk but i didn't do too well either.'' _ republican presidential contender sen. bob dole of kansas, on his crushing loss to vice president george bush in the super tuesday primaries
there is a kind of exorcism going on at the moment. it brings up a lot of filth with it, but it is basically a cleansing process.'' _ austrian writer gerhard roth, on soul-searching by his countrymen as the nation marks the 50th anniversary this week of the anschluss, its annexation by nazi germany
it was just a big, old 225-pound puddy tat.'' _ indiana bell supervisor dannie carper, who reattached a downed telephone wire after a year-old pet lioness in the yard was put on a leash
without knowing the exact size of the soviet arsenal, the u.s. intelligence community could effectively verify soviet compliance with the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty, according to a classified report by the arms control and disarmament agency
the washington post reported today that the acda study, which was sent tuesday to members of the senate foreign relations committee said, the pact's ``verification measures posed significant risks for the soviets of u.s. detection'' even though ``u.s. intelligence cannot achieve a total count'' of soviet medium-range and shorter-range nuclear-armed missiles and lauchers that are to be eliminated under the agreement
the post said the acda report seemed to answer criticisms by sen. jesse helms, r-n.c., and others who maintain that soviet compliance with the inf treaty cannot be verified because the u.s. intelligence community is uncertain about how many ss20 medium-range missiles the soviets have
the report also said that u.s. officials have assumed ``soviet declarations for total numbers, locations, and characteristics of their treaty-limited items could be false'' so they would not be used to verify soviet compliance
the soviets said last year they planned to destroy 650 deployed or stored ss20s but analysts at the defense intelligence agency, an arm of the defense department, have said the soviets have at least 165 additional ss20s. helms said this was an indication the soviets may have hidden some of the missiles for potential use against u.s. european alllies
the report acknowledge that soviet retentions of some missiles couldn't be ruled out but noted that the united states would scrutinize the destruction of ``all launch-critical equipment'' and that all test flights would be barred six months after the treaty takes affect
the dollar steadied at higher levels against nearly all major currencies in light european trading early today. gold bullion prices were higher
dealers said the dollar was mostly higher on a technical rebound and they expected it to remain stable through the day
the british pound, which surged earlier this week, eased amid fears of profit-taking and more pound sales by the bank of england to stop sterling rising too sharply
in tokyo, the dollar closed at 128.20 japanese yen, up from 128.08 at wednesday's close. later, in london, the dollar traded at 128.05 yen
other dollar rates at midmorning, compared with late wednesday:
_1.6708 west german marks, up from 1.6685
_1.3805 swiss francs, up from 1.3785
_5.6622 french francs, up from 5.6485
_1.8764 dutch guilders, up from 1.8750
_1,234.75 italian lire, up from 1,231.50
_1.2585 canadian dollars, up from 1.2532
in london, the pound fell to $1.8420 from $1.8460 late wednesday
gold opened in london at a bid price of $436 a troy ounce, down from $436.50 late wednesday, but rose in later trading. at midmorning today, the city's five major bullion dealers set a recommended price of $437.25
in zurich, the noon bid gold price was $437.20, up from $437 late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at $438.42 bid, up from wednesday's $438.01
silver was quoted in london at $6.33 bid an ounce, up from $6.31 late wednesday
striking scriptwriters agreed to resume negotiations today with both sides under a gag order not to disclose details of the talks, while producers of the oscar ceremonies vowed the show must go on
the writers guild of america went on strike sunday after rejecting the latest offer by the alliance of motion picture and television producers. the dispute centered on artistic control of scripts and money received from reruns
commissioner leonard farrell of the federal mediation and conciliation service imposed a gag order on negotiators for both sides tuesday, blocking any disclosures about the bargaining
it's a mediation session and that's all i can say,'' guild spokeswoman cheryl rhoden said after the gag order was imposed
it's not an unusual situation in a strike,'' she said. ``it's important that those topics on the table be kept there, rather than be aired in the media.''
writers working on the academy awards show slated for april 11 said they left its script half written when they walked out. but producer samuel goldwyn jr. said: ``the show must go on, and it will.''
the academy was denied a guild waiver to let writers finish the show
about 125 east coast scriptwriters picketed outside the mgm building in new york city on wednesday. it was the first protest by the eastern arm of the guild
in the manhattan protest, three writers of ``late night with david letterman,'' wearing jackets bearing the show's logo, walked the picket line
william peter blatty, who wrote ``the exorcist,'' joined pickets, as did screen actors guild member barbara feldon of ``get smart'' fame
the union is only as strong as its ability to strike,'' said marcher john patrick shanley, a best original screenplay oscar nominee for ``moonstruck.''
some rock climbers at hueco tanks state historical park have been gluing stones to the sheer rock walls to create handholds and footholds, officials say
the practice has forced a ban on rock-climbing while officials survey the damage and decide whether to allow climbers back on the rocks, parks and wildlife department spokeswoman suzanne carter said wednesday
hueco tanks was created to protect prehistoric rock drawings. the area attracted people as long as 10,000 years ago because of the water that collects in ``huecos,'' or hollows, in the granite rock formations
the defaced walls were discovered in mid-february and the park was closed indefinitely on march 1 to technical climbers, who use ropes, bolts and wedges. climbers use the equipment at hueco tanks because some of the park's climbing routes are among the most challenging in north america
bolts are screwed into stone to secure safety ropes. the practice is banned at hueco tanks, but park workers have struck an unofficial truce with climbers: if climbers don't drill any more bolts, the existing bolts won't be removed
wedges are placed in cracks and also secure safety ropes. they are supposed to be removable, but some climbers apparently have been trying to make the wedges permanent
they put a wedge in a crack, then they will glue it into place with the epoxy glue if it's not secure,'' ms. carter said
even worse, she said, is evidence that some climbers have glued rocks to the rock faces to create handholds _ a practice that would shock most climbers, who take pride in using nothing but chalk on their hands and soft-rubber-soled shoes to aid their ascents
hueco tanks is about 25 miles east of el paso. its brown cliffs were created after molten rock intruded into overlying limestone millions of years ago and the limestone eroded away. some of the formations rise 150 feet
northwest airline's decision to impose a contract on its 6,700 flight attendants has put the airline and the union on a ``collision course,'' says a teamsters official
the contract that the airline said it will impose april 1 is substantially the same as the proposal that negotiators fashioned in talks before the feb. 26 strike deadline passed, northwest said wednesday
we're not asking them to accept this. they've already rejected it. we're putting it into place,'' said terry erskine, the airline's vice president of law and labor relations
erskine said the airline has not talked with the union about its plan to impose the contract, but he said if attendants decide to strike, the airline is prepared to hire permanent replacements
they're on a collision course, and everybody's going to get hurt,'' william genoese, director of the teamsters airline division and the flight attendants' chief negotiator, told wcco-tv wednesday
when asked what the chances of a strike next week are, genoese said: ``i would say they're pretty close to 100 percent. i would say unless somebody gets the people to the bargaining table ... the company's the one that's going to hurt itself.''
teamsters have called a strategy meeting monday in washington, d.c., for local union officers and strike captains at northwest, he said
the main obstacle to reaching a settlement between the airline and the flight attendants has been disagreement over how to raise lower-paid b-scale attendants to higher paid a-scale wages
northwest has proposed extending the b-scale from five years to eight years, meaning lower-wage flight attendants would have to wait an additional three years before earning top-scale wages, erskine said
b-scale flight attendants have said the airline is trying to break a promise that they would earn a-scale wages after five years
the union also has objected to two-tier wage agreements, saying they pit junior workers against senior workers
the issue has intensified since northwest acquired republic airlines in 1986. roughly one-third of the 2,600 former republic attendants work for b-scale wages and the other two-thirds have said they wouldn't get enough out of northwest's latest wage offer
under the contract proposal that will be implemented, the entry-level wage will go from more than $13,000 a year to $15,000 a year, and the top base wage will go from the current $32,000 up to $35,000 a year, erskine said
our door, of course, will always be open for further collective bargaining,'' erskine said
four cambodian guerrilla leaders accused of human rights abuses have been dismissed from their military posts, a spokesman for the resistance group said today
son sann, president of the khmer people's national liberation front, ordered the dismissals of chea chhut, liv ne, gen. dien del and gen. hing kunthon in early february, said the spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the front is one of three major resistance groups fighting vietnamese forces in cambodia. it operates from bases along the thai-cambodian border
we want to let the people investigate the alleged human rights abuses, what was done,'' he said in a telephone interview
another reason (for the dismissals) is we want to reorganize and clear up the climate at the border,'' he said. the spokesman did not specify the alleged abuses
in recent years, international aid workers and organizations like the u.s. lawyers committee for human rights have accused some khmer people's national liberation front commanders of dispensing justice arbitrarily and allowing abuses against cambodian civilians and local thais
some front soldiers also have been arrested by the thais for banditry
the four officials have been moved to inactive posts and were replaced by their assistants, the spokesman said. asked about their whereabouts, the spokesman said: ``they are surely not at the border.'' president. pickup 6th graf pvs, `suharto came...' one name cq for suharto and sudharmono.</note>
the national assembly today unanimously re-elected president suharto, but a military general angrily protested the selection process for vice president in which a suharto aide is favored
the people's consultative assembly re-elected suharto, the only presidential candidate, to a fifth five-year term. suharto, 66, has led the nation of 170 million people since 1967. his re-election indicates he is in firm control of the island republic and its 400,000-member armed forces
the 1,000-member assembly, the nation's highest policy-making body, meets every five years to choose the president and vice president and issue new guidelines for state policy
state secretary sudharmono, one of suharto's most trusted aides, was expected to be elected vice president on friday, the 11th and final day of the assembly session. sudharmono, 61, chairs the governing golkar party
military sources who spoke on condition of anonymity said the army was opposed to sudharmono's nomination and wanted the newly appointed armed forces commander, gen. try sutrisno, 52, to fill the post
the opposition moslem united development party nominated its chairman, jailani nario, 59, for vice president
shortly after suharto's re-election, a military general sprang to the podium to charge the selection process for vice president was unfair
brig. gen. ibrahim saleh of the government-nominated military faction grabbed the microphone at the podium and said:
we indonesian soldiers who believe in god and defend honesty and justice, have heard rumors saying that the nomination of the vice president is not being fairly and correctly carried out.''
saleh said, ``there are certain things that we feel are against our conscience.'' he did not elaborate
saleh was shouted down and later taken away by fellow officers and wang suwandi, secretary-general of the national assembly
later, the commander of the powerful national security agency, gen. benny murdani, told reporters that saleh's statement did not represent the official view of the armed forces and that he was speaking for himself
suharto was not present during the session
suharto came to power following a 1965 communist coup attempt in which six army generals were killed before the challenge was smashed by forces he then led as commander of the army strategic command
suharto is expected to form a new cabinet later this month that will have to tackle urgent problems of economic development, including how to cope with a $42.1 billion foreign debt
indonesia's economy was hit hard in the last five years by economic recession and a sharp drop in the price of oil, a major foreign exchange earner. the country has to set aside $6.4 billion _ nearly a third of its annual budget _ to pay its loan installments for the fiscal year beginning in april
the people's consultative assembly is comprised of a 500-member parliament and 500 provincial and district officials
in elections last april, the golkar party won 299 seats in parliament, which also has 100 government-nominated members from the military. the moslem united development party has 63 seats and the indonesian democratic party 38 seats
in the assembly, golkar has 548 seats as well as 151 government-nominated members from the military and 147 from the provinces. the moslem united development party has 93 and the indonesian democratic party 61
experts testifying about possible causes of a continental airliner crash did not rule out disturbance from a plane landing on an adjacent runway, but said winds could have swept away any such effect
turbulent winds lead to the early demise of vortex,'' said james hallock, who has studied the air currents caused by plane landings for the department of transportation
hallock testified wednesday during the second day of a national transportation safety board hearing into the nov. 15 crash of continental flight 1713, which killed 28 people and injured 54 at denver's stapleton international airport
george greene of the national aeronautics and space administration's langley research center, who also has studied vortex, agreed that winds generally diminish the effect of such turbulence
federal aviation administration officials tried to elicit from greene a definite statement on whether vortex caused the stapleton crash. but ntsb board member joseph t. nall, chairman of the inquiry, would not allow him to answer
nall said conclusions about what caused the crash must be made by the ntsb when it completes its investigation. a final report is not expected until later this year
continental spokesman bruce hicks said the witnesses' testimony did not mean vortex should be ruled out as a possible cause. ``nobody shot down anything today,'' he said
earlier wednesday, an airplane engineer testified that enough snow fell during the 24 minutes that continental 1713 awaited takeoff for ice buildup on the wings to have been a possible factor in the crash
continental officials said they believe wing icing can be ruled out as a factor because the plane exceeded the speed at which it likely would have stalled from ice
ralph brumby, manager of aerodynamics and acoustics for mcdonnell douglas corp., which manufactured the dc-9, said 0.032 inches of precipitation, or about one-third of an inch of snow, fell in the 24 minutes between de-icing and takeoff
if all that snow turned to ice on the wings, the dc-9 could have stalled after takeoff, brumby said. ice can change the shape of a wing, affecting lift
brumby, under questioning by continental officials, said that the amount of precipitation that fell between the time the plane was de-iced and takeoff was enough to cause the plane to stall at about 150 knots, or a little more than 170 mph
but he said it was impossible to draw a definite conclusion that ice on the wing was a factor based on the theory that all the snow had turned to ice
there are so many open parameters,'' he said. ``we don't know the amount of roughness generated by the water collection.''
he also said officials do not know how long the de-icing fluid was able to prevent buildup before the plane took off
at least 19 people were reported killed in punjab state today and wednesday despite government efforts to give militant sikhs a freer hand in trying to resolve the region's problems
sikh gunmen killed three sikh policemen standing guard outside a high school where examinations were under way today in the village of dari wala, amritsar district police chief mohammed izhar alam said
he said the four gunmen, who used chinese-made ak-47 assault rifles, arrived and fled on a tractor
two people were killed in the village of mehsampura early today when sikh gunmen sprayed the sleeping village with gunfire, the united news of india reported. the identity of the victims was not immediately available
dari wala and mehsampura are near the town of mehta, about 25 miles east of amritsar
on wednesday, seven people were killed by sikh extremists in the amritsar district. seven other deaths were reported in the state, including police slayings of two suspected extremists in shootouts
the deaths came as militant sikhs on wednesday installed jasbir singh rode as chief priest at the golden temple in amritsar, sikhism's holiest shrine
on friday, the government released rode, who had been held since 1985 on accusations of sedition but never tried. on sunday, the government said it was dissolving the punjab state assembly, which had been controlled by a moderate sikh party
both moves were seen as an effort by prime minister rajiv gandhi's administration to try to involve militant leaders in bringing an end to the increasing violence in punjab state
the latest killings raised to at least 417 the number of people killed in attacks blamed on sikh extremists since the start of the year
last year, more than 1,000 people died in sikh attacks in the state
most of the victims have been hindus or moderate sikhs
sikhs, whose religion was founded about 500 years ago as an alternative to hinduism and islam, claim they are discriminated against by india's majority hindus. sikhs make up less than 2 percent of india's population, but are a majority in punjab. hindus are more than 80 percent
sikh extremists have been agitating for more political autonomy or an independent state since 1982
joseph franceschi, a socialist deputy in the national assembly and former secretary of state for public security, died today after a long illness, the socialist federation announced. he was 64
franceschi, a close friend of president francois mitterrand, died about 7 a.m. at his home in alfortville southeast of paris. he had been hospitalized for the past month. the federation said he died after a ``long and cruel illness,'' without adding further details
franceschi held three cabinet posts under mitterrand
the first was as secretary of state for the elderly. in august 1982, he was named secretary of state for public security. after two years, he returned to the post of secretary of state for retired persons and the elderly, which he held until the socialists lost power in march 1986
franceschi was born jan. 15, 1924 in tunis, tunisia and had a degree in letters and a doctorate in political science. he became mayor of alfortville in 1965 and was elected a deputy in the national assembly on the socialist ticket in 1973, serving as a vice president of the assembly in 1977-78
the funeral was scheduled for saturday at the notre dame church in alfortville
a political opposition leader who was ordered freed after four months in prison was arrested again as he was headed home, his wife and police said today
karpal singh was released wednesday after a court ruled that one of the charges used in his original arrest was erroneous. singh is vice president of the opposition democratic action party and a member of parliament
the party condemned the rearrest ``in the strongest terms possible.''
a statement issued by party deputy secretary general lee lam thye said the action shows the disregard the executive arm of the government has for the judiciary
karpal and his wife, gurmit kaur, were traveling home from ipoh after his release when police stopped their car at a roadblock and arrested karpal, kaur said
she said they were stopped near nibong tebal, a village near karpal's hometown of penang. penang is 180 miles northwest of kuala lumpur
later at the penang police station i was told that he was being detained under the internal security act,'' kaur said in a telephone interview
a police spokesman at the federal police headquarters today confirmed the arrest
karpal originally was arrested under the internal security act on oct. 27, together with the leader of the opposition in parliament, lim kit siang, and others. the act allows imprisonment without trial
the national news agency bernama said the regional high court in ipoh, 120 miles north of kuala lumpur, found earlier wednesday that the detention order was made without care, caution and a proper sense of responsibility
karpal was one of 119 people detained under the internal security act between october and december, government officials said. the act allows imprisonment without trial
prime minister mahathir mohamad has said the arrests were necessary to prevent malay-chinese racial clashes
on tuesday, deputy home affairs minister megat junid megat ayub told parliament that 86 people were still being held under the act
two royal australian air force planes collided in midair today during an aerobatics exercise, and both pilots survived, the defense department said
a spokesman said the pilots collided near sale in the southern state of victoria. they were members of the air force roulette aerobatics team
the official said one pilot landed his aircraft and the other was forced to eject
he could not say if either pilot was injured
further details were not available. and; removes last two grafs pvs.</note>
the author of a letter from democrats on the house judiciary committee calling for the temporary resignation of attorney general edwin meese iii said today there is ``considerable sentiment'' for even harsher action against meese
a republican on the committee, however, called the letter ``an outrageous political move,'' and a meese spokesman said the attorney general would not comply
meanwhile, swiss oilman bruce rappaport has testified under oath before independent counsel james mckay in the criminal investigation involving meese and a proposed $1 billion iraqi pipeline project, according to sources familiar with the probe
eleven democrats on the judiciary committee called wednesday for meese to step down until that and other independent counsel investigations into meese's conduct are completed
rep. edward feighan of ohio, who was introduced as the letter's author on ``cbs this morning'', said the committee members did not specifically consider impeachment of meese, but ``there was considerable sentiment for even harsher action than the letter we sent.'' he did not say what other steps might be taken
feighan said that although no republicans on the committee signed the letter, meese had become a ``major embarrassment'' to his party. he also said morale was low in the justice department which meese heads
rep. william mccollum, r-fla., also interviewed on cbs, noted that meese has been cleared every time he has been investigated
this is an outrageous political move on the part of some democrats in a political year,'' he said. mccollum denied that morale was low in the justice department
the pervasive perception that you have allowed personal considerations to encroach on your constitutional responsibilities threatens to breed contempt for your office, your administration and the rule of law itself,'' the letter said
justice department spokesman terry eastland said the letter proposed ``a politically partisan idea and a thoroughly bad idea.''
he said meese ``has every intention of serving to the end of this term. he has spent some time with his lawyers on the investigation, but there has been no serious subtraction of his time or effort from leadership of the department of justice.''
mckay and his deputy, carole bruce, took the statements from rappaport in london on tuesday, said the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity. mckay has granted immunity from prosecution to rappaport
meese's former chief of staff, john richardson, who left the justice department several months ago, also testified separately tuesday afternoon before the federal grand jury in washington which is receiving evidence from mckay's office
richardson, who has joined a richmond, va., law firm, declined on wednesday to discuss his testimony
the independent counsel is investigating whether meese may have violated the foreign corrupt practices act which prohibits paying bribes to foreign officials by u.s. companies and authorizes the attorney general to intervene to block them
the investigation stems from a 1985 memo to the attorney general from his longtime friend, e. robert wallach, who had been hired as legal counsel by rappaport to help secure u.s. support on the pipeline project
wallach's memo says that payments were planned to the israeli labor party in connection with the pipeline. rappaport, a partner in the proposed pipeline, has denied that any such payments to the labor party were contemplated
meese has said he doesn't recall reading the portion of the memo mentioning planned payments to the labor party
rappaport was brought into the project because of his close ties to then-israeli prime minister shimon peres to aid in getting assurances for the iraqi government that israel would not attack the pipeline
the pipeline was never built but was to have been constructed by the san francisco-based bechtel group inc
mckay's investigation of meese which began last may 11, has delved into meese's involvement with scandal-plagued wedtech corp. and the regional bell telephone companies as well as with the pipeline project
the moscow circus rolled out dancing bears and jugglers to announce that it is scheduling its first north american tour in 10 years
company representatives, appearing at radio city music hall on wednesday, said the famous soviet circus will open in toronto on aug. 15 and end their 15-city tour in san francisco on jan. 1. the 200 shows will include 44 performances at radio city between sept. 12 and oct. 9
the circus acts expected include a dozen dancing bears, 17 acrobatic tigers and a quadruple somersault by the cranes aerialist troupe
the troupe has not appeared in north america since 1978, with u.s.-soviet cultural exchanges frozen after the 1979 soviet invasion of afghanistan
for new york area ticket information call: 212 757-3100. elsewhere: 800 882-5696
low doses of an anti-cancer drug may help people with severe asthma reduce their need for harmful amounts of cortisone, a study published today suggests
despite the promising results, however, experts cautioned that more study is needed to test the long-term effects of the therapy before it is used routinely
in the study, published in the new england journal of medicine, doctors gave the drug methotrexate to 14 people with severe bronchial asthma. while they took the drug, they were able to reduce their use of prednisone, an artificial form of cortisone, by 36 percent
an estimated 5 percent to 7 percent of americans have asthma. a small minority of these people require daily doses of steroid drugs so they can breathe. prednisone is among the most common of these medications
however, long-term use of high doses of prednisone can lead to obesity, cataracts and weakening of the bones, among other things
dr. michael f. mullarkey of virginia mason clinic in seattle tested methotrexate as an alternative to prednisone for relieving inflammation, an underlying cause of asthma
they found preliminary evidence that methotrexate works. but they cautioned, ``longer and larger studies are needed to define the ultimate benefits and risks associated with the use of methotrexate in severe asthma.''
in an accompanying editorial, drs. gary r. cott and reuben m. cherniack of the university of colorado agreed with that warning
many questions remain to be answered before low-dose methotrexate therapy should be considered as more than an experimental form of treatment for steroid-dependent asthma,'' they wrote
the seattle doctors stopped their study earlier than planned because of the dramatic effects of treatment with methotrexate. nine patients continued to take methotrexate after the study was formally halted and four of them have completely stopped taking prednisone
four patients suffered mild nausea for several hours after taking methotrexate. this problem went away within a few weeks in all but one of them
besides its use in cancer treatment, methotrexate also is given to psoriasis and arthritis sufferers. berlin to potsdam, sted east berlin; adds that truck carried empty propane tanks. picks up 5th graf pvs, `the three...</note>
three men in a flatbed truck today smashed through steel barricades blocking glienicker bridge in communist east germany and roared over the ``bridge of spies'' into west berlin, police said
the dramatic escape across the bridge made famous by numerous east-west spy exchanges over the years occurred shortly before dawn, said a west berlin police spokesman
police at the scene said the 7{-ton truck was loaded with empty propane gas tanks in an attempt to discourage border guards from firing their weapons
the east german border police apparently did not open fire, and the three men fled uninjured, said a police spokesman, who spoke on condition of anonymity
the truck crashed through two steel gates and an electrified fence on the east german side, raced across the bridge and smashed through another control gate in west berlin, police said
glienicker bridge connects potsdam, east germany with west berlin. potsdam is on berlin's southwest outskirts
the three men _ two of them age 37 and the other 27 _ then reported to west berlin police
among the most famous swaps on glienicker bridge was the feb. 10, 1962 exchange by the united states of convicted soviet kgb master spy col. rudolph abel for francis gary powers, whose u-2 surveillance plane was shot down over the soviet union
jack lemmon, who will be honored tonight by the american film institute with a life achievement award, says luck helped him win good parts and fear helped bring out his best performances
lemmon, 63, landed starring roles in his debut appearances on stage, in film, and on television
there's a tremendous boost in playing a lead, especially in a first job,'' lemmon said, ``because slips of confidence are built into an actor's life. you go from thinking you will never work again to thinking you're the greatest young actor in america.''
after graduating from harvard college, lemmon started in television in ``the arrival of kitty.'' from there, his lead role in a broadway revival of ``room service'' led to his starring performance in the film ``it should happen to you.'' he was only 29
lemmon, talking in his beverly hills office this week as he prepared his acceptance speech for the afi award, said a successful acting career depends on making the most of every opportunity
the very reason we are sitting here talking is that i was able to deliver,'' the two-time oscar winner said. ``but first the doors had to open. i had to get the part.''
after the luck of the draw decides casting, fear takes over, lemmon said
i think you do better work if you're afraid,'' he said
lemmon won academy awards in 1955 and 1973. he was honored first for best supporting actor in ``mister roberts,'' then received a best actor oscar for ``save the tiger.''
a measure designed to put a gambling casino on alcatraz island, once the site of a federal prison that housed some of the nation's most notorious criminals, has been approved for the city ballot
i'd never turn my back on something that would bring money to the city legally,'' said supervisor wendy nelder, one of six city supervisors who voted wednesday to put the advisory measure on the june 7 ballot
the measure asks whether the city should encourage changes in state and federal law to allow a gambling resort on alcatraz, for 29 years a prison for for 1,576 criminals who included al capone and george ``machine gun'' kelly
the prison that was dubbed ``the rock'' was closed in 1963 when attorney general robert kennedy called the facility inhumane
it isn't the first time a casino has been suggested for the island
in 1969, more than 300 recommendations were submitted to mayor joseph alioto about the future of the island in san francisco bay
suggestions included a casino, a home for hippies and a site for a replica of the eiffel tower. alioto favored a giant monument symbolizing ``justice'' on the outcropping a mile off fisherman's wharf that would be a west coast counterpart to the statue of liberty in the new york harbor
the latest casino plan stemmed from a luncheon meeting tuesday of labor leaders, city supervisors and warren hinckle, a san francisco examiner columnist who made an unsuccesful bid for mayor
the casino complex could bring in at least $150 million a year to help san francisco solve a projected budget deficit, said hinckle, whose plan would include a tunnel under the bay to the casinos
the state constitution would need to be changed by voters to exempt the island from state laws that forbid gambling, hinckle said
the federal government would also have to be petitioned to remove alcatraz from the golden gate recreation area, which covers vast stretches of federal open space on both sides of the golden gate bridge. federal officials would then have to sell the island to san francisco
hundreds of tourists visit alcatraz each year for a guided tour of the island that is conducted by park rangers
a man with a criminal record that would have barred him as a foster parent and his wife were ordered held without bail today on charges of shaking their 2-year-old foster son to death, authorities said
walter ``sonny'' hairston, 26, and his wife, maryanne, 33, were arraigned early this morning on charges of murder and involuntary manslaughter in connection with the death of joey huot, said bail commissioner garnita selby
hairston also was charged with providing false background information on foster placement applications, ms. selby said
hairston pleaded guilty in 1981 to charges of rape, aggravated assault and burglary in washington county, but social workers did not know of his record when joey was placed with the couple, authorities said
the boy was placed in the couple's home by catholic social services under a contract with philadelphia's department of human services
since january 1987, 18 children who had been under the care of the city department have died of suspected abuse or neglect
the alleged falsifications on hairston's foster-parent applications prevented caseworkers from identifying him as a former criminal, a source in the state's child welfare system told the philadelphia inquirer. the source said catholic social services had checked with state police and the state's registry of reported child abusers, as required, but hairston was cleared
catholic social services spokeswoman ursula o'reilly declined to comment on the agency's background checks because of the legal proceedings
joey died on jan. 27 at the children's hospital of philadelphia after he was declared brain-dead and his mother gave doctors permission to take him off a respirator
the hairstons were arrested at their home wednesday morning, police said
police said the hairstons told them joey was injured when he fell from a couch during an apparent epileptic seizure. quotes, identities of victims.</note>
a cargo plane flying erratically dove into a residential area, struck a garage and a house and exploded early today, killing a couple in the house and the pilot, officials said
the couple's three children, who were sleeping in an upstairs bedroom, were unhurt and were led to safety by neighbors, said herbert kauffman, assistant police chief for this detroit suburb
the twin-engine beechcraft plane had just taken off from detroit city airport, not the city's main airport, about 12:30 a.m. when it went into a nosedive and struck a garage, propelling a van into the first-floor bedroom of the house next door before crashing into that house and bursting into flames, said police lt. orba underwood
there are parts of the aircraft and car inside the bedroom,'' underwood said
the plane was seen faltering in the air by two warren scout cars, and they were literally on the scene immediately after impact,'' mayor ron bonkowski said. ``they thought at first he might have hit the school playground on the other street. you look another 60 feet, and he'd have been in the street.''
kauffman said police officers craig garwood and alex sywak saw the airplane shortly before it crashed
the aircraft appeared to be flying lower than normal and was ascending and descending erratically.'' kauffman said, quoting a report by the officers. ``it disappeared out of sight, and seconds later they saw a fire flash.''
kauffman identified the victims as norma and harold richardson, both 29. their neighbor whose garage was struck was unharmed, but her house was damaged by flames
the airplane, loaded with automobile axles, was flying from detroit to fort wayne, ind., kauffman said. it crashed about five miles northwest of city airport, which is northeast of downtown detroit. the pilot, thomas bussard of pontiac, was the only person aboard
kauffman said officials at lafayette aviation at the oakland-pontiac airport confirmed the airplane was theirs. a man who did not identify himself answered the telephone at the company and declined comment
it took firefighters about 45 minutes to put out the blaze that engulfed the two-story house and damaged the one-story house and garage next door in this macomb county community, bonkowski said
doug stockel ran across the street and was met at the front door by another neighbor, who kicked down the front door
the kids were already downstairs screaming. he took the kids out, i checked the upstairs. somebody had to go upstairs to make sure there was nobody up there,'' stockel said
as i'm thinking about it, with the gas mains in back, that house could have exploded right there. we could have opened that front door and the flames could have nailed us,'' stockel said. ``the thing is, that was only done on an impulse.''
the children _ randi, 9; erin, 5, and debra, 4 _ were taken to grandparents in warren
don hunt said he was in his house two doors away from the victims' home when he heard the explosion
we were just getting ready for bed,'' he said. ``one minute i hear a real loud roar coming in like a low-flying plane and then real fast ... this is too loud, this is too low. and crash and flames and everything. so you could tell right away it was a plane
at first i thought it could have been a helicopter going by, like a police helicopter, but then it was the wrong kind of sound. it was coming in too fast, like something dropping fast.''
kauffman said the area surrounding the crash site was sealed off and officials from the federal aviation administration and the national transportation safety board were at the scene investigating. offering to end missile duel. no pickup.</note>
iraq fired its 50th long-range missile into tehran today and then iraqi president saddam hussein offered to halt the deadly missile duel if iran did the same
but he warned in a baghdad radio broadcast, monitored in nicosia, that iraq will go on pounding iranian cities with missiles if iran continues to hit population centers, launch ground offensives or attack ``any arab city.''
iran said some civilians were killed in the latest attacks. iraq fired two long-range missiles into the iranian capital, raising to 50 the number it claims to have shot into tehran in 11 days
iran claims to have fired 25 missiles into baghdad and other iraqi cities in the same period
the latest iraqi bombardment was in retaliation for an overnight iranian artillery attack on the southern iraqi cities of basra and qurna, baghdad's official iraqi news agency reported
the agency, monitored in nicosia, said ``a number of civilians'' were killed in basra and qurna, which is 40 miles north of basra
hussein's statement, read by an unidentified military spokesman, followed a joint meeting in baghdad of the ruling revolutionary command council and the regional command of the arab baath socialist party, at which saddam presided
it said the iraqi bombardment of tehran and other iranian cities would halt at 4 p.m. friday if the iranians stop firing
the statement charged that tehran triggered the latest flare-up in the ``war of the cities'' by hitting baghdad with two missiles feb.29
so the last bombardment should be iraq's before the cease-fire goes into effect,'' the statement said
there was no immediate response from tehran, which has appealed to the united nations and other world bodies to force iraq to halt the bombardment
hundreds of civilians on both sides have been killed or wounded in the missile duel, the first time tehran has been hit by long-range surface-to-surface weapons since the iran-iraq war broke out in september 1980
if the enemy iranian regime attacks any of our cities with missiles, warplanes or artillery in retaliation for the last iraqi bombardment, we will continue attacking and teach the rulers of tehran the appropriate lessons,'' the iraqi statement said
it said that if the iranians launched any new ground assaults, ``we shall retaliate ... by attacking all iranian cities ... with all means.''
the iraqis have been braced for weeks for a major iranian offensive in the southern sector of the battlefront, where tehran has been massing troops
the iranians have also been attacking in the mountainous northern sector for several weeks
the iraqi statement called on the u.n. security council to impose sanctions, including an arms embargo, on iran for failing to comply with the council's july 20 cease-fire resolution
earlier, tehran radio reported that iraqi warplanes bombed the central city of isfahan, former capital of ancient persia, hitting a mosque and a school and killing or wounding some children
the radio reported other air raids on hamadan, arak, dezful, shustar, shahr-e kord and burujerd in western iran. it claimed one iraqi jet was shot down by anti-aircraft fire over arak. baghdad denied losing any planes
the official islamic republic news agency said the iraqi missiles hit residential areas of tehran. it said a number of civilians were killed or wounded, but it gave no figures
irna also said iranian fighter-bombers attacked iraqi military positions and economic targets in basra and al-amarah, further north, in three raids today. it said iran inficted ``heavy casualties and damage.''
iranian authorities say at least 157 civilians have been killed and more than 420 wounded in missile attacks on tehran alone in the past 11 days
iraq has not given any casualty figures
in basra, women vowed to have more babies to help their country's war effort, the iraqi news agency said. it said the women promised hussein to ``increase reproduction'' in response to his call for bigger families last november
a police squad leader accused by fellow officers of ordering the execution of a black youth testified that he was drunk at the time and had assaulted the victim
warrant officer leon de villers, 36, concluded his testimony wednesday after six days on the stand during a trial that began in october
the trial is unusual because it focuses on testimony by policemen against their fellow officers. five members of the all-white, 10-member unit have alleged that de villiers and his codefendant, constable david goosen, were responsible for the execution and a fatal stabbing that occurred a few hours earlier. de villiers and goosen are charged with murder in both deaths
according to the five officers, goosen stabbed one black man, andile plaatjie, 45, during an unauthorized foot patrol and later shot 18-year-old mlungisi stuurman in the head after being told by de villiers that the badly beaten youth should be ``taken out.''
de villiers and goosen contended that stuurman was shot accidentally after being taken to a riverside to wash off blood from injuries inflicted when officers assaulted him
de villiers testified that he had drunk most of a bottle of brandy shortly before his unit's two forays into the black section of the cape province town of cradock in july 26, 1986. other members of the unit also drank heavily, according to testimony, and engaged in a blood-oath ceremony in which they swore to keep secrets
de villiers said he was too drunk to accompany his men during the predawn foot patrol, when the stabbing allegedly occurred
during the second foray, de villiers said, he lost his temper because stuurman refused to answer questions, hit the youth and then stood by as other members of the unit beat and kicked him
de villiers said he decided not to report the subsequent shooting of stuurman because he was ``shocked'' and under the influence of alcohol
he said he could not explain why, if the shooting was accidental, five members of the unit alleged it was deliberate
in separate developments:
_ the new nation, a black-oriented weekly newspaper, reported thursday that a black activist was abducted from his home near johannesburg by eight white soldiers last month, taken to a cemetery, and interrogated while lying on a grave with a gun pressed to his neck. police and military spokesmen said the allegation was under investigation
_ a johannesburg police sergeant on trial for murder testified wednesday that he was ordered by his co-defendant, a police captain, to kill three men last year. two of the men were shot dead and one was injured
sgt. robert van der merwe said he carried out the assignment after capt. jack la grange told him the three targets were working for the outlawed african national congress guerrilla movement. testimony in the trial has indicated the murders were related to drug smuggling and had no connection to the anc
gallaudet university's new president, told by an influential congressman she may have no choice but to step down, said today she will meet with instructors and students who oppose her appointment as the head of the nation's only university for the deaf
the congressman, rep. david bonior, d-mich., said he told dr. elisabeth zinser, the school's new president, on wednesday that federal aid for the school may be jeopardized if she refuses to leave the post
there's a variety of scenarios and that's one,'' bonior told the washington post afterward. ``i prefer that she make the decision through a period of meeting with students and faculty and arrive at a decision that's best for the university.''
zinser later acknowledged to an interviewer that ``a very strong signal is being sent to me to resign, but i'm not sure that's uniform.''
her selection has been opposed by students, instructors and alumni who contend it is time for gallaudet to have a deaf president. zinser hears normally and does not know sign language
interviewed today on abc-tv's ``good morning america,'' zinser said ``my deepest concern is to see the university continue its good work and get back to educating students and carrying out its research mission.''
today is the day in which i'm going to attempt to establish the communication that is needed with the students and the faculty. ... my concern at this stage is that as president of the university, that i exercise the leadership to get the university back to business and engaged in the good work that it is doing.''
but such talks are doomed, said the president of the national association for the deaf
gary olsen, himself a graduate of gallaudet, said on the abc-tv program that ``there's no way there will be an open dialogue amongst the faculty, staff and students with her. ... if she wants business to continue, then she should really be honest about it and back down.''
the appointment of zinser, who has been chanceollor of the university of north carolina at greensboro, was announced sunday night. protests closed the university monday; boycotts left classrooms empty tuesday and wednesday
protest leaders had said they were considering a mass student withdrawal today. but one leader, tim rarus, said this morning, ``''we've decided not to do that. we would lose our leverage.''
one deaf student said the protests recall the classic civil rights demonstrations of the 1960s
this is the selma of the deaf,'' gallaudet graduate student kathy karcher said at a rally wednesday, referring to the alabama city where civil rights demonstrators were bloodied by club-wielding police 23 years ago. ``this is a very important moment.''
protest leaders say demonstrations will continue until zinser is replaced. they are also demanding the replacement of jane bassett spilman, the chairwoman of the board of trustees, and the implementation of a plan to make deaf people a majority on the school's 20-member board of trustees. the board has just four deaf members
the gallaudet protesters have encountered none of the violence of the selma demonstrators, but they say their struggle is akin to the trials endured by blacks in their fight for equality
on wednesday, more than half of gallaudet's 274-member faculty attended a meeting and voted overwhelmingly to ask the school's board of trustees to oust spilman. the faculty group also endorsed the students' demands
those are the people i think who are really deaf,'' deaf actress marlee matlin said on ``nightline,'' referring to gallaudet's board of trustees. matlin won a 1986 academy award for her performance as a dropout from a school for the deaf in ``children of a lesser god.''
gallaudet was founded by an act of congress in 1864, and receives three-quarters of its $76 million annual budget in federal funds
investigators in the tawana brawley case have uncovered new details about events during the four days she claims she was abducted and sexually abused, but they are still uncertain exactly what happened, according to a report published today
in a related development, child protection officials are investigating whether miss brawley's welfare has been endangered since she was whisked into seclusion by the rev. al sharpton, according to another report
miss brawley, who was 15 at the time she disappeared for four days starting last nov. 24, has said she was held in a wooded area and sexually abused by at least two and as many as six white men, one of whom flashed a police-type badge. she was found in a plastic bag with racial slurs scrawled on her body and smeared with animal feces
gov. mario cuomo appointed robert abrams, state attorney general, as special prosecutor. but sharpton and miss brawley's attorneys, c. vernon mason and alton maddox, have withheld her cooperation from the investigators
today's new york times reported that interviews with witnesses indicated that:
_ miss brawley made an abrupt decision to get off a bus near her home in wappingers falls, which apparently ruled out the possibility that someone deliberately ambushed her
_ investigators found traces of marijuana and hashish in an apartment near where she was found and that her family had recently been evicted from. the denim jacket she was wearing when she disappeared was also found there and had traces of the drugs in it. but tests performed on miss brawley showed no signs of drug use
_ just before she was found, her mother went into the apartment to look for her. although she found no one, she said she suspected someone had been there because the heat was turned on. a local investigator who entered the apartment described it as ``blisteringly hot.''
_ a charcoal substance that might have been used to write racial slurs on miss brawley's body was found on leather gloves underneath the garbage bag
_ dog feces were found inside and outside her clothing, suggesting to investigators that she might have been naked when they got on her. the yard of the apartment was littered with such feces
in addition, more evidence has surfaced indicating that miss brawley spent at least part of the four days around the apartment, according to the times
on wednesday, child protection officials began investigating whether miss brawley has suffered ``emotional and educational'' neglect, insufficient psychiatric and medical care and inadequate supervision, according to a report in today's daily news
a ``possible neglect'' complaint was filed last week by 79-year-old conrad lynn, chief counsel of the mid-hudson region of the national association for the advancement of colored people. wappingers falls is 50 miles north of new york city
but matthew strong, miss brawley's uncle and legal guardian, said miss brawley is receiving the care she needs
she's going to school and she's in therapy,'' said the monticello police officer
a woman who apparently was part of a crowd that grabbed more than $700,000 that fell from an armored truck has had a change of heart and turned in $28,000, police said
she said she picked up the money and then got kind of scared, so she decided to turn it in,'' sgt. william herndon said late wednesday
the woman, identified only as a 30-year-old postal worker, gave police two clear plastic bags containing a total of $28,000 wednesday, more than 24 hours after a crate filled with money fell from the back of a loomis armored inc. truck
however, most of the estimated $771,000 that was in the crate is still missing, and police warned opportunists they could face felony theft charges if they don't return the cash
the woman, who may have been the one seen throwing money bags into her car and driving away, could be charged with failure to return property to its lawful owner, a misdemeanor, herndon said. she was interviewed by police
since talking with the woman, police think more people than they originally believed were involved snatched the estimated 20 bags still missing. on tuesday, they thought only three to five people took advantage of loomis' misfortune
she did say ... there were so many people picking up sacks that she didn't believe it,'' herndon said. ``it makes sense, because when we interviewed people at the scene, no one knew anything.''
one man at the scene, television repairman luis lopez, managed to save two bags containing $20,050 each and took them straight to loomis' nearby offices
investigators were working to trace license plate numbers and vehicle descriptions reported by witnesses and trying to compile a list of the lost bills' serial numbers
a spokesman for oakland-based loomis declined comment on the incident
the armored truck, carrying more than $1.7 million collected from 20 banks in the san francisco bay area, was headed for loomis' offices from downtown
lt. barry johnson said the driver claimed the rear door had been locked, but that a dolly containing a crate of bills slammed against the door and forced it open
the driver, whose name was not disclosed, did not learn of the mishap until a honking motorist pointed it out two blocks away. police described him as ``white as a ghost and real upset.''
before the driver could return, a crowd gathered around the fallen bags. some people put money back into the crate but others hung onto it, including one man who witnesses said tossed numerous bags into his pickup truck and drove off
police declined to be specific wednesday about the amount involved, saying only that it was more than $500,000. the san francisco examiner reported that $771,000 in $10, $20 and $50 bills fell out of the truck while close to $1 million remained inside
security forces in sao tome and principe shot and killed a suspected american mercenary and captured another in an aborted coup in the west african nation, the head of the national news agency said today
a south african official denied earlier reports that his country was involved in the coup attempt in sao tome and principe, a marxist-ruled island nation off the coast of gabon
stp-press director manuel dende told reporters in the angolan capital of luanda one of two foreign mercenaries presumed to be american was killed when the invaders attacked the central police station in sao tome, the capital, early tuesday. he said the other was captured by government troops
authorities in the two-island nation say two armed raiders were killed, one wounded and 43 captured after they landed on beaches close to sao tome in an abortive attempt to overthrow the government of president manuel pinto da costa. a policeman also was wounded
dende did not provide any further information on the suspected american mercenaries
he told angolan reporters the leader of the invading force, indentified as the head of a sao tome opposition group, was among those captured, along with mercenaries from several other african countries. he said the vessel used to drop the raiders in fishing boats also was seized
he said the coup leader was afonso dos santos, head of a group calling itself the liberators of sao tome and principe. angolan television, radio and newspaper reports quoted unidentified official sources as saying the invading force may have been landed close to the islands by south africans
the south african foreign affairs deparment's director for west africa said that south africa was ``absolutely and categorically not involved.''
reports have appeared recently in west european newspapers about the presence of south africans in equatorial guinea, about 180 miles north of the island of sao tome
in lisbon, portugal, a sao tome government opponent said dos santos was a former colonel in the portuguese colonial army who led an opposition movement based in walvis bay, a south african enclave on the coast of south-west africa
johannesburg's sunday star newspaper last may quoted ``a report circulating in lisbon'' that up to 90 sao tome refugees who arrived in walvis bay seeking political asylum a year before were being trained to launch an armed revolt against their government
the south african government immediately denied the report and said it was trying to find a country which would accept the refugees. they reportedly have been held in custody for the past year as illegal immigrants
the citizen, a pro-government johannesburg newspaper, quoted a roman catholic priest in walvis bay as saying 74 of the refugees were still in the enclave, 1,750 miles south of sao tome and principe
dende quoted military authorities as saying the capture of most of the invading party ``might not have been possible without the help of the people of the island.'' earlier reports said fishermen alerted authorities about four armed men, believed to be on reconnaissance for the coup attempt, two weeks previously
in recent months, pinto da costa has called on government opponents to return from exile. wooed by u.s. and west european aid, he has also unveiled plans to allow small private companies to operate within the state-controlled economy
the president also has announced plans to hold the first general elections since the country gained independence from portugal in 1975. his sao tome and principe liberation movement has ruled as the country's only political party since then. graf pvs, ``all the...'</note>
soldiers shot and wounded three palestinians today in a pre-dawn riot that arabs said was started by jewish settlers who shot at arab homes and vandalized their cars
jewish settlers said the clash began after they were awakened by arab rioters shouting ``slaughter the jews!'' and ``god is great!'' fearing the arabs wanted to attack their homes, some settlers said they rushed into the streets of hebron and fired warning shots
the army said the violence by arabs was aimed only at the military
arab residents said they were awakened at about midnight by carloads of settlers raiding their neighborhoods
all the city was sleeping, nobody was in the streets,'' mustafa natsche, the former mayor, told the associated press. ``it was a dreadful night. there was a sort of battle under the windows of my house, shooting, crying, moaning.''
he said the arabs responded to the attack by throwing rocks at the settlers and israeli troops who arrived
but rabbi moshe levinger told the ap, ``they (the arabs) ran down near the synagogue. they wanted to enter jewish homes. they carried stones. we responded by throwing stones and firing in the air.''
the area military commander disputed levinger's claim
it's important to stress that the riots were directed at the army, and at no stage was there an intention or attempt to attack jewish homes,'' the commander said on israel radio. he did not give his name, in keeping with military regulations
an ap reporter saw dozens of vandalized arab cars, including a station wagon with all its windows broken. arab residents showed several revolver cartridges they collected after the clash and said they turned over nearly 100 to the israeli authorities as evidence
levinger, who has lived in hebron nine years, is one of the founders of the 40-family beit hadassah settlement inside the predominantly arab city of 50,000. there is a second jewish enclave in hebron, the hillside neighborhood of tel rumayda
levinger claimed 500 arabs were involved in the rioting and came to within about 100 yards of jewish homes,. he said about 50 settlers defended the homes
if we hadn't stopped them ... there would have been a slaughter of jews, men, women and children,'' levinger said
but natsche and other arab witnesses said the clashes occured without provocation in arab neighborhoods several miles from jewish homes
natsche pointed to the smashed windows and slit tires of his car parked outside his home, about one mile from the jewish settlements
army spokesmen said 20 to 30 arabs were involved in each of three disturbances in hebron. they said the arabs erected stone barricades, set tires ablaze and threw rocks
according to the army account, the unrest began about 11 p.m. wednesday and lasted until about 3 a.m. at one point, a jeep with soldiers was trapped by the rioters, the army said
in the course of the riots, the lives of the soldiers were endangered, and they were forced to shoot,'' the area commander said
three arabs were lightly wounded in the legs by army gunfire, and two women were taken to a hospital suffering the effects of tear gas, he said
the army said one arab car was set ablaze, but that the unrest was instigated by palestinian rioters, not jewish settlers
the arab-run palestine press service said israelis from the nearby kiryat arba settlement started to smash car windows about midnight and arab residents went outside to see what was happening. the first arabs to go outside were beaten by settlers, said the agency
on wednesday, defense minister yitzhak rabin said the army's efforts to curb three months of palestinian unrest have been hampered by the presence of jewish settlements in the occupied lands
also wednesday, the 10-member inner cabinet refused to endorse a u.s. peace plan designed to end the violence in which at least 87 palestinians have been killed since dec. 8
rabin, speaking on israel television, said the presence of jewish settlers made it difficult for israeli soldiers to put down the unrest
the problem could have been simpler if the whole territory was arab, without jewish settlements. it would have been very easy to close it and not to deal with the problem of roads,'' he said
the navy has pulled the plug on helping production of the abc-tv ``supercarrier'' series, saying the show inaccurately portrays the lives of the crew and officers on a fictional aircraft carrier
after lengthy deliberations the navy determined that the scripts for `supercarrier' did not accurately portray the navy and its people; therefore cooperation was withdrawn,'' a navy spokesman said
navy officials declined to comment on specific plot summaries that prompted concern, but one reportedly involved a tale about gun-running military action in central america
navy spokesman capt. michael sherman said abc could regain the navy's support if future scripts are in line with navy interests
show producer charles fries said, ``i think they're in a wait-and-see mode.''
the show, likened to the movie ``top gun'' with its hard rock sound track and f-14 jet fighters, premiered sunday with a 90-minute movie and took a 13.0 rating and 19 percent audience share. it will be broadcast at 8 p.m. sundays over the next seven weeks
fries said the show at first was planned to focus on the lives of the men and women aboard the carrier, but then shifted to action-adventure
from that point on, the navy became more and more disenchanted because essentially they're concerned about their perception (by the public,)'' he said
right now, the navy is in a peacetime mode ... but to do an action-adventure show we had to get off the carrier and bring in some conflict and jeopardy.''
two episodes remain to be shot, and fries said he had ample shipboard footage left to continue production without navy help
the navy charged fries' company $50,000 for the use of navy personnel, planes and facilities for the scenes that have been shot so far
the show is loosely based on the best-selling non-fiction book of the same name by george wilson, a washington post reporter
i was kind of distressed that they didn't get it a little more realistic in terms of what really goes on out there,'' said wilson, who said one admiral told him: ``you ought to sue abc for not plagiarizing your book.'' step</head>
doctors used a laser in clearing a woman's clogged coronary artery but cautioned that there was no evidence that the beam of energy cleared away the fatty despoits
we put a fiber down there, we gave it energy and we did it safely,'' dr. leonard nordstrom said wednesday of the procedure performed at methodist hospital
doctors performed the procedure tuesday on a 38-year-old woman whose right coronary artery was 90 percent clogged
i don't want to overstate what we've done,'' nordstrom stressed at a news conference. ``i think in cases to come we'll have good documentation that we have removed tissue.''
nordstrom said he stopped the non-surgical laser procedure and inflated a balloon to enlarge the vessel opening before there was evidence that the laser had removed any tissue clogging the artery
lasers have been used previously during open-heart surgery, he said. janis konze said she had no second thoughts about being the first patient to undergo the new procedure
everything went fine,'' said konze, who said she first experienced heart pain last summer and consulted with a doctor about a month ago
i feel wonderful. i'm anxious to go home,'' konze said before her release wednesday. ``i expect to be back to work within a week.''
in the procedure, a specially-designed catheter or slender tube is inserted into a patient's arterial system and guided to a position in the coronary artery where a direct beam of laser energy is directed at the blockage
then the catheter is moved forward to position the balloon in the newly enlarged opening. the physician inflates the balloon and spreads the remaining blockage apart to re-open circulation through the artery
the hourlong procedure, during which nordstrom used one-second bursts of laser energy for two to three minutes, was the first coronary application of the system developed by gv medical inc., of plymouth
gv's lastac system is the first integrated system that combines the use of direct laser energy, fiberoptics and balloon angioplasty catheters, the company said
the procedure was pioneered on larger leg arteries. more than 130 procedures have been performed on leg arteries since may 1986 and the system is now in use at 17 sites around the world, gv said in a statement
with the leg arteries, ``the initial success rate was better than 90 percent, with a success percentage rate in the mid 70s on keeping the vessels open,'' james grabek, gv president and chief executive officer, told reporters
the u.s. food and drug administration has given permission for 10 test coronary procedures to be done, nordstrom said. findings from these clinical studies will be reviewed by the fda before approval is granted for additional procedures, or for procedures to be done at other sites, he said
clashes among rival political groups left at least five people dead today during local elections in india's southern andhra pradesh state, a newspaper reported
three people died in fighting between groups from rival communist parties, and a supporter of prime minister rajiv gandhi's congress party was killed by gunfire from a member of the rival telugu desam party, the united news of india reported
another person was reportedly killed by police gunfire
polling took place for 4,624 village councils. the voting was non-partisan, but many condidates were informally identified with political parties. ^eds: subs 4th graf, `craig said ...,' with 4 grafs to update with other meetings. picks up in 5th graf, `miller, who ...'</head>
the former girlfriend of the leader of the right-wing group the order testified that she helped him distribute $2 million of $3.6 million stolen in an armored car robbery in california in june 1984
zillah craig said wednesday that she also helped robert mathews, killed in a december 1984 shootout with fbi agents on whidbey island near seattle, pass counterfeit bills
craig testified wednesday in the sedition-conspiracy trial of 14 men. ten of them are charged with sedition, five are accused of conspiring to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent, and two are accused of interstate transportation of stolen money
craig said that in august 1984 she and mathews traveled to cohoctah, mich., where they spent the night with defendant robert miles, head of the mountain church. she said mathews took a briefcase with him to a meeting with miles that lasted several hours
craig said she and mathews also met in arlington, va., with william pierce, head of the national alliance, a reputed white supremacist organization
pierce is the author of ``the turner diaries,'' a book that government witnesses have testified formed the basis for the order's plans to overthrow the government and establish an all-white nation in the northwest
miles gave mathews a letter of introduction to glenn miller, head of the white patriots party in north carolina, she said. she and mathews visited miller at his home and gave him about $25,000 to $30,000, she testified
miller, who recently agreed to appear at the trial as a prosecution witness, is to testify this week
craig testified that she gave birth to mathews' baby, a girl, about two months before mathews was killed in the shootout with fbi agents. shortly after mathews' death, she said, miles began sending her money with the notation ``widows and children aid fund.''
she also testified that after visiting defendant richard scutari in federal prison at memphis in october 1986, she relayed to miles a message from scutari that he feared james ellison would cooperate with federal agents
ellison, former leader of the arkansas-based survivalist group, the covenent, the sword and the arm of the lord, did testify for three days two weeks ago. he's considered the prosecution's star witness in the case
in other developments, defendant bruce pierce said wednesday he had changed his mind about his statement tuesday that he would plead guilty to conspiring to overthrow the government
u.s. district judge morris arnold ruled tuesday that pierce had voluntarily confessed to fbi agents shortly after his march 1985 arrest in georgia; that statement prompted pierce to announce his guilty plea
pierce contended that he was coerced into confessing, claiming that authorities told him that his wife would be arrested and his three children placed in foster homes in he did not talk to the fbi
pierce, 34, is serving 100 years for racketeering and 150 years for violating the civil rights of outspoken jewish radio talk show host alan berg, who was shot to death in denver
a judge says he sentenced two rabbis and the wife of one of the men to prison because they ``reaped millions'' as part of a $130 million garment industry tax fraud in which more than 200 companies participated
but u.s. district judge john m. walker said wednesday he took into account a lengthy appeal for leniency by lawyers for the three defendants, all members of the ultra-religious lubavitch sect of judaism and active in their brooklyn community
the three were convicted dec. 4 of one count of conspiracy and 44 counts of aiding and assisting the filing of false federal tax returns
rabbi schnejer zalman gurary, 76, who walker called the ``kingpin'' of the scheme, was sentenced to three years in prison and five years on probation, and was fined $2 million
you reaped millions,'' walker told him. the sentence would have been stiffer, but for gurary's failing health and a thick file of letters attesting to gurary's good community deeds, walker said
gurary's son-in-law, nochum sternberg, 43, was sentenced to 18 months in prison and five years on probation. his wife, esther sternberg, 43, gurary's daughter, was sentenced to 120 days in jail and five years on probation
the sternbergs also were fined $1 million
they faced up to five years on the conspiracy count and three years in prison on each of the 44 aiding and assisting counts
the sternbergs have 11 children, four of whom still live at home, and walker said sternberg was not to begin serving his prison sentence until his wife had completed hers
the judge also accommodated the woman's strong religious beliefs by allowing her to leave jail each week for the jewish sabbath
during the six-week trial, the government said the scheme involved phony invoices from a group of 36 companies known collectively as the ``zalga companies.''
the defendants sold phony zalga invoices, primarily to companies in the garment center, indicating that goods had been purchased when in fact no goods were involved
the garment company would then issue a check to the zalga company issuing the phony invoice. the defendants then returned cash to the company, keeping 10 percent to 15 percent of the amount of the check as a commission
representatives of the other companies, a number of whom testified against the three, were sentenced earlier on various tax fraud charges
according to trial testimony, the defendants issued more than $130 million in fraudulent invoices to more than 200 companies between 1979 and 1986
a lyndon larouche associate says he will assume the traditional duties of harris county democratic party chairman, the office he won in an upset
party leaders, meanwhile, said wednesday they are taking steps to thwart claude jones' influence
jones, an associate of the political extremist, threw the democratic party into turmoil tuesday when he narrowly defeated incumbent larry veselka in the primary. jones received 54,394 votes, or 51.46 percent, to veselka's 51,318 votes, or 48.55 percent
the result shocked party leaders who face working under a chairman associated since 1975 with a fringe presidential candidate strongly opposed by the national and state party
members of the party's steering committee met wednesday night to consider a plan by which the party executive committee would empower the party secretary to run the party rather than jones, who takes office may 2. the 664-member executive committee is made up of elected precinct chairmen
former county party chairman barbara stanley, who attended the meeting, said state law places most of the party's power with the committee rather than the chairman, who has no inherent power
party leaders won't challenge jones' right to hold the office, she said, adding she presumes they will not try to stop him from conducting three legally required county party executive committee meetings during his term
jones said he desires to work with the party, help register voters and defeat the republicans, particularly george bush, whom he described as the likely nominee
larouche associate harley schlanger, appearing with jones, asked, ``do the leaders of the democratic party have a right to tell the voters who their party chairman will be?''
jones dismissed as ``a silly question'' an inquiry about analysts' views that jones' common name and the obscurity of the race accounted for his win
he won, he said, because he has ``been working hard pushing larouche's issues, and those issues finally hit a nerve.''
democratic national committee member billie carr of houston said jones was elected because the voters didn't know of his association with larouche. she said she doesn't blame veselka, who didn't campaign for re-election and was out of the city in the weeks before the campaign
jones, who was defeated by veselka in 1986, said his sole occupation is working for larouche. he said he staffs solicitation booths the larouche organization sponsors at airports and other public places
jones said he will back the democratic presidential nominee although he supports larouche
larouche has accused queen elizabeth of drug trafficking and espouses a quarantine of aids patients
one person happy about the flap was texas republican chairman george strake
i wish them (the democrats) every success under their new leadership,'' he said wednesday
contra rebels have released an american volunteer worker for witness for peace after holding him for 10 days in northern nicaragua, a spokesman for the organization said today
dennis marker, washington director for the group, said richard boren, 30, was released to other witness for peace volunteers wednesday evening near the remote town of quilali
witness for peace opposes contra military aid and documents human rights abuses in nicaragua
boren and 11 nicaraguans were captured march 1 in mancotal, about 25 miles from where he was released and 75 miles north of managua. all but one of the nicaraguan captives had escaped and returned to their villages and the other may have been released with boren, marker said
he said the volunteers still had to travel through the remote region where contra ambushes are frequent but were expected to arrive in managua sometime this evening
he is still in an area that is often under contra attack,'' said marker, ``so we do not yet consider him safe.''
based on radio transmissions from the volunteers to other witness for peace workers in managua, marker said, the only thing he knew about boren's condition was that he has a cold. he said that, depending on his condition, boren plans to hold a news conference in managua on friday
marker said the group had conducted a nationwide phone-in campaign wednesday to the state department demanding that u.s. officials tell the contras to release boren immediately
betsy cripes, witness for peace executive director at its headquarters in durham, n.c., also said boren had been released
we just found out ourselves,'' ms. cripes said. ``it'll take several hours to drive there (to managua),'' she said
a contra spokesman in miami said he could not confirm the report, and there was no immediate word from the state department
the contras earlier had said the american was being ``detained.''
on monday, a spokesman for the state department said contra leaders in washington and florida had agreed to release boren as soon as the rebels could do so safely in front of reliable witnesses
boren had been working in jinotega in northern nicaragua since november, documenting contra activity for witness for peace, the group said. ms. cripes said he would return to north carolina by monday. groups</head> with appellate ruling about nbc, from a0505. picks up in 5th graf, `the prosecutor ...'</note>
three intelligence operatives said fbi and cia officials asked them to infiltrate the political organizations of extremist lyndon larouche, a declassified document shows
the document was made available wednesday to defense lawyers in the fraud and conspiracy trial of larouche, six aides and five of his political groups
the defense, which claims the criminal charges emerged from a white house-directed plot to ruin larouche, won a delay in the trial as a result of the document and a previously disclosed memo indicating two key players in the iran-contra scandal discussed collecting evidence against larouche
a federal judge ordered the prosecutor to search government files for any additional evidence that should be surrendered to defense lawyers
in a separate decision, a federal appeals court ruled wednesday that nbc must surrender to a judge outtakes from a 100-minute interview with a former larouche consultant who said an aide to the political extremist discussed a plot to assassinate henry kissinger. the network broadcast a one-minute excerpt of the interview in april 1986
the decision wednesday by the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals upheld a lower court order that videotape of the entire interview must be surrendered for possible use at the conspiracy and fraud trial
the court also upheld a contempt citation against the network
nbc had contended that surrendering portions of the interview that were not broadcast violated its first amendment right against judicial intrusion into news gathering and editorial decisions
however, u.s. district judge robert e. keeton ruled that the rights of the defendants to have access to the 100-minute interview with forrest lee fick outweighed those of the network
the prosecutor, assistant u.s. attorney john markham, has at times ridiculed defense claims that larouche was a target of infiltration by the fbi and the cia, which is prohibited by law from spying domestically. the defense claims marine lt. col. oliver north, the former national security council aide fired for his role in the iran-contra affair, directed the infiltration because larouche refused to support the nicaraguan rebels
defense attorneys are seeking dismissal of charges on the ground that prosecutors deliberately withheld evidence that the defense later learned of through freedom of information act requests
the fbi document declassified wednesday refers to gary howard and ron tucker, founders of a private, now-defunct dallas company, peregrine international associates
peregrine reportedly was involved in an aborted attempt to sell arms to iranians who planned to assassinate their nation's leader, ayatollah ruhollah khomeini, and helped train contra forces and elite military units in el salvador, honduras and peru
the document also refers to retired sgt. maj. fred lewis, who defense lawyers in the larouche case say also worked for peregrine
when asked about their possible ties to larouche, they (howard, tucker and lewis) claimed they had previously been requested by the fbi and cia to penetrate the larouche organization,'' said the document
lewis, a former member of the army's elite special operations delta force, was said by the fbi document to be an employee of rhyolite management systems of dallas. rhyolite is the name of a spy satellite, the government acknowledged several years ago
a memo to north from retired air force maj. gen. richard secord, one of north's main operatives in the private network to aid the contras, said ``our man here claims lewis has collected information against larouche.''
the defense lawyers said they have been informed by the government that the ``our man'' reference is to oliver revell, an fbi assistant director involved in counterintelligence
fbi spokesman ray mcelhaney said the agency would not comment on the memo during the trial
this was an activity that was headed up by oliver north and mr. secord in a political attempt to stop the larouche people,'' defense attorney michael reilly said wednesday
tucker, a former texas department of public safety narcotics agent, and howard, a former border patrol agent, claim in a lawsuit filed last summer against the customs service that they have been government informants since 1979. tucker and howard are seeking $1.4 million for their expenses in a sting operation that led to the arrest of a man allegedly buying arms for iran
they say the government backed off the case because it would have revealed the reagan administration's arms shipments to iran and the diversion of profits to the contras
the fbi document also said that during interviews with fbi agents in san antonio and el paso, tucker and howard said they had approached family and friends of soviet dissidents andrei sakharov and his wife, yelena bonner, and told the family they could free the couple from the soviet union for $2 million
solidarity leader lech walesa today accused the polish government of violating union rights for denying him a passport to attend an international labor meeting in australia
the leader of the outlawed federation of labor unions said the government had so far ignored his request to attend the meeting march 14-18, according to solidarity spokesman janusz onyszkiewicz. walesa said he was convinced his request was being denied, given recent political statements by the government
government spokesman jerzy urban said two weeks ago that solidarity shouldn't be allowed to send delegations abroad because it has been outlawed
walesa, who won the nobel peace prize in 1983, had asked to go to the meeting of the international confederation of free trade unions in melbourne with three aides
he said today that some solidarity representatives would attend the congress despite the government's action, but he did not elaborate. solidarity operates an external office in belgium
the passport's denial has drawn criticism from australian prime minister bob hawke and prompted trade unionists briefly to block mail delivery and garbage removal at the polish embassy
democrat bob kerrey officially entered the race for the u.s. senate today, telling 300 supporters he expected a tougher campaign than six years ago when he was elected governor in his first try for public office
i would like to be your next senator,'' kerrey said in starting a two-day swing through the state. ``i can promise you i will never betray you. and i will never dishonor the respect i have for you.''
kerrey, 44, ended months of speculation last november when he said he would run for the senate. he has been criss-crossing nebraska since then, saying his main issues are trade policy, the federal budget, education and agriculture
a great and glorious future will not happen unless we do the unglamorous work today,'' he said
no other democrat has filed for the nomination. sen. david karnes, appointed to succeed the late democratic sen. edward zorinsky, and rep. hal daub are seeking the gop nomination
kerrey was a political unknown when he began his campaign for governor in december 1981; he upset incumbent republican charles thone in 1982
a medal of honor winner who lost part of his right leg while serving with the navy in the vietnam war, kerrey was a popular governor in mostly republican nebraska. he made headlines for his romance with actress debra winger, who visited nebraska frequently but later married actor timothy hutton
kerrey's announcement in october 1985 that he wouldn't seek a second term shocked many nebraskans, but kerrey said it was ``time to move on.''
since leaving office, he has been involved in various business ventures, including a restaurant chain and an investment banking firm
he also taught a class on the vietnam war at the university of california at santa barbara and high school government classes in omaha. vranitzky. picks up 7th graf pvs, `the leader ...</note>
this week austria marks the 50th anniversary of anschluss, its annexation by nazi germany, with soul-searching events likened by some to an exorcism
the disclosure of president kurt waldheim's world war ii service in the german army has coincided with a historical reckoning that forced many austrians to confront the nazi past they tried for decades to forget
nobody wanted to talk about the past,'' prominent austrian writer gerhard roth said in an interview. ``waldheim forced it. if waldheim hadn't come along, this never would have happened.''
there is a kind of exorcism going on at the moment,'' said roth, who has written extensively about austrian society for publications in his homeland and west germany
it brings up a lot of filth with it, but it is basically a cleansing process,'' roth said, acknowledging there have been outbursts of anti-semitism since the waldheim controversy came to light two years ago
waldheim, interviewed on nbc's ``today,'' said austria never tried to ignore its nazi past but rather concentrated on rebuilding the nation after the war
this debate is right now coming on in connection with the 50th anniversary of that tragedy,'' he said, insisting again that he was innocent of war crimes
chancellor franz vranitzky said the debate over waldheim should not distract austrians from the lessons to be learned from the past
what we have to do is to think harder about the roots, the political and societal roots, of what happened in the 1930s, which ended up in the tragic and dramatic events of 1938,'' he said
the leader of vienna's jewish community, the city's socialist mayor and former concentration camp inmates were expected at the formal opening tonight of the ``gedenktage,'' or days of remembrance
events culminate friday with a memorial in parliament and another ceremony at the former imperial hofburg palace
roth said many thousands of austrians of the war generation, together with postwar babies educated by unrepentant nazis, absorbed national socialist teachings that went unchallenged for decades
now, the nation is beginning to work the past out of its system. dozens of plays, films, seminars, exhibits, books and a major television series are confronting austrians with rarely viewed pages of their history
recurring images of throngs cheering adolf hitler or crowds ogling jews scrubbing vienna sidewalks contrast with many austrians' view that their country was more a victim of hitler than an accomplice
a highly praised, prime-time television series takes austrians back through the turbulent years from 1918 to 1938, when the small alpine nation struggled to come to terms with the loss of the hapsburg empire
at vienna's austrian film museum, long lines form for tickets to a three-week series of documentary films showing the days of the nazi anschluss, the brutality of world war ii and the horrors of the concentration camps
the burgtheater, austria's most prestigious stage, is presenting anti-nazi plays, including one by bertolt brecht and a mock ``mein kampf'' by hungarian-born georg tabori, to mark the nazi takeover in march 1938
in graz, a city that hoisted the nazi swastika on its town hall before hitler even sent in his troops, an extensive exhibit probes what happened in the town 50 years ago
in linz, the city of hitler's youth that welcomed him as a returning hero in 1938, city fathers will mark the anniversary with a visit to the nearby former concentration camp of mauthausen to honor nazi victims
another exhibit is being held in salzburg, and two vienna museums have exhibits tracing the history of the city's jews, a thriving intellectual community of 200,000 before the war and now numbering just 6,000
the austrian students' union, representing 170,000 students, received $833,000 from chancellor franz vranitzky's office to finance a program to confront people born in the 1960s with a past most of their parents and grandparents rarely discussed
the controversy over waldheim's wartime past plagued both events, forcing waldheim to drop plans to speak at friday's ceremonies. instead, he delivered an address on television
waldheim's inability to play a leading part in events marking the anschluss illustrates the deep division among austrians over both the president and the nation's past
as austrians mull over their history, debate has intensified over a historians' report that questioned waldheim's integrity
the report, published feb. 9, said he covered up his service as a lieutenant with the german army in the balkans, where he knew about nazi atrocities and did nothing to prevent them
the report and waldheim's calm initial response that ``knowledge is not a crime'' and that he was not a war criminal has triggered fierce debate throughout austria
barely a television program goes by without some reference to the controversy or to its damaging effect on austria's image abroad. many people say the divisions caused by waldheim are an uncomfortably close reminder of the splits among socialists, nazis and austrian fascists 50 years ago
roth, who is in his mid-40s, likens the soul-searching to the aftermath of a nuclear disaster
it's as if we had this chernobyl in 1938,'' he said. ``the dust settled, and slowly we forgot about whether it was radioactive
waldheim is like a big geiger counter we brought out to measure the strength of the emissions, and now we have to think how to get rid of the nuclear waste we've discovered.''
the u.s. geological survey has sharply reduced its estimates of how much oil and gas remain to be found in the united states
the new figures were provided to scientists at a meeting in denver last week, while a detailed analysis is expected to be made public sometime next month, explained ozzie girard, the survey's deputy assistant director for engineering geology
the survey now estimates reserves of undiscovered crude oil at 33.4 billion barrels, well below the 54.6 billion estimated in a 1981 study
in addition, the agency has lowered its estimates of the nation's reserves of undiscovered natural gas at 254 trillion cubic feet, down from the previous estimate of 426.8 trillion
girard said today that the figures issued in denver were preliminary, and the survey is preparing reports that will detail its findings by region and will also explain the methods used to arrive at the nunber and the assumptions made by the scientists involved
the new figures, termed working papers by girard, are based on a two-year study looking at drilling results in the last few years
there are two main reasons for the lower estimates. one, of course, is that some previously undiscovered oil and gas fields have now been found
in addition, however, unsuccessful drilling efforts in some areas that had been thought to be promising have caused scientists to lower their expectations for new finds, officials said
a federal appeals judge has temporarily halted attempts by the internal revenue service to revoke the tax-exempt status of ptl, the evangelical empire founded by jim bakker
in an order filed late wednesday in richmond, va., 4th u.s. circuit court of appeals judge william wilkins stayed a lower court ruling revoking ptl's tax exemption. wilkins set a march 31 hearing in greenville, s.c., where lawyers for ptl are expected to argue that loss of its tax-exempt status would be a death blow to the organization
wilkins' stay gives ptl breathing room as it tries to meet a may 1 deadline to reorganize itself with a new tax exemption under the protection of the federal bankruptcy court
we see this as being pivotal to the preservation of ptl as we know it,'' said one ptl attorney who spoke on condition he was not identified
ptl has debts of more than $60 million and is trying to raise about $4 million by may 2. revocation of its tax-exempt status, which it has enjoyed since 1973, could frighten away thousands of people who might contribute to ptl, the lawyer said
the matter reached wilkins on appeal from a monday order by u.s. district judge karen henderson. ms. henderson ruled that the irs could revoke ptl's tax-exempt status, overturning a december order by a u.s. bankruptcy court judge
if it is subsequently determined that the district court incorrectly reversed the bankruptcy court, there is a great likelihood that ptl and those having a financial interest in it will suffer irreparable injury,'' wilkins wrote
the irs wants to revoke ptl's status retroactively to 1981 and has said it would seek at least $55.7 million in back taxes
in effect, the irs has suggested that former ptl leader bakker wasn't running a ministry but a profitable business for himself, relatives and friends
prince charles escaped injury today when an avalanche cascaded down a swiss mountain where he had been skiing, but other members of his party may have been ``involved'' in the snowfall, buckingham palace said
charles' wife, princess diana, and her pregnant sister-in-law, the duchess of york, who are with him at the swiss ski resort of klosters were in a chalet and were safe, the palace spokesman said
japan's unadjusted trade surplus fell in february from a year ago, the finance ministry reported today
the ministry said foreign sales exceeded foreign purchases by $5.24 billion last month, compared with a surplus of $7.13 billion in february 1987
the february surplus was up $3.08 billion from january, but the ministry said trade usually dwindles in january because of the long new year holiday
imports shot up 48 percent from a year ago to a record $14.96 billion in february, while exports rose 17.2 percent to $20.2 billion. the previous high for imports was $14.76 billion in december 1987
japan's surplus in trade with the united states fell to $3.40 billion from $3.97 billion in february 1987. exports rose 9.7 percent to $6.81 billion dollars, while u.s. imports soared by 51.9 percent to a record $3.41 billion
u.s. aircraft purchases accounted for a large portion in the imports, totaling $477.86 million, up 194.2 percent from a year earlier
the previous monthly high for u.s. imports was $3.12 billion set in june 1986
scientists reported encouraging results today in the first human tests of an experimental vaccine that fights a malaria-causing parasite at the stage when it infects red blood cells
studies in young men found that the experimental inoculation delayed or suppressed the development of the disease, colombian scientists reported in today's issue of the british journal nature
last year, other scientists reported partial success for a malaria vaccine that attacks the parasite at an earlier stage, when it is injected by mosquito bites
while malaria is not a major disease in the united states, it strikes an estimated 300 million people each year worldwide
the colombian scientists said their human work followed experimental success in monkeys that were injected with the malaria parasite, called plasmodium falciparum
they experimented in humans with two proteins to spur the immune system to raise defenses against the parasite in its blood-cell stage. nine volunteers were injected two or three times with one or the other, while four more were given no inoculation
the volunteers were also injected with red blood cells infected with the malaria parasite
three of the five volunteers who got one protein had mild infections, but with a steady decrease in parasite counts and total recovery by three weeks. another showed no protection, and the fifth left the study early
two of the four volunteers vaccinated with the other protein showed partial control of the infection for about two weeks, but then the infection progressed and they were cured with drugs. the other two who got that protein showed no protection. that austrians approved anschluss in vote. pick up 8th graf pvs: `austria's nazi...'</note>
president kurt waldheim, commemorating austria's annexation by germany 50 years ago, today apologized for the crimes committed by austrian nazis but ignored his own controversial wartime past
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians,'' waldheim said in a televised speech. ``there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators
obviously, there is no collective guilt'' for the war crimes committed by austrians, the president declared. ``nevertheless, as head of state of the republic of austria, i wish to apologize for nazi crimes committed by austrians.''
it was the first time that waldheim has used such language in public to acknowledge austria's share in world war ii and the holocaust
waldheim did not acknowledge until two years ago that he served in world war ii in a german army unit implicated in wartime atrocities, and he has resisted pressure to resign since it became known
in his speech, the president insisted that ``as a state, austria was hitler's first victim. that is indisputable.''
austria was wiped off the map when nazi troops invaded on march 11, 1938. adolf hitler then returned in triumph to austria, his native land, cheered by hundreds of thousands of countrymen
in april 1938, the nazis said 99 percent of austrians approved the anschluss in a nationwide vote. more than half a million austrians joined the nazi party, and many of the brutal guards in the concentration camps were austrians
austria's nazi past _ largely suppressed here over the past four decades _ has dogged this neutral country since the disclosure in march 1986 of waldheim's wartime service
vienna's socialist mayor, helmut zilk, opening an exhibition looking back at the nazi era in austria, sharply criticized the government for reneging on a promise to help fund the display
zilk charged the coalition government of socialists and conservatives had behaved ``like a dog that shakes off fleas'' by shrugging off the exhibit
he speculated aid was withheld because the conservatives objected to descriptions of the prewar rightist regime called ``austrofascism'' by liberals and socialists
in his speech, waldheim left unmentioned his wartime years in yugoslavia and greece and the furor triggered last month by a historians' report questioning waldheim's integrity during the war
the report did not furnish evidence to clearly back allegations waldheim participated in war crimes, but it said he was ``in close proximity'' to war crimes and did nothing to prevent them
public pressure after the report's release forced waldheim to drop plans to speak at a solemn remembrance of the nazi annexation on friday
waldheim recalled the anschluss, as the nazi annexation of austria is known, as an event that ``triggered an avalanche of suffering.''
it was an avalanche of suffering that buried those who thought differently and, in a terrible racial mania, buried our jewish fellow citizens,'' waldheim declared. ``millions of jewish people were annihilated in the concentration camps
nothing can explain or excuse those crimes,'' said the president. ``i bow in deep respect to those victims who must always serve as a reminder and a duty'' for austria
the controversy over waldheim has divided austria and tarnished the country's image. the u.s. justice department last year barred waldheim from the country as an undesirable alien
waldheim asked foreign critics ``to see austria not only in the light of the horrors of the past but in the light of standing the test'' of the present
turning to his domestic critics, waldheim said, ``i ask you to refrain from blanket charges and from unqualified accusations'' and instead to see austria as a country looking into the future ``open to the world, ready to assist and self-assured.''
he appealed to austrians to ``wrestle with the shadows of the past'' and, repeating earlier statements, called for ``reconciliation.''
waldheim also outlined what he called a program of discussion with politicians of all parties to reform public life and do away with a wave of corruption and other scandals that have hit headlines in recent months
the moral standards of all who work in public life should improve, he said. ^eds: subs 2nd graf with 2 grafs to add year of trial, other background. inserts 1 graf after 6th graf pvs, ``his faith ...,' with defense lawyers not reachable for comment.</head>
the massachusetts supreme court today upheld the convictions of four men found guilty in the 1983 gang rape of a woman on a barroom pool table
in a pair of unanimous rulings, the state's highest court rejected defense arguments about the fairness of the lengthy 1984 trial in bristol superior court that attracted national attention
the case, which originally involved six young men of portuguese descent, drew angry protests by women's groups in support of the victim and brought agony to the portuguese-american community in the fishing city of new bedford, 60 miles south of boston
in ruling against the defendants, the court upheld the punishments handed out to daniel silvia, who was sentenced to nine to 12 years in the state prison at walpole; joseph vieira, who drew six to eight years; and john cordeiro and victor raposo, who were sentenced to nine to 12 years each. two other defendants were acquitted
defense attorneys raised a series of arguments attacking the handling of the trial by judge william g. young, but the high court rejected each one, saying young did not abuse his discretion
bristol county district attorney ronald pina said through a spokeswoman that he was ``very pleased'' with today's rulings
his faith in the judicial system has been substantiated, in spite of all the public turmoil in this case. he's pleased that the community can finally put this issue behind them,'' said spokeswoman charlotte enoksen
none of the four defense attorneys involved in the case were in their offices this morning
the justices noted that the jury could have found credible evidence that on the evening of march 6, 1983, the victim was attacked at big dan's tavern in new bedford and was forced to have sex as she was held down on the pool table
on appeal, vieira and silvia raised several arguments. they claimed that the prosecutor failed to make a timely disclosure of certain evidence that might have helped the defense, depriving them of constitutional rights to due process
they also argued that the bristol county district attorney suppressed until after trial a witness's recorded account of the victim's condition and statements shortly after the rape
and they argued that young prejudiced their ability to present a defense based on the theory that the victim consented to the sexual encounter. on that claim, vieira and silvia complained about the exclusion of an allegedly false prior complaint of rape by the woman, and other evidence
each claim was rejected by the unanimous supreme court
in their separate appeal, cordeiro and raposo argued that young's order prohibiting coverage of the victim on camera at the televised trial was an abuse that prejudiced their right to a fair trial
they also claimed that young erred in refusing to instruct the jury on the defense of consent to rape. in addition, raposo raised claims about young's decisions on trying the defendants together and on allowing evidence of a prior conviction
again, the high court dismissed each claim. unable to do business, bishops appealing to military to allow civilian rule, new quotes. no pickup.</note>
most banks said today they didn't have the cash to open despite a government go-ahead to resume limited transactions. roman catholic bishops urged the military to bow to civilian rule
the national banking association, representing 97 of the approximately 120 banks doing business in panama, said its members ``are not in condition to renew services'' and will remain ``closed temporarily.''
according to the statement, banks reiterated to their depositors ``the security of the funds entrusted to them and their inalterable decision to find the conditions that might permit the most prompt return to normality of the banking system.''
it was the eighth straight day of a nationwide bank closure, which came a few days after the ouster of president eric arturo delvalle by supporters of military strongman gen. manuel antonio noriega
on wednesday, the nation's roman catholic bishops appealed to the military to subordinate itself to civilian rule
in a statement distributed by archbishop marcos mcgrath, the religious leaders also urged fellow panamanians to put personal and party interests aside in finding a solution to the crisis
it said the bishops believe necessary ``the strict observance of constitutional standards, the full and effective subordination of military forces to civilian authority, the search for conditions and structure that make possible national elections that deserve the credibility of all the voters, the restoration of the exercise of all human and civil rights and ... the reopening of the communications media.''
also wednesday, the nephew of the late omar torrijos, panama's previous strongman, disclosed that he had broken with the noriega government. santiago torrijos said he left his post as chief of panama's consulate in los angeles and was joining forces loyal to delvalle
diplomatic sources in washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said torrijos' defection was significant because of the close identification of his relatives with the defense forces
the government's national banking commission told local and international financial institutions late wednesday they could reopen but only to accept deposits and transfer funds among themselves and other banks around the world
none did
the cash shortage was caused by the freezing of millions of dollars in panamanian funds in u.s. banks. the united states continues to recognize delvalle as the leader of panama and has called for the resignation of noriega, under indictment in florida on drug trafficking charges
rufina escobar, a 55-year-old schoolteacher, said she had enough food on hand at home to make it through the week. ``but if the banks don't open next week, i'll have to ask friends for a few dollars just to eat.''
arial simons, 17, complained that his mother had cut off his weekly $10 allowance
i guess i won't be going to the movies or any parties this weekend,'' he said. ``i don't even have the money to buy a beer.''
clerks at sarah's, one of panama city's most fashionable department stores, spent their time dusting shelves, chatting among themselves and waiting on an occasional customer
people aren't buying anything unessential,'' said one young clerk, whose name tag identified him as esteban. ``they're being very cautious with their money. business is way, way down.''
the young man declined to give his last name ``because i don't want any trouble.''
people everywhere were hoarding their cash, which was the only thing most businesses were accepting because they couldn't process checks or credit card transactions
a lone customer at sarah's cosmetics department was buying lipstick, occupying the attention of only one of five bored saleswomen. the customer explained her purchase almost defensively as she left the store
i work in an office and i have to look nice,'' she said. then she dug into her purse, pulled out an empty tube of lipstick and declared: ``look, this was all i had left. i just had to buy more. but something like new shoes, that's out.''
the woman, whose husband admonished her with a wagging finger not to give her name, said she hadn't bought anything else except household essentials since the banks closed last week
i bought large bags of beans and rice, a lot of milk for the kids and things like that,'' she said. ``but we're being careful, too, because we don't know how long this thing will last.'' four grafs, picking up in 5th graf pvs, kemp departed</note>
rep. jack kemp quit the race for the republican presidential nomination today after a string of poor performances in the early primaries and caucuses, but vowed to ``carry the flag high'' for his conservative causes
we have not failed because our ideas are winning,'' the new york congressman said at a capitol hill news conference where he clearly signaled his interest in the 1988 vice presidential nomination
flanked by members of his family and house members who supported his white house bid, kemp said he would not seek re-election to a 10th term in the house from his district in upstate new york, and had no plans to run for the senate
asked about the no. 2 spot on this year's ticket, he said, ``obviously you don't make plans to run for vice president.'' asked again, he called the idea ``a very flattering and awesome thought. ... would i think about it, the answer is yes.''
kemp departed the race with a pledge to campaign for the republican nominee _ and a blast at the democrats
we must never compromise with the liberal democratic congress,'' he said to applause. ``we must replace the liberal democratic congress.''
kemp made his exit after failing in his bid to emerge as the true heir to the reagan revolution and the conservative alternative to gop front-runner george bush and sen. bob dole of kansas
his efforts were thrwarted by former television evangelist pat robertson, whose surprise second-place finish in the lead-off iowa caucuses was a blow from which the congressman never recovered
even so, he claimed success for his efforts, noting bush's statement that he opposes tax increases to cut the deficit and dole's support for the nicaraguan contra rebels and the star wars initiative pushed by president reagan
kemp bowed out two days after winning just four delegates from 712 at stake in 17 super tuesday contests. his best finish in the 17 gop contests was a dismal 7 percent showing in the massachusetts primary
kemp had 35 committed delegates _ but most of those were handed to him by bush in a michigan compromise designed to prevent robertson from claiming a victory
campaign spokesman john buckley said kemp spent $15 million on his effort, and departs with debts of less than $100,000
some aides to kemp had urged him to get out even before the super tuesday voting across the south and elsewhere, following his fourth-place finish in south carolina's primary
as recently as monday kemp insisted he would press on, but he acknowledged he had to reassess his candidacy after the tuesday voting
there were rumors we would withdraw after iowa,'' he said. ``but i'm not a quitter. i'm an ex-quarterback, and i don't enter a contest lightly.''
kemp, a former professional football player, campaigned as a candidate of ideas and claimed to be heir to president reagan's conservative legacy
but his emphasis on economic opportunity and talk of returning to something like a gold standard didn't excite many conservatives who were concerned about more emotional issues. despite years of work for his white house aspirations, kemp was never able to light a spark outside his small group of loyalists
his problem was summed up last year by angela jackson, who tried to persuade her brother, conservative commentator patrick j. buchanan, to enter the presidential race
jack kemp's been out there for two years,'' she said. ``he's gone from 7 percent to 7 percent.''
kemp, 51, formally entered the gop race on april 6, 1987
he was a strong proponent of deploying the strategic defense initiative, reagan's space-based missile defense system, and a tough opponent of any tax increase
he blasted both bush and dole in a debate in dallas in february, saying they were identical tax raisers whose election would signal the end of the ``reagan revolution.'' his rivals countered that in his zeal, kemp was ignoring the danger of huge budget deficits
larry rosenthal, a newsman in the baltimore bureau of the associated press since 1981, has been named correspondent in new haven
hartford chief of bureau mary anne rhyne announced the appointment wednesday
rosenthal, 33, was a reporter for the central maine morning sentinel in his hometown of waterville, maine, before joining the ap. he is a graduate of hobart college
in new haven, rosenthal succeeds susan okula, who has taken maternity leave and will return to the ap's hartford bureau. presidency, subbing 5 grafs for grafs 5-6 pvs, ``i ran ... vice presidency; subs 21st graf pvs, jackson for</note>
republican presidential hopeful jack kemp quit the race today, saying ``we may have suffered a political defeat but our principles have not been defeated.'' democrat gary hart was ready to drop out a second time as the shrinking field converged on illinois for the next big campaign test
kemp was crushed in the super tuesday landslide of vice president george bush, who rejoined the campaign trail today after taking a day off to rest and celebrate
the new york congressman congratulated bush and said he would ``be proud to campaign'' for whoever wins the nomination, but he endorsed none of the three remaining gop contenders
i am folding up my tent, but i plan to continue to carry the flag high,'' said kemp, the former pro football quarterback who portrayed himself as the natural conservative heir to president reagan, whose economic programs have included many of kemp's ideas
he said both bush and sen. bob dole have embraced conservative positions, partly because of his presence in the presidential campaign
kemp said he would not seek a new term in congress and was ``not making any plans'' to run for the senate or to pursue the vice presidency. however, he called the idea of the vice presidential nomination ``a very flattering and awesome thought. ... would i think about it, the answer is yes.''
dole, who also was all but buried in the bush victories on tuesday, campaigned in chicago today, trying to sow seeds of doubt about bush's chances in november if he should win the gop nomination
i would be a much stronger candidate,'' dole said
democratic sen. albert gore jr. of tennessee was also in chicago, and was making similar comments about his chief rival. ``for those who want another election blowout and see the democratic party losing 49 of 50 states, vote for mike dukakis,'' he said
on wednesday, bush suggested to dole, his closest competitor, that the race for the gop nomination was becoming just a bit beside the point. it might be time, he said, to turn the attention toward the general election in november
i believe it is now time to look ahead to the issues which distinguish us from the democrats,'' the vice president told dole in a telegram in which he rebuffed the kansas senator's request for a series of one-on-one debates
good luck,'' bush added
dole was having none of that, as he searched for a share of illinois' 82 gop delegates at stake in tuesday's primary
i've got to win in illinois,'' he said. later, he told law students: ``i feel like i've just taken the finals, and i didn't flunk but i didn't do too well either.''
and he taunted bush for refusing to agree to the no-moderator debates, saying: ``here's a chance, george, to finish me off right here in illinois.''
dole said wednesday that kemp telephoned him to tell him he would drop out on thursday and to say he would endorse none of his rivals
it looked like the end of the line for hart as well. the colorado senator refused to talk to reporters about the super tuesday results. but he scheduled a denver news conference friday morning, and sources said he was abandoning his bid
the super tuesday races left hart disqualified for further federal matching funds. he technically lost his eligibility last month, but could have restored it with a 10-percent draw in any of the day's primaries
hart had already dropped out of the democratic race once. in may, he quit amid reports of his relationship with a miami model, and he amazed political observers by declaring in december that he was back
let the people decide,'' he said. but the people accorded him few votes in any of the early contests
the rest of the democrats were gathering for a forum tonight sponsored by illinois democrats
two of the democrats _ sen. paul simon and jesse jackson _ were campaigning on home turf in illinois, with its prize of 173 democratic delegates. simon, who bypassed tuesday's contests and said he must do well in illinois to continue, wasn't planning to spend any money on television advertising
i offer illinois 30 years of service rather than a 30-second commercial,'' he said
jackson, for his part, made a triumphant homecoming to chicago on wednesday, still thrilled by his showing the day before. he placed first in the popular vote, splitting a big delegate haul with massachusetts gov. dukakis and gore
we get stronger every day,'' jackson told plant workers in suburban chicago
at a rally later, he promised to eschew attacks on the other democrats. ``i'm moving ahead,'' he said. ``i'm going to fight george bush. that's my opposition.''
gore, however, pronounced himself the democrat most likely to succeed in november
i'm not going to say that any of our candidates are unelectable,'' he said in an interview on cable news network. ``but i have the best chance.''
the theme of electability was also sounded by dukakis. ``i hope when the people of illinois cast their votes they'll do so for someone who can clearly win the presidency,'' he said
rep. richard gephardt, who carried only his home state of missouri in tuesday's contests, said he was still in the running
pat robertson, his gop campaign flagging, said wednesday he would take a day off before heading for illinois. ``it isn't over yet,'' he said
here is the text of new york rep. jack kemp's statement thursday on his withdrawal from the republican presidential race:
last april, when i was explaining to my family about our race for the presidency, we had a moment of family time. jeffrey was there at the time, as well as jimmy and judith and jennifer, and joanne of course. and i quoted the book of ecclesiastes. i'd like to share it with you today. it tells us that in everything there is a season and a time for every purpose under heaven. there's a time to fight, a time to do battle
well, ladies and gentlemen, we've fought the good fight. we've fought long and hard and well. i want to thank from the bottom of my heart my family, my colleagues and comrades-in-arms, the large family of kemp supporters across the country. i want to tell each and every one of you that you can hold your heads high. we've waged an honorable, spirited, a principled campaign on issues and ideas, and frankly, in many ways, that's the most important victory of all
but then there's a time to refrain, a time to not fight, a time to accept defeat in one battle, so we can move on to fight again. i want to salute my fellow candidates: george bush, bob dole, pat robertson, and pete du pont and alexander haig as well. and joanne and i particularly want to congratulate today george and barbara bush for their great victory across the south on super tuesday. today, i'm withdrawing from the race for president. i'm folding up my tent, but i want you to know i'm going to continue to carry the flag high now and in the future
far more important than personal success in an election is the cause in which we believe. i ran for the presidency to ensure that the torch that we lit in 1980 in detroit, michigan, when we nominated ronald reagan and revolutionized the republican party, would burn even brighter and help light the way into the 1990s
we may have suffered a political defeat, but our principles have not been defeated. we have not failed because our ideas are winning. we know our ideas are winning when george bush says we must not reduce the deficit by raising taxes, that we need to cut the capital gains tax, that we need to enact free enterprise zones to unleash the talent of the inner city and to create more jobs, and when he says that we need to strengthen free and open trade throughout the world
we know our ideas are winning when bob dole pledges to support the freedom fighters and deploy the strategic defense initiative. we know our ideas are winning when every single republican candidate says that he supports the inalienable right to life for the born and the unborn, and pledges to fight for a pro-family, and a drug-free future for america. i want you to know, i'll be proud to campaign for any republican nominee who carries that banner, and i will fight at his side as long and as far as he carries that banner on the field of friendly strife
to my fellow republicans, i would say that in politics as in the marketplace, winning means staying ahead of your competitors. it means not only having better ideas, but carrying them through to completion. our party must never drift back to mindless austerity. we must never close our eyes to economic and moral challege. we must never break faith with the family or with senior citizens, or ignore the threat from a dangerous enemy that remains at war with freedom and democracy throughout the world
let the liberal democrats try to raise the burden of taxes on the workers and the families of america. let liberal democrats turn their backs on the freedom fighters around the globe. let liberal democrats raise tariffs on our allies and friends while they shirk the responsibility to preserve peace through strength. the american people will reject such a party, just as roundly and overwhelmingly in 1988 as they did in 1980 and 1984
ladies and gentlemen, we must not compromise with the liberal democratic congress. we must replace the liberal democratic congress with a free-enterprise congress. ours is a greater cause. our ideas can move america and the whole world forward, but like the good shepherd, we can't leave anyone behind
we can't rest until our economy is so strong that there's a job for every man and woman in america who wants to work, until our dollar once again is as good as gold and the budget is in balance. we can't rest until we've helped freedom fighters to victory and until we've researched, tested, developed, deployed, and built a strategic defense for the united states of america and our allies in europe and israel. we can't rest until all of us, black and white, christian and jew, rich or poor, are living in an america that is more prosperous but more tolerant, more decent and more generous, an america bound together as the founder of our party, abraham lincoln, envisioned the republican party _ as a people party, as a freedom party, as an emancipation party, to help make america one nation under god with liberty and justice and equality of opportunity for all
i want to close, if i can, my remarks by pulling from my pocket something i've carried around with me since super tuesday. joanne and i went to bed tuesday night and found a little note on our pillow from one of our children. it was from our daughter jennifer, and she told us that she loved us and that she was proud of us. and then, as a typical kemp child, she ended by quoting winston churchill. and it wasn't because they all went to winston churchill high school; it's because all the kemps love churchill, as freedom-loving men and women do throughout the world
jennifer ended her little letter by saying, ``finally, dad, as winston churchill said, `success is never final, failure is never fatal, it's courage that counts.' and you're the most courageous people i know.'' well, i want you all to know that no father, no candidate, no human being could ask for more than to have a courageous family, courageous comrades-in-arms, and courageous men and women around this country who believe in the ideas upon which america was built in the past, and upon which, alone, we can build a great victory for america and the world in the future
thank you, jennifer. thank you to my family. thank you to each and every one of you. and may god continue to bless america. thank you very, very, very much. hundreds arrested. pick up 3rd graf pvs: `she said...'</note>
thousands of police patrolled the tibetan capital of lhasa on foot and in trucks today on the anniversary of a bloody uprising. foreigners in lhasa said hundreds of people were arrested in the past six days
the anniversary of the outbreak of the 1959 tibetan uprising against chinese rule passed without major incident, said foreigners in lhasa contacted by telephone from the southwest china city of chengdu
but more than 100 trucks carrying armed police drove through the main streets of the city of 150,000 in a show of force and several dozen police with machine guns stood in front of the city's holiest buddhist temple, the jokhang, said benjamin watson of new york city, a tourist
watson, who speaks tibetan, said tibetans estimated at least 300 people had been arrested since a clash saturday between police and tibetans demanding independence. up to eight people were reported killed in the clashes
the official news agency xinhua also said the situation in lhasa today was normal. it said 100 top tibetans gathered in lhasa to denounce the riots and ``those who conduct evil doings under the guise of lama (monks).''
another foreign traveler in lhasa, who said she spoke some tibetan, said tibetans had told her of a police sweep today on the jokhang temple in which monks were arrested. she spoke on condition of anonymity
she said armed police were stationed at every corner of the barkhor market square around the jokhang, and there was no recurrence of saturday's daylong battle between police and monk-led tibetans
march 10 is the 29th anniversary of a tibetan revolt against chinese rule that resulted in the flight of the dalai lama, spiritual leader of the tibetans, and 100,000 followers, and a bloody crackdown by the chinese army
a nepalese-tibetan interviewed today in the southwestern china city of chengdu, air gateway to lhasa, said he had seen signs in lhasa written in tibetan and posted before saturday's disturbance calling for people to rise up on march 10
on that day in 1959, thousands of tibetans surrounded the norbulinka, the dalai lama's summer palace in lhasa, after hearing rumors that their god-king would be kidnapped by the chinese army
on march 17 the dalai lama fled from the palace and led his followers to exile in india. on march 20 the army attacked the palace, and quashed the rebellion after three days of bloody fighting
in new delhi today, about 200 tibetan refugees clashed with police during a rally marking the anniversary of the abortive uprising. seven tibetans and nine policemen were injured
in a statement issued from his home in exile in dharamsala, northern india, the dalai lama called on tibetans to ``honor the courage of our brethren in tibet who have taken to the streets to draw attention to their suffering under chinese colonial rule.''
china, which took control of tibet in 1950, claims the mountain region has been part of chinese territory for seven centuries. many tibetans disagree, and hold deep antagonisms toward the chinese because of the communist government's past suppression of tibetan language, customs and religion
tibetans, led by monks from lhasa's main monasteries, staged three pro-independence demonstrations last september and october, including a violent clash on oct. 1 in which at least 14 died
after those disturbances, chinese authorities closed off some monasteries and subjected monks to re-education campaigns
there were no other major shows of resistance and authorities decided to go ahead with the annual 10-day ``moinlam qenmo'' prayer festival, one of tibetan buddhism's most important events
the disturbances saturday began on the final day of the festival, when monks stood up at the jokhang temple, began shouting pro-independence and pro-dalai lama slogans and throwing rocks at police
except for sporadic rock-throwing incidents on sunday, lhasa has reportedly been calm since saturday
texas fired a new salvo in its war against florida citrus by suing u.s. agriculture secretary richard e. lyng
the suit, filed wednesday in federal court in brownsville, accuses lyng of violating federal law when the u.s. department of agriculture ended a 3{-year quarantine on shipments of fresh florida citrus to texas and other citrus-producing areas
texas wants to keep the florida fruit out because of a fear of bacterial citrus canker, officials said. canker prompted the ban on florida citrus after an outbreak of the disease in some areas there in august 1984
u.s. district judge filemon vela denied texas' request for an emergency stay of a usda rule that on feb. 11 ended the florida citrus ban
vela scheduled a hearing for monday morning when federal attorneys will have an opportunity to comment on the action brought wednesday by officials of the texas attorney general's office and state agriculture department
usda officials in washington declined comment on the lawsuit this morning, said department spokeswoman tammy bragg
the suit accuses lyng of violating the federal administrative procedure act by lifting the quarantine without publishing notice and providing a chance for a public hearing
the bacterial canker disease can cause defoliation of citrus trees, lesions that render the fruit unmarketable, and premature dropping of the fruit from the tree. the disease exists in several forms, with some considered less dangerous than others
a gulf coast area of florida where the aggressive asiatic strain of canker was discovered remains under quarantine
last september, the usda published a proposal to lift the quarantine against florida fruit, but on jan. 5 withdrew the proposal after new canker outbreaks were discovered in florida
on feb. 15, four days after lyng lifted the ban, texas imposed an emergency 30-day quarantine on fresh florida citrus
florida producers maintain that canker presents a minimal threat to the texas citrus industry, and some florida growers filed suit last month to stop the texas quarantine. the quarantine would have expired next saturday
a federal court in austin on march 1 overturned the texas quarantine, and ruled that the federal rule took precedence over the state's action
the suit filed on wednesday accuses lyng of violating federal law by not giving the public or the state opportunity to comment
the texas suit seeks reinstatement of the quarantine and a formal hearing process if usda makes a new proposal to end the quarantine on florida citrus
the lawsuit says texas at least would like to keep florida fruit out of the lower rio grande valley, where the state's $65 million citrus industry is concentrated on about 30,000 acres in hidalgo, cameron and willacy counties
here are the latest statistics on acquired immune deficiency syndrome in the united states, as reported this week by the national centers for disease control:
total cases reported since june 1981: 55,167
cases, year to date: 4,826
total deaths: 30,932, or 56 percent of all cases
homosexual or bisexual males: 34,925, or 63 percent
intravenous drug abusers: 9,564, or 17 percent
homosexual male and drug abusers: 4,045, or 7 percent
heterosexual cases: 2,189, or 4 percent
transfusion or blood cases: 1,433, or 3 percent
hemophilia patients: 559, or 1 percent
undetermined transmission cause: 1,685, or 3 percent
childhood cases (under age 13): 886, or 2 percent
cases among whites: 32,999, or 60 percent
cases among blacks: 14,089, or 26 percent
cases among hispanics: 7,575, or 14 percent
cases among other: 504, or 1 percent
(note: these statistics are through march 7 and have been rounded by the cdc to the nearest whole percent. cumulative totals are for aids cases reported since june 1981, and include 75 cases subsequently found to have occurred prior to that date. the ``other'' classsification under age and race includes asians, american indians and native alaskans.) withdraw troops doesn't mean end to afghan aid. no pickup.</note>
the soviet union said today that an agreement on the withdrawal of its troops from afghanistan is not a commitment to end military aid to the kabul government
soviet ambassador nikolay kozyrev said the question of a halt to soviet assistance has ``not arisen'' in the almost 6-year-old u.n.-sponsored afghanistan peace talks
he said the draft agreement would not bar any kind of soviet aid, except the sending of new troops into afghanistan, where the soviets intervened in 1979. an estimated 115,000 soviet troops are helping the marxist government fight u.s.-backed moslem insurgents
kozyrev rejected the u.s. demand for a ``symmetrical cessation'' of military aid to both sides in the war. kozyrev said it was an attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of afghanistan and in the bilateral relationship between kabul and moscow
he said the demand would be tantamount to moscow calling for an end to u.s. military aid for pakistan
kozyrev also warned that if a geneva settlement were not signed, a ``new flare-up of bloodshed and fratricidal war cannot be excluded.''
kozyrev, a specialist on asian affairs, came to geneva as head of a soviet team of experts to follow the peace talks. his remarks followed a statement by afghan foreign minister abdul wakil, who said wednesday that moscow had helped afghanistan for years and would continue to do so after the troop withdrawal
wakil has said earlier that the draft agreements provided only for a halt to arms shipments to the guerrillas fighting the kabul government. the united states is considered the insurgents' main supplier, with deliveries totaling a reported $700 million last year
kozyrev said the peace talks have ``bogged down'' because of pakistan's insistence on having a settlement linked to the formation of a transitional government in kabul to oversee the withdrawal of the red army troops
pakistan, which represents afghan rebels in the peace talks, says that a government to replace the present soviet-backed one would ensure stability and the safe return of more than 5 million afghan refugees
kozyrev sidestepped a question on whether negotiations could continue after next tuesday, a target date set by moscow. soviet leader mikhail gorbachev said last month that the troops would leave afghanistan starting may 15 if an agreement were reached march 15
i can only hope that the other side (pakistan) will show enough common sense and responsibility,'' he said, adding later, ``it is too early to say what will happen after that date.''
wakil and the pakistani delegations have both made plain that they do not consider march 15 a deadline and that a settlement at a later date would just put off the start of the withdrawal. in 2nd graf pvs, ``well we</note>
republican presidential candidate bob dole sought today to sow doubts about the party's front-runner, saying vice president george bush will face a ``tough, tough race'' in november if he is the gop nominee
i would be a much stronger candidate,'' dole said as he campaigned in the chicago area. ``that's the message we're going to try to make in the next couple of days.''
dole planned to concentrate today on suburban chicago before heading downstate for a swing friday through farm country where the kansas senator considers his support the strongest
he started the day with a tour of the rehabilitation hospital of chicago, which is near another hospital where dole underwent surgery 40 years ago for injuries he received in world war ii
this is going to be the political recovery state just as it was the personal recovery state 40 years ago,'' dole said on wednesday. ``that may be more symbolism than anything, but to me it is an indication that it can be done.''
on wednesday, one day after dole's super tuesday drubbing, a senior campaign adviser was quizzed whether the results had triggered a ``meltdown'' in the kansas republican's presidential candidacy
well, we might have started evacuating around the reactor,'' quipped the aide, thomas rath
his reply reflected the perilous situation as dole's campaign works toward the march 15 illinois primary, which even the candidate openly acknowledges is a do-or-die contest if he is to have any chance of beating vice president george bush for the gop presidential nomination
dole, campaigning in the chicago area on wednesday, said he must win at least 65 percent of all remaining delegates nationwide as well as those who are uncommitted if he is to emerge victorious. his first objective is illinois, a state where bush has the backing of gov. james thompson and 93 of the state's 102 gop county chairmen
i've got to win illinois,'' dole said bluntly at one campaign stop. later, speaking to northwestern university law school students, dole made it even more clear that his political survival was at stake. he renewed a challenge to bush to participate in a series of freewheeling one-one-one debates
i just appeal to george bush. here's a chance, george, to finish me off right here in illinois,'' dole said. the debate challenge is mentioned at every campaign stop and is a key part of dole's strategy to try to draw bush into a discussion of issues and break his link to president reagan. dole attributes bush's sweep of the 17 super tuesday primaries and caucuses to reagan's popularity
george bush is running like ronald reagan,'' said dole. ``it's tough to beat ronald reagan. i can't beat him. i can beat bush, but beating ronald reagan is impossible. bush has wrapped himself around reagan and it's been very effective.''
dole never misses an opportunity to chip away at bush's record and to raise questions about the vice president's ability to defeat a democrat in the november general election
i don't have any real quarrel with george bush except i think i'm a stronger person. i think i know more about the issues. i think i'm a better leader,'' bush told a group of lawyers at a downtown chicago reception
already, the dole campaign is airing television advertising in illinois that touts dole's leadership in the senate and focuses on what the kansan says are nine different answers by bush to his role in the iran-contra arms-for-hostages affair. similar ads were used to no avail against bush in the south
but increasingly, dole is highlighting the ``electability'' question in his attempts to revive his campaign _ even though he concedes ``it's hard to make that an issue.''
i think there is one person between me and the white house and that is george bush,'' dole quipped at the lawyers' reception. ``i think there are a couple of people between him and the white house.''
dole told supporters ``if i can turn it around in illinois ... then the momentum changes.''
the republicans, i think, will take a deep breath and reconsider the choice before them,'' he said. ``and that's why i take heart that i'm sort of back in the heartland.''
here are excerpts of a televised speech thursday by president kurt waldheim as austria remembers the nazi annexation of march 1938. the text was translated from german by the associated press

in these days, we are remembering the events which 50 years ago led us into the darkest epoch of our recent history
... there were also hundreds of thousands of austrians, who welcomed the anschluss, who feted hitler and the invasion and pinned many false hopes on it
it was a mass psychosis of a kind that only totalitarian regimes can create. today we know that one should resist the very beginnings of intolerance and instigation. today we know where the fanning of fanaticism, hate and violence lead
today we know that, with march 11, 1938, an avalanche of suffering was triggered
it was an avalanche of suffering that buried those who thought differently and, in a terrible racial mania, buried our jewish fellow citizens. the holocaust is one of the greatest tragedies of world history. millions of jewish people were annihilated in the concentration camps. nothing can explain or excuse those crimes. i bow in deep respect before these victims, who must always be a reminder and a duty for us
the avalanche of suffering also caught up countless men and women of the resistance, who had to give their life for the freedom of austria
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians. there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators. let us not give rise to the impression that we had nothing to do with this. obviously there is no collective guilt. nevertheless, as head of state of the republic of austria, i wish to apologize for nazi crimes committed by austrians
but as a state, austria was hitler's first victim. that is indisputable. though it resisted hitler's political and economic pressure for years, it went under. the international community of states gave us no help against the aggression
our country is open to criticism. as the head of state of our republic, however, i would ask the critics to be fair and objective. i would ask them not only to see austria in the light of the horrors of the past, but in the light of how it has stood the test in the present
i ask you to refrain from blanket charges and from unqualified accusations and to look at austria as it stands in the late 1980s: secure and open to dialogue, open to the world, ready to assist, self-assured and pointed toward the future
but as your elected president, i also appeal to you, my dear countrywomen and countrymen, to wrestle with the shadows of the past. the meaning of these days lies in reflection, not in dispute. ... the meaning of these days can be only one thing: reconciliation
the ugly storm of scandals which has confronted us in the last years underlies the necessity of a basic reform of public life ... of an improvement of moral standards for all who have to act and work in the public interest. in the coming months, i will use the authority of this office to discuss the perspectives and contours of such a reform with representatives of all political institutions in austria
the moral renewal of our republic is an undertaking which can only have the desired success if it is supported and carried by all those responsible
let us assume resonsibility for our mistakes in a way that would encourage avoiding mistakes in the future. let us love our country without false shame and arrogant pride so that austria also finds a place in the hearts of youth:
_ as a country that has come to terms with itself,
_ as a country which has learned from history,
_ as a country that despite some mistakes deserves affection,
_ as our common ``much tested, much loved'' austria
a dermatologist removed a small patch of skin from nancy reagan's upper lip and tests show it to be non-cancerous, her spokeswoman said thursday
it was from too much sun,'' mrs. reagan's press secretary, elaine crispen, said
the first lady ``had a little scraping'' done to remove the skin patch and no stiches were required, mrs. crispen said. she was informed of the results of the tests on monday, the spokeswoman added
the procedure was performed at the white house over the weekend by adm. william narva, a u.s. naval dermatologist who is the attending physician to congress, the spokeswoman said
the first lady wore a small adhesive bandage for two days but is no longer wearing one, mrs. crispen said
the procedure marked the second time the first lady has had a growth removed from the area. in 1982, a growth was removed that was diagnosed as a basal cell carcinoma
last august, president reagan had a skin cancer identified as a basal cell epithelioma removed from the tip of his nose. it was his third procedure in three years dealing with skin cancer
in their younger days and as residents of california, reagan and his wife spent many hours in the sun. since their bouts with skin cancer, they have changed their habits, wearing sunblock and hats when they venture outdoors and advising others to do the same
fans of robin hood are up in arms and the city of nottingham has been accused of shooting itself in the wallet by putting out a tourism brochure debunking the legend of the medieval outlaw
the glossy color brochure takes a skeptical academic line on robin hood, his love affair with maid marian, the existence of his faithful lieutenant friar tuck and that he robbed the rich to give to the poor
we are not debunking anything. we are putting robin hood in historical context,'' insisted city council spokesman tim jones
the city fathers have done a disservice to their own city,'' countered malcolm barker of the robin hood society, who took up the cudgels on the outlaw's behalf
barker doesn't claim that the story, as handed down by hollywood, is true. he simply objects to tinkering with a beautiful legend that also is a major tourist attraction
if mickey mouse can bring a fortune into florida, why shouldn't robin hood bring a fortune in to the people of nottingham?'' he said in a british radio interview
the affair came to light thursday in london's daily telegraph in a report headlined ``robin hood is robbed of myth and romance.''
the brochure undermines many of the popular notions about robin hood and his band of merry men, not to mention his favorite woman
maid marian, it says, comes from a 13th century french poem, while chubby friar tuck is probably an amalgam of two characters from different parts of england
as for robin himself, the brochure notes that in the earliest tales, he was a highwayman who robbed travelers in neighboring yorkshire and was in business strictly for himself
graham black, curator of nottingham castle museum and a historian whose work contributed to the brochure, was quoted by the telegraph as saying: ``one of the problems about robin hood is that the legend is 700 years old, a story handed on by word of mouth, and it was 200 years before people became literate.''
his philanthropy was ``the fashionable academic interpretation of the 1950s,'' black said. ``but there is no evidence for this.''
jones said in an interview that the legend took its present form under the 19th century victorians
it remains a potent one. when raisa gorbachev, wife of the soviet leader, visited nottingham in 1984, city officials said she asked about robin hood, apparently regarding him as a socialist who believed in the redistribution of wealth
barker, the outlaw's defender, said: ``does it really matter? ... it's an adman's dream. we've got something here that is wonderful. visitors come from all over the world that know about robin hood and maid marian, and i think that the city fathers have done a disservice to their own city.''
nottingham, a city of 290,000 people in central england, can hardly be accused of neglecting the legend. its main beltway is called maid marian way, and two rival consortiums are planning robin hood exhibition centers for the city
hordes of tourists visit the sherwood forest center where they can see displays of medieval lifestyles and gaze at the oak tree where the merry men may or may not have relaxed after a hard day's archery
brian marshal, chairman of the city tourism council that produced the brochure, says the debate about maid marian is largely irrelevant. people are more interested in robin hood versus the sheriff of nottingham, he said, ``because it's always the good guy against the bad guy, isn't it.''
i think people will feel what they feel. if they want to believe in maid marian then they'll do that,'' he said
the pentagon doesn't know whether the sale of japanese machine milling equipment helped the soviet union build quieter submarines, according to a top defense department official
the soviet union was building quiet propellers for its subs three years before the toshiba equipment was exported between 1983 and 1985, said richard armitage, assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs
armitage's assessment was contained in a letter outlining the pentagon's opposition to congressional proposals which would limit or ban the sale of toshiba products in the united states
toshiba officials admitted last year that a subsidiary company had sold the soviet union machine tools for making quiet submarine propellers
navy officials have said in the past that soviet subs were noisier than their american counterparts, making it easier for the united states to keep track of the soviet subs. both sides are continually seeking to develop quieter submarines
armitage's views were outlined in a letter to rep. les aspin, d-wis., chairman of the house armed services committee. the letter was released thursday
the indignation felt in the united states is understandable,'' armitage said. he added that ``perhaps some americans don't fully realize that many japanese feel a similar indignation complemented by acute embarrassment.''
the actual damage done from the toshiba machinery diversions is difficult to assess,'' armitage said
despite allegations of tens of even $100 billion in damages, our navy cannot determine the direct costs of this diversion to u.s. national security because the soviets had quiet propellers three years before the first diversion and we had already planned programs to deal with this development,'' he said
a conference committee of 20 house members and seven senators is trying to work out house-senate differences on an omnibus trade bill, and one of the unresolved issues involves toshiba
the house bill contains no sanctions against the company, while the senate version would ban the sale of any toshiba products in the united states for two years to five years. toshiba has annual u.s. sales of $3 billion to $4 billion
actions by the u.s. government against toshiba would be interpreted in japan as motivated by trade imbalances, rather than by national security concerns,'' armitage said
he predicted that japanese efforts to protect sensitive technology ``will greatly improve as a result of what has happened, but only if we don't undercut the post-toshiba actions'' by the japanese government, which he described as ``unprecedented.''
the pentagon is considering whether to sell the japanese navy four aegis ship defense systems, costing $1 billion each. the system contains the navy's most sophisticated anti-aircraft electronic gear, and some critics in congress have questioned whether the aegis sale is a good idea in the wake of the toshiba case. is</note>
the house today overwhelmingly demanded the ouster of panamanian strongman manuel antonio noriega and urged president reagan to impose strong sanctions to encourage restoration of civilian rule in panama
before the 367-2 roll call vote on an anti-noriega resolution, the panamanian military ruler was denounced during floor debate as ``a gunrunning thug'' and ``one of the most ruthless tyrants of our time.''
voting against the resolution were representatives george w. crockett jr., d-mich., and henry b. gonzalez, d-texas
now is the time for gen. noriega to step down and open the door for true democracy in panama,'' said rep. benjamin gilman, r-n.y
said rep. dan mica, d-fla.: ``noriega must leave, and he must leave quickly.''
the resolution, sponsored chiefly by mica, said the house ``is deeply concerned about the deterioration of united states-panamanian relations'' and calls on noriega to comply with president eric arturo delvalle's order dismissing him as commander of the panamanian defense forces
the resolution also ``calls on the president to consider seriously the range of additional economic and political sanctions available to the united states that could be used to encourage the re-establishment of civilian authority in panama.'''
the house action came as the reagan administration studied tough new sanctions against panama, and two prominent panamanian diplomats deserted the noriega government
santiago torrijos, nephew of former panamanian leader omar torrijos, abandoned his post as consul general in los angeles and flew to washington to join forces with allies of the ousted delvalle
torrijos' late uncle was widely esteemed in panama for negotiating with president carter for the treaty under which the panama canal will revert to panama by the year 2000. the former consul general accused the noriega regime of plunging panama into a political crisis
panamanian ambassador juan b. sosa, who supports delvalle, said wednesday that santiago torrijos' decision to break with noriega will have a major impact on panama because of the close identification of the torrijos family with panama's defense forces. torrijos is believed to be the first member of the torrijos family to break ranks with noriega
omar torrijos dominated panama's political life from 1968 until his death in a plane crash in 1981. in a typewritten statement made public wednesday night, his nephew said a ``political, financial, moral and social crisis'' exists in panama and must be resolved
he said that a ``small political-military circle'' has betrayed the pledge of omar torrijos to return panama to constitutional rule
meanwhile, the panamanian embassy made public a copy of a letter by panama's ambassador to mexico, emilia arosemena vallarino, in which she announced her resignation because she was ``in disagreement with political events'' in her country. she had served in mexico for 18 years and was dean of the diplomatic corps there
at issue are the circumstances under which panama's new government took power two weeks ago. delvalle attempted to fire noriega but was fired himself hours later
the reagan administration, along with a number of panamanian diplomats and consular officers, have refused to recognize the successor government, regarding delvalle as the constitutional authority. he has remained in hiding for almost two weeks
today, high-level meetings were scheduled at which administration officials were considering a series of economic sanctions against panama
u.s. officials, who asked not to be identified, said that it is almost certain that the united states will withhold a $6.5 million payment due to panama on march 15 for canal-related operations
also being considered are measures that would have the effect of making some panamanian products less competitive in u.s. markets. state department figures show that panama's u.s. exports totaled $342 million last year, but commerce department statistics list that category at $388 million
the officials said panama may lose its right to participate in the caribbean basin initiative, under which some products are allowed duty-free access to the united states
to be eligible to take part, nations of central america and the caribbean must cooperate in combatting drug smuggling to the united states
the reagan administration has concluded that panama has not been cooperating, and two federal grand juries have handed down indictments accusing noriega of being a key figure in an international drug trafficking operation
but white house chief of staff howard baker denied wednesday that the united states is planning an invasion of panama, saying american troops there are merely holding regularly scheduled training exercises
jorge abadia, panama's foreign minister, this week accused the united states of conducting ``the prelude of an armed invasion'' by staging military exercises along the panama canal
gov. evan mecham's former chief of staff testified today at the governor's impeachment trial that he would not have directed the state's public safety director to stonewall an investigation, as the governor is accused of doing
mecham, who faces removal from office by the state senate, is accused of trying to thwart an investigation into an alleged death threat by then-state prison construction chief lee watkins against a former mecham aide, donna carlson. the threat allegedly was made as ms. carlson was about to appear before a grand jury investigating mecham's campaign finances. watkins has denied threatening ms. carlson
mecham also is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by loaning it to his auto dealership
richard burke, the governor's first defense witness, was cross-examined by prosecutor william french in his second day on the stand
he acknowledged that he would not have made the statements that mecham is accused of making nov. 15 to department of public safety director ralph milstead
french quoted from statements milstead has testified mecham made regarding plans for officer frank martinez and lt. beau johnson to give statements to the attorney general's office about the alleged threat
would you under any circumstances, mr. burke, tell mr. milstead `i don't want frank or beau giving any statements to the attorney general.' would you say that?'' french asked
no,'' burke replied
would you say this: `don't tell the attorney general anything,''' french said
no,'' burke answered
burke, a former law school dean and federal prosecutor who came out of retirement last november to serve as mecham's chief of staff, said he believed mecham understood that a serious threat may have been made against carlson, although burke was not certain whether it was specified that it was an alleged death threat
i think all of us assumed that it was a crime, or a potential crime, or it wouldn't have been reported to us,'' burke said
french asked whether it was milstead's job to report the alleged crime ``and the governor would not have the authority to stop it.''
my impression of law enforcement, certainly that would be true,'' burke said
burke said, however, that he agreed with mecham's contention in a television interview several days after he was told about the alleged threat that he knew little about it
during house impeachment hearings in january, mecham insisted that the report to the department of public safety violated an unwritten rule against disclosing things that happen in the governor's office
the prosecution rested its case wednesday on the death threat allegation, the first of the three major charges against mecham
no man is above the law,'' prosecutor paul eckstein said in his closing argument. ``the evidence that has been put before you cries out ... for a conviction.''
defense lawyer fred craft argued that prosecutors had not proven mecham tried to obstruct an investigation because ``nobody told the governor that there was indeed an attorney general's investigation that he could possibly obstruct.''
mecham, 63, who ran an auto dealership before he was elected governor in a three-way race, has contended he handled the matter properly by having watkins' boss, then-department of administration director max hawkins, investigate
a two-thirds vote of the 30-member senate is required to convict mecham and remove the first-term republican from office
the governor also faces an april 21 criminal trial on charges of hiding the $350,000 loan, and a may 17 recall election
maricopa county superior court judge michael ryan said wednesday he was ``reluctantly'' granting a prosecution motion to delay the criminal trial, which had been scheduled to start march 22. the judge said more time was needed to decide pretrial motions and gather a large pool of potential jurors
mecham, the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades, has not attended the impeachment trial, but senators wednesday were shown a nov. 16 tv interview in which he denied knowledge of the alleged death threat. problems</head> more names of victims; corrects that charles shirley from ill. sted ark.; corrects that dennis sabot of n.d. sted iowa.</note>
the probe of the collision of two army blackhawk helicopters that killed 17 soldiers has found no link to mechanical problems that have grounded the military's uh-60s in recent years, an investigator says
i would say now there is no indication of any mechanical factor'' in tuesday night's crash, said chief warrant officer joe s. adams, one of three investigators from the army safety center at fort rucker, ala
we are looking at human and environmental factors. the human factors might include some restriction of vision,'' he said wednesday
both pilots were using night-vision goggles, which amplify light from the stars and the moon, allowing pilots to fly undetected at night. officials said they were trying to determine whether the choppers were flying without lights
the crash was the worst army aviation disaster since 248 soldiers, also based at fort campbell, died in a chartered plane crash in canada while returning from a mideast peacekeeping mission in december 1985
the 17 died instantly in the collision, the worst ever at the fort in southwestern kentucky, but eight bodies remained buried under the wreckage for hours, spokesmen said
the army's fleet of 820 uh-60s was grounded twice last may, once for inspection and once because of a design flaw. the fleet also was grounded in april 1985 and march 1986 after fatal crashes. in 1985, the army identified a defect in the main rotor assembly and ordered it corrected
last summer, officials said about 40 people had been killed in crashes of the helicopter since 1978
the collision occurred when a copter on a night training mission struck a formation of three other blackhawks on a separate mission, adams said
the formation was flying east at about 250 feet above the ground when the lead blackhawk was hit broadside by the lone aircraft, which was traveling north, army spokesmen said
a flight data recorder, installed in 100 of the army's helicopters, was recovered from the northbound craft and will be checked for signs of mechanical failure in the copter, adams said. the other craft had no recorder
the manufacturer, sikorsky aircraft of stratford, conn., sent a safety expert to assist investigators. adams said a report was expected in two to three months
investigators hoped that air traffic control tapes would reveal whether the pilots knew their copters were converging
the helicopters are not equipped with radar and the pilots, wearing the night vision goggles, were operating under visual flight rules, with visibility of at least one mile and a ceiling of 500 feet, adams said
the accident occurred on the kentucky-tennessee state line 6 miles from the copters' airstrip, about 60 miles north of nashville
the army identified the dead as: staff sgt. charles l. shirley, 32, of madison, ill.; billie d. bolin, 29, of greensburg, ky.; james m. guill, 33, of georgetown, ky.; richard l. alter, 29, of williamsport, pa. and clifford w. bath iii, 19, of charleston, s.c
also, michael a. jankowski, 19, of sussex, wis.; james draper, jr., 20, of fruitland, n.m.; jeffrey l. rivas, 26, of santa barbara, calif.; andrew j. franklin iii, 20, of advance, ind. and michael daniel, 32, of delaware, ohio
also, brian j. leblanc, 21, of cold springs, minn.; sgt. dennis c. sabot, 30, of bismark, n.d.; gregory t. dean, 24, of liberty, ky.; spec. 4 samuel a. hintz, 24, of sherrodsville, ohio and timothy s. sayer, 20, of worthington, ohio
shirley, sabot and hintz were from the 2nd battalion, 502nd infantry. identifications of the other two victims were withheld pending notification of relatives
he believed he was doing what was right, doing it for his country,'' jerry shirley of clarksville, tenn., said of his brother, an 11-year army man. ``it's something he wanted to do. he was a career man. he started when he was 17 and had a break and went back in. we accepted the risk.''
lt. col. charles adams, the post chaplain, said 35 chaplains on post, social service agencies and a support group of military wives have offered help to survivors. a memorial service was scheduled for next wednesday
there's a tremendous amount of shock and grief (but) there has been no recrimination from any of the people we have talked to,'' said adams
thirteen of the dead, most of them infantrymen, were in the blackhawk that had been flying in formation. the other victims were crew members in the second copter
the blackhawk, one of the army's newer helicopters, normally is operated with a crew of three and can carry 11 combat-equipped soldiers
it is a utility and assault aircraft designed for air cavalry and medical evacuations, said maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman in washington, d.c
soucy said there had been no move by safety investigators to ground the blackhawk fleet as a result of the accident. ^eds: leads with 5 grafs to update standings, picking up 6th graf pvs, `several racers ....'</head>
a 70-year-old man known as the ``father of the iditarod' pocketed $2,500 in silver ingots today for being the first to reach the half-way point of the 1,100-mile iditarod trail sled dog race
joe redington of knik reached the cripple checkpoint at 5:40 a.m. his nearest competitor, herbie nayokpuk of shishmaref, checked into ophir, 55 miles behind redington, at 11:10 p.m. wednesday
redington, a founder of the mushing marathon from anchorage to nome, now heads for the sulatna crossing and then to ruby on the yukon river. he has raced in all but two of the 16 iditarods, finishing three times in fifth place
four-time champion rick swenson of two rivers was running third. he checked out of takotna at 8:37 p.m. wednesday. he was followed by joe garnie of teller, jan masek of anchorage and deedee jonrowe of bethel
defending champion susan butcher of manley was seventh
several racers said that despite redington's lead, nayokpuk is now the musher to beat because of his strong dog team
i think it's going to take us quite a while to gain that kind of time back, unless he runs into some kind of situation up ahead,'' swenson said
a blizzard pounding alaska's southwestern coast threatened to turn into complicate things on the iditarod trail for the racers. if the gale-driven snow reaches inland to the iditarod trail, the going could turn slow
at the back of the pack, 290 miles behind the leaders, the oldest iditarod musher announced that he was dropping out of the race. norman vaughan, 82, said three of his dogs were in heat and he had whiteout conditions ahead
another musher, ray dronenburg of trapper creek, also scratched wednesday, saying several of his dogs were weak with a virus. that leaves 50 mushers in the race, which started saturday
a $30,000 first prize awaits the winner, who is expected to reach nome sometime next week. the next 19 finishers will split the rest of the $150,000 purse. five grafs to correct koop quote and status of new york program and to update with carballo giving speech instead of mann. pick up 10th graf pvs: ``discussions focused...'' ^by robert glass</note>
u.s. surgeon general c. everett koop said today he supports trying out a needle-exchange program for drug addicts in the united states to slow the spread of aids
while stressing that he was not proposing such a plan but rather supporting others who call for it, koop said drug abuse was the likeliest way aids, or aquired immune deficiency syndrome, could spread through the heterosexual population
i think we should have a pilot program in the united states,'' he said in an interview during the first international conference on the global impact of aids. about 1,000 health specialists from 63 countries are attending the three-day meeting, which opened monday at london's barbican center
under needle-exchange programs in europe, drug addicts can turn in used needles for new ones, reducing the risk of contracting aids from contaminated drug equipment
koop acknowledged that many people object to such schemes as abetting illegal drug abuse. ``we have to decide whether or not the risk of aids from needle-sharing is great enough to satisfy that objection,'' he said
if needle exchange could contain the epidemic, nobody should be against it,'' koop said
he said pilot projects should be conducted in more than one city and mentioned as possibilities new york and los angeles. he said a nationwide program shouldn't be considered until results of pilot programs in the united states and other countries are studied
a pilot project is proposed for new york, but koop criticized it for using volunteer methadone users. methadone is a substitute used to wean addicts off heroin, and the volunteers, having made the commitment to quit drugs, should not be exposed again to using needles, he said
also wednesday, dr. manuel carballo, chief of social and behavioral researcher for the world health organization's global program on aids, outlined the organization's strategy for slowing the spread of the disease. dr. jonathan mann, director of the who program, was to have given the speech but was unable to attend the final day's session
discussion focused on how to reconcile control of the disease with individual freedom and on international and national policy on aids and its prevention
a 33-nation gallup international survey on attitudes toward aids presented to the conference wednesday said that 47 percent of respondents in the united states favor testing the entire population for aids
koop said he was ``totally opposed'' to mandatory screening, arguing that only a tiny fraction of the population behaved in a way that courted risk
apart from north america, some parts of south america and some asian countries, concern among individuals about contracting aids is relatively low, the survey found
as far as becoming an epidemic was concerned, throughout the world there was a clear realization that this was likely to occur in the case of homosexuals, hemophiliacs, intravenous drug users and promiscuous people,'' the survey says
in terms of the risk of catching the disease, most of the peoples of the world were aware of the clear situations in which it could be caught,'' it added
but the survey says substantial minorities in many parts of the world do not understand how the disease is transmitted and said they would refuse to work with a person carrying the aids virus
there is a fear that one can get aids by means which are not supported by scientific practice, for instance sharing a drinking glass or via insect bites. ... other perceived risks, such as ... coughs and sneezes, friendly kissing ... appear to be identified...''
acquired immune deficiency syndrome is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to infections and cancer. it is spread through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug users, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
the soviet union is continuing to ship arms to nicaragua at a fast pace despite efforts by the u.s.-backed contra guerrillas and sandinista government to negotiate a peace accord, the pentagon said thursday
during the first two months of 1988, the nicaraguans received 3,100 metric tons _ or 3,400 regular tons _ of weaponry and war materiel worth an estimated $100 million, the pentagon said
the equipment was delivered in 10 arms shipments in january and february, the defense department said
if that pace is sustained, the nicaraguans will receive at least 18,600 metric tons of weaponry this calendar year, compared with an estimated 21,700 metric tons delivered in 1987
last year's arms deliveries to nicaragua were valued by the pentagon at $505 million and arrived in 62 shipments
the january-february estimates are contained in an unclassified assessment of the nicaraguan military buildup that is updated periodically by the defense department for administration leaders. it was released on request by the pentagon's public affairs office
including the latest estimates, the pentagon maintains the nicaraguan government has received arms valued at more than $2.4 billion since calendar year 1980
the new update was prepared at a time when president reagan is working with lawmakers to fashion an aid program for the contra guerrillas. u.s. aid to the contras was cut off feb. 29 after the house refused to endorse an administration plan for military and humanitarian aid and then rejected a democratic alternative to provide just humanitarian aid
it also comes during a period of rising doubt about the future of peace negotiations. nicaraguan leader daniel ortega has dismissed roman catholic cardinal miguel obando y bravo as a mediator in the talks, and the contras have said they need more time to consider some of the sandinista proposals
secretary of state george p. shultz said thursday that south korea has accomplished a ``political miracle'' in its peaceful transition to civilian rule
i think the korean situation is one we've all watched very closely and worked on hard,'' he told members of the house foreign operations appropriations subcommittee. ``and in (south) korea they have managed to put a political miracle alongside their economic miracle.''
however, shultz said later that it would be bold to predict when u.s. troops could be withdrawn
he said president chun doo-hwan ``engineered this change and takes considerable pride in being the first leader of korea to pass the leadership to somebody else in a peaceful transition of power. so it's a major and important event.''
he promised u.s. support to the new government,
shultz was asked about reports that the 40,000 u.s. troops could be withdrawn by 1990. he replied that he thought no date could be set
the united states would like to see more stability in the korean peninsula, he said
but there is a very militaristic north korea, whose performance has been terrible,'' he went on
shultz said there was ``quite compelling'' evidence that north korean intelligence was responsible for blowing up an airliner
progress is most likely by taking small steps such as exchanging family members, he said, adding that the holding of the olympic games in korea will also be a positive element
richard gephardt opened a ``full force'' drive in michigan thursday, two days after finishing a poor fourth among democrats on super tuesday, and said, ``if we don't do well here obviously we aren't going to be able to continue in this race.''
most of the other democratic presidential candidates were in illinois campaigning for that state's primary, which is next tuesday. and gephardt, too, was joining the others in chicago thursday night at a dinner and town meeting
but he said as he arrived for a rally on the michigan statehouse steps, ``our real thrust, our real force is going to be in michigan.''
michigan's democratic caucus is march 26
we have a long road to go,'' gephardt said. ``let's go the next step. i think michigan is going to be a real test of every campaign. we're going to do well in michigan and when we do we'll be right back in the middle of this.''
gerphardt, fighting against talk that his campaign may be nearing an end, held up a copy of thursday's wall street journal which said he had failed the test of a successful candidate
i think the wall street journal is dead wrong,'' he declared
he met with legislators and local democratic officials in a state where he said his message will be well received
earlier in the day, he campaigned in south carolina, which holds caucuses on saturday
while the other democratic presidential hopefuls have spent most of the week focusing on delegate-rich illinois, gephardt is trying to portray michigan's voting as the next major test of the democratic campaign
we're going to be there in full force,'' gephardt said. ``after that, we'll see where we are and where we go.''
in michigan, said deputy campaign manager joe trippi, ``we need to win it or at least come in second to jesse,'' a reference to jesse jackson
trippi said as many as 70 paid staffers would be sent to michigan by next week, compared to roughly 20 staffers in illinois
we'll take virtually every organizer we have,'' he said
we had our bad day on super tuesday, but now we're back and we're still in the middle of this race,'' gephardt said
gephardt rejected any comparisons with new york rep. jack kemp, who dropped from the republican presidential race earlier thursday
he pointed to his strong showings in several early contests, including victories in iowa and south dakota, and said he has the backing of 80 members of congress, most of whom will be delegates to the democratic national convention this summer
unlike jack kemp, i have been in the middle of this race from the beginning,'' gephardt said. ``i have a delegate count that is within striking distance of being back in the leadership.''
throughout the day on thursday, gephardt continued to hammer at the central theme of his campaign, talking tough on trade. that's designed to appeal in south carolina, where the textile industry has been damaged by foreign competition, as well as in michigan with its auto industry
the united auto workers union, a major force in michigan democratic politics, is remaining neutral, but gephardt aides said they anticipated getting support from union locals and rank-and-file members because of his trade and economic positions. spies''</head>
three east germans crashed a flatbed truck through steel barriers and roared over glienicker bridge into west berlin on thursday in the first escape of its kind over the famed ``bridge of spies,'' officials said
bernd puhlmann, who drove the truck in the high-speed escape to the west, said a soviet soldier on the east german side of the bridge took aim at the vehicle but did not fire
pulhmann said he thought that empty propane tanks that had been loaded onto the truck may have accounted for the soldier's reluctance
because the soldier didn't know what was in the tanks, he probably did not dare to shoot,'' the 37-year-old puhlmann told reporters
puhlmann said he and his two friends decided while drinking beer about midnight to make the escape
two hours later, the 7{-ton truck plowed through two east german metal gates and a chainlink fence before racing onto the glienicker bridge, which has been made famous by numerous east-west spy exchanges
the truck sped across the bridge, smashing through another east german-built chainlink fence and tearing off a steel control gate in west berlin before coming to a halt, police said
with the truck demolished, the three escapees got out uninjured and called west berlin authorities, said a west berlin police spokesman who asked not to be further identified
this is the first time that anyone has broken through those barriers,'' said another police officer
glienicker bridge connects potsdam, east germany with west berlin. potsdam is on berlin's southwest outskirts
the truck's impact tore the 4-foot-high steel gate on the west berlin side of the bridge off its foundation and twisted the barrier into a half-circle
wrecked barriers could be seen on the east german side of the bridge as well
metal, glass, plastic and motor oil from the truck were strewn across the area
the demolished truck sat with its engine compartment smashed and bumpers dangling
puhlmann said he, gotthard ihden, 37, and werner jaeger, 28, all of potsdam, decided to try the escape because they were dissatisfied with political conditions in communist east germany
west berlin officials said the three may face charges of destroying property and driving dangerously
among the most famous spy swaps on the bridge was the feb. 10, 1962 exchange by the united states of convicted soviet kgb master spy col. rudolph abel for francis gary powers, whose u-2 surveillance plane was shot down over the soviet union
many refugees fled over the bridge to west berlin after the east german workers' uprising in 1953, but the barriers there had never been breached. labs</head>
the federal government needs to step up its supervision of clinical laboratories in order to end widespread fraud and cut the rate of dangerous and sometimes fatal misdiagnoses, congress was told thursday
fraud, gross overcharging, kickbacks and poor quality of care are rampant in this industry, and federal oversight has been non-existent,'' said rep. john dingell, d-mich., chairman of the house energy and commerce subcommittee on oversight and investigations
dingell said there is a ``pervasive pattern of highly questionable financial arrangements between laboratories and doctors,'' with lab inducements ranging from cash discounts and ``frequent flyer'' mileage to paying the salaries of doctors' aides
some witnesses cited 20 percent to 40 percent error rates in pap tests, which detect cervical cancer in women, as an example of the dangers in unregulated lab procedures
shirley greening, representing the american society for cytotechnology, said labs have adopted a ``paps for profit'' mentality under which technicians' salaries have stagnated while their workloads have increased to dangerous levels
some cytotechs screen 200 to 300 slides a day or more. this means looking at one pap smear slide every one and a half minutes,'' she said. ``screening at this high-production pace produces fatigue and leads to careless errors.''
other problems include piecework pay systems that encourage production at the expense of careful diagnosis, she said, and ``considerable pressure'' to accept inadequate specimens and call them negative so doctors won't send their business to another lab
greening and others recommended mandatory proficiency testing for all diagnostic lab technicians, workload limits, more federal money to monitor labs through the medicare and medicaid programs, and required public disclosure of lab caseload volume, staffing, fees, quality control methods and results
massachusetts attorney general james shannon said one lab was billing the state medicaid program $14 for a complete blood chemistry test. after the investigation, he said, the price dropped to $2.30
investigators have recovered $1.5 million through settlements, shannon said, and massachusetts medicaid is expected to save up to $700,000 a year due to the lower prices
shannon said such billing practices were a nationwide problem
dingell cited several federal investigations, including one still in progress, which have found fraud and kickbacks involving hundreds of doctors and millions of dollars in southern california, philadelphia and elsewhere
he said the profession has become so lucrative that ``a convicted bank robber is now involved in the operation of one southwest lab, who has exclaimed you can make more money in the operation of clinical labs than you can from robbing banks.''
there are about 12,000 federally regulated labs in the country, about 6,700 located in hospitals. several hundred thousand facilities are not federally regulated, many of them in physicians' offices
dingell said the market for clinical lab testing is estimated at $20 billion a year, and 40 percent of that is federally funded through medicare and medicaid
he said representatives of the lab industry would be heard from at a later date. no pickup.</note>
prince charles escaped an avalanche while skiing today, but the snowslide killed one of his friends and injured another
buckingham palace identified the dead man as maj. hugh lindsay, a former equerry, or aide, to charles's mother, queen elizabeth ii. a woman in the party, patricia palmer-tomkinson, suffered leg injuries, the palace said
the palace said charles was not injured. but witnesses said the prince looked distraught, and one said he was weeping and shaking as a helicopter arrived to pick him up
charles' wife, diana, and sarah ferguson, his pregnant sister-in-law, were not on the slopes at the time, the palace said
swiss authorities said the snowslide on mt. gotschnagrat near klosters began about 300 feet above a group of six skiers that included prince charles. the prince and three other people were unharmed
the palace said the party was skiing off the main ski run and was stationary when the avalanche began at 2:45 p.m
all members of the party were in a position to take avoiding action with the exception of maj. lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson, who were both caught in the avalanche,'' it said
lindsay, 34, was a serving army major and a friend of charles and diana. he was married to a buckingham palace press secretary who was expecting a baby, the palace said
peter balsiger, editor-in-chief of the zurich-based newspaper blick, was quoted as saying he was told charles, 39, helped dig one person out of the snow
the palace statement said a swiss guide and members of the royal party helped dig the victims free. it did not say whether charles was among the diggers
a french photographer told bbc radio he saw charles being comforted by someone as a helicopter took off with a stretcher
bbc tv news said the queen was understood to have spoken to the family at the chalet where they gathered after the tragedy
the 1988 good ski guide describes the run where the accident occurred as ``a slope of awesome steepness, dropping about 500 meters (yards).''
prince charles skied the area many times during his bachelor days and is credited with giving klosters its exclusive tag
the guide says: ``prince charles is no doubt pleased to have put (it) behind him; mercifully it is rarely open.''
they (avalanches) are extremely difficult to predict. that is what makes them so dangerous,'' said peter cliff, an alpine guide and leader of the cairngorm mountain rescue team in scotland
the most common is the snow-slab avalanche, when snow driven by wind creates a crusted surface, underlaid with air pockets, and is liable to fracture across the entire width of a slope
without warning, massive slides can be set off by temperature increases, new falls of snow or skiers and climbers
the royals arrived in switzerland on tuesday
charles, diana and the duchess of york, who is married to charles' younger brother prince andrew, posed for photographers at klosters on wednesday for photographers. the 28-year-old duchess, the former sarah ferguson, is expecting her first baby in august
illinois blacks will deliver their primary vote almost exclusively to favorite son jesse jackson next tuesday, but black leaders credit the monolithic vote to jackson's charisma and not a daley-style political machine
jackson, who has had his differences with the black hierarchy in his adopted hometown of chicago, doesn't need a machine to ensure the black vote, observers say
this is a movement vote that is bigger than the capabilities of any ward committeeman or political organizer,'' said don rose, a longtime chicago political consultant who predicts jackson will win up to 95 percent of the black vote in the illinois primary
but jackson's supporters are working hard to mobilize that vote and _ more importantly _ to make sure supporters realize the necessity of also voting for jackson's slated convention delegates in illinois
illinois' beauty pageant primary is separate from the election of 173 delegates to the democratic national convention
jackson is fielding full delegate slates in only 17 of the state's 22 congressional districts. he is one delegate short in four other districts and has no slate in the nearly all-white suburbs on chicago's northwest side
the black vote alone won't be enough to give jackson a victory in the illinois primary _ and may not be enough to lock up second place, rose said
he predicted the black vote would amount to between 23 percent and 25 percent of the entire democratic vote in illinois. ``if he gets 10 percent of the white vote, that would give him 30 percent and make it unlikely for him to carry the state,'' rose said
right now, there is a tremendous fervor in the community for jesse after the outcome of super tuesday,'' said chicago alderman danny davis, a black leader and jackson supporter. ``i've heard people ... talking about how it was the second coming.''
jackson returned in triumph wednesday to chicago, his political base for nearly two decades, reminding voters, ``i am a charter member of the underclass, the son of a teen-age mother who was the daughter of a teen-age mother. i was able to break the shackles.''
jackson rose to national prominence from chicago's predominantly black south side where he started a civil rights group called operation push in the early 1970s
he owns a home in a middle-class chicago neighborhood and regularly returns to push headquarters to speak at the group's weekly saturday meetings, which often take on the flavor of a church revival meeting
davis and other political observers predicted that jackson's chicago political base would help him win about 95 percent of the black vote in illinois and up to 10 percent of the white vote _ roughly the proportions he won in the super tuesday primaries
but they say he'll carry the black vote without relying on the type of ward-boss political machine that has permeated chicago history, most recently under the late mayor richard daley
there is not a black political machine in the formal sense,'' said rose, who worked for the late mayor harold washington, the city's first black mayor
there is a mobilized black vote _ the product of the harold washington years,'' rose said wednesday. ``jesse is able to pull it together and he will deliver an overwhelming black vote of 90 percent to 95 percent
but that's not the product of anybody's machine,'' rose said. ``that's a product of jesse's charisma and popularity among black voters.''
jackson had the support of washington in 1984 and of current mayor eugene sawyer this year. but he and washington were largely allies of political convenience, and jackson actively backed another black alderman over sawyer in the political fighting that followed washington's death last november
east st. louis mayor carl officer, a longtime jackson supporter, will deliver the democratic contender the bulk of the black vote in that southern illinois city, said several jackson supporters
jackson also will be counting on the black church, long a political base for him, to help mobilize voters, chicago alderman tim evans said. on sunday, he said, black ministers throughout the city likely will preach to their parishioners to vote for jackson. report that hijackers committed suicide and killed leader, identified as mother, and two committed suicide. picks up 5th graf pvs, `the hijackers ...</note>
a family of musicians demanding to be flown to london set off a bomb aboard an aeroflot jet and killed four people before an assault team stormed the plane and shot dead five of the hijackers, tass said today
the hijackers carried weapons and explosives aboard the plane in their instruments, the official soviet news agency said. in addition to the nine dead, 20 passengers were reported injured in tuesday's hijacking of the tupolev-154 plane, tass said
tass identified the 11 air pirates as members of a family musical ensemble from siberia known as the ovechkins. it gave no information on their motives
the hijackers set off the bomb while the plane, with 76 passengers, was on the ground near leningrad, tass said
the government newspaper izvestia said one of the hijackers died in the explosion. the newspaper said the surviving air pirates then killed their leader, identified as their mother, and that two of them committed suicide
the hijackers seized the plane tuesday as it was headed to leningrad after a stop in the ural mountains city of kurgan. the flight began in the siberian city of irkutsk
tass reported the incident on wednesday, but gave few details. it was the second hijacking of a soviet domestic flight in 1{ years
u.s. embassy spokesman richard gilbert said today that the embassy had been told no americans were aboard
the sovietskaya rossiya daily reported today that the cockpit crew had been relayed a message from the hijackers that they were to proceed to london
the pilots reported what happened to ground control,'' tass said. ``they were told that a refueling was needed to meet their demand and the airliner made an unscheduled landing.''
tass said a special assault team boarded the plane after it landed and that the hijackers opened fire
the bandits managed to set off an explosive device in the airliner's tail section. the plane caught fire,'' the agency reported. ``an air hostess and three passengers were killed as a result of the act of terrorism.''
other passengers were evacuated, but 20 were injured and were hospitalized, tass said
five of the 11 criminals were killed,'' it stated, without giving details. radio moscow said the other six would be tried in court
the bandits were the ovechkins, a family musical group from irkutsk'' in siberia, tass said. ``eyewitnesses pointed to three leaders among the criminal team _ vasily and oleg ovechkin and their mother, ninel ovechkin, a plump, fashionably dressed woman of over 50.''
tass said they brought their weapons aboard in their instruments
sovietskaya rossiya explained that the incident transpired over the course of the afternoon
the jet, which can carry up to 168 passengers, took off from kurgan at 1:08 p.m. moscow time, the paper said. shortly before 3 p.m., when the plane was nearing leningrad's pulkovo airport, one of the people aboard demanded that senior flight attendant tamara zharkaya take a note to the cockpit
the note said: ``we demand that you change course. fly to london. otherwise we'll blow up the plane along with the passengers,'' the newspaper reported
the crew kept their heads, the paper said. pilot valentin f. kupriyanov calculated how much fuel was left, then landed at an unidentified airfield near leningrad
after landing, the crew entered into negotiations with the bandits, asking them to give up their criminal intentions and not to endanger passengers' lives,'' the newspaper said
but the hijackers refused to listen, it said
several hours of negotiations had no result,'' the newspaper said
under these conditions, the only decision that could be taken was to render the criminals harmless,'' said sovietskaya rossiya
radio moscow said: ``in the shooting aboard the plane, most of the hijackers were killed, and the others were captured. they are to be tried in court.''
the last airliner hijacking attempt reported in the soviet union was on sept. 20, 1986, in the ural mountains city of ufa. media reports said the hijackers were armed members of the internal security forces. the reports said that five people, including two of the hijackers, were killed when authorities stormed the plane. the others were tried and sentenced
tuesday's hijack was at least the third fatal incident this year involving an aeroflot jet
on jan. 18, a tu-154 crashed at the caspian port of krasnovodsk, killing 11 and injuring at least 12
a tu-134 carrying 51 people crashed on feb. 27 while landing at the siberian city of surgut. tass said there were victims but gave no details
reports on aviation accidents and disasters were rare until about two years ago, when soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev embarked on a campaign for more open discussion of social and economic problems
a civil aviation ministry official said in november that aeroflot would begin reporting all injury accidents this year. primaries; note that the date for the democrats abroad primary has changed to march 22.</note>
here is a listing of major presidential debates, primaries and caucuses scheduled for 1988
national convention delegates to be allocated in each event are shown in parentheses
march 10 _ alaska democratc caucuses (12)
march 12 _ south carolina democratic caucuses (44)
              south dakota democratic caucus (15)
march 13 _ north dakota democratic caucuses (15)
march 15 _ illinois primary (173 dem; 82 gop)
march 19 _ kansas democratic caucuses (39)
march 20 _ puerto rico primary (51 dem; 14 gop)
march 22 _ primary for democrats abroad (7)
march 26 _ michigan democratic caucus (138)
              maryland gop convention
march 29 _ connecticut primary (52 dem; 35 gop)

april 2 _ virgin islands democratic caucus (3)
april 4 _ colorado caucuses (45 dem; 0 gop)
april 5 _ wisconsin primary (81 dem; 47 gop)
april 12 _ montana gop county caucuses conclude (0)
april 15 _ north dakota democratic convention
              minnesota republican convention (24)
april 16 _ arizona democratic caucus (36)
              south carolina democratic convention
              vermont gop caucuses (0)
           maine gop convention (22)
april 16-17 _ league of women voters debate in rochester, n.y
april 18 _ delaware democratic caucuses (15)
april 19 _ new york primary (255 dem; 102 gop)
              u.s. senate democratic caucus (43)
           vermont democratic caucuses (14)
april 20 _ u.s. house democratic caucus (210)
april 23 _ nevada gop convention (20)
april 24 _ guam democratic caucus (3)
              arizona gop caucuses conclude (0)
april 25 _ utah caucus (23 dem; 0 gop)
april 26 _ pennsylvania primary (178 dem; 78 gop)
april 28-30 _ alaska gop convention (19)

may 3 _ district of columbia (16 dem; 14 gop)
           indiana (79 dem; 30 gop)
        ohio (159 dem; 88 gop)
may 6 _ hawaii gop convention (20)
may 7 _ wyoming gop convention (6)
may 10 _ nebraska (25 dem; 9 gop)
            west virginia (37 dem; 28 gop)
may 14 _ iowa congressional district conventions
            arizona gop convention (33)
         delaware gop convention (17)
         virginia gop congressional district conventions (30)
may 17 _ oregon primary (45 dem; 32 gop)
may 21 _ virgin islands gop caucus (4)
            vermont gop convention (17)
may 24 _ idaho (0 dem; 18 gop)
june 4-5 league of women voters debate in torrance, calif
june 4 _ colorado gop convention (36)
june 7 _ california (314 dem; 175 gop)
            montana (19 dem; 0 gop)
         new jersey (109 dem; 64 gop)
         new mexico (24 dem; 26 gop)
june 9 _ indiana gop convention (21)
june 11 _ utah gop convention (26)
             montana gop convention (20)
june 12 _ virginia gop convention (20)
             minnesota democratic convention
june 14 _ north dakota (0 dem; 16 gop)
june 16 _ illinois gop convention (10)
             minnesota gop convention (7)
june 17 _ texas democratic convention
june 18 _ idaho gop convention (4)
june 24 _ iowa gop convention (37)
june 25 _ iowa democratic convention
july 9 _ nebraska gop convention (16)
july 15 _ washington gop convention (41)
july 18-21 _ democratic national convention, atlanta
aug. 15-18 _ republican national convention, new orleans
sept. 8 _ league of women voters debate, birmingham, ala
oct. 6 _ league of women voters debate, minneapolis
oct. 23 _ league of women voters debate, boston
nov. 1 _ league of women voters debate, los angeles
nov. 8 _ election day
security police on thursday questioned the editor of a church-sponsored magazine after he charged that some voters were intimidated by the government in recent primary elections, a colleague said
during the feb. 22 elections, voters were required to line up at polling places behind their candidate or someone representing him
chief editor bedan mbugua called the system ``a mockery of democracy'' in monday's edition of beyond magazine, which is sponsored by the national council of churches of kenya. he charged that some voters were intimidated by administration officials into voting for certain candidates
ibrahim omondi, associate editor of beyond, said mbugua reported to security police, but no details of the investigation were available
the general secretary of the kenya african nation union, the country's sole legal political party, acknowledged mistakes during the primary, but he accused beyond of sloppy and unfair reporting
it is one-sided and self-serving,'' burudi nabwera said at a news conference. ``it is difficult to understand how the magazine could have drawn conclusions after looking partially at only five constituencies.''
general elections on march 21 will be by secret ballot
a former top federal education official has some news for parents struggling with college tuition bills
harold howe ii, who was u.s. education commissioner from 1965-68 under president lyndon b. johnson, says that at $12,000 a year, or roughly $60 a day during the academic year, a college education is ``a bargain.''
howe, writing in the march 9 issue of the chronicle of higher education, offered what he called ``an incomplete list'' of all the things that $60 buys, including:
_``a room and bath (often semiprivate) and three meals, plus heat and electricity.''
_``a variety of free or low-cost cultural, social and sports events as well as extracurriculars.''
_``special student facilities for socializing and meeting members of the opposite sex.''
_``what amounts to a club membership for recreation, including swimming, tennis, golf (except in cities) and other sports.''
_``access to ... libraries, laboratories, museums, field trips and guest lectures.''
_``the services of an army of food-service, clerical and other non-academic employees.''
_``the personal attention of faculty members with a wide range of skills and knowledge, whose main job is to pass on what they know to their students.''
_``free advice from a distinguished group of presidents, provosts, deans and other functionaries who believe that colleges should turn out graduates with both a moral compass and a body of knowledge.''
that's not bad for $60 a day,'' said howe, who is now a senior lecturer at harvard university's graduate school of education
he said students get all that ``for a daily fee that might get you a night _ but no meals _ in a holiday inn.''
in addition to providing all these services for students, ``colleges do great things for society,'' howe said, citing studies that have found ``college graduates pay more taxes, are more likely to vote, have a lower divorce rate, volunteer more often for good works in their communities and are less likely to go to jail.''
howe said secretary of education william j. bennett, who has often accused colleges of being overpriced and underproductive, should consider changing ``his tune and (urging) colleges to raise tuition, so that the goose that lays the golden eggs can continue to do so.''
instead of responding to bennett with ``salvos about inadequate faculty salaries (and) increasing maintenance costs,'' college presidents should point out ``what a bargain a college education is today,'' howe suggested
a british army land rover overturned during maneuvers in south wales, killing two soldiers and injuring four others, the army said thursday
the six men were traveling in the vehicle when the accident occurred at sennybridge in powys on wednesday, the army said
the four injured soldiers were hospitalized, and one was in critical condition
a 15-year-old boy was convicted of second-degree murder and sentenced to life in prison today for beating a classmate to death with a baseball bat so he could see what it was like to kill someone
rod matthews showed no reaction when the verdict was announced and his sentence immediately imposed. the verdict, issued at 2:10 p.m., followed nearly 10 hours of deliberation over two days
the victim's mother sobbed as the verdict was announced, and matthews' mother sat silently with lowered head
matthews' mental state was the focus of closing arguments wednesday in norfolk superior court
the jurors began their work after judge roger j. donahue explained again the various possible convictions available and outlining the basis for acquittal by reason of insanity
prosecutors, who were seeking a first-degree murder conviction for the nov. 20, 1986, slaying, depicted matthews as a dispassionate murderer who plotted for weeks to lure 14-year-old shaun ouillette to a secluded area ``to find out what it was like to kill somebody.''
defense attorney john philip white, calling for acquittal by reason of insanity, called matthews an irrational, ``diseased intellect'' who appealed for help before the killing but was ignored by a teacher and friends
matthews, tried as an adult, had faced a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment without parole if convicted of first-degree murder. if found guilty of second-degree murder, the maximum penalty is life imprisonment with a chance of parole in 15 years
if matthews had been found innocent by reason of insanity, he would have been evaluated by the state department of mental health, white said
district attorney peter casey portrayed matthews as a troubled youth who was prompted to kill by his own desires, not by mental illness
he did that because he doesn't care about anybody,'' said casey, who repeatedly jabbed an accusatory finger at matthews during closing arguments. ``what did it feel like? it was deliberate. ... he really wound up and hit him about the head.''
matthews chose ouillette as the victim after rejecting two other classmates as targets because two of his friends objected, casey said
ouillette, who moved to canton with his family about two years before the slaying, was selected because matthews felt he would not be missed, according to testimony during the week-long trial
matthews said he had plotted the killing for a month to experience what killing someone was like, according to testimony from two classmates who were shown the body by matthews before a pre-thanksgiving pep rally
ouillette's body was discovered in december 1986 after one of the youths sent police an anonymous letter. none of the teen-agers who knew of the slaying faces prosecution
white depicted matthews as a highly unstable youth whose use of ritalin, a drug used mainly to control hyperactivity in children, may have exacerbated his already unstable state
that contention is a smoke screen, casey said, citing medical experts' testimony that ritalin does not permanently alter behavior or trigger violence or hallucinations in normal doses
white also said matthews unsuccessfully sought help prior to the slaying in a letter to a teacher in which matthews described his desire to kill and light fires
had they said, `no, don't kill shaun ouillette,' in all likelihood shaun ouillette would not have been harmed,'' said white
the trial was attended each day by the victim's and defendant's families and dozens of residents of canton, a middle-class community of 17,000 people about 15 miles south of boston
the case has been compared to the 1982 trial of anthony broussard, then 18, and sentenced 25 years to life in san jose, calif., for killing his girlfriend the year before
broussard, who was tried as an adult, took at least 13 schoolmates to see the victim's body. the movie ``the river's edge'' was based on that case
the cuban prison system is generally constructive and humane for cooperative inmates but metes out ``harsh and cruel'' treatment to those who reject rehabilitation programs, according to a report released thursday
the report was prepared by the institute for policy studies, a liberal research group based in washington which sponsored a visit by a six-member delegation to cuba from feb. 26 to march 5
the delegation, which visited six prisons at various locations around the island and conducted more than 120 ``confidential'' interviews, said it found a number of ``constructive aspects'' to the cuban system:
_the great majority of prisoners work a regular work week at productive jobs under conditions similar to those of ordinary workers. many acquire practical skills during confinement and have opportunities to advance their education
_almost all the prisoners who work are paid, receiving the same rate as civilians except for certain discounts to cover cost of living
_the regular prison facilities were all clean and hygenic, there were no complaints of the use of ``instruments of torture'' and a system of conjugal visits was well established
but the report also found that prisoners who resist re-education or violate prison discipline are confined for extended periods, at times in ``extremely harsh punishment cells _ bare, tiny, dark, cold (or hot, depending on the season) _ sometimes with not enough food.''
one delegation member, aryeh neier, said the cells were five feet by seven, had no bedding, only a primitive sanitary system and housed three prisoners each
the delegation said it had heard reports of a few prisoners who wore no clothes or only undershorts and shoes
some prisoners who refuse to work are allowed sun only once a week for an hour or two and are confined to iron cages too small to take walks, the report said
until recently, uncooperative prisoners were allowed visits only once every six months but the delegation said new rules have reduced this to once every 60 days, the report said
but a cuban exile, reinaldo lopez lima, who said he spent 23 years in cuban prisons, told neier during the news conference that he spent eight of those years without a family visit. he described prison conditions as ``terrible'' and said he knew of a dozen prisoners who were killed early last year shortly before his release
under questioning, neier said he was satisfied that the delegation got an ``unfettered look'' at the cuban prison system. he said it would have been difficult for cuban authorities to restrict the delegation to ``showcase'' areas reserved for foreign visitors because he had maps drawn for the delegation by former prisoners
the visit came at a time when the reagan administration is making a concerted effort at the u.n. human rights commission in geneva to make cuba an agenda item at the 1989 commission session
in a speech to the commission on tuesday, the u.s. ambassador to the united nations, vernon walters, said that cuba has more than 200 prisons and labor camps and that there may be between 10,000 to 15,000 political prisoners
he said that a group of long-term political prisoners who have refused rehabilitation began a hunger strike a week ago ``to protest havana's attempts to misinform the world about prison conditions, torture and other mistreatment.''
neier noted that amnesty international, a london-based human rights group, claims to have the names of 600 political prisoners and said he believes the actual number in that category is only somewhat higher
the report said that the delegation interviewed at least 50 political prisoners, most of whom the group had selected in advance
the visit was undertaken at the suggestion of the institute for policy studies. in exchange, ipc agreed to seek similar access to u.s. prisons by a delegation of cuban legal experts
rock star george michael has credited the wife of democratic presidential candidate albert gore jr. with helping boost his album sales past 10 million
no doubt a few of those american sales came from tipper gore's efforts,'' michael said thursday in a statement released by his publicist, phil lobel
mrs. gore has spoken against obscene lyrics in rock 'n' roll music
michael said he has been notified that his ``faith'' album, which contains the hit single ``i want your sex,'' has sold more than 10 million copies worldwide
perhaps now she can help sell a few thousand more records since her husband won big in the primaries,'' michael said in perth, australia, where he is performing
gore, a u.s. senator from tennessee, won in six states during the super tuesday primaries
as americans like to say, there was much hoopla about nothing,'' michael said about the lyrics in the song. ``it was, after all, just a pop record.''
the nicaraguan contras on thursday dropped a demand that had blocked peace talks with their homeland's marxist government, agreeing to the open agenda proposed by the sandinistas
the rebel group made the announcement at a news conference here where its leaders bitterly criticized the united states for cutting off contra aid
the united states has once again abandoned an ally,'' said adolfo calero, one of six directors of the nicaraguan resistance. ``but we have been abandoned before. we will continue our efforts.''
calero said the rebels will now accept the proposed open agenda for talks in sapoa, nicaragua, and suggested the talks begin march 16
we are ready to go to sapoa,'' said calero, who will head the delegation
he said the nicaraguan resistance, as the contras are formally known, would no longer insist that the agenda include a program hammered out during talks mediated by nicaraguan cardinal miguel obando y bravo in guatemala last month. that included a 30-day truce, political amnesty, press freedoms, an end to the draft, and a dialogue with the opposition
the contras proposed instead that the sandinistas allow the ``internal opposition'' to attend the talks, but stopped short of saying they would insist on that condition
the change in the contras' position came one week after a reagan administration proposal to continue funding the rebels lost in a close vote in the u.s. house of representatives on march 3
calero called the united states ``an inconsistent and impermanent'' friend, in contrast to the soviets, who support the sandinistas
he and fellow director aristides sanchez said the aid cutoff might eventually hurt troops in the field, but insisted their morale was still high
we will never surrender,'' said calero
the sandinistas have previously accepted contra demands that obando y bravo, whom the nicaraguan government dropped as mediator, attend the sapoa talks as a witness
the contras, in turn, accepted organization of american states head javier baena soares as a second witness
calero said thursday that in previous communications the sandinistas have ``given every guarantee'' of the contra delegation's safety inside nicaragua
nicaraguan president daniel ortega had proposed the sapoa talks begin march 9, but the contras begged off, saying they were only notified the night of march 7
last week, they asked instead for a meeting in costa rica to discuss details of the talks, but thursday's proposal made no mention of a preliminary meeting
calero said he had kept the united states _ which he referred to as ``our ally, in quotes'' _ informed of the talks
pop singer andy gibb, younger brother of the three members of the bee gees rock group, died today in an oxford hospital after developing stomach pains, his record company said. he was 30
a spokesman for island records ltd. who spoke on condition he not be identified said he could not release the cause of death
he was 30 years old. he was taken ill with stomach pains on monday and was admitted to hospital for observation and then he died this morning,'' the record company said in a statement. ``the reason for death has yet to be announced.''
a spokesman for john radcliffe hospital in oxford, 52 miles northwest of london, confirmed gibb died there at 8:45 a.m
i can't give you any further information than that,'' said colin weston, the hospital's duty administrator
the record company spokesman said the australian-born gibb, younger brother of robin, maurice and barry who make up the bee gees, signed a contract with island records two months ago and was due to work on a new album this spring
gibb's hit songs include ``i just want to be your everything,'' in 1977, ``shadow dancing'' and ``an everlasting love'' in 1978 and ``(our love) don't throw it all away'' in 1979
gibb's manager, robert stigwood, said in new york he was ``very sad and deeply distressed, and sorry. i have been in touch with his parents and brothers. i will miss him.''
gibb's miami lawyer, john kozyak, said he received word of gibb's death from the miami manager of the bee gees
this is really a shock,'' kozyak said. the last time i saw him, he looked perfectly healthy to me. he was playing tennis.''
dick ashby, the bee gees' representative in miami, said gibb's mother, barbara gibb, was with him when he died
gibb lived in a penthouse apartment at venetia on biscayne bay in miami
last october, court papers filed in connection with gibb's bankruptcy proceedings in miami showed gibb earned only $7,755 in 1986 and lived rent-free while playing guitars loaned him by his brothers
kozyak said an investigation was under way into gibb's death
the doctor was going to talk to him this morning and arrange more tests, and he simply died,'' he said
gibb, who co-hosted tv's ``solid gold'' in 1981 and 1982, had six hit records in the late 1970s
he was born in australia but had lived in the miami area for several years
gibb got the venetia apartment in exchange for promoting the plush condominium complex. he had appeared at various celebrity charity events around south florida, including pro-celebrity tennis matches in miami and fort lauderdale
but he suffered financial setbacks in recent years and filed for bankruptcy last september. at that time he estimated his debts at more than $1 million and his assets at less than $50,000
gibb had been in london about a month. kozyak said gibb's bankruptcy was discharged from miami federal court in january and all of gibb's debts were settled
since then, gibb ``was back on his feet and in good spirits and trying to put together a record contract,'' he said
a seventh-grader was expelled and a classmate was suspended for 30 days for making at least three ``homemade bombs'' and bringing them to school, allegedly to get back at a teacher, officials said thursday
the boone county board of education took the action against the unidentified boys following hearings march 1 and 2, school officials said. a third youth had been suspended for 10 days but is back at the madison middle school
two bombs were found hidden in a restroom ceiling, and testimony at the hearings indicated the third was detonated somewhere outside school, principal joe tagliente said thursday
the containers found hidden in the ceiling contained some kind of fuel mixed with gun powder, tagliente said
according to the testimony, one of the boys had a problem with a teacher and was mad at him, and the student brought the bombs to school to blow up his car,'' tagliente said. ``the student denies saying it.''
superintendent kenneth mabe said one youth was expelled for the rest of the school year and banned from school property. the second was suspended for 30 days and placed on probation the rest of the school year, he said. both were required to seek counseling
both were accused of manufacturing the devices, tagliente said
the third student was not accused of making the bomb but was allegedly involved in the plot, he said
no criminal charges have been filed against the youths
a court convicted 27 thais of fishing illegally in bangladesh territorial waters, it was reported thursday
the civil court in bagerhat sentenced each to five years in jail, according to the new nation, an independent english-language daily
the fishermen were arrested by the bangladesh navy off southwestern bangladesh, according to bagerhat police
a nationwide sweep of mafia suspects has led to 96 arrests, authorities said thursday
more than 1,000 members of various agencies were trying to execute 160 arrest warrants for suspects in cities from palermo in sicily to milan in northern italy, authorities said
prosecutors in palermo said thursday they began the investigation in april based on statements by antonio calderone, who was arrested at that time in an investigation of the so-called alleruzzo gang of mafiosi that operated near mount etna in sicily. magistrates were also acting on statements made by other mafia informants, the prosecutors said
the italian news agency ansa said the crimes cited by calderone included the killing of police col. giuseppe russo and ambush of gen. carlo alberto dalla chiesa, the prefect of palermo and italy's top mafia fighter. his 1982 murder prompted an investigation that led to a 1985 anti-mafia sweep with 200 arrests
ansa said calderone also told authorities about the role of small crime families that operate on the flanks of the large mafia groups in the cities
italian news agencies said an unspecified number of people named in the latest arrest warrants were already in prison for other crimes
gary hart, who three months ago re-entered the democratic presidential race to ``let the people decide,'' has gotten the message and will call it quits on friday, sources said thursday
the former colorado senator polled no more than 5 percent of the vote in the super tuesday primaries and won no convention delegates. the day after the primaries, the federal election commission announced hart no longer was eligible for further federal matching funds
his departure from the race, expected to come at a friday morning news conference in denver, will mark his second departure from the 1988 democratic race
at a highly charged news conference last may 8, a defiant hart, at the time considered the democratic front-runner, quit the race following published reports about his relationship with miami model donna rice
when he rejoined the race in december, hart immediately shot to the top of the polls. but pollsters cautioned hart's numbers could be traced to name identification rather than support and early contests bore that out _ hart finished last in crucial early races in iowa and new hampshire
sources speaking only on condition of anonymity said hart would not endorse any of the surviving contenders when he makes his withdrawal announcement
in lansing, mich., george sallade, co-chairman of michigan friends for gary hart, said hart's speech scheduled for friday to a michigan state university political science class had been canceled. he said he expected a withdrawal announcement
`what this shows is that the american people expect the occupant of the white house to be saintly,'' sallade said
the hart campaign suffered an additional blow when colorado gov. roy romer and state democratic party chairman buie seawell threw their support behind massachusetts gov. michael dukakis on wednesday. both previously had been hart supporters, and seawell once headed hart's senate office in washington, d.c. legislature</head>
many people would like to see students perform community services, and a bill in the legislature would require all michigan high school students to do that to graduate
critics of the measure say students should concentrate on academics, such service should be voluntary, and the state shouldn't intrude on local control of education
the bill introduced wednesday by sen. jerome hart would require students to perform 40 hours of community service over the last three years of high school. it also would let them earn at least one-half course credit if they performed an additional 50 hours of service
rhett johnston, an aide to hart, said about 5 percent of the schools nationwide require community service as a condition of graduation. about 28 percent of the nation's 74,000 public high schools offer elective course credit for volunteer work
community service offers our young people the chance to discover, develop and display talents and skills they rarely use in school and it also provides hard-pressed community social agencies a corps of hard-working, dedicated and compassionate volunteers,'' hart said
it's pretty widespread,'' said barbara gomez, director of school-sanctioned youth community service programs for the washington-based council of chief state school officers, which represents state school superintendents
it's a grass-roots effort that's filtering up to the state level. there seems to be a big movement on voluntary service. ... i don't think it's something that is going to go away
our stance is that it's another way of learning. ... what goes on in the classroom is not the only way a child can learn,'' gomez said
two school districts in michigan _ detroit and bloomfield hills _ require community service to graduate. paid part-time jobs satisfy the requirement in detroit
you require what you value. we think this is a valuable experience,'' said gary doyle, deputy superintendent for the affluent bloomfield hills school district. ``reaching out and helping others gives students a better sense of self.''
but some education officials don't like the idea
it should be determined locally. if it's going to be a mandate, we would probably oppose it,'' said don elliott, executive director of the michigan association of school administrators
it may well be a good idea, but it should be something that each school district should consider on its own,'' said justin king, executive director of the michigan association of school boards
our position is any graduation requirement should be (a matter of) local control,'' said carl cohen, president of the michigan pta. ``we think that community service should be something that everybody should want to do.''
corporate sponsors have rebuffed elizabeth taylor's gala to raise money for aids care and research, making it unlikely the benefit will reach its $3 million goal, organizers said
we would have liked to have had a major corporate donor shake elizabeth taylor's hand and present her with a large check, but i couldn't get anybody,'' said jane fincher, who is in charge of obtaining corporate donations for the sunday event ending at the fontainbleau hilton hotel on miami beach
but only three corporations have given $60,000, said al evans, chairman of the community alliance against aids, a fund-raising arm of the university of miami school of medicine and co-sponsor of the event
we were led to believe that (the corporations) cared,'' evans said. ``but they're still not brave enough.''
more than $1.5 million has been raised through pledges and donations, he said
on sunday, celebrities will be co-hosts at 15 $2,500-a-plate dinners in south florida. proceeds will be split between the university of miami school of medicine and the american foundation for aids research, led by miss taylor
committed guests for sunday include miss taylor, model cheryl tiegs and actors zsa zsa gabor, marlee matlin and ed asner
the writers guild of america took a break from its 5-day-old strike against movie and television producers to honor a married, scriptwriting couple with its annual screen laurel award
irving ravetch and harriet frank most recently wrote ``stanley and iris,'' for a production to begin this summer starring robert deniro and jane fonda in the title roles
their film credits also include ``norma rae,'' ``murphy's romance'' and ``hud,'' for which they received the new york film critics award in 1962
the guild announced the winners wednesday for the award honoring the advancement of motion picture literature, said guild spokesman murray weissman. the couple will receive their award at a guild ceremony march 18
past recipients include john huston, woody allen, billy wilder and neil simon
emperor hirohito and empress nagako left thursday for a one-week rest at their seaside villa, their first trip outside the palace since the emperor underwent abdominal surgery last september
the emperor, 86, has recovered well enough to travel by train to the villa on the izu peninsula, southwest of tokyo, an imperial household agency official said. empress nagako, who suffers from back and leg ailments, will be confined to a wheelchair for the first time on a trip outside the palace, said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity
hirohito underwent an intestinal bypass operation sept. 22 after complaining of weakness and nausea. he resumed some of his official duties dec. 15, sharing the work with crown prince akihito, and made his first public apperance since the operation at a new year's gathering at the palace
laurence olivier is to deliver a special message about aids during a special performance of the musical ``time'' to raise funds for aids victims
the 80-year-old actor appears as a recorded holographic image in the musical, and the recording will be changed to include a message asking the audience ``to help us and support us in this very worthy cause.''
freddie mercury, from the pop group queen, will join the show's star, pop singer cliff richard, in singing duets
the show's producer, dave clark, said thursday he hoped the performance april 14 would raise at least $90,000 for two charities
tickets will cost about $16 to $36, and the audience will be invited to make donations afterward, clark said
lord olivier feels the same way i do,'' clark said. ``he is saying it is our responsibility to face up to and support this major issue now.''
screenwriter and playwright robert bolt, whose film successes include ``the mission'' and ``lawrence of arabia,'' has accepted an apology and undisclosed damages from a magazine that blamed him for the postponement of a film
the high court in london was told thursday that king publications accepted its magazine screen international had caused bolt ``embarrassment and distress'' with its august 1987 article
the magazine quoted press releases attributed to a spokesman for nelson entertainment which tried to blame bolt for postponement of the production of a film about irish independence leader michael collins. bolt is the scriptwriter
bolt's lawyer told the court the magazine had published an apology stating that the allegations were unfounded and acknowledging that bolt completed his work ahead of deadline
crews delicately dismantled the pedal-powered plane daedalus on thursday and packed it up for the start of a journey to greece, where the 70-pound aircraft will attempt a record 74-mile flight over the aegean sea
pilots rolled the plane, which resembles a monstrous pink dragonfly, onto the tarmac at the dryden flight research facility, where it sat in stark contrast to the giant 747 shuttle piggyback jetliner at the nasa facility
engineers then separated the daedalus wings, packed the aircraft into a container and loaded it into a moving van. a planned demonstration flight was called off because of high winds in the mojave desert, 65 miles north of los angeles
daedalus will travel to masachusetts and will leave for athens aboard a c-130 transport on march 23. the target date for the flight attempt is march 30
the aircraft has been undergoing tests in southern california since october in preparation for the greek islands flight. the route, originally designed to duplicate the mythological daedalus' route from crete to the greek mainland, was changed slightly to ensure lighter winds
greek mythology dictates that daedalus became the world's first mortal to fly when he manufactured wings of wax and feathers. according to the story, his son, icarus, died because he flew too near the sun and the wax melted
the daedalus was designed and built by a team of students, faculty and alumni from mit. it will be pedaled between crete and santorini by one of five world class bicycle racers currently in training
if successful, the flight could last up to seven hours and would break the distance record for human-powered flight set in january 1987, when the eagle experimental airplane flew 37.2 miles over the mojave desert
the previous record was set in 1979 when the gossamer albatross crossed the english channel
the daedalus can travel at an altitude of 15 feet with a top speed of 14 mph and stretches 30 feet from propeller to tail. the pilot sits in a plastic cocoon, dangling from a 112-foot long styrofoam wing. a 10-foot propeller spins four feet from the pilot's face
when in flight, the temperature in the cockpit increases 20 degrees because of the exertion of the pilot. designers feel they have until may 15 to make the record attempt. after that, the weather will be too hot
the pilot will be selected by lottery
one of those in training, greg zack, 26, of wilmington, n.c., said he was physically prepared
it would be a big bummer if i didn't go,'' zack said. ``the whole project has been a team thing though, so no one will be flying alone. i can live with it if i'm not flying it.''
he added, ``it's a funny plane to fly. it's a lot of fun. there's not much to it, really. you can look around and enjoy flying. you aren't busy with the controls.''
heat and winds are the only adversaries, he said. ``if there are gusts more than 5 mph, then you try to guess where it is going to take you and try to keep control,'' zack said
the other potential pilots are frank scioscia, 27, scranton, pa.; glenn tremml, 28, new haven, conn.; erik schmidt, 25, boulder, colo.; and kanellos kanellopoulos, 30, vrahneika, greece
at first, louisiana's chief financial officer was amused by a phony memo bearing his name that told state employees to limit their restroom time or face some surprising reminders
in the march 1 memo, a ``restroom trip policy'' is outlined ``to provide a consistent method of accounting for each employee's restroom time and ensuring equal treatment of all state employees.''
all restroom stalls are being equipped with timed paper roll retractors,'' the memo said. ``if the stall is occupied for more than three minutes, an alarm will sound. thirty seconds after the alarm sounds, the roll of paper in the stall will retract, the toilet will flush and the stall door will open.''
but after his initial amusement, brian kendrick, the state's commissioner of administration, started thinking about how the memo was being spread, and whether that meant the state could economize on some office machinery
if we can find out where those copies are starting, we'll go in and take out some copiers,'' he said
if i had a dollar for every copy that's been made, i could have probably solved the state's money problems,'' kendrick said wednesday. louisiana faces a budget deficit projected as high as $200 million
lee trevino hopes golfers and non-golfers alike will remember his name when they vote for their next congressman, but he hopes they look at the issues because his golf game is not too hot
this lee trevino is an insurance executive. it's the other lee trevino who's a famous professional golfer
trevino, 42, won the republican primary tuesday, but doesn't think his name helped
it's a big joke _ lee trevino, the golfer. everybody laughs about it, but it's in good humor,'' trevino said wednesday
no one has been critical, nobody has asked, `did i change my name?' or `was i trying to get in with the name?' i don't think the name is going to be an issue in the race,'' he said
and in any event, his real first name is loreto, and lee is a nickname given to him 16 years ago by a supervisor when trevino introduced himself
he said, `how about lee?' i said, `no, my name is loreto.' he said, `well, i'll just call you lee,' and it stuck,'' trevino said
i was angry with him for doing it. i had a hard time getting adjusted to it, but i love it now,'' trevino said
you might expect the guests of honor at a luncheon at sardi's, the posh restaurant, to be compatible, well-mannered and fashionable, but what do you do if one guest is a working stiff who tries for a smooch?
the dog fanciers club organized the event wednesday to honor the nation's top show dog and the city's top police dog
the show dog, champion great elms prince charming ii, a fluffy little pomeranian, arrived in an elegant, padded carrying case. the dog was named best in show at the prestigious westminister kennel club show in madison square garden last month
the other guest of honor was nero, a big, amiable bruiser of a german shepherd, a specialist in sniffing out bombs and narcotics. nero, who arrived at the end of a leash, has helped the police department make hundreds of arrests
prince, long used to being coddled and primped, seemed oblivious to all the attention and photographers
but then nero grew bold enough to prod the smaller dog on the chin, and prince blinked and drew back
he's a very friendly dog,'' said nero's master, officer joseph faraguna. ``in all the arrests i've made with him, he's only bitten four times.''
tired of sitting on a boat while the fish ignore the fat worm on your hook? maybe they're fussy eaters; try a new kind of bait made in five fin-tickling flavors: bacon, strawberry, vanilla, corn and blood
catfish and carp really go for the taste of ``fish and stuff,'' says jack hurley, executive vice president of westin inc., an omaha-based food company that is spending $3.5 million to roll out the new product
the bait will be made from by-products of two food plants, fairbury food products in fairbury and platte valley foods in wahoo. the fairbury plant makes bacon bits and the wahoo plant makes onion rings and breaded vegetables
the drug-taking and sexual partners of aids-infected people would be told they're at risk of catching the deadly disease under a bill introduced in the new york legislature
the measure says doctors should have the power, without threat of legal penalty, to inform people in danger even over the objection of those infected with aids. the bill doesn't specifically allow doctors to use the names of the aids-infected people when informing intimates, but it does give physicians the right to use their discretion
the legislation, unveiled wednesday, also would require that counseling and education services be made available to people being tested for aids and for those close to them who are at risk of catching the disease
also under the bill, blood testing for exposure the hiv virus, which causes acquired immune deficiency syndrome, would be limited to people who voluntarily agree and give written authorization to be tested
according to sponsors, the legislation would restrict release of the results of aids tests without a person's consent to the individuals being tested and to professionals directly involved in the medical care of that person. some information could be exchanged by public health and social services agencies, sponsors said
the bill protects confidentiality, protects the information, except to deal with an identified and legitimate health concern and treatment necessity,'' said state assemblyman richard gottfried, chairman of the assembly's health committee. ``you would not notify everybody in the neighborhood (of the presence of aids). you would not notify somebody's fellow workers.''
sponsors say the bill would limit discrimination against people with aids, the hiv virus or with aids-related complex in employment, housing, credit transactions and other areas
a violation of the disclosure rules would carry a misdemeanor criminal penalty of up to one year in jail under the bill, which also would establish improper disclosure as grounds of a civil lawsuit
current state laws require physicians to inform people when they are at risk of getting certain sexually transmitted diseases such as syphilis. the legislation proposed wednesday would make aids notification optional for doctors, and it would also give doctors the right to ask public health officials to do the notifying instead
tim sweeney, deputy director for policy of the new york city-based gay men's health crisis, said that a ``strong confidentiality bill can enhance public health and civil liberties.''
new york state, with 14,000 aids cases, has the nation's highest incidence of the disease. aids is caused by a virus that damages the body's immune system. it is spread most often through sexual contact, needles or syringes shared by drug abusers, infected blood or blood products, and from pregnant women to their offspring
a man who was twice acquitted of charges he violated oak park's handgun ban has sued the community and several of its officials for $2.5 million
in the lawsuit filed wednesday in u.s. district court, don bennett accuses the suburban village, several officials and police officers of conspiring to harass him and violate his constitutional rights to free speech, due process and equal protection under the law
bennett, 45, a resident of the nearby hanover park, formerly owned a gas station and minimarket in oak park
bennett's attorney, michael d. johnson, said bennett sold his business in july after he was harassed by the village and its officials because of his outspoken opposition to the ban on handguns
the oak park attorney, raymond heise, said he had not received a copy of the lawsuit, but he denied the allegations
if mr. bennett interpreted that enforcement as harassment, that's his interpretation,'' he said. ``i don't know any day that he wasn't free to operate his business.''
on march 26, 1986, bennett was charged with violating the handgun ban after he chased and shot at two people who robbed his gas station. bennett was acquitted that fall
the lawsuit contends a police officer told bennett the following day to stop talking with the news media about his case, johnson said
bennett was charged with a second violation of the handgun ban on feb. 23, 1987, accused of brandishing a firearm while dealing with an unruly customer. he was later acquitted of that charge, too, johnson said
the sole resident of this unincorporated town has been fatally shot in the country store he tended for 42 years, and a man paroled from prison three weeks ago has been charged with his murder
william mellin, 70, was shot in the back of the head tuesday night, officials said
david ray wareham, 41, who had worked at the store since his parole feb. 18, was arrested an hour after the shooting and is being held without bail on murder charges, officials said. he also was charged with the attempted murder of a witness to the shooting, whom police refused to identify
wareham apparently went to work at the stide 25 percent of the funds for the giant atom smasher
herrington said that should the united states fail to build the physics research center, there could be a ``brain drain'' of mammoth proportions, as u.s. scientists go abroad to work on the best equipment
he urged congress to help the united states take the lead in high-energy physics ``and let the brain drain happen in other countries.''
the subcommittee's chairman, rep. tom bevill, d-ala., pressed herrington to get financial commitments from foreign nations before congress votes further money for the project
unless we can get allocated another billion dollars pretty soon and start it ... we could not possibly initiate the funding,'' bevill said. ``but if we had assurance 50 percent or 75 percent would be contributed by other countries, it would be a whole new game.''
herrington, however, said it was up to the united states to act first in order to draw foreign participation
rep. carl pursell, r-mich., said he was worried that depending on some foreign nations, such as japan, for funds would endanger u.s. commercial and security interests
the project ``may be pure physics in itself, but there are results that will translate into the industrial and strategic area,'' said pursell, whose district contains one of seven proposed sites for the super-collider
president reagan has proposed $363 million for super-collider construction in 1989, but critics in congress oppose such high spending on grounds it would divert money from other important research projects
the research center would include a 53-mile-around atom smasher to study the effects of high-speed collisions of subatomic particles
backers of the project contend it would produce practical technological benefits into the next century
bevill, however, said $6 billion in large, federally backed research projects have been discontinued the past five years
that isn't a good track record,'' he said. ``when you make mistakes on a small research project, that is one thing, but when we look at the size of this, it shocks us.''
besides michigan, six other states have sites that remain in competition for the project, which will produce 3,000 jobs and have an annual operating budget of $279 million
the states are arizona, colorado, illinois, north carolina, tennessee and texas
a marine embassy guard who for a time figured prominently in last year's moscow spy scandal will leave the military next month, the marine corps said thursday
cpl. arnold bracy, 22, of woodside queens, new york city, will be formally discharged on april 4, the corps said. a marine official who asked not to be named said bracy would receive an honorable discharge
bracy served as an embassy guard in moscow with sgt. clayton j. lonetree, 26, who was convicted last august of passing classified information to soviet agents after becoming involved with a russian woman
for a time last spring, bracy also faced a military court-martial because navy and federal agents were convinced he had conspired with lonetree and allowed russian kgb agents inside the embassy late at night to roam at will
those allegations were based in part on a confession signed by bracy after a lengthy interrogation. bracy later recanted that statement, saying it had been coerced, and all charges against him were dropped when military lawyers concluded they did not have any corroborating evidence to prosecute. picking up 4th graf `arguments are...' adds byline.</note>
former black panther johnny spain was freed on bail today after 21 years in prison for murder in connection with a bloody, aborted 1971 escape attempt from san quentin prison
spain, 38, whose two murder convictions were reversed, arrived at the front gate of the california medical facility shortly after noon to receive congratulations from friends and supporters
i feel great,'' he said. ``what this has meant in terms of 21 years in prison, it has been a very terrible and difficult time. i won't let anyone down who has supported me and there have been many who supported me.''
on wednesday, u.s. district judge thelton henderson ordered spain, released on $350,000 bail pending a hearing on the state's appeal of the overturning of the convictions in the slaying of two guards during the escape attempt
friends prepared to post the bond, but vacaville officials decided not to release him immediately because they had not received the necessary papers from the state parole board and the judge who ordered him freed
arguments are scheduled for monday in the state's appeal of henderson's 1986 order of a new trial for spain in the ``san quentin six'' case
mr. spain is entitled to sit and watch that argument and hear the rest of his life debated before him,'' lawyer dennis riordan said in asking henderson for spain's immediate release
the bail ruling was the second court victory in as many days for spain, who was imprisoned being arrested in 1966 for a murder and robbery in los angeles
on tuesday, los angeles superior court judge kathleen parker ordered spain paroled immediately from the sentence he has been serving for the 1966 murder
spain apparently joined the black panther party after entering prison. he later became the only inmate convicted of murder in the bloody san quentin escape attempt that killed militant leader george jackson, two other prisoners and three guards
authorities said spain, who was seen running out of a maximum-security unit with jackson, conspired with jackson in the attempted breakout
the other members of the san quentin six were either convicted of lesser charges or acquitted
in reversing spain's convictions and granting him a new trial, henderson said spain had been denied a fair trial by being required to wear heavy shackles for every court appearance during the five years of proceedings
in december, the state board of prison terms rejected spain's request for parole, saying he was unsuitable for release. henderson, however, ordered a new hearing, finding that the board had violated his previous order not to consider the overturned san quentin convictions in its deliberations
on feb. 11, the board voted 2-1 to grant spain parole in 1989. a dissenting board member asked for review by the full nine-member board, which is scheduled march 21
spain's lawyers said he would live in san francisco and work as an electrician while his case is on appeal. henderson's order allows him to travel within the state and visit his wife, whom he married while in prison, and two young sons in los angeles
in a bid to revitalize the flagging nuclear power industry, 14 members of congress introduced legislation thursday to encourage standardized plant designs and streamline the government's regulatory force
rep. carlos j. moorhead, r-calif., said the bill provides the ``means to assure that the nuclear power option is preserved for the future.'' it is co-sponsored by eight republicans and five democrats, most of whom serve with moorhead on the house energy subcommittee that will initially consider the bill
the legislation would reorganize the five-member nuclear regulatory commission into a ``nuclear safety agency'' headed by a single administrator _ a step already approved by a senate subcommittee and favored by a majority of the nrc commissioners themselves. all other federal regulatory agencies are headed by just one boss, and the nrc's commission format has long come under fire from industry and congress as too cumbersome
unlike the senate measure, moorhead's bill would take the additional step of authorizing one-stop licensing of future nuclear plants if they are built to standard, state-of-the-art designs
currently, nuclear plants must be licensed in several stages, from the start of construction to the actual production of power years later. that is necessary, in part, because most u.s. plants have been built to ``custom'' designs _ different from any other _ and hence must be given more scrupulous review
moorhead's bill would encourage the new safety agency to license both the construction and operation of any plant, subject to normal inspections, which adheres to pre-cleared designs. the system would be similar to those used in france and japan, both of which rely heavily on nuclear power and produce it more cheaply
enormous costs, safety concerns and the lengthy, complicated licensing process are among factors blamed for the moribund state of the u.s. nuclear industry. though 110 plants are now in operation and a few are still under construction, no utility has even applied to build a new plant since 1978
nrc chairman lando zech and even some critics of nuclear power have long argued for plant standardization on both safety and financial grounds. some american firms say they now have the technology to design ``meltdown-proof'' reactors, which, if standardized, would be less expensive _ perhaps by more than half _ than the plants that now require containment structures and massive backup safety systems
moorhead, noting that the u.s. geological survey has just cut its estimate of undiscovered oil in the united states by 40 percent, said it is ``undeniably clear that in the 1990s and beyond, this country will have inadequate supplies of electricity. instead of having oil buried in the ground, it now appears that we have had our heads buried. it's time we face the facts quickly and develop alternative energy supplies.''
rep. michael bilirakis, r-fla., pointed to an example in his own state as evidence of the advantages offered by plant standardization. the st. lucie 2 power plant, built to the same specifications as its sister, st. lucie 1, recently was licensed for operation after $1.5 billion in construction costs, he said
in contrast,'' bilirakis continued, the long island shoreham plant, which is the same size as st. lucie 2, cost more than $5 billion. if we can keep nuclear plant construction costs below $2 billion by building the same design only twice, he said, ``imagine what we can save if we build a standardized plant many times over.''
we rely on nuclear power for nearly 20 percent of our electric generation,'' said bilirakis. ``yet, the construction of nuclear power plants is at a standstill. the volatile situation today in the persian gulf points out that we simply must continue to develop domestic energy sources to reduce our dependence on foreign oil. safe, reliable nuclear power is the means at hand to do just that.''
contra rebels freed a u.s. peace activist they had held for nine days, turning him over to members of his witness for peace organization, the group's local director said thursday
edward griffin, the head of witness for peace here, said activist richard boren was released wednesday night near the isolated town of quilali, 187 miles north of managua
in a telephone interview, griffin said boren, 30, a volunteer from elkin, n.c., ``had a cold and was very tired, but otherwise was fine.'' he said he got news of boren's release by radio from other volunteers working in the area
no definite time was set for his arrival in managua
boren was seized along with 12 nicaraguans march 1 when ``contra troops forced him out of a private home at gunpoint,'' said witness for peace, an organization based in durham, n.c
the group is made up of american volunteers opposed to the regan administration's continued support of the contra rebels in their 6-year-old fight to overthrow nicaragua's leftist sandinista government
on tuesday, the government filed a diplomatic note of protest with the u.s. embassy against the contra abductions. the sandinistas claimed 12 men were taken by the contras, witness for peace said there were 13
boren was the second american witness for peace member seized by the contras. the first was paul fishcer, who was abducted in october in central chontales province and held for two weeks
witness for peace officials in north carolina and washington also announced boren's release
on monday, a spokesman for the u.s. state department said contra leaders in washington and florida had agreed to release boren as soon as the rebels could do so safely in front of reliable witnesses
president kurt waldheim, himself accused of war crimes, apologized on austria's behalf thursday for atrocities austrian nazis committed after adolf hitler made his native land part of germany 50 years ago
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians,'' he said in a tv speech. ``there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators. as head of state of the republic of austria, i wish to apologize for nazi crimes committed by austrians.''
about 15,000 viennese gathered for a rally outside city hall on the first of four solemn days marking the ``anschluss'' of march 11, 1938, when german troops marched into austria and were greeteed by cheering crowds
among the speakers were survivors of concentration camps and paul grosz, who leads vienna's community of 6,000 jews
austria's jews ``cannot forget'' that 65,000 were killed by the nazis and many more thousands had to flee, grosz said. ``we should never let that stain of shame on the history of this city be forgotten,'' he declared
security was tight because of a bomb scare early thursday. police removed cars parked nearby two hours before the rally began. city officials prepared thousands of black ribbons bearing the words ``50 years, march 1938, never again.''
an exhibit called ``vienna 1938'' has been mounted at city hall. there are similar displays about the nazi era at linz, where hitler spent his youth; salzburg, innsbruck and graz, where the nazi swastika was raised over the city hall even before german troops arrived
dozens of events are planned during the four days
waldheim canceled a speech he was to have made at the official government ceremony friday _ some prominent austrians had threatened to stay away otherwise _ and substituted the televised address thursday in which he spoke of ``the avalanche of suffering'' after annexation
he did not mention his own service in hitler's army or a report last month on his conduct as a lieutenant in the balkans from 1942 to 1945
an international panel of historians, appointed by the government at waldheim's request, said he was in ``close proximity'' to war crimes, knew of them and did not try to stop them. the historians said they found no proof that he committed war crimes, but left the question of guilt open
in his 12-minute speech thursday, the former u.n. secretary-general indicated again that he will not leave office until his term expires in 1992. he announced plans for a ``moral renewal'' program to counter disillusionment among young austrians about public service
at the rally, grosz told the young: ``you are not the prisoners of an evil past, because if you know it you are free to form the present and the future creatively.''
hundreds of thousands of austrians joined the nazi party after cheering german soldiers who poured across the border march 11-12, 1938, made austria part of the third reich
huge crowds welcomed hitler when he entered his homeland in triumph. by then thousands of jews, intellectuals, socialists and austrian nationalists had been jailed in a roundup overseen by ss chief heinrich himmler
the nazis said 99 percent of austria's voters approved the annexation in a nationwide referendum in april 1938
austrians as both victims and perpetrators of nazism was a theme running through all pronouncements of major public figures as the anniversary observance began
chancellor franz vranitzky said in an interview with western news agencies that austrians should learn from the past rather than focusing on waldheim
in a survey conducted for a television documentary, 47 percent of 150 austrians polled late last year said annexation brought both good and bad results. only 15 percent of those polled said it was entirely bad
after 1918, when austria lost its vast empire, politicians of all parties had argued for union with germany as a way to rescue the economy and preserve the nation's german culture. the enthusiasm of many wanted when hitler gained control of germany in 1933
vranitzky said an important lesson of the 1930s was that divisions between political parties never should be so deep again
after world war ii, the past was suppressed the official view came to be that austria was hitler's first victim. the controversy over waldheim's wartime past has prompted a much more thorough investigation of the past
mayor helmut zilk, unveiling a plaque to vienna politicians who died in concentration camps, said thursday some austrian ``victims very quickly searched for victims of their own'' after 1938
we must openly admit this disgraceful fact and we should not try to minimize it or play it down by a comparison with other countries,'' he said
republican union members, against the wishes of their leaders, appear to be embracing the presidential candidacy of kansas sen. bob dole despite his poor record on labor issues
democrats far outnumber republicans in organized labor. and democratic union members, like democrats in general, have yet to unite behind any of their party's candidates
but dole, despite having what has been called one of the 20 worst voting records in the senate on labor issues, is the clear favorite of union members who say they are republicans _ about about one-fourth of the 19 million union members in the nation
dole, for example, garnered 53 percent of the republican union vote in tuesday's 12 southern primaries, according to exit polls
but with only 1 percent of the republican vote in the southern primaries coming from union households, their support for dole was no more than a drop in the bucket as vice president george bush swept the region
bush received 28 percent of the republican union vote in the super tuesday primaries, followed by former television evangelist pat robertson with 22 percent and rep. jack kemp of new york with 6 percent
labor political strategists see primarily two phenomena at work in the strong support for dole and in bush's weak showing among their republican members
dole is perceived incorrectly as less elitist, more moderate and more of a regular guy,'' said jerry clark, political director of the 1 million-member american federation of state, county and municipal employees
except on a few things like food stamps that affect agriculture, his voting record on our issues is terrible,'' clark said
the other factor is bush's identification with president reagan, who despite the afl-cio's vehement opposition, received about 45 percent of union members' votes in the 1984 general election
rex hardesty, a spokesman for the federation, contended dole's strong showing this year represents an anti-reagan vote
the drumbeat of union publications that reaganomics and reagan's conservative views should hold no appeal to trade unionists is getting through,'' he said
reagan had support from just two unions in 1980 _ the teamsters and the professional air traffic controllers organization. within a year of his election, he fired 11,000 patco members for going on strike and destroyed their union
the teamsters endorsed reagan again in 1984, but with much less enthusiasm than in 1980. later, the administration indicted their president, jackie presser, on charges of embezzlement and launched a legal effort to seize control of the union through a government trusteeship, contending that it is dominated by racketeers
in reaction to the takeover attempt, the teamsters sought refuge in the afl-cio, rejoining the federation after a 30-year absence and promising to not disrupt its political goal of putting a democrat in the white house
although they are now unlikely to make a democratic endorsement before the party's convention next july, labor leaders have agreed to unite behind whoever is the party's nominee
joan baggett, political director for the bricklayers union and a democratic party activist, said labor leaders clearly prefer to run against bush, believing fewer of their members will cross over to support him than did reagan
bush is now clearly linked with reagan, and our members have come to realize that reagan has not been particularly good for their interests,'' ms. baggett said
we don't want to run against dole,'' she added. ``he has a long voting record against our members' interests, but they don't know that. it's partly because, that with our lower political profile this year, we haven't told them.''
not everyone agrees
dole drew fewer negative responses than any other candidate in either party in a poll of members of the united food and commercial workers union
if our members have a preference as far as republicans are concerned, they would much rather have dole,'' said allen zack, a ufcw spokesman. ``he's developed a reputation as being at least a person you can deal with.''
here are singles recorded by andy gibb and how high they got on the billboard magazine charts:
i just want to be your everything,'' 1977, gold record, no. 1 for four weeks
(love is) thicker than water,'' 1977, no. 1 for two weeks
shadow dancing,'' 1978, gold record, no. 1 for seven weeks
everlasting love,'' 1978, no. 5
(our love) don't throw it all away,'' 1978, gold record, no. 9
desire,'' 1980, no. 4
i can't help it,'' 1980, duet with olivia newton john, no. 12
time is time,'' 1980, no. 15
me (without you),'' 1981, no. 40
all i have to do is dream,'' 1981, duet with victoria principal, no. 51
amnesty international officials accused gov. bob martinez on thursday of trying to rush the execution of convicted killer willie jasper darden, florida's most-often condemned man who is under his seventh death warrant
officials of amnesty international and other groups planned to go to the state capitol on friday to ask martinez to meet with darden's attorneys and listen to new evidence that they say could clear the inmate of the murder of a lakeland furniture store owner in a $15 robbery
supporters say darden, who is black, was the victim of racial prejudice in his trial
darden's is the most-litigated case involving a death row inmate, with nearly 100 judges involved in decisions. it has been before the u.s. supreme court four times
the latest time before the supreme court was monday, when the court turned down his claim that he received an unfair trial
the next day, the governor signed a seventh death warrant for darden and set his execution for march 15. that gave the inmate's attorneys less than a week to prepare his case. usually, at least 30 days are allowed
i think the governor is looking for some kind of ritualistic sacrifice that he can go through to prove he's tough on crime,'' said magdaleno rose-avila, national director of amnesty international's campaign to abolish the death penalty. he noted that the governor's popularity rating has been low in recent polls
the governor's spokesman said politics had nothing to do it, since martinez always has strongly supported the death penalty
the issues have been debated and resolved by the courts. there was no reason not to sign the warrant,'' said press secretary jon peck
peck said martinez had instituted a new policy recently to schedule executions on subsequent warrants in 20 days, rather than 30 days, which he said would have put the execution near the good friday and easter holidays
it seemed like kind of an inappropriate time,'' peck said
joe spicola, the governor's general counsel, said darden had exhausted all possible appeals. ``he is not going to abuse the process any further,'' he said
attorney mark olive said he did not know when he would be able to file a last-ditch appeal on darden's behalf
amnesty international planned to organize supporters in florida and european countries to call or cable the governor's office friday to protest the execution
i think there will be public outrage like they've never seen if they execute willie darden,'' rose-avila said
no other florida inmate has survived as many death warrants, few have been as celebrated and only one other inmate has been on florida's death row longer
when martinez signed darden's sixth death warrant earlier this year, soviet dissident andrei sakharov, american actress margot kidder and british rock star peter gabriel urged clemency. sakharov won the 1975 nobel peace prize for his defense of human rights in the soviet union
darden, 54, has been on death row since jan. 29, 1974. a prolific writer, he has been called the ``poet of death row.''
darden's supporters cite sworn statements from a minister and another lakeland resident saying he could not have been at the furniture store when owner james turman was killed
the rev. sam sparks said turman's wife had told him that all blacks looked alike to her and that her identification of darden was unimportant because lawyers had told her darden committed the crime. helen baum, formerly helen turman, recently denied having made that statement to sparks and reaffirmed her identification of darden
christine f. bass, a lakeland secretary, said darden's car had broken down near her home and he waited for a tow truck from 4 p.m. to 5:35 p.m. on sept. 8, 1973. her house was eight miles from the furniture store. prosecutors say the crime occurred about 6 p.m
here is a list of the soldiers who died in the collision of the two army helicopters tuesday night at fort campbell as identified by the army. the relatives of one of the 17 victims have yet to be notified
staff sgt. richard l. alter, 29, williamsport, pa
pfc. clifford w. bath iii, 19, charleston, s.c
chief warrant officer billie d. bolin, 29, greensburg, ky
capt. michael daniel, 32, delaware, ohio
pfc. gregory t. dean, 24, liberty, ky
pfc. james draper, jr., 20, fruitland, n.m
capt. pelham l. felder iv, 34, fredricksburg, va
pvt. 2 class andrew j. franklin iii, 20, advance, ind
chief warrant officer james m. guill, 33, georgetown, ky
spec. 4 samuel a. hintz, 24, sherrodsville, ohio
pfc michael a. jankowski, 19, sussex, wis
spec. 4 brian j. leblanc, 21, cold springs, minn
pvt. 2 jeffrey l. rivas, 26, santa barbara, calif
sgt. dennis c. sabot, 30, bismark, n.d
pfc. timothy s. sayer, 20, worthington, ohio
staff sgt. charles l. shirley, 32, madison, ill. a second house hearing; no pickup; adds byline</note>
nasa officials warned congress on thursday that the space station program would be destroyed if money is diverted to build an unmanned scientific and manufacturing facility in space
at the same time, the space station budget came under attack elsewhere in the capitol, when rep. edward p. boland, d-mass., pressed for more money for housing programs next year and said if that money is not allocated, then congress will ``kiss goodbye to the space station.''
boland, whose house appropriations subcommittee handles funding for housing programs as well as independent agencies including the national aeronautics and space administration, said his panel would take money for housing from the budgets for nasa and the national science foundation unless congress changes the overall budget priorities
boland said ``it would take $1.5 billion to restore'' the cuts in housing funds to the level needed. unless congress finds another source for those funds, he said, ``you can kiss goodbye to the space station,'' new rocket boosters and other improvements in the space program
in another part of the capitol, andrew stofan, the retiring head of the space station program in the national aeronautics and space administration, said he would strenuously oppose any attempt to take money from the space station budget to pay for a commerically developed ``industrial space facility.''
nasa, which is under congressional and white house pressure to make use of an unmanned scientific and manufacturing facility, recently said it would seek to lease an orbiting laboratory for five years at $140 million a year. some congressmen want that money to come out of space station funds
i see no use for it (the isf) as far as developing the space station is concerned,'' said stofan, who is retiring after 30 years with nasa. ``if the $700 million came out of developing the space station, i would definitely say no.''
some nasa officials and members of congress fear that forcing the agency to accept the isf or another facility like it is a move by station opponents to kill the project altogether
stofan testified at a hearing of the house space science subcommittee, which is considering the administration's request for $1 billion in the fiscal year that beings in october to start construction of the space station
if we get less than the $1 billion we ask for ... we will have a program, but not on the schedule we have today,'' stofan said. he said any skips in the schedule waste far more money than they save
after budget cutters got through, nasa's 1988 request for $767 million for the space station was cut to $425 million
that $350 million less will cost us $1.4 billion'' by the time the station is completed,'' stofan said. and, he said, it will delay completion of the station by one year
he said any cut in the nasa budget will have disastrous results just as the agency is trying to spring forward again from the calamities that began with the explosion of the space shuttle challenger in 1986. nasa has requested $11.5 billion in 1989, an increase of $2.5 billion over 1988
rep. jack buechner, r-mo., who is a member of the house budget committee as well as the space science subcommittee, said he thought nasa will get only a $1 billion increase
as we are standing on the springboard ready to dive in the water, they are draining the pool,'' he said
the schedule, stofan said, calls for the first elements of the station to be launched in the first three months of 1995, it will be ready for temporary visits by astronauts a year later and will be completed in the first three months of 1998
again and again, stofan was asked by committee members about the industrial space facility
he said the private houston firm that is developing the facility _ which would be carried into orbit by the space shuttle _ tried to find commercial customers for it but couldn't. under the nasa proposal, the government would lease back 70 percent of the space
there is no advantage to building the isf before the space station is ready, stofan said. he said it should be built only if there is a commercial demand for it
thomas moser, director of the nasa's space station program office, said the isf would have only double the usefulness of carrying a spacelab in the shuttle's cargo bay. he said a permanently manned space station would be 50 times as useful as the isf
one of seven secret undergraduate societies at yale university has decided to admit women in 1989, according to published reports
the move by the scroll and key will leave two secret clubs off-limits to women, including skull and bones, whose alumni roster includes vice president george bush and conservative columnist william f. buckley jr
a group called wolf's head also does not admit women
among scroll and key's alumni is a. bartlett giamatti, the president of major-league baseball's national league and former president of yale, the new haven register reported thursday. the decision to admit women was reported by the new york times and the register
the secret societies are exclusive social clubs that select children of former members and other selected students for membership in their senior year. the clubs meet in privately owned buildings on or near campus and have individual initiation rites and rituals
the societies have come under criticism; similar clubs at harvard and princeton have been the targets of lawsuits
it creates a whole system of shooting people straight to the top,'' said byrony romer, a sophomore and co-coordinator of the yale women's center. ``it is such a strong power base.''
scroll and key, which was founded in 1842, is the second-oldest of the yale secret societies
a $150,000 payment to a friend of attorney general edwin meese iii for work on an iraqi pipeline project ended up in a stock-trading account that was apparently used to benefit meese's finances, a published report said thursday
the money, a legal fee intended for attorney e. robert wallach, went through two accounts before being deposited in october 1985 in a pooled account used to trade stocks on behalf of wallach, meese and others, docments obtained by the los angeles times showed
the discovery indicates the fees wallach received for lobbying the white house, with meese's help, on the pipeline project were later used to meese's financial advantage, despite vigorous denials by lawyers for both meese and wallach, the paper said
meese played a key role in securing u.s. government support for the iraqi pipeline when he arranged a white house meeting between pipeline promoters and former national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane and discussed the project with former israeli prime minister shimon peres
meese's lawyers denied meese knew anything about the payment to wallach and said he had no way of knowing of any possible benefits he might have received from the money
and george g. walker, wallach's attorney, told the times, ``we will categorically deny that any monies mr. wallach received ever went into mr. meese's account or were used for his benefit.''
but highly unusual stock-trading practices by w. franklyn chinn, the financial adviser who managed both meese's and wallach's money, suggest that meese did benefit from trades made with the wallach fee, the newspaper said
a swiss financier, bruce rappaport, who was the pipeline's chief promoter said he deposited the $150,000 with chinn, who controlled accounts for wallach and meese at the time. rappaport has said he hired wallach because of his washington contacts, including meese
the payment to chinn was made less than two months after meese helped wallach arrange a meeting between rappaport and mcfarlane on june 24, 1985. mcfarlane assigned a national security council aide to find a way to insure the pipeline so that it could be financed and built. the pipeline was never constructed
chinn was able to pool the $150,000 with other funds and use the money to buy blocks of stock. he then could allocate the most profitable trades to meese's account after learning how the deals came out, according to a recent report by the democratic staff of the senate governmental affairs oversight subcommittee
the senate staff report concludes that nearly a third of the stock purchases allocated by chinn to meese's account, called meese partners, required more money than his account contained at the time they were made
over an 18-month period, chinn was able to turn about $50,000 into about $95,000 through investments for meese _ a return of better than 80 percent
last week in geneva, rappaport said the $150,000 was transferred to chinn's business account at the bank of america in san francisco in august 1985 on instructions from wallach
a government investigator who reviewed the financial records of meese, wallach and chinn said that on aug. 15, 1985, chinn transferred $150,000 from his bank of america business account to the stock trading account he maintained for his business at the san francisco office of bear, stearns &amp; co., a brokerage house
chinn maintained several trading accounts for clients at bear, stearns, including the one for meese
independent counsel james c. mckay is investigating meese, chiefly because of his role in the pipeline affair. key to this aspect of the inquiry is a 1985 memo to meese in which wallach cited a proposal to make payments to the israeli labor party in return for israel's guarantee not to interfere with the pipeline to be built by iraq, its longtime enemy
sen. albert gore jr. said thursday the democratic party is bound for another election-year disaster if front-runner michael dukakis wins its presidential nomination
we have tried a mike dukakis approach time and time and time again and people of this country are just not buying it,'' gore said during a visit to children's memorial hospital
the people want a president who understands it's necessary to fight for working men and women, not a technocratic manager,'' the tennessean said
for those who want another election blowout and see the democratic party losing 49 of 50 states, vote for mike dukakis.''
in two days of campaigning for illinois' march 15 primary, gore has portrayed the massachusetts governor as too liberal for the american electorate
he has mostly ignored the state's favorite sons _ sen. paul simon and jesse jackson _ except to acknowledge they have a home-field advantage
gore is staying at the palmer house, one of the city's grand old hotels, and he began his day a few yards away, shaking the hands of rush-hour commuters as they left the elevated trains that circle downtown
later, he and his wife, tipper, took a private tour of the hospital on the city's north side
in the lobby, the gores met about a dozen young patients and their parents who were surprised by the glare of the television lights
is this a nice place?'' gore asked sam goad, 8
no,'' the boy replied. ``after a while it gets boring.''
in remarks to hospital workers and patients, gore said he would overhaul federal medicaid and medicare programs and other health services, preferably without a tax increase
i'm not proposing additional taxes,'' he said. ``i believe that by changing priorities, eliminating wasteful spending in areas that have been intentionally overlooked by the reagan administration ... it is possible to avoid a tax increase
i have indicated that it can't be completely ruled out.''
gore touted his 12 years in congress, saying he sponsored legislation to protect consumers of infant formulas and to make it easier for children to get organ transplants
he planned to campaign in central illinois on friday before moving on to south carolina and washington. aides said he would return to illinois on sunday
the nation's potential onshore oil discoveries may be about 40 percent less than had been believed, according to new studies by the u.s. geological survey
using a new method of estimation, the survey concluded there is a 50-50 chance that undiscovered crude oil totals 33.4 billion barrels, well below the 54.6 billion estimated in a 1981 study, according to figures provided to scientists at a research meeting in denver last week
ozzie girard, deputy assistant director for engineering geology, said thursday the major part of the change came from disappointing drilling results
but some of the change results from a much lower price prevailing over the last two years, when the latest work was done. the 1981 work assumed a price of $30 a barrel, while the new study assumes a price of $18
the survey believes that the uncertainty of the estimates is just as important as the estimates themselves. it said there is a 90 percent chance that undiscovered oil lies between 19.6 billion barrels and 51.9 billion barrels. that range in 1981 was 41.7 billion barrels to 71 billion barrels
the estimates do not include known reserves, outlined by actual drilling, or probable reserves believed to be findable in or adjacent to a known field if new exploratory drilling were undertaken. they also do not include oil and gas offshore
the minerals management service, which is preparing new offshore estimates, three years ago lowered its estimate of offshore oil from 27 billion barrels to 12.2 billion
participants at the denver meeting also were advised that the survey now estimates that reserves of undiscovered natural gas at 254 trillion cubic feet, down from the previous estimate of 427 trillion
the potential gas committee, an industry group operated by the colorado school of mines, said last year that in 1986 about 400 trillion cubic feet of gas remained to be discovered in the categories corresponding to the service estimates
girard said the service was not counting at least 100 trillion cubic feet of gas in difficult-to-produce tight sands formations that the committee includes. the service also does not count gas in certain shale formations that the committee counts
neither body counts gas locked in coal seams, which the committee termed ``enormous,'' perhaps 400 trillion to 800 trillion cubic feet. some of that gas is being produced commercially in alabama
the committee has gradually lowered its estimates of undiscovered gas, including probable reserves and reserves offshore, from about 900 trillion cubic feet in 1980 and 1982 to 765 trillion cubic feet in 1986
industry reaction to the new estimates was mixed
we are very upset,'' said terry uhl of the american gas association. people will not pay attention to the differing classifications and it amounts to ``misinformation and disinformation'' to say that undiscovered gas is only 254 trillion cubic feet, uhl said
charles dibona, president of the american petroleum institute, said he was unable to say what the numbers mean, and the institute does not even keep track of such estimates. ``you never known until you drill,'' he said
the figures issued in denver were preliminary, girard said, and the survey expects to issue detailed findings asking for public comment sometime next month
thousands of chinese police patrolled the tibetan capital of lhasa on foot and in trucks thursday, and foreigners there said hundreds of people have been arrested in the past six days
the anniversary of the outbreak of a bloody 1959 tibetan uprising against chinese rule passed thursday without major incident, said foreigners in lhasa contacted by telephone from the southwest china city of chengdu
however, more than 100 trucks carrying armed police drove through the main streets of the city of 150,000 in a show of force and several dozen police with machine guns stood in front of the city's holiest temple, the jokhang, said benjamin watson, a tourist from new york city
watson, who speaks tibetan, said an estimated 300 people had been arrested since a clash saturday between police and tibetans demanding independence
the official news agency xinhua also said the situation in lhasa was normal thursday. it said 100 top tibetans gathered in lhasa to denounce the riots and ``those who conduct evil doings under the guise of lama (monks).''
thousands of monks and lay tibetans stoned police and lighted bonfires in the city saturday at the close of a major prayer festival. it was the first major confrontation between tibetans and chinese authorities since a series of protests in september and october left at least 14 people dead
chinese authorities have said two people _ a policeman and a tibetan _ died in saturday's violence. several foreign sources in lhasa initially estimated the deaths at eight. watson said many tibetans maintain 24 people were killed, including 21 tibetans and three police
there was no way to confirm the figures
several foreign travelers said they saw three monks being arrested at drepung monastery on the eastern fringe of the city, bringing the total of drepung monks reported under arrest to about 40
chinese authorities have not allowed foreign reporters to enter lhasa this week
an ethnic tibetan from nepal, who reached chengdu after saturday's clashes, said he believed up to 500 people were arrested
several travelers said they had been allowed to enter the 1,300-year-old jokhang temple on wednesday and thursday and did not see signs of fighting or damage. police stormed the temple saturday and tibetan monks told westerners in lhasa that 16 of their colleagues had been killed there by police
saturday's rioting began at the temple where monks had convened on the final day of the 10-day annual ``moinlam qenmo'' prayer festival. monks shouted pro-independence and pro-dalai lama slogans and threw rocks at police
march 10 is the 29th anniversary of a tibetan revolt against chinese rule that resulted in the flight of the dalai lama, spiritual leader of the tibetans, and 100,000 followers, and a bloody crackdown by the chinese army
on that day in 1959, thousands of tibetans surrounded the norbulinka, the dalai lama's summer palace in lhasa, amid rumors their god-king would be kidnapped by the chinese army
on march 17, the dalai lama fled from the palace and led his followers to exile in india. on march 20, the army attacked the palace, and quashed the rebellion after three days of fighting
in new delhi on thursday, about 200 tibetan refugees clashed with police during a rally marking the anniversary of the abortive uprising. seven tibetans and nine policemen were injured
in a statement from his home in exile in dharamsala, northern india, the dalai lama called on tibetans to ``honor the courage of our brethren in tibet who have taken to the streets to draw attention to their suffering under chinese colonial rule.''
china took control of tibet in 1950 and claims the mountain region has been part of chinese territory for seven centuries. many tibetans disagree, and hold deep antagonisms toward the chinese because of the communist government's past suppression of tibetan language, customs and religion
proposed legislation to ensure the federal government complies with its own environmental laws is unconstitutional, unneeded and could undercut efforts to clean up such facilities as the hanford nuclear reservation, reagan administration officials said thursday
members of a house subcommittee insisted, however, that the department of energy and other agencies have ``thumbed their noses'' at efforts by the environmental protection agency to enforce federal environmental laws at federal facilities
lawmakers also said that epa has been less than forceful in its efforts to force compliance with the laws, while the department of justice has obstructed those efforts
it's a shame that some in the federal government have taken the position they are above the law,'' said rep. thomas luken, d-ohio, chairman of the transportation, tourism and hazardous materials subcommittee of the house energy and commerce committee
the subcommittee's hearing focused on five bills that were introduced late last year amid mounting criticism that the energy department and other federal agencies are dragging their feet over cleaning up federal facilities, including the hanford reservation in central washington
the general accounting office has said there may be over 1,000 hazardous waste sites at hanford, the legacy of 40 years of plutonium production for nuclear weapons. the waste is both highly radioactive and chemically toxic
the scope and the complexity precludes quick solutions,'' joseph salgado, a doe undersecretary, said of the clean-up at hanford and other facilities
salgado said that a compliance agreement with epa and the state of washington covering clean-up of hanford was a top priority of doe
but rep. ron wyden, d-ore., said after the hearing that doe promised almost a year ago to come up with an agreement and a plan for hanford
we still don't have a program, a schedule or anything,'' said wyden, adding that a new justice department interpretation of some environmental laws might even preclude states from getting involved in enforcement efforts
this is just another message that the administration isn't serious about hanford clean-up and is just throwing up more obstacles,'' said wyden
wyden and rep. al swift, d-wash., are among the sponsors of the package of bills that would establish a special environmental counsel to enforce the laws, broaden the authority of the epa and the states in environmental matters at federal facilities and create a special doe department to handle environmental issues
salgado said that the five proposed bills were unneeded and that his department acknowledged their responsibility to comply with federal environmental regulations
the department of energy's critical national security mission must not be jeopardized by an environmental protection and safety program too weak to assure excellence, or by one so rigid and oppressive that these missions cannot be accomplished,'' he said
salgado said doe believes that the present framework of state and federal laws are ``adequate and appropriate.'' campus</head>
gallaudet university students declared thursday that elisabeth ann zinser, the new president of the school for the deaf, is unwelcome on the campus and vowed to keep her out, although a congressman wants her to learn firsthand about the students' concerns
students have been protesting the selection of zinser, who is not deaf and does not know sign language, and their demonstrations have halted virtually all instruction for four days. they have promised to continue their protests until she resigns
they threatened to seize the president's campus house and office, if zinser made her way past students blocking entrances to the school
zinser's whereabouts thursday could not be determined. university officials would not reveal at which hotel she was staying
student leader greg hlibok said students were willing to meet with zinser, but intend to tell her and jane bassett spilman, chairwoman of the school's board of trustees, that ``there will be no dialogue, no compromise. that's what we're promising.''
we want her out, and we intend to tell her she isn't welcome here, that she's not our president,'' hlibok added
rep. david bonior, d-mich., who is a member of gallaudet's board of trustees, said in a statement thursday he suggested to zinser that in the next few days she consult with the faculty, students, staff and alumni ``to experience the passion with which they view the appointment of hearing president.''
the time is long overdue for gallaudet university to have a deaf president,'' bonior said. ``the university has for generations been an international mecca for excellence and opportunity in deaf education
the question before us is _ how long will it be able to sustain this important role without a deaf president?
i hope dr. zinser and the board of trustees will be sensitive to this urgent need as they begin to try to heal the wounds and move forward to enhance the fine traditions of this institution.''
earlier, in an interview with the washington post, bonior said he told zinser that federal aid for the school may be jeopardized if she refuses to leave the post she was named to sunday night
about 75 percent of the school's $76 million operating budget comes from federal funds. the rest comes from tuition and grants
zinser, who left an administrative position at the university of north carolina at greensboro to take the gallaudet job, said wednesday she was assuming her post immediately instead of waiting until the original july starting date
she also lamented that campus protests have disrupted classes, and said she would take unspecified steps to restore order if the protests, which have been peaceful so far, took a violent turn
besides calling for zinser's ouster, the students want spilman's resignation, and a deaf majority on the 20-member trustees board, which now has four deaf members
as zinser attempted to start her job, support for the protesters grew
late wednesday, democratic presidential candidate jesse jackson issued a statement supporting the students, and called on gallaudet's board of trustees to ``resolve this dispute equitably
the problem is not that the students do not hear. the problem is that the hearing world does not listen,'' jackson said
sen. paul simon, d-ill., another democratic presidential hopeful, on thursday called for zinser's resignation
simon, a longtime member of the senate labor and human resources subcommittee on the handicapped, which has jurisdiction over funding for gallaudet, said zinser's appointment was a ``slap in the face to the entire purpose of the university.''
vince dollard, a spokesman for the national technical institute for the deaf, in rochester, n.y., said two buses and several cars, carrying at least 100 students from the school, were to leave at midnight for washington to join the gallaudet protest
a rally was being held on the rochester campus in support of gallaudet thursday afternoon
in addition, some east coast leaders of the national association of the deaf, a 20,000-member deaf rights group based in silver spring, md., will gather in washington on friday, spokesman fred weiner said
and activist abbie hoffman, who lectures to universities on student protests, said, ``what's happening at gallaudet is obviously right there in the front,'' he said, ``and they're going to win their battle.''
he said he has urged members of three electronic bulletin-board networks, with a total of 16,000 members, to support the students' efforts by tying up gallaudet's switchboards with calls of support for the students
a long and often acrimonious battle between north carolina and tennessee over discharges from a champion international paper mill ended with approval of a compromise, but environmentalists said their fight may not be over
the mill in canton, n.c., produces raw paper stock for milk and juice cartons and envelopes and discharges wastes into the pigeon river. residents downstream in tennessee had complained for years that the wastes stained the pigeon dark brown, killing game fish and reducing the potential for recreational revenues
tennessee officials agreed wednesday to grant champion a variance on its water quality standards. the compromise will allow the mill to continue operating by forcing it to cut its discharges significantly
this has been hanging over our heads for about three years,'' oliver blackwell, manager of the mill
we still have a lot of work to do,'' he said, noting that it could take months before a revised wastewater discharge permit can be issued by the epa. ``this is a big step but we recognize we don't have the permit yet.''
environmentalists pledged to keep an eye on the plant. nelson ross, one of the founders of the dead pigeon river council in tennessee, called the agreement only an intermediate step toward cleaning up the river
we're going to construct picnic areas, ramps for whitewater enthusiasts,'' said ross. ``we're going to develop some parks along the shores of the pigeon river and heaven help champion if they don't follow through and clean up the river like they've pledged to do.''
in accepting this revised permit, champion has agreed to operate under the most stringent environmental limits of any mill in north america and possibly the world,'' said blackwell. ``it's going to be difficult but i'm encouraged.''
the canton plant employs about 2,300 people, with an annual payroll of about $73 million. an additional 8,000 jobs depend on champion's purchases and contracts
the compromise drew praise from north carolina gov. jim martin and tennessee gov. ned mcwherter, who have been directly involved in the negotiations
this is the first agreement reached to clean up the pigeon river in the 80 years since the paper mill began operations,'' said mcwherter. ``it is a significant breakthrough in improving the river's quality and allowing us to develop the area's economic potential.''
the two states weren't so complimentary in recent years
in 1983, tennessee sued champion and the north carolina environmental management commission, contending the discharge made the river unsuitable for fishing, swimming, boating or drinking
when north carolina granted champion a new permit in 1985 to dump wastewater into the pigeon, which begins south of canton and flows into cocke county, tenn., it placed no limit on the color of the discharge. at tennessee's urging, the environmental protection agency canceled the permit and took juristiction
the epa's first proposed permit said the river could be no darker than 50 color units _ about the color of ginger ale _ when it reached the tennessee border about 60 miles north of the paper mill
enviromentalists have said the color level in the river in cocke county ranged from 600 to 800 units
the proposed five-year permit, which must be approved by both states, calls for a reduction in the color discharged from the mill by 50 percent, with additional reductions when river levels are low
the compromise calls for tennessee to grant champion a variance from the 50-unit standard. the revised permit allows about twice that
champion already has applied for a variance from north carolina, which must be approved before the wastewater permit is granted by the epa
blackwell said the modernization of the plant and environmental control equipment to comply with the new standards within the required three-year time frame would cost the company about $100 million. violations</head>
the u.n. human rights commission said thursday that israel had violated human rights in southern lebanon and expressed concern about similar allegations in iran and afghanistan
the resolution ``strongly condemns israel's persistence in violating human rights manifested in acts of aggression, bombardments of civilian populations, detentions and other arbitrary practices.''
the vote was 26-1, with 15 abstentions. the united states was the lone dissenter
the resolution expresses grave concern at ``the continuation of the acts of aggression and the arbitrary practices of the israeli occupation forces in southern lebanon which constitute a flagrant violation'' of international law
it calls upon israel to stop such actions and urges israel's allies to pressure the government to end ``its aggressive and expansionist policy in southern lebanon.''
the commission also adopted a resolution expressing ``deep concern about the numerous and detailed allegations of grave human rights violations'' in iran. the vote was 20-4, with 15 abstentions
the resolution referred to a report by the commission's special investigator, salvadoran jurist reynaldo galindo pohl, which cites allegations of torture, arbitrary arrests, unfair trials and religious persecution in iran
it expresses ``deep concern'' at allegations that torture and maltreatment ``are common in iranian prisons during interrogation and before and after the final verdict.''
the resolution urges iran to answer galindo's requests for information and to allow him to visit the country, which it has refused to do so far
the vote on the afghanistan resolution was 29-7 with six abstentions. the soviet union, byelorussia, east germany, bulgaria, ethiopia, nicaragua and india voted against the measure
soviet chief delegate viladimir lomeiko said it was unbalanced and ``permeated with the spirit of confrontation'' at a time significant progress was made in u.n.-mediated efforts to secure peace in afghanistan
vandals protesting alleged elitism at brown university damaged 10 oil portraits of early school supporters
it appears to be a protest against the white elitist male orientation of the founders of the university,'' eric broudy, spokesman for the school, said wednesday
the vandals spray-painted the message ``elite? who us?'' across the paintings in the manning chapel, broudy said
a group calling itself ``the coalition for creative subversion'' claimed responsibility and called on the school to ``diversify itself,'' broudy said
the vandalism occurred feb. 17, one day before a seminar on class and elitism was held in the room, said eric widmer, the dean of student life
widmer said it will cost more than $15,000 to restore the portraits, which are more than a century old. ``i don't know that a value could be placed on the paintings, but they're certainly part of the history of brown,'' he said
the group's letter, sent to the campus newspaper and distributed around campus, contended that incidents from brown's history show that the school is racist, sexist and biased against certain religions
another way brown perpetuates these discourses is by choosing to hang paintings of wealthy white men on its walls,'' the statement said
former nebraska gov. bob kerrey officially entered the race for the u.s. senate on thursday, while maverick mayor bernard sanders launched his campaign for vermont's sole congressional seat
i would like to be your next senator,'' kerrey, a 44-year-old democrat, told 300 supporters in omaha before starting a two-day swing through the state
no other democrat has declared for the nomination. sen. david karnes, appointed to fill the term of the late edward zorinsky, and rep. haul daub are seeking the gop nomination
i can promise you i will never betray you. and i will never dishonor the respect i have for you,'' said kerrey
despite high popularity ratings, kerrey declined to run for re-election as governor in 1986 because he said it was ``time to move on.''
kerrey ended months of speculation last november when he said he would run for the senate. since then he has been criss-crossing the state, saying his main issues are trade policy, the federal budget, education and agriculture
a great and glorious future will not happen unless we do the unglamorous work today,'' he said thursday
sanders, four-term mayor of burlington, vermont's largest city, and a longtime critic of the concentration of wealth in america, said he would fight for national health care, disarmament, tough environmental laws, affordable day care and higher taxes on the wealthy and corporations
although sanders, 46, has long claimed socialist leanings, he said he would run as an independent candidate
four democrats and one republican have declared their intentions to run for the seat being vacated by republican james jeffords, who in turn is seeking to fill the seat of retiring republican sen. robert stafford
sanders said thursday he wanted to take his tax-the-rich-and-feed-the-poor message to washington
if a hotshot student can graduate law school and start work at $70,000 a year for a big-name law firm, surely we can pay child care workers more than $12,000 a year and teachers more than $16,000 a year, and nursing home workers more than the minimum wage,'' sanders said in montpelier, the state's capital
the state's highest court on thursday rejected claims of an unfair trial and left standing the convictions of four men in the 1983 gang rape of a woman on a tavern pool table
in a pair of unanimous rulings, the massachusetts supreme court rejected defense objections to the prosecutor's handling of evidence, to the trial judge's decision to keep television cameras turned away from the victim and to other matters
bristol county district attorney ronald pina welcomed the ruling, saying he hoped it would end the lingering controversy over the case and encourage women everywhere to prosecute rapes
defense attorney david h. waxler said he was reviewing the opinion for possible grounds for further appeal
the unfortunate aspect of this sort of decision is that future prosecutors rest more comfortbaly in the knowledge that they need not turn over exculpatory evidence, and that's unfortunate,'' he said. ``it's the old saying: tough cases make bad law.''
the dramatic account of the rape given by the victim, a young mother, and the lengthy televised trial in superior court in 1984 drew unwanted national attention to the working-class neighborhoods of new bedford and sparked an intense debate over rape. it also brought agony to the portuguese-american community in the fishing city 60 miles south of boston
six young men of portugese descent were charged in the case; four were convicted of aggravated rape
daniel silvia was sentenced to nine to 12 years; joseph vieira, six to eight years; and john cordeiro and victor raposo, nine to 12 years each
the victim, also of portuguese ancestry, left new bedford and was killed in a single-car crash outside miami in 1986 at age 25
according to court records, the woman entered big dan's tavern on march 6, 1983, to buy cigarettes. she ordered a drink and spoke briefly with another woman, and they watched a game of pool. when she declined an offer of a ride from cordeiro and raposo, the court said, she was knocked down, dragged to thje pool table and raped, the judges said
eventually, clothed only in a shirt and one shoe, the victim escaped and ran into the street, where she flagged down a passing truck.''
on appeal, vieira and silvia claimed the prosecutor failed to make a timely disclosure of certain evidence that might have helped the defense, depriving them of their rights to due process. they also argued that the district attorney suppressed until after trial a witness's recorded account of the victim's condition and statements shortly after the rape
and they argued that young prejudiced the defense theory that the victim consented to the sex. they also complained about the exclusion of an allegedly false prior complaint of rape by the woman
in their separate appeal, cordeiro and raposo argued that young's order keeping courtroom cameras away from the woman prejudiced their right to a fair trial. they also claimed that young erred in refusing to instruct the jury on consensual rape
the high court dismissed each claim
an angolan official said thursday his government would never agree to giving rebel leader jonas savimbi a role in running the country if an end to the civil war is successfully negotiated
manuel pedro pacavira, angola's new ambassador to the united nations, indicated that savimbi would have to leave before there could be any reconciliation between officials of his marxist government and unita, savimbi's organization
some elements of unita could deserve different treatment ... but not savimbi,'' pacavira told reporters at a luncheon. ``he is a crook, incoherent ... doesn't care about consequences.''
savimbi's group _ the national union for the total independence of angola, or unita _ receives financial aid from the united states and south africa
before peace is achieved, pacavira said, south africa must cease its help to unita and there must be an ``understanding'' that the united states will end its assistance
a major stumbling block to ending the 12-year civil war is the presence of 40,000 cuban troops in angola. state department officials say the angolans have agreed in principle to withdrawal of the troops
pacavira said angola is prepared to remove the troops ``within limits'' once outside aid to unita stops and south africa grants independence to namibia under a united nations plan
the angolans have not provided a timetable for any troop withdrawal, but pacavira said he expects another ``ministerial meeting'' between officials of luanda and washington in march or april
assistant secretary of state chester crocker, who has tried for seven years to negotiate a solution in angola, held discussions with angolans in january. the state department said it is awaiting new proposals from angola
pacavira said the united states can continue to play a role as mediator, but angola is also ready to hold discussions with officials of white-ruled south africa. the cubans would have to be included in the talks, he said
pacavira dismissed a statement made by south african defense minister magnus malan who suggested that pretoria is willing to deal directly with the soviet union on angola
his statement has nothing concrete and constructive,'' pacavira said. ``it is just an exercise to distract public opinion.''
pacavira served as his country's ambassador to cuba before being assigned to the united nations. grafs for grafs 7-8 pvs, bush did ... of ethics.</note>
george bush said thursday he is ``tired of being embarrassed'' by scandals surrounding public officials and unethical behavior by high government officials. he pledged he would create a special white house ethics panel if elected president
bush, arriving in illinois on the heels of his stunning super tuesday victory, also promised he would set up a budget deficit summit with congressional leaders on ``day one'' of his administration _ an echo of a stand taken by gop presidential rival bob dole
bush told the governor's club luncheon at the chicago hilton said that in such a summit scenario, ``i am personally going to head the executive branch negotiating effort.''
we're going to meet. we're going to talk. maybe, even, we'll shout, but we're going to solve this problem,'' he said
bush has said on several occasions that he would seek to bring people into government ``who want to serve, not to profit'' but he has steadfastly refused to criticize any reagan administration officials, including attorney general edwin meese, who is under investigation by several grand juries
former top white house aides michael k. deaver and lyn nofziger have been convicted in court cases involving their lobbying activities after leaving the administration
at a news conference shortly after his speech, bush was asked whether his call for a special white house panel on ethics was a criticism of the way things had been done during the reagan administration
no, because i was asked this in an interview ... and i said i don't know of anybody who has a higher standard of personal ethics than the president, always above any possible conflict of interest,'' he replied. ``certainly, nobody should imply criticism. i'm just saying what my priorities would be in the future.''
asked to name public officials who had caused him embarrassment, bush said, ``i'm not going to be specific in terms of names. i'm going to be generic.''
bush said, ``i'm just saying how i would do it.''
he said in his speech, ``i am personally disturbed at the breaches of ethics i have seen in the past few years in government. once elected, i'd appoint an ethics panel to work right there in the white house. i'd have them draft a new and specific code of ethics.''
when a congressman goes bad or someone in the executive branch violates the public trust, it hurts,'' he said. ``i'm tired of being embarrassed. i'm tired of seeing our children seeing things that should embarrass us all. people at all levels of government should come to serve, not to profit.''
clearly, i have big plans,'' he told the audience of republican boosters, who sat silently through the speech
at the outset of his talk, bush told his audience ``there's no complacency'' in his campaign in the wake of his near sweep of the super tuesday competition
bush's announcement that he would personally oversee deficit-reduction negotiations also seemed an implied criticism of reagan
in the aftermath of the wall street crash last oct. 19, reagan set up a negotiating team to work out a deficit-reduction compromise with capitol hill leaders
but with the exception of some meetings in the white house with congressional figures, reagan left the actual bargaining to chief of staff howard baker, treasury secretary james baker and budget director james miller
those negotiations produced a two-year, $76 billion budget reduction plan, which included $23 billion in new taxes
bush, from the start of the campaign, has said that he would not try to win the gop nomination by ``jumping away'' from reagan or by criticizing the president
i'm not going to try to move up the ladder by knocking someone else down,'' the vice president has said
and in thursday's speech, there was plenty of praise for the president
i am proud to have been part of a m ajor change in public policy,'' he said. ``they call it the reagan revolution because it was revolutionary. ... you know the results. greatest peacetime economic growth in our history, strengthened defense, the soviets come to the bargaining table
but it's not a complete triumph. it's only a beginning,'' he said
police arrested a 17-year-old who allegedly donned a sheriff-style uniform and posed as a lawman in order to have sex with a professional escort
the youth was arrested on charges of impersonating a public officer and released on $3,000 bond, authorities said thursday
austin vice investigator earl hall said the youth entered a motel feb. 24 wearing a brown uniform, a heavy police-type jacket and a gun belt with .38-caliber snub-nose pistol
the youth identified himself as a member of the sheriff's department of williamson county, working on a prostitution case, hall said. the man called an austin escort service and then asked for a room in which to make an arrest, he said
when the escort arrived at the room, the youth told her she was under arrest for prostitution but implied he would let her go if she had sex with him, hall said. they left the motel after the manager came to the room and asked the youth to pay for it, he said
the youth was then refused rooms at two other motels, hall said
at a fourth motel, the youth said he was an austin police officer, paid for a room and had sexual intercourse with the escort, hall said. he then released her, saying no charges would be filed, he said
the woman then got her boyfriend, who confronted the impersonator at a gas station and took his gun belt and briefcase in an effort to learn his identity, hall said
the youth reported a robbery to police. they arrested the woman and her boyfriend that day but released them
the youth was arrested the same day when he allegedly tried to reclaim his property at the police station. he was released pending further investigation, then rearrested wednesday on the impersonation charge
the soviet union has bought an additional 100,000 metric tons of u.s. corn for delivery this year under a long-term supply agreement between the two countries, the agriculture department said thursday
a metric ton is about 2,205 pounds and is equal to 39.4 bushels of corn or 36.7 bushels of wheat or soybeans. the 100,000 tons of corn would be about 3.94 million bushels
corn prices recently have been averaging about $1.84 per bushel at the farm level, meaning that the sale could have a farm value of around $7.25 million
officials said the latest sale involved 50,000 tons that had been reported by exporters as headed for japan, and 50,000 tons for ``unknown destinations.''
the corn is part of the grain the soviet union is committed to buy during the fifth and final year of the agreement, which calls for the annual purchase of at least 9 million tons of u.s. grain. the pact expires sept. 30
according to the agreement, the annual purchases are supposed to include a minimum of 4 million tons each of wheat and corn. the soviets have the option of buying the remaining 1 million tons as wheat, corn or soybeans, with every ton of beans counting as two tons of grain _ up to a maximum of 1 million tons of grain equivalent
with the latest purchases, the soviets now have bought 3.27 million tons of corn, plus more than .9 million tons of wheat; 813,300 tons of soybeans, and 1.3 million tons of soybean meal. hours</head>
president reagan would veto any bill requiring him to tell congress about all covert actions within 48 hours after they start, defense secretary frank c. carlucci said thursday
carlucci, who was national security adviser before being named to the defense post last november, made the statement as a house intelligence subcommittee continued hearings on a bill overhauling the procedure for white house cooperation with capitol hill on intelligence matters
administration officials had suggested previously that a presidential veto of such legislation was likely, but carlucci's statement marked the first time a top administration official had flatly promised a veto
the house bill and a similar piece of legislation in the senate were a response to the iran-contra affair, in which u.s. arms were secretly sold to iran and some of the profits diverted to the contra rebels in nicaragua. final action on the senate bill is likely next week when the democratic-controlled chamber returns from a one-week vacation
in the case of the iran-contra affair, reagan withheld notification from congress about the sale of arms to iran for 10 months in 1986. but he has promised to tell congress about all future covert operations
at some point, we have to rely on trust,'' carlucci told the subcommittee. he noted that ``if a future president sets out to deceive a congress, no amount of statutes will stop him.''
carlucci said that either the senate or house bill ``surely will'' be vetoed by reagan
current laws require that congress be notified of all covert operations, except under extraordinary circumstances. in those latter cases, the law only requires ``timely notice'' but it does not define that phrase. the pending bills would spell out that notice must be sent to capitol hill within 48 hours after a covert action starts
reagan believes the bills are an unconstitutional limit on his authority, carlucci said
i can think of no step by the congress which would do more harm to the process of rebuilding an atmosphere of trust and candor between the branches than unilaterally to lay claim to prerogatives which the president firmly believes are vested in the executive by the constitution,'' he said
rep. matt mchugh, d-n.y., chairman of the intelligence subcommittee, supported the bill and noted that ``in the case of the arms sales to iran, the president construed current law as permitting him to withhold notice for more than 10 months after the covert sales had been authorized.''
if he had done so (as the law generally requires),'' mchugh said, ``he would surely have heard some strong objections and might have spared the country a serious foreign policy setback and himself a major political embarrassment.''
but carlucci argued that ``the failures of the iran affair were human and managerial. no statue can prevent these mistakes.''
we will not put the mistrust which caused the iran-contra affair behind us until we trust each other again,'' carlucci said
brent scowcroft, national security adviser to president ford and a member of the tower commission that investigated the iran-contra affair, testified that ``the excessively restrictive language proposed seems a case of throwing out the baby with the bath. it is not possible to eliminate every opportunity for abuse by the executive without at the same time paralyzing the ability to act.''
he said the legislation arises from the belief that congress would have opposed the arms sales and derailed them if it had been notified
but ``there is no evidence to support this assumption,'' scowcroft said. ``indeed, as it was, the president was confronted, by his principal advisors, with views strongly in opposition to the iranian arms sales.'' graf pvs, some conservative</note>
jack kemp ended his republican presidential campaign thursday, saying george bush has won ``the reagan wing of the republican party'' and hinting that he'd welcome the no. 2 spot on the ticket
kemp, whose campaign as the true conservative heir to ronald reagan never caught on with voters, endorsed no candidate. he said of his rivals, ``they're all reagan conservatives.''
the new york congressman bowed out at a capitol hill news conference, flanked by his family and some of the house members who backed his candidacy. he evoked cheers from moist-eyed supporters with a vow that ``no way'' would this be his last campaign for the white house
kemp, 51, said he would not seek re-election to the house seat from buffalo that he has held for 18 years. he did not rule out running for the senate from new york but said he had no plans to do so
he called the notion that he might be asked to be the republican vice presidential candidate a ``very flattering and awesome thought.''
he said he didn't expect it but added, ``would i think about it? the answer to that is yes.''
kemp entered the presidential race in april 1987 after years of preparation to position himself as the candidate of the republican right wing
but his campaign never caught on with republican voters, and he consistently finished behind bush, bob dole and former television evangelist pat robertson in the gop primaries
less than three weeks ago in a debate with his rivals, kemp declared that the nomination of bush or dole would signal the death of the ``reagan revolution'' of conservatism. but in withdrawing, kemp said that bush had won reagan's republican constituency
we were competing for the reagan wing of the republican party, and he won,'' kemp said
it's very clear that george bush ran on the reagan agenda. and i think that the vote for george bush, with all due respect, today is a vote'' for ronald reagan, kemp said
it's simply to recognize that i was running against ronald reagan. and that's a surprise because i am his strongest proponent, at least in terms of the ideals that were launched back in 1980.''
kemp spoke by telephone with bush and the other gop candidates wednesday night. bush chief of staff craig fuller, with the vice president, said bush's ``respect for the congressman has grown over the course of the campaign.''
kemp never was able to coalesce around his candidacy even the conservative movement within the republican party that he claimed to lead
some conservative leaders said that while they would like to see kemp on the ticket, they doubted he had displayed enough political drawing power to be asked to join it
robertson said, ``with jack kemp's withdrawal today, i am more and more being urged by conservatives to stay in the race as a rallying point for conservatives and conservative principles.''
portions of the 3 or 4 percent he's been getting should come over to me,'' robertson said
kemp's best showing in the primaries was 13 percent of the vote in new hampshire. on tuesday in 17 gop contests, the best he scored was a dismal 7 percent in massachusetts
kemp won just four delegates from 712 at stake in super tuesday contests. kemp had 35 committed delegates _ but most of those were handed to him by bush in a michigan compromise designed to prevent robertson from claiming a victory
daniel l. casey, executive director of the american conservative union, said that with kemp gone from the race, many conservative republicans could be expected to focus their efforts on trying to shape the republican party platform. beyond that, he said, they may push for a conservative running mate and turn attention to congressional and other local races
it remains to be seen whether or not the leadership in washington of the conservative movement will establish a working relationship with the bush campaign,'' said casey
campaign spokesman john buckley said kemp spent $15 million on his effort, and departs with debts of less than $100,000
we balanced our budget,'' kemp said
sen. paul simon is counting on a strong showing in his home state of illinois next tuesday to restore his eligibility for federal matching funds before a cutoff is triggered, a campaign spokesman said thursday
simon became ineligible for matching funds by winning less than 10 percent of the vote in two successive primaries, but election law stays the cutoff for 30 days
the matching funds can continue to flow during the 30 days, and eligibility is restored when a candidate receives at least 20 percent of the vote in another state primary
we are not in jeopardy,'' said simon's press secretary terry michael. ``there is zero chance that we won't get 20 percent next tuesday.'' in fact, he said, simon is counting on cleaning up in all but three of the state's 22 congressional districts
michael conceded those three chicago districts to the state's other native son, jesse jackson, who expects he will win much more than that
federal election commission spokesman fred eiland said that after simon fell below the 10 percent threshhold in south dakota and vermont, he would have had to get 20 percent in one of the super tuesday states this week
since he did not campaign for super tuesday and failed to do achieive the threshhold, his ineligibility for matching funds will be effective march 31 unless he does well in illinois, eiland said
rep. jack kemp, r-new york, also has fallen below the threshhold but since he dropped out of the race on thursday, he will be allowed to receive matching funds to pay off any leftover debts. however, he could not use those funds to resume campaigning
the same is true of former colorado sen. gary hart, if he drops out of the race friday as aides have said he would do
the matching funds are provided from the taxypayer-supported fund. every donation of $250 or less that a candidate raises is matched by the public fund. to qualify, a candidate must raise at least $100,000 across 20 states in contributions of $250 or less
michael said simon has whittled down his loan debt, which stood at more than $500,000 at the beginning of february, to about $45,000, and has some $100,000 in cash on hand
the campaign raised $932,000 during february through events and direct mail and got $364,000 in matching funds
simon has received a total $2.2 million in matching funds so far
one year has passed since four teen-agers made a suicide pact and died together in a locked garage here, but local officials say the worst thing they could do is commemorate the deaths
all psychiatrists tell us don't memorialize it in any way,'' said school superintendent john habeeb. ``it could only cause trauma. it will be business as usual on friday.''
last march 11, thomas olton, 19, thomas rizzo, 18, and sisters cheryl and lisa burress, ages 17 and 16, were found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in olton's idling car
reporters descended upon the school and officials worried that other troubled youths seeking glorification might try to imitate the four
our fear was that the blitz could trigger some students that were already unstable,'' habeeb said. ``after all, it's very romantic to get your name in the paper.''
charlotte p. ross, president and executive director of the youth suicide national center in washington, d.c., said studies in the past year tend to discount any ``copycat'' theory of adolescent suicides
there's an enormous amount of suicidal behavior among young people,'' ms. ross said. ``since bergenfield, studies have cast shadows and a lot of doubt that suicide is like the measles. you can't catch it.''
even so, bergenfield has worked hard to avoid any repeat of the tragedy
in the past year, bergenfield high school has given a part-time drug and alcohol counselor full-time status _ authorities found traces of cocaine in the blood of all four of the dead youngsters, and two had been drinking
the school also hired a psychiatrist for grades 7-12, and hired two outreach workers for its community response team. the response team, comprised of mental health professionals, clergy, teachers and police officers, began immediately after the suicides
it's an example of an outstanding response,'' ms. ross said. ``they've worked very hard. we don't know how many suicides came close and were prevented.''
bergenfield's strategy will be part of a manual on adolescent suicide due for release in the spring by the federal centers for disease control and will play a part in guidelines being assembled in california for municipalities there, she said
bergenfield has done such a good job that the federal government denied two grant applications for the community, saying other municipalities needed the money more, habeeb said
he said the school's programs have cost about $80,000, and new jersey has sent a $35,000 state grant for substance abuse programs in town
robert j. gallione jr., the recently elected mayor of this community of 26,000 residents and a job counselor at columbia university, says the money is well spent
the focus of the past year has been on reaching out to youths and identifying teen-agers who feel alienated. special attention is paid to dropouts, since three of the four suicide victims had left school
habeeb said bergenfield's low drop-out rate of 1.5 percent can lead to dropouts being stigmatized
gallione added that a mayor's advisory committee on youth gives teen-agers a chance to suggest ideas that might not naturally occur to adults
one recent suggestion was a town-sponsored battle of teen rock bands. gallione called that a good approach to disaffected youths, who often find a safe haven in music
while school officials work on prevention, others in town want to forget
four 15-year-old sophomore girls, who didn't want to give a reporter their names, said the suicides are not talked about much anymore
the mayor said such an attitude is not a bad thing
there was a lot of negative focus but it's been offest by other things we do in the community,'' gallione said. ``people have to come to see another side of us _ just a traditional community.'' years</head>
an increase in the federal minimum wage from $3.35 to $5.05 an hour was tentatively approved thursday by the house education and labor committee
the original bill before the committee called for an increase of 50 cents in 1989, 40 cents in 1990 and 40 cents in 1991 to $4.65
the committee adopted, on a vote of 18-14, an amendment by rep. carl c. perkins, d-ky., which added a 40-cent increase in the fourth year, on dec. 31, 1991
the full committee was unable to take action on all the pending amendments and will continue debate on the bill next week
the senate has a companion bill, sponsored by edward m. kennedy, d-mass., chairman of the labor and human resources committee, which would raise the minimum wage to $4.65 over a three-year period
the perkins amendment was approved essentially along party lines except that two democrats, reps. austin j. murphy of pennsylvania and timothy j. penny of minnesota, joined the republicans in opposing the proposal
murphy is chairman of the house labor standards subcommittee, which had approved an increase to $4.65. he said that legislation was ``crafted so that it will be accepted by the full house and the executive branch. if we accept this (perkins) proposal, it will not be accepted.''
rep. stephen j. solarz, d-n.y., read from a letter written by labor secretary ann mclaughlin, who said senior white house advisers would recommend to president reagan that he veto any legislation increasing the minimum wage
so it doesn't matter what we do, the executive will be against it,'' solarz said
the house committee also voted 20-13 on an amendment by rep. tommy f. robinson, d-ark., to increase the ``tip credit'' for restaurant workers
current law allows employers of workers who regularly receive tips _ such as waiters and waitresses _ to count the tips as earned wages equivalent to 40 percent of the minimum wage. thus, a restaurant owner could pay a worker $2.01 an hour, with the remaining $1.34 - 40 percent of today's $3.35-an-hour minimum wage _ coming from tips
under the robinson amendment, the tip minimum would be raised to 50 percent of the minimum. thus, if the minimum wage were increased to $5.05 an hour, an employer could pay a $2.52 hourly wage, with the other $2.52 coming from tips
the biggest argument of the session came over the amendment by perkins who said his proposal ``does not go far enough, but it is a start.''
it gives the american worker some level of decency,'' perkins said
he said his amendment would still not bring workers up to what is described by the federal government as the ``poverty level,'' a family of three earning approximately $9,500
rep. dick armey, r-tex., who opposes any increase in the minimum wage because he said he would destroy jobs, proposed an amendment to raise the base to $20 an hour
i don't think we ought to be pikers,'' he said. ``it would put minimum wage workers on the par with members of congress.''
rep. augustus f. hawkins, d-calif., the committee chairman, called the proposal ``absurd.'' armey said he thought the entire discussion was absurd because the committee refused to discuss the number of jobs that would be lost because of the minimum wage increase
armey, an economist, said different studies show anywhere from 300,000 to 800,000 job opportunities would be lost because of the increase. hawkins said there was not support for such projections
the former leader of a white supremacist group testified thursday that the founder of the right-wing group the order gave him $75,000 in stolen money in 1984 to fund his organization
glenn miller, 47, former leader of the white patriots party in north carolina, said robert mathews, killed in a shootout with the fbi near seattle in december 1984, gave him the money on a visit in august 1984
he explained that it was stolen from banks and armored cars,'' miller said
miller said mathews told him that his group was ``sitting on $3.5 million. he said that they were working on an inside job that would net them $50 million.''
zillah craig, mathews' girlfriend, testified wednesday that she traveled around the country with mathews and helped him distribute $2 million, part of $3.6 million stolen from an armored car in june 1984 at ukiah, calif
both miller and ms. craig testified in the sedition trial of 14 men. ten defendants are charged with sedition, five are charged with conspiring to kill a federal judge and an fbi agent, and two are charged with interstate transportation of stolen money
miller said robert miles, one of the 14 defendants, once told him that he could receive more money for his organization
miller said mathews told him several leaders of the white supremacist movement had received money, among them defendant louis ray beam. miller said mathews also claimed to have given money to william pierce, head of a reputed white supremacist group called the national alliance
pierce also wrote a book of fiction called ``the turner diaries,'' which government witnesses have testified formed the basis for the order's plan to overthrow the government and establish an all-white nation in the northwest
miller, who was captured at ozark, mo., by the fbi, has pleaded guilty to a firearms charge and sending a threat through the mail
the soviet union said thursday it feels free to keep sending military aid to the kabul government even after it withdraws its troops from afghanistan
it rejected a u.s. demand that foreign military aid to both sides in the afghanistan war cease simultaneously once a peace settlement is reached. the united states aids the afghan rebels
nikolay kozyrev, a senior soviet specialist in asian affairs, said that except for sending new troops to afghanistan, the soviet union was not committed to halt any kind of assistance to kabul. he noted that the two countries had contractual ties now for seven decades
kozyrev, introduced as an ambassador-at-large, came to geneva as head of a small soviet delegation assigned to follow the indirect peace talks between pakistan and afghanistan. u.n. undersecretary general diego cordovez is mediating the talks
kozyrev's appearance at a news conference organized by the soviet mission to the u.n. office in geneva marked the first time a soviet official took a public stand on the negotiations since the talks started almost six years ago
he said the question of a cutoff of soviet aid never was a subject of the u.n.-sponsored peace talks. he termed the u.s. demand for a ``symmetrical cessation'' of military aid, spelled out at a state department briefing last friday, ``an attempt to interfere with the internal affairs of afghanistan and with the bilateral relationship'' between kabul and moscow
kozyrev said the u.s. demand would be tantamount to moscow calling for a cut-off of u.s. military aid to pakistan
a u.s. mission spokesman, chris henze, said there would be no immediate comment from robert peck, the assistant deputy secretary of state who is in geneva to follow the talks. kozyrev said he was in touch with peck
the chief afghan negotiator, foreign minister abdul wakil, said last week draft documents of the settlement provided for u.s. aid to the islamic guerrillas to cease simultaneously with the start of the withdrawal of the estimated 115,000 soviet troops
the united states is the main supplier of arms to the guerrillas fighting the marxist kabul government, with shipments reported worth about $700 million last year and including shoulder-fired stinger missiles
kozyrev told reporters that after agreement was reached on all main elements of the projected peace package, negotiations bogged down because of pakistan's insistence on the settlement's being accompanied by formation of a broad-based transitional government in kabul
pakistan argues that only such a government, replacing the soviet-backed one headed by president najib, would be able to oversee implementation of the agreements and ensure a safe return of more than 5 million refugees from pakistan and iran
kozyrev sidestepped a question on whether negotiations could continue after next tuesday's target date set by moscow. soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev has said moscow will bring home its troops starting may 15 provided the settlement is signed by march 15
pakistan, which adjoins afghanistan, supports the guerrillas and acts as their spokesman at the geneva talks
cordovez met separately with the two delegations thursday for a total of five hours. he said there would be no formal negotiation session friday, but he would meet privately with the two sides
cordovez said earlier that final agreement was not imminent
also on thursday, the 43-nation u.n. human rights commission adopted by a 29-7 vote a western-sponsored resolution expressing concern at what it said were continued widespread violations of human rights by afghan authorities, despite some improvement. six nations abstained and mozambique was absent
the soviet union intervened militarily in neighboring afghanistan in late 1979 and its troops stayed on to fight anti-marxist guerrillas
the rev. jimmy swaggart's ministry will broadcast an appeal next week forife and son say are needed to save the organization
the hourlong program features swaggart's wife, frances, their son, d donations his wonnie, and the rev. jim rentz, associate pastor of swaggart's family worship center
we are serious with you. our backs are against the wall. if you don't respond, this telecast is going to have to go off the air,'' mrs. swaggart said
the appeal was shown wednesday at a prayer service to encourage members of the congregation to answer telephones during a weeklong telethon, rentz said
swaggart did not appear at the service or on the tape. he faces disciplinary action by the national assemblies of god for allegedly meeting with a reputed prostitute in suburban new orleans
following disclosures of swaggart's alleged misconduct and his own admission of an unspecified sin, construction work at jimmynd. the future british king was unhurt, but a witness said he trembled and wept as a rescue helicopter arrived
swiss officials had warned earlier thursday of possible avalanches in the area
the dead skier was identified as maj. hugh lindsay, 34, a former aide to queen elizabeth ii, the prince's mother. buckingham palace said another skiier, patricia palmer-tomkinson, suffered leg injuries
charles' wife, diana, and pregnant sister-in-law, sarah, the duchess of york, were safe in a chalet at the time of the avalanche, said the palace statement issued in london
nasa officials warned congress on thursday that the space station program would be destroyed if money is diverted to build an unmanned scientific and manufacturing facility in space
at the same time, the space station budget came under attack elsewhere in the capitol, when rep. edward p. boland, d-mass., pressed for more money for housing programs next year and said if that money is not allocated, then congress will ``kiss goodbye to the space station.''
boland, whose house appropriations subcommittee handles funding for housing programs as well as independent agencies including the national aeronautics and space administration, said his panel would take money for housing from the budgets for nasa and the national science foundation unless congress changes the overall budget priorities
a pact allowing japan to retrieve plutonium from u.s. nuclear wastes would leave the united states without ``effective control'' over reprocessing of the hazardous material, the general accounting office has concluded
the gao, the investigative arm of congress, also found fault with the agreement's provisions to guard against proliferation of plutonium, the principal element in nuclear weapons, and said it deprived congress of its ``oversight function.''
opponents of the accord said they had failed to work out a compromise with the state department and may move to kill the agreement next week
the accord, signed in november, gives japan advance permission for 30 years to recover plutonium from the fuel the united states supplies for its nuclear power plants after it is used
president kurt waldheim, himself accused of war crimes, apologized on austria's behalf thursday for atrocities austrian nazis committed after adolf hitler made his native land part of germany 50 years ago
we must not forget that many of the worst nazi hangmen were austrians,'' he said in a tv speech. ``there were austrians who were victims and others who were perpetrators. as head of state of the republic of austria, i wish to apologize for nazi crimes committed by austrians.''
about 15,000 viennese gathered for a rally outside city hall on the first of four solemn days marking the ``anschluss'' of march 11, 1938, when german troops marched into austria and were greeteed by cheering crowds
gallaudet university students declared thursday that elisabeth ann zinser, the new president of the school for the deaf, is unwelcome on the campus and vowed to keep her out, although a congressman wants her to learn firsthand about the students' concerns
students have been protesting the selection of zinser, who is not deaf and does not know sign language, and their demonstrations have halted virtually all instruction for four days. they have promised to continue their protests until she resigns
they threatened to seize the president's campus house and office if zinser made her way past students blocking entrances to the school. the doors to the administration building were chained shut thursday, and no administrators were seen on campus. met</head>
nine years ago, federal health officials set nine goals for reducing fatalities from injuries in the united states by 1990. thursday, officials predicted at least six of those goals will be met
the fatality rates from many types of injuries _ such as car accidents, house fires and drownings _ have dropped since 1979, when the u.s. department of health and human services announced its 1990 goals, the centers for disease control reported thursday
but in some cases, the rates have not fallen as far as the government had hoped, the cdc said. while authorities expect to meet the goals on reducing deaths from car crashes, childhood household accidents, house fires and gun accidents, the goals for reducing deaths from falls and drownings won't be met
achieving the 1990 objectives ... will require the coordinated efforts of federal, state and local agencies, ... academic institutions, professional associations and private entities,'' the atlanta-based cdc said in its weekly report
here, from the cdc report, are the nation's 1990 goals for reducing deaths from injuries, and the progress being made:
_ reducing the nation's annual motor vehicle fatality rate, from 23.6 such deaths per 100,000 americans in 1978 to 18 per 100,000 in 1990: by 1984, the rate had fallen to 19.6, and the goal is projected to be met, in part because of a reduction in alcohol-related fatalities
_ reducing the motor vehicle fatality rate for children under 15, from 9 per 100,000 in 1978 to 5.5: by 1984, the rate had fallen to 6.6, and the goal is projected to be met
_ reducing the death rate from falls from 6.2 per 100,000 in 1978 to 2.0: the rate had fallen only to 5.1 by 1984, and the goal is not expected to be reached. people over 65 continue to have high death rates from falls _ for example, in 1984, 10.2 such deaths per 100,000 people age 65-74, and 147 per 100,000 people over 84
_ reducing the death rate for children under 15 in home injuries from 6 per 100,000 in 1978 to 5: the 1984 rate was 4.9, already meeting the objective
_ reducing the drowning rate from 3.2 per 100,000 in 1978 to 1.5: the rate had fallen only to 2.3 in '84, and the goal is not expected to be met
_ reducing the number of deaths in residential fires from 5,401 in 1978 to 4,500: the objective was reached in 1984, when 4,466 americans died in such fires
_ reducing the number of deaths in firearm accidents from 1,806 in 1978 to 1,700: the goal was met in 1984, when 1,668 such deaths were reported
_ reducing the suicide rate among 15-24-year-olds from 12.1 per 100,000 in 1978 to 11: the rate is going up, not down. it was 12.2 per 100,000 in 1984, up slightly from 1978 and up about 200 percent from 1950. the cdc noted that various suicide prevention approaches have been tried in communities, but the effectiveness is not known
_ reducing the homicide rate among black males aged 15-24 from 70.7 per 100,000 in 1978 to 60: this goal will probably be met, according to cdc researcher dr. richard sattin. the rate had fallen in 1984 to 61.5. this goal was set recognizing the high homicide rate among young black men, sattin said, noting that the national homicide rate in 1984 was 8.4 per 100,000 americans
jesse jackson is the favorite son and front-runner in south carolina's democratic caucuses saturday, leaving the division of the remaining delegates among the other presidential candidates as the only question mark
jackson was born and raised in south carolina, one of two states he won in his 1984 presidential race
jackson, who plans a homecoming campaign trip friday, has the overwhelming support of the state's black voters, who make up more than one-third of the electorate, and got an average of 10 percent of the white vote in other southern states on super tuesday
between a quarter and a half of south carolina democrats traditionally remain uncommitted at the caucus meetings to give themselves more maneuvering room through the nominating process. they usually choose a candidate at the county or state convention
that leaves few delegates for the rest of the field. but in a tight national race in which no candidate appears to be able to capture the majority of delegates, every one helps
this certainly increases the importance of south carolina because the delegate count is so close,'' said kevin gray, state coordinator for jackson
the candidates are relying on grass-roots organizing, telephone banks and direct mail to lure democrats to the caucus; none is buying television advertisements
tennessee sen. albert gore jr., who plans to campaign in the state on friday, has the largest organization in the state and the most endorsements from elected officials, who wield strong influence at the caucuses
gore also has the momentum from his strong showing across the south tuesday, which lessened the perception among some south carolinians that he's not electable
missouri rep. richard gephardt, who traveled across the state wednesday and thursday, has a skeletal organization. but his few endorsements are the biggest _ former govs. dick riley and robert mcnair and all of the south carolina democratic congressmen who have chosen sides
dukakis has an even smaller local organization
all of the competing state campaigns except gore's has conceded that jackson will win the lion's share of the 44 delegates at stake
i don't think there is any doubt that jesse jackson will win,'' said bill prince, gephardt's state coordinator
house speaker robert sheheen, gore's state chairman, said ``there's really no way of knowing'' whether the tennessee senator can upset jackson. ``we're not conceding anything to anybody.''
gore, who is the only candidate with an outside chance of upsetting jackson, is promoting his strong ties to the south and a strong defense, which plays will in the palmetto state
gephardt is hoping to use his trade policy to gain votes in the state, which has seen its largest industry _ textiles _ severely weakened by cheap foreign imports
but most political scientists and campaign officials agree that because the democratic field is so large and so close together and because a large number of delegates probably will remain uncommitted, the results saturday will be inconclusive
take riley's assessment thursday, for example: ``jackson will do very well. gore is well organized. dukakis will get a piece of the vote and gephardt will get his share.''
south carolina's democratic leaders decided against following the crowd on super tuesday, when all of the other southern states held primaries
they decided to nestle in the days of old,'' clemson university political science professor steve wainscott said thursday. hawk.</note>
residents of this sprawling military base and neighboring towns mourned again thursday for victims of an army aviation accident, this time 17 soldiers killed in a helicopter collision
the members of the elite 101st airborne division died tuesday when helicopters on separate night training missions slammed into each other
the crash was the worst in fort campbell history and the worst army aviation accident since 248 fort campbell soldiers died dec. 12, 1985, when a chartered jet bringing them home for christmas from a mideast peacekeeping mission crashed in canada
i think any soldier will tell you that when you fly as many hours as they do and perform the exercises they do, you can expect things to happen,'' said charlie c. gentry, a motel owner in clarksville, tenn., the closest town to fort campbell
even so, he said, ``to me it's kind of like hearing about maybe a real close friend i had in high school, and hadn't seen for a while, getting killed in a car wreck. so even though i didn't know them there's more of a feeling of loss than with other news stories.''
army crash investigators listened to air traffic control tapes and interviewed witnesses in an effort to learn the cause of the accident. spokesmen said specifics would not be released until a full report was made, probably within 90 days, but said some details emerged from talks with air controllers and witnesses
one of the helicopters was leading a formation of three uh-60 black hawks headed east at an altitude of about 250 feet toward the airfield, investigators said. the lead aircraft was struck broadside by another black hawk that was flying alone about six miles from the airfield. the remaining two aircraft were not damaged and landed safely
the formation of three helicopters was returning infantry troops from a live-fire exercise, said fort campbell spokesman maj. randy j. schoel. aircraft flying over the reservation under visual flight rules, as the four copters were, are not generally tracked by control tower radar, and are responsible for avoiding each other, schoel said
the pilots were wearing night vision goggles that amplify available light and were supposed to have been in radio contact with the fort's control tower, the army spokesman said
generally the (helicopters' running) lights are dimmed to the point where they are not visible to the naked eye, but they are obvious to someone wearing goggles,'' schoel said
he added, ``fort campbell flies every night with night vision goggles. it's as routine here as driving at night in your car.''
gentry, manager of the winner's circle motel about 200 yards from the fort's main gate, lowered the motel's american flag to half-staff
further down the commercial strip at the snow white pawn shop, owner morrell v. boyd noted some of the signs businesses were putting up. one, at an army surplus store read: ``our prayers are with you, fort campbell.''
people are putting up signs on the marquees, but it goes deeper than that,'' said boyd, 51. ``it's sort of a helpless feeling, too. you're not sure what to do.''
a welcome center for the families of victims was being prepared on the post and memorial services were scheduled for next wednesday at the fort's chapel
gentry said the mourning among those in the community would be tempered by an appreciation of the risks the servicemen undertake regularly
there's a lot of loss, but a lot of pride, too,'' gentry said. ``i feel a lot of pride in those guys.''
applicants started phoning a few hours after china announced it would accept the peace corps for the first time and the agency said thursday it is eager for negotiations with the chinese to set the terms of the program
though the concentration is likely to be on english teachers, china still must decide what special skills it wants the volunteers to have, where they will serve and how large the peace corps program would be
the agency also will have to put volunteers for the program through a rigorous testing program that rejects four out of five applicants, said arlen erdahl, director of recruiting for the peace corps
we'll be just as careful as we always are,'' erdahl told a news conference
the united states, in a drive for better relations with china, had been giving chinese officials information about peace corps programs for years and began discussions of the issue in 1984
on wednesday, foreign minister wu xueqian announced during an appearance at the national press club that china had agreed to accept volunteers and would work out the details with u.s. officials
a few hours later, karl and katherine brandt of lexington, s.c., heard a radio news report about it and phoned the regional peace corps office in atlanta to volunteer
we've always wanted to do something like this; we visited some peace corps people in grenada once and when we heard about china we decided this might be a neat idea,'' brandt said in a telephone interview
the 55-year-old chemist said he and his wife, a nurse, have never lived outside the united states but ``we'd be interested in going to china.''
the peace corps has been sending american teachers, technicians, professionals and community workers to foreign cities and villages since 1961, when president kennedy started the agency to improve america's overseas image
the biggest country to accept volunteers had been india, which had peace corps programs between 1962 and 1976, but china is the most populated country and erdahl said america's ``fascination'' with that nation is likely to spur applications for the corps
he noted, however, that while applicants for the peace corps are asked to state their preferred assignments, they are not guaranteed being sent to a specific country
there are currently 64 countries with peace corps programs. the process of establishing the agency's relationship with china will be the same as it was for the others. it could take between two months and two years
this is just the starting gong,'' said john scales, the agency's general counsel
after a series of meetings, china will make a formal request for a peace corps presence, a team of agency officials will visit the country and the two sides will hammer out an agreement on numbers of volunteers, where they will do their work and what they will do
erdahl and several other peace corps officials who appeared at the news conference suggested that they expected china to be most interested in peace corps english teachers. the agency has become a specialist in teaching english as a second language and runs such programs in 33 countries. million, sted $69 million</note>
a special program to store grain in river barges in the fall of 1986 to make way for the new harvest cost taxpayers nearly a dollar a bushel to operate for four months, according to the general accounting office
overall, the $62 million cost was sharply higher than the storage fees normally paid by the government for grain inventories in elevators and farm bins. the program was announced in august 1986 as one of a number of emergency measures to help relieve pressure on elevators getting ready for another bumper corn harvest
the gao, an investigative agency of congress, said in a recent report to rep. bill alexander, d-ark., that the agriculture department awarded storage contracts to a dozen grain companies. a total of about 64.9 million bushels of grain _ 98 percent corn and 2 percent soybeans _ was loaded on 1,253 barges along the illinois, mississippi, missouri and ohio rivers
all of the barge grain originated from the corn belt states of illinois, indiana, iowa, michigan, minnesota, missouri, nebraska, ohio and wisconsin, the gao said. most had been in country and terminal elevators in those states, but some had been stored by producers on their farms
eventually, the department's kansas city commodity office, which handled the program, disposed of most of the barge grain by trading it to the contractors for grain they had stored in inland elevators. the remainder was sold, redeemed by farmers or returned to storage elsewhere
we estimate that the additional cost of the special barge storage program, over and above the normal costs for shipping, storing and disposing of the grain, was about $44.8 million, or an additional cost of 69 cents per bushel to store the grain for an average of four months,'' the gao said
the estimate by gao was made because the department's agricultural stabilization and conservation service ``did not separately accumulate total cost data for the program.'' however, gao said its estimates were based on reviews of contracts and other information provided by the agency
the estimated cost of storing the 64.9 million bushels of grain was about $62.2 million, or 96 cents per bushel,'' the gao said. ``this includes the additional cost of the program (about $44.8 million) and the cost that would have been incurred in the normal course of storage (more than $17.3 million).''
corn market prices nationally averaged $1.73 per bushel when the program was announced and dropped to $1.40 in october 1986, the peak of the new harvest
investigators said they estimated the department's kansas city commodity office paid the 12 contractors about $45.5 million and that an additional $16.7 million went to others for charges related to the barge-stored grain
the gao said the kansas city office ``agreed with our methodology and results'' in estimating the payments
a judge who suggested during his re-election campaign that his opponent should stay home with her young children has been turned out of office in a landslide
state district judge john mckellips' ex-wife and six children had endorsed his opponent, assistant county attorney mary anne bramblett, in tuesday's democratic primary
ms. bramblett outpolled mckellips 32,412 to 10,752 and she is assured of taking office because there is no republican on the november ballot
ms. bramblett, a political newcomer, attributed her victory to a negative image that may have started with mckellips' bitter divorce in 1985. lillian mckellips sued for divorce, claiming mckellips was having an affair with his 1984 campaign manager, margaret randle
mckellips married ms. randle two months after the divorce was granted. he gained publicity again last summer, when police were summoned to the courthouse to quell a quarrel between him and his new wife
last month, lillian mckellips and the couple's six children endorsed ms. bramblett, citing mckellips' treatment of them. a couple of weeks later, in an address at a sheriff's deputies' meeting, mckellips questioned ms. bramblett's qualifications, partly because she is a mother
she had to take some time out for maternity leave to have two small children, so i don't know how much time she's actually spent working as an attorney,'' he told the deputies
while attacking his opponent for taking time off to care for her newborns, mckellips criticized working mothers by linking absent mothers to overcrowded prisons
the next day, the judge amended his comments, saying ``it would have been more correct to have used the term `parent' rather than `mother.''
ms. bramblett, whose children are 3 and 4 years old, said at the time: ``everybody got the clear message that (mckellips believes) i am not qualified to be a judge because i'm a woman and a mother.''
county judge luther jones, who recruited ms. bramblett to run, said the victory was ``truly an epochal event in el paso's legal history. the image of both the attorneys and the entire judiciary have suffered immeasurable harm during the mckellips tenure on the bench.'' response; picks up 9th graf pvs, the audit</note>
a shortage of track inspectors has contributed to worn railroad switches in csx transportation co.'s baltimore-pittsburgh division, a federal agency said thursday in an audit prompted by a series of freight train accidents
the federal railroad administration, which is part of the transportation department, said that track along main routes is generally in top condition in the division, which includes the district of columbia and parts of maryland, pennsylvania, virginia, west virginia and new york
but the audit also found that ``the training, equipping, and numerical strength of the maintenance of way forces in this division are inadequate, a factor which threatens the company's capacity to maintain the quality of its track over the long term.''
maintenance of way employees inspect track. because manpower levels are low, the audit said, ``the districts assigned each csx track inspector are too large to be covered by a single individual. inspectors compensate by focusing their efforts on main line track, which is almost uniformly in excellent condition
but the trade-off lies in cursory inspections of turnouts,'' or switches that allow a train to move from one track to another, the audit said. ``the declining condition of these turnouts have been a major problem on the line.''
worn turnouts or improperly performed track maintenance were factors in several of the csx derailments occurring in 1987,'' the audit said
it said turnouts throughout the division were ``replete'' with loose adjustable rail braces, missing cotter pins and other problems. ``the entire gamut of defective turnout conditions addressed by fra track standards could be found in one form or another'' in the division, it said
csx, in a statement issued from its rail transport group in jacksonville, fla., said it already had begun a retraining program _ taught in part by railroad administration instructors _ for track inspectors, foremen, road masters and others working on the tracks
in addition, it said it had reached an agreement in the last few months with the brotherhood of maintenance of way employees ``to increase the number of people involved in track inspection.'' it did not specify how many would be added
the statement noted that the audit had found a well-maintained signal system, and had expressed no ``overriding concerns'' about the transportation of hazardous materials
the audit also said the railroad administration detected ``an apparent engineering problem'' in several sections of csx track near confluence, pa. it added that csx already has begun to reconstruct or move switches in the area
last may, a csx chemical tanker train derailed in confluence, splintering a control tower and killing its operator, and forcing nearby residents to evacuate. it was the third derailment in the southwest pennsylvania community in five months
csx trains also were involved in two derailments last year in the washington area. in june, 21 cars from a 134-car train derailed, temporarily halting subway service from suburban silver spring, md., and takoma park, md. in september, 14 cars on a csx train derailed in northeast washington, damaging 500 feet of metro subway track, an electrical power station and a warehouse
although accidents prompted the audit, none were specifically addressed in the document. as part of the audit, more than 1,800 miles of track were inspected last fall. us pork</head>
a move by the agriculture department to crack down on illegally high traces of a suspected cancer-causing drug found in hog carcasses has eased concern in japan that pork imports from the united states may be tainted, officials said thursday
japan had initiated a program to hold and test all u.s. pork imports, which american livestock interests feared might jeopardize foreign sales. the drug involved is sulfamethazine, commonly used by swine producers to prevent certain kinds of disease and as a feed additive to promote faster growth
lester m. crawford, administrator of the department's food safety and inspection service, said usda and japanese officials have agreed on testing requirements for pork shipped to japan
crawford said japanese officials ``have been favorably impressed with u.s. efforts'' initiated on march 7 to increase testing of pork products for sulfamethazine residues in the 100 largest u.s. pork plants
u.s. pork produced after march 7 must carry a statement on the export certificate that the product originated from one of the 100 plants undergoing increased residue testing,'' he said. ``japan will not further test these products for sulfamethazine residues.''
pork exported before the new controls went into effect will be tested further for the drug, either in japan or the united states, he said
i am very pleased with this agreement,'' crawford said. ``along with our increased testing, it ensures the safety of u.s. pork products and reaffirms the integrity of the u.s. pork industry.'' update with lawsuit by rockettes. 1st 5 grafs for release 6 p.m. est.</note>
chita rivera, whose left leg has been held together by 12 screws since a car accident two years ago, says she never doubted she'd be dancing again one day
now, the longtime broadway star, who is touring the country in a revival of ``can-can,'' has asked the producers to add more dancing to her new role, she said in an interview with parade magazine
i'm not a pollyanna; it hurts to dance,'' said rivera, 55. ``but you don't keep telling yourself that.''
she sometimes felt like quitting during physical therapy, when ``i would feel like i was going to hit the ceiling.'' but her positive side prevailed
there are some people whose spirits are so high, their determination so great, that you practically have to shoot them to get them down,'' she says. ``i guess i'm one of those people. the spirit is the strongest thing there is.''
meanwhile, five rockettes are suing radio city music hall and the producers of the touring show, charging them with false advertising and violating the agreement with the dancers' union
the touring company advertisements say that 14 rockettes are dancing with rivera in the production, according to bernard b. cohen, attorney for the five. however, he said, only four real rockettes are in the 39-city tour, which started jan. 29
instead of dancing with chita rivera, the real rockettes are doing a tap dance on the unemployment line,'' he said
the contract between radio city and the dancers' union, the american guild of variety artists, specifies that only rockettes on the official roster be hired for productions featuring the rockettes, cohen said
the five dancers are seeking $2 million in damages
radio city has maintained that the five could not handle the dance routine and that the ``imposters'' are new rockettes
the producers of the show are kan kan national co., the troika company inc. and trice talent payment inc. conference</head>
former secretary of state henry a. kissinger said thursday that israel should hold early elections in order to resolve an ``intolerable'' political problem
in a television interview taped for broadcast this weekend on the syndicated ``one on one'' interview program, kissinger also reiterated his position that israel should give jordan the occupied gaza strip and densely populated parts of the west bank
gaza was under egyptian control before israel captured it in the 1967 mideast war, but kissinger said it should now be given to jordan. he did not explain
kissinger said israel and the united states should stay away from an international peace conference proposed by secretary of state george p. shultz
i think there should be elections in israel. it's desirable. you have a prime minister and a foreign minister who are cutting each other up,'' he said
israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir, head of the right-wing likud bloc, and foreign minister shimon peres, who leads the labor party, have both considered moving the elections up from november
each side is trying to line up the united states and other foreign countries in their support. it's an intolerable situation. so the earlier they have an election and get unified, the more important it is,'' kissinger said
kissinger, who mediated israeli agreements with the arabs in the mid-1970s, said he would prefer that the united states help negotiate peace between the sides without interference from the other four permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the soviet union, china, england and france
i'd prefer shultz to do it alone,'' he said
all the other countries will press for israeli withdrawal to its 1967 borders, he said. ``i think those will guarantee the destruction of israel,'' kissinger said
he said a formula must be found under which israel would give back some of those territories but retain sufficient lands to guarantee it a defensible buffer zone
a former black panther convicted of murdering two guards in a bloody 1971 san quentin escape attempt walked out of prison on bail thursday, almost two years after a judge ordered that he get a new trial
i feel great. ... i'm just very happy,'' johnny spain told reporters at the front gate of the state prison at vacaville, 50 miles east of san francisco
i won't let anyone down who has supported me and there have been many who supported me,'' he said, adding he was prepared to deal with the challenges of living on the outside after 21 years behind bars
spain was hugged and congratulated by attorneys and investigators who worked on his case, and members of their families
attorney dennis riordan said spain had promised to attend a play in san francisco on thursday night with the 10-year-old daughter of one of his supporters. riordan said spain would remain in the san francisco area until at least wednesday for court appearances, then planned to visit los angeles to see his wife and children
some $100,000 of spain's bail has been posted but $250,000 in property must be guaranteed by wednesday, riordan said, adding that he anticipated no problems
u.s. district judge thelton henderson, who had previously granted spain a new trial in the ``san quentin six'' case, a state lawyer's request wednesday to delay bail until the state parole board reconsiders his case
spain, 38, has been behind bars since december 1966, when he was arrested for a murder and robbery in los angeles
he later became the only prisoner convicted of murder in a 1971 uprising in which george jackson, widely known for his book of prison writings, ``soledad brother,'' was killed, along with two other prisoners and three guards
authorities said spain, seen running from a maximum-security unit with jackson, conspired with him in an escape attempt that led to the killings
henderson reversed spain's convictions in 1986, saying he had been denied a fair trial by being required to wear heavy shackles for every court appearance during the five years of proceedings
the state's appeal of the ruling is to be argued monday before the 9th u.s. circuit court of appeals
on tuesday, los angeles superior court judge kathleen parker ordered spain paroled immediately from the sentence he has been serving for the 1966 murder, a sentence that had kept henderson from granting bail earlier
she found that the parole board had improperly lengthened his sentence nearly six years by applying regulations passed in 1976 to disciplinary violations committed in 1970 and 1971
riordan said spain had spent twice as long in prison as the average sentence for a similar crime
lawyers said spain would be living in san francisco and working as an electrician while his case is on appeal. henderson's order allows him to travel within the state and visit his wife, whom he married while in prison, and two young sons in los angeles
iran has begun constructing crude launch pads for silkworm missiles on the island of abu musa in the persian gulf, potentially expanding the area within which it can menace shipping, u.s. military sources said thursday
the defense officials, who agreed to discuss the matter only if not identified, stressed that american intelligence agencies so far had failed to detect any effort by iran to actually send silkworm missiles over to the small island
iran has built similar launch pads at other sites on its main coastline without ever deploying any actual missiles, one source noted
but it's still significant because it would really extend the coverage of these missiles ... if they deployed silkworms there,'' another official said
the silkworm is a chinese-built variant of an old russian missile that can be fired from mobile launchers on land against ships. the missiles have a range of about 50 miles and while not particularly accurate, they carry a large warhead packed with conventional explosives
according to u.s. sources, iran has acquired more than 100 silkworms and stored the majority of them at a large naval base at bandar abbas near the strait of hormuz, the sole entrance to the persian gulf
although concrete launch pads aren't essential for the silkworm truck launchers to operate, the iranians nonetheless have constructed such pads at several sites along the coastline overlooking the strait. as a result, american warships escorting tankers in and out of the gulf normally go to battle stations for the passage and navy jets provide air cover just in case a missile attack is mounted
abu musa is a small, iranian-controlled island inside the strait of hormuz, roughly 50 miles into the gulf and almost in the middle of the waterway. it long has been used by iran as a base for gunboats that have attacked commercial shipping
if iran were to deploy silkworms on abu musa, ``it would be doubling the arc (of space) that it can threaten,'' one source said thursday
it definitely would extend our area of vulnerability up into the gulf,'' another official agreed
we'd have to get pretty serious about (watching) that island,'' added a third source
all the officials stressed that construction on the island had begun only recently and was proceeding slowly
but it is assessed to be silkworm firing platforms,'' said one
the united states has been escorting reflagged kuwaiti tankers in the gulf since last july. kuwait, a key ally of iraq in the iran-iraq war, requested the protection after iran began singling out its ships for attack
the 16th convoy operation of 1988 and the 38th overall began tuesday night and was said to be proceeding uneventfully on thursday, with two tankers steaming southbound from kuwait toward the strait of hormuz along with a navy frigate. reagan</head>
rep. larry smith on thursday introduced resolutions that would deny foreign aid and trade privileges to mexico, the bahamas, peru, bolivia and paraguay for alleged failure to cooperate with u.s. anti-drug efforts
smith, chairman of the house foreign affairs committee's task force on international narcotics control, said the five countries were wrongly certified by president reagan on march 1 as cooperating with drug enforcement programs
some of these `cooperative' countries have even actively frustrated our efforts to stop the production of drugs and their trafficking into the united states,'' smith, d-fla., told reporters. ``it's time the president stands up and does more than just saying no.''
smith and reps. benjamin gilman, r-n.y., and dante fascell, d-fla., chairman of the house foreign affairs committee, said the purpose of the resolutions was not necessarily to cut off aid to the five countries but to focus public attention on the certification process and determine whether it can be improved
under comprehensive anti-drug legislation enacted in 1986, the president must certify annually that major drug-producing and shipment countries have ``fully cooperated'' with the united states, or they face loss of a year's worth of military and economic development aid and u.s. support for international development bank loans
countries that are ``decertified'' also may suffer a wide range of trade sanctions at the president's discretion. these include a 50 percent boost in import tariffs, abrogation of airline agreements, loss of u.s. sugar quotas and a halt in preferred u.s. customs treatment
reagan recently certified all the 24 major drug countries as fully cooperating with u.s. anti-drug efforts except for panama, afghanistan, syria and iran, which were decertified, and for lebanon, laos and paraguay, which were certified for ``national interests.''
under the law, congress has 45 business days _ until may 13 _ to overrule any of reagan's recent aid certifications and 30 days _ until april 19 _ to disapprove of further trade privileges for any countries the president certified as fully cooperating
smith said mexico should be penalized because it is the primary source of heroin and marijuana entering the united states, and the smuggling route for one-third of the cocaine destined for u.s. consumption
he said opium production has increased at least 30 percent and eradication has fallen by one-third since 1984. smith said laundering of illicit drug profits is extensive and that mexico provides safe haven for hundreds of drug traffickers indicted in the united states
smith criticized drug enforcement efforts by the other four countries, especially the bahamas, which he said is the major transit point for half the cocaine and marijuana entering the united states
at a hearing that smith headed thursday, assistant secretary of state elliott abrams said that ``while we believe that mexico is capable of even greater effort against narcotics trafficking, we also believe that mexican cooperation ... is substantial and justifies the president's decision to certify mexico.''
oil workers returned to work thursday after the government began firing strikers, whose walkout paralyzed oil and gasoline refineries for two days, the government-owned state petroleum co. said
the strike began tuesday, hitting hard at public transportation and at factories that depend on oil or gasoline to operate
about half of state petroleum's 7,000 workers were estimated to have gone out on strike
brazil's conservative government gave strikers until thursday to return to work or be fired. in previous strikes, the government carried out similar threats
how many strikers were dismissed this time was not disclosed, nor did the government say whether anyone would be reinstated
the government deployed troops to take over refineries and gasoline stations tuesday and arrested labor leaders
it rationed gasoline and motorists lined up for hours. many buses and taxis in major cities went out of service
the federation of petroleum workers had rejected a 30 percent wage increase which the government offered on condition that there would be no strike for one year. the average petroleum worker earns $350 a month, compared to $100 a month for other government employees
saul soliz, leader of the union, said the no-strike condition was a government maneuver designed ``to divide the labor movement against the interests of workers.''
the union said that the government planned to finance the wage increase by firing 1,500 workers
the government conceded that there would be some dismissals to finance the pay increase, but said they would not exceed 500
john r. bolton, the justice department's liaison with congress, will become the assistant attorney general directing the department's civil division, attorney general edwin meese iii announced thursday
bolton, who has been assistant attorney general for legislative affairs since december 1985, will be taking charge of the largest litigating division in the justice department
bolton, 39, succeeds richard willard, who left the department in february to join a washington law firm
the civil division, directly responsible for 20,000 pending cases, represents the government in constitutional litigation involving federal statutes, torts, contract claims and federal regulatory matters
increasing competition within the city's drug trade prompted a suspected dealer to lead police to a rival's secret stash of heroin, authorities said thursday
no arrests were made, but 443 small bags of heroin were confiscated wednesday, police said. the bags were worth $20 each for a total street value of $9,000, said detective william gallagher
the tipster cooperated with police because of growing competition among dealers in the north camden neighborhood, the worst drug area in the city, gallagher said
we couldn't lock him up even though we know this guy is a drug dealer because he didn't have any on him. we got the stash, said, `thank you, very much,' and he split,'' gallagher said
the owner of the drugs was not at the scene when officers william durham and michael comuso uncovered the stash 10 feet under a loose brick in the archway of a vacant house, gallagher said
durham and comuso had looked for the drugs for about a week, combing through piles of trash and vacant and abandoned houses, which gallagher described as the favored hiding places for drugs
the tipster decided to help the officers after his rival began cutting into his territory, gallagher said
there's some conflict of interest up there,'' he said, adding that drug dealers from colombia and the dominican republic are trying to take over a neighborhood where black and other hispanic dealers have traditionally worked
north camden is the hot spot right now. the traffic just flows through there, especially on thursday and friday after payday,'' he said
he declined to release the name of the tipster, saying such action might make the man a target for retaliation from his rivals
in a way, the new spirit of cooperation is an asset for law enforcement officials who spend hours each day patrolling the blighted area, he said
but i also foresee where somebody's going to get hurt up there,'' he said. ``they'll shoot you in a heartbeat.'' tv evangelist scandals with watergate, remarks at press conference, picking up 8th graf `the last...'</note>
the rev. jerry falwell on thursday likened the tv evangelism scandals with the watergate affair and said ``the cause of christ is better off'' because of them
the crisis that ended the nixon administration ``made it much tougher for politicians since then,'' falwell told the national association of evangelicals
in the days ahead, it is going to be tougher for national (ministry) leaders to misbehave,'' he said. ``not impossible, but tougher.''
falwell, a fundamentalist preacher who is not a member of the association, appeared for the first time before the group, which has 50,000 members and represents 72 denominations
an admission of sin last month by tv preacher jimmy swaggart and allegations last year of sexual and financial misconduct by jim bakker have led to a new code of moral and financial ethics for religious broadcasters, fallwell said
i think the days of the rolls-royces and rolexes ... the days in which social status is gauged by financial trappings, are over,'' falwell said at a luncheon sponsored by the national religious broadcasters, an affiliate of the nae
falwell said that the swaggart controversy had had little effect on his own ministry and that he did not believe it had equaled the general impact of the bakker revelations on the religious broadcast industry
it seems that all the fallout that was going to occur, occurred last year,'' he said at a news conference after the luncheon
however, he said that if similar scandals had occurred to him or other, more conservative, ministers, ``we would be out looking for other employment.''
i'd rather be dead'' than be immoral, he said
bakker, who admitted a tryst with a church secretary and who has been accused of financial improprieties, was expelled from the assemblies of god church
swaggart, who has been accused of paying a prostitute to perform lewd acts, was suspended by the denomination and expects to return to the pulpit
after bakker resigned as head of ptl, falwell headed the ministry for several months before stepping aside
falwell accepted an invitation to speak before the nae in 1983 but withdrew after criticism from fellow fundamentalists. the fundamentalist side of protestant christianity maintains a theological separation from the more broadly based evangelical organization
falwell's ``old time gospel hour'' is broadcast around the world on some 350 television stations. he is founder of the moral majority movement and pastor of the 21,000-member thomas road baptist church in lynchburg, va., the largest in the country
turning to politics, falwell praised former religious broadcaster pat robertson but said he endorsed george bush for the presidency, even though falwell had ronald reagan not to choose bush as his vice president
i'd love to see a bush-kemp ticket,'' he said referring to new york congressman jack kemp
on the other side, falwell said, ``i can't think of a single democrat running this year who i could hold my nose and vote for.''
in a presidential preference poll conducted late wednesday, some 100 nae board members endorsed bush, followed by kansas sen. robert dole, kemp and robertson. among democrats, they favored rep. richard gephardt of missouri
the last-place finish for robertson ``confounded conventional wisdom that he would be the near-unanimous choice of evangelical leaders,'' said richard cizik, research director for the nae in washington
but it was no surprise to those trying to gauge the support for robertson within the evangelical movement over the past two years. in two previous polls, its leaders also placed robertson fourth among the gop candidates
they just don't consider robertson to be the most qualified for the job,'' cizik said
among democrats, gephardt was slightly favored over sen. albert gore of tennessee, with massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, sen. paul simon of illinois and jackson, a baptist minister, trailing in that order
bush received 40 percent of the votes on the gop side. dole got 32 percent, kemp 17 percent and robertson 12 percent
gephardt was ranked first among democrats by 37 percent of the board members. gore received 33 percent, dukakis 16 percent, simon 11 percent and jackson 5 percent
in two previous two polls, in march and october last year, dole was the winner with more than 40 percent of the votes, followed by kemp, bush and robertson
although evangelicals are considered conservative and orthodox in their religious views, they represent a broad spectrum of political ideology and the board members are ``not necessarily a reflection of the rank and file,'' said cizik
the nae, conducting a series of workshops and seminars for some 500 delegates, includes denominations as diverse as reformed and pentecostal. among its members are baptists, lutherans, presbyterians and mennonites. assurance other studies will be done</note>
ash and sludge produced by gas scrubbers that remove sulfur dioxide at coal-fired plants generally does not need to be regulated as hazardous waste, the environmental protection agency said thursday
however, small quantities of waste produced in cleaning boilers and purifying water do meet the definitions of hazardous wastes and the agency said it will consider whether to bring them under hazardous waste regulation
the conclusions were contained in a report to congress on power plant wastes required by 1980 amendments to the federal hazardous waste law. those amendments exempted such waste from regulation until completion of the study. epa now has until september to decide what wastes, if any, to regulate as hazardous
the agency said it would defer studying wastes from oil-fired plants, and coal combustion outside the utility industry. spokeswoman robin woods said the schedule for those studies had not been decided, but the agency intended to complete them
coal plants produce a lot of waste _ in 1984 about 69 million tons of ash and 16 million tons of sludge from smokestack gas scrubbers used to remove sulfur dioxide, a pollutant that helps form acid rain. epa said that in the year 2000 ash probably would be 120 million tons and scrubber waste 50 million tons
utilities spend $800 million a year in disposing of the waste at $2 to $31 a ton, and the requirements for handling and disposal under hazardous waste regulation would increase that to $70 per ton or $3.7 billion
ash and sludge may contain small quantities of arsenic, barium, cadmium, chromium, lead, mercury and selenium. in general, these do not leach out of the material in landfills to the extent that would make them hazardous, though some samples ``did indicate hazardous levels of cadmium and arsenic,'' epa said
intravenous drug addicts appear to be spreading aids in the united states at a higher rate than homosexuals, whose chances of contracting the disease could decline, u.s. surgeon general c. everett koop said thursday
addressing the first international conference on the global impact of aids, koop said surveys in the united states indicate that male homosexuals have ``undergone a very serious and positive change in behavior'' to reduce their risk of contracting aids
we might even expect a decline in the rate of aids reporting from this group in a year or so,'' he told about 1,000 health specialists from 63 countries at london's barbican center. the three-day conference closed thursday
by contrast, koop said, intravenous drug abusers have yet to realize they face a high risk of contracting aids from sharing blood-contaminated needles
over the years, we've been singularly unsuccessful in penetrating the drug-addicted culture with every other public health message we ever had, including the one that says stop'' using drugs, koop added
the u.s. official last january predicted a rise, but not an explosion, in the number of aids cases among heterosexuals
in an interview with the associated press earlier thursday, koop said public health officials must find ``some innovative and creative ways'' of reaching drug abusers, who now pose the greatest risk of spreading aids to the uninfected u.s. population
i think the major problem that we have in the states is how to reach the intravenous drug abuser, which class seems to be the one that is spreading the disease most rapidly at the present time,'' koop said
according to the centers for disease control in atlanta, 63 percent of the 55,167 cases of aids reported in the united states have been among male homosexuals or bisexuals, 17 percent among intravenous drug abusers and 7 percent among those who fall into both categories
koop said health policymakers should consider setting up a pilot needle-exchange program to determine whether it could cut the rate of aids infection among drug abusers who share needles
under needle-exchange programs tried in western europe, drug addicts can turn in used needles and syringes for free, sterile equipment. there are conflicting opinions on whether such programs have slowed the spread of aids
while stressing he was not proposing such a plan but rather supporting those who call for it, koop said drug abuse was the likeliest way that aquired immune deficiency syndrome could spread through the heterosexual population
the geneva-based world health organization and the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine organized the conference to assess the economic and social impact of the aids epidemic, which has spread to at least 133 countries
speakers discussed problems ranging from the aids threat to the mining industry of zambia, to efforts to prevent the spread of infection in british prisons
aids is a disease in which a virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers
aids is most often transmitted through sexual contact, but can also be transmitted through transfusions of tainted blood or blood products. aids can also be passed from mother to child at or before birth
secretary of state george shultz said thursday his plan for bringing arabs and israelis to the negotiating table is ``the only game in town'' and outlined details for the first time in public
shultz, testifying on capitol hill, also indicated that the united states would continue to push the plan even if israeli prime minister yitzhak shamir rejects it when he holds talks in washington next week
people have looked at our ideas, and while nobody is saying yes, nobody wants to say no, because it's the only game in town,'' shultz said
people will probably _ would even dodge and object and so on, but we're going to keep working and see if we can't bring something out of this,'' he added
shamir has opposed the shultz plan because it sets a timetable for negotiations between israel and the arabs on the future of the israeli-occupied west bank and gaza strip
president reagan, meanwhile, said in an interview thursday that ``a great element'' of israel's coalition government supports the peace plan and that he will try to persuade shamir to drop his objections to the proposal
i believe that peace is inevitable,'' reagan said. ``we may have some differences there as to how to achieve it but i don't think anyone believes that we can go on just with a constant state of warfare and unrest (in the middle east).''
shultz, in testimony to the house appropriations foreign operations subcommittee, said the united states feels ``time is awasting'' and wants talks between israel and arab countries to begin by may 1. the talks would be under the auspices of the five permanent members of the u.n. security council _ the united states, the soviet union, china, england and france
it is essential, particularly from the standpoint of the arab side, that there be an auspices for these negotiations, something that gives them legitimacy,'' he said
we proposed that this conference initiate these bilateral negotiations, that it be a body that can receive reports from the parties on the status of their negotiations, but that ... the conference will not be able to impose solutions or veto agreements reached.''
in what appeared a slight shift, shultz did not insist as he has in the past that the soviets could only participate if they resumed the diplomatic tiesthey broke with israel in 1967
however, i have told the soviets ... that whether they come to a conference or not, they cannot expect to play a genuinely involved role in middle east affairs'' until they re-establish official relations with israel and ease their restrictions on jewish emigration, he said
in the plan he presented to israeli and arab leaders last week, shultz stipulated that all the participants must recognize u.n. resolution 242 and 338, which call for israel to return lands it captured from the arabs in the 1967 mideast war. in return, the arab states would have to recognize the jewish state's right to exist
shultz did not speak directly of the three months of israeli-palestinian clashes in which more than 80 arabs have been killed. but he referred to it, saying that ``people's minds are a little more open now than they've been in some time, and we should take advantage of that.''
under the plan, the palestinians would be represented by a joint delegation with jordan, shultz said
the initial negotiations would address ``transitional arrangements'' for three years of palestinian self-rule, he said. the united states would present a draft proposal as a preliminary working paper
such negotiations could be concluded within six months because much of the preparatory work has been completed, he said
the transitional arrangement could be put into place within three months after the end of the negotiations. immediately following the six-month negotiations, the sides would begin yearlong talks on the final status of the territories, he said
republican presidential candidate bob dole jabbed at vice president george bush on thursday, saying his rival for the gop nomination was ``hiding from america.''
dole, after touring a rehabilitation hospital, stepped up his attacks on the vice president for not agreeing to one-on-one debates before next tuesday's illinois primary
i don't think he wants to stand up without notes and talk about issues,'' dole said. ``it's not a strength of his. his strength is to run these tv ads that distort somebody's record.''
dole apparently was referring to television spots that the bush campaign has used to raise questions about the kansas senator's position on taxes. dole blames his campaign's failure to effectively counter the ads for his loss in new hampshire
i think he's going to play it safe,'' dole said of bush. ``he's not going to debate bob dole. he wouldn't dare debate bob dole for two hours without notes, without roger ailes.''
ailes is a media consultant
at nearly every campaign stop since he arrived in illinois on tuesday, dole has hammered away at bush and challenged him to speak out on the issues
it's almost impossible to separate bush from (president) reagan because he's been standing next to him for seven years,'' dole said. ``unfortunately, i didn't have time to stand there. i had to get reagan's program passed.''
dole also is questioning bush's ``electability,'' saying he would be a stronger candidate for the party to field against democrats in november
my view is it's going to be a very tough, tough race for george bush,'' said dole. ``he does not attract democrats or independents.''
dole said he would seek out supporters of rep. jack kemp now that the new york republican has pulled out of the presidential race. he expects to soon receive the endorsement of rep. henry hyde, r-ill., a key kemp backer in the state
dole said he faces a ``steep hill to climb'' to defeat bush
i have to do very well in this state,'' dole said
does that mean winning? that means doing very well.''
dole seemed to be backing off slightly from statements on wednesday that illinois was a must-win state for his struggling candidacy, but he dismissed questions from reporters on whether he was scaling down his expectations in the state
dole's first stop on thursday was to the rehabilitation institute of chicago, where he toured the hospital and greeted patients, many of whom were confined to wheelchairs
the medical center is just a short distance away from another hospital where dole underwent surgery 40 years ago for wounds he suffered in world war ii
one woman patient told dole, ``you're not going to get bushwhacked in the midwest.''
dole gave words of encouragement to some of the patients and told them how it was difficult for him to regain the use of one of his arms which had been paralyzed
i don't give up easy. i'm like everybody in this building,'' dole said after his tour. ``you wouldn't walk out of here if you gave up easy. so i'm a fighter.'' week</head> defense of accord; deletes 15th graf pvs, the source, as now outdated; picks up 8th graf pvs, in december</note>
a pact allowing japan to retrieve plutonium from u.s. nuclear wastes would leave the united states without ``effective control'' over reprocessing of the hazardous material, the general accounting office has concluded
the gao, the investigative arm of congress, also found fault with the agreement's provisions to guard against proliferation of plutonium, the principal element in nuclear weapons, and said it deprived congress of its ``oversight function.''
opponents of the accord said they had failed to work out a compromise with the state department and may move to kill the agreement next week
the accord, signed last november, gives japan advance permission for 30 years to recover plutonium from the fuel the united states supplies for its nuclear power plants after it is used
congressional opponents wanted the united states to have the right to review the use of plutonium in any future japanese facilities on a ``case-by-case'' basis, and to be able to suspend the agreement in a terrorism threat or other national security situations
the congressional foes also sought to have the agreement reviewed every five years
these changes would require renegotiating the terms with japan, which the state department declined to do, said a congressional source, speaking only on condition of anonymity
a leading opponent, sen. alan cranston, d-calif., said ``it is extremely unfortunate the state department has rejected a compromise agreement. it is a bad agreement. it has serious flaws.''
cranston, chairman of the senate asia subcommittee, called on the reagan administration to withdraw the accord. ``otherwise,'' he said, ``it faces growing opposition'' in congress
the gao report was written by milton socolar, a special assistant to the u.s. comptroller general, and was dated feb. 29. it was obtained thursday
the report said the agreement does not meet various requirements of the atomic energy act. it said giving ``blanket approval'' to japan for reprocessing plutonium ``would leave the united states with no effective control over the life of the proposed agreement.''
a u.s. official involved in the negotiations said, however, the ``safeguard concepts'' in the pact are adequate and that the agreement could be suspended in the event of proliferation or a terrorist threat
the official, speaking only if not named, said the agreement ``makes sure terrorists cannot get into the facilities.''
in december, the senate foreign relations committee, in an unusual move, voted 15-3 to return the pact to president reagan and asked that it be renegotiated. opponents argued it sets a precedent to encourage potentially hazardous trade in plutonium, which is a potent cancer-causing agent
opponents also complained the plutonium would be shipped over alaska and possibly other areas of the united states
on tuesday, the state department said the plutonium would be shipped ``in accordance with rigorous physical protection and safety requirements.''
a statement issued by the non-proliferation office said planes carrying the plutonium soon will be able to fly non-stop from europe to japan, taking a polar route. this would avoid overflights of the united states, canada or any other country
the administration is, therefore, prepared to rule out air shipments of plutonium under the agreement from overflying or landing in the united states, except in the case of aircraft emergency,'' the statement said
under the agreement, japan would ship the spent nuclear fuel to reprocessing plants in britain or france, which would separate plutonium from the waste. the plutonium then would be shipped back to japan by air
the congressional source said the statement was designed to ease the concerns of sen. frank h. murkowski, r-alaska, but did not basically alter the flaws in the agreement
also, the source said, richard n. perle and frank gaffney, former defense department officials, wrote members of congress urging rejection of the agreement as ``seriously flawed'' and complaining that the pentagon was not permitted to play a meaningful role in the negotiations with japan
forty-five tons of plutonium could be airlifted from europe to japan by the year 2000 under the pact. it takes 15 pounds to make a bomb
congress has until april 25 to block the agreement with japan or it takes effect
secretary of state george p. shultz on thursday called u.s. foreign aid embarrassingly low compared with the effort made by western european countries
he was challenging rep. david r. obey, d-wis., who chaired a hearing at which shultz testified
mr. chairman, you talked about burden sharing, but if we compared our effort in that regard with our european friends, i think we would see a somewhat embarrassing picture,'' shultz said
he was immediately supported by the member who had been questioning him, rep. john edward porter, r-ill
it's shameful, mr. secretary, it's absolutely shameful,'' porter said. ``i certainly agree with you.''
shultz was apparently referring to figures for 1986, compiled by the organization for economic cooperation and development, which show that total u.s. development aid is high _ $9.56 billion for 1986 _ but low as a proportion of u.s. wealth
the oecd calculates that u.s. aid amounted to 0.23 percent of the country's total production. by that measure norway was at the top of the list with 1.2 percent of its production, an effort more than five times greater. the united states was close to the bottom of the list. only austria was lower, with 0.21 percent
shultz also made a comparison with the soviet union
the fact of the matter is ... the soviets are spending considerably more than we are in what we classify as as economic and security assistance,'' he said. ``and their economy is half the size of ours. so that our effort is relatively small.''
according to the u.s. agency for international development, the soviets spent $3.68 billion on economic aid in 1986, equal to 0.33 percent of their national production
obey had begun the hearing with an explanation of why congress provided smaller amounts for aid than had been requested by the administration for countries where the united states has military bases
we felt that the united states is getting the shaft from our allies in terms of burden sharing around the world,'' he said
and we feel it's the obligation of our european allies to carry a greater share of the load in supporting common defense efforts. ... so it's not that we have any policy dislike for spain or for portugal or for greece or for any of the other countries involved,'' he said
it's simply that when the u.s. taxpayer spends $1,100 on average to support military and foreign expenditures, and the (west) german taxpayer spends $450 and the spanish taxpayer spends $113 and the average for europe is $318, we feel those are not good conditions under which we ought to be making large commitments of expenditures,'' he said
obey, who chairs the foreign operations subcommittee of the house appropriations committee, also complained of administration proposals to lower spending on some domestic programs for education and low-cost housing. satellite</head>
the corporation for public broadcasting told congress on thursday it needs $200 million to replace an aging satellite system that is due to expire in 1991
donald ledwig, cpb president, told a house energy and commerce subcommittee that unless the satellite system is replaced, the skies will go dark for public radio and television stations that rely on it to receive programming from the public broadcasting service
without funding for the satellite, there would be no way to replace it unless we pulled it out of our budget,'' which would leave little money for anything else, ledwig said
cpb is asking congress to authorize $395 million for cpb's general operations for the year beginning oct. 1, 1991. the board also proposes its federal support be increased to $411 million in fiscal year 1992 and to $427 million in fiscal year 1993. the $200 million for a new satellite system would be additional
the reagan administration in its recent budget proposal asked congress to freeze cpb's funding at its current level of $214 million for fiscal years 1989 through 1991 and did not include any funds for a new satellite system. congress previously had authorized cpb to receive $228 million in 1989 and $233 in fiscal 1990
rep. edward markey, d-mass., chairman of the telecommunications subcommittee, has introduced legislation that would split the difference between what cpb wants and what the administration is proposing
some on the subcommittee, however, said that at a time of soaring budget deficits, public broadcasters cannot count on increasing their federal support
rep. michael g. oxley, r-ohio, said public broadcasters should consider limited advertising between programs an a way to fill their budget gaps
i am troubled by the intransigence of the (public broadcasting) system on this important question,'' oxley said
the public broadcasting act prohibits advertising on public radio and tv stations, but oxley said this raises constitutional free-speech questions
maj. hugh lindsay, who was killed thursday in an avalanche while skiing with prince charles, was a career army officer who became a favorite aide of queen elizabeth ii
handsome, urbane, fun-loving and an expert skier, lindsay was out on the slopes at a resort in klosters, switzerland with the 39-year-old heir to the british throne when he was caught in an avalanche
buckingham palace said charles escaped unharmed
the prince helped dig out lindsay, according to press association, britain's domestic news agency, but the major was dead by the time he was airlifted to a nearby hospital
lindsay, 34, was a close friend of charles and princess diana
last july, diana and prince edward, the youngest brother of prince charles, made a surprise appearance at lindsay's wedding to sarah brennan at the 10th-century church of st. nichola in compton, surrey outside london
mrs. lindsay, who works in the buckingham palace press office, is expecting the couple's first child in may
lindsay was a major in the british army when he was appointed an equerry, or aide, to the queen in october 1983. he spent three years working closely with her before returning to full-time army duty with the prince of wales' 9th-12th royal lancers in 1986
he was the perfect equerry, which means he was the perfect courtier,'' said anthony carthew, court correspondent for independent television. ``he was very good-looking and urbane and witty
he was very popular with the queen ... popular indeed with the whole royal family.''
he also said lindsay was a very strong skier
in his spare time, lindsay played in a seven-man blues band called ``sweatband,'' which appeared at balls and society parties. baroness isabelle van randwyck, a school friend of diana, also played in the band
lindsay was vacationing at klosters in 1986 with charles and diana when sarah ferguson made one of her first public appearances before the announcement of her engagement to prince andrew, charles' brother
the major was playfully prodded with an umbrella by diana and sarah at the races at royal ascot last june, to the crowd's delight
the u.n. human rights commission accepted fidel castro's invitation thursday to send its first delegation to cuba to investigate allegations of human rights abuses
the 43-nation body approved without a vote the decision drafted by four latin american countries to accept the invitation cuba extended wednesday
plans are for a six-member delegation, including the chairman of the u.n. commission, to visit the caribbean island this year and report to the 1989 meeting
before the decision, the united states and latin american countries led by argentina, colombia, mexico and peru, spent a day negotiating acceptable conditions for a visit
in another action thursday, the commission condemned chile's military government for violations including murder, kidnapping and torture by security forces, continued curbs on basic civil rights and intimidation by authorities
a resolution passed 34-0 cited ``acts of extreme violence from all sources in chile which have exacerbated the climate of insecurity.'' seven countries abstained, including the united states, japan and brazil, and two did not vote
armando valladares, a former cuban political prisoner who heads the u.s. delegation to the rights commission, told a news conference the two-year u.s. effort to have the commission examine cuba had forced castro's hand
this visit has not been a voluntary gesture by cuba,'' he said, speaking in spanish with simultaneous translation
a day of negotiations produced ``conditions and guarantees'' for an impartial visit that did not exist when cuba extended the invitation wednesday, said valladares, who was released from 22 years in a cuban prison six years ago. he called the commission decision ``a triumph for human rights.''
an official of the u.n. center for human rights, k.f. nyamekye, said it was understood that the six members _ commission chairman alioune sene of senegal and five others to be chosen geographically _ would meet in geneva for a week in may or june to plan their work
cuba has been cited for such human rights violations as torture and mistreatment of political prisoners by the united states and international organizations, including amnesty international
castro's government denies the charges and fought the u.s. effort to put its human rights situation on the agenda of the commission, which meets every year for six weeks. debate intensified this year when valladares, who wrote a book about mistreatment and torture in prison, was chosen to lead the u.s. delegation
after thursday's decision, the united states withdrew a resolution calling for the u.n. secretary-general to examine the human rights situation in cuba and report to the commission
valladares said the plan adopted ``goes far beyond what we had originally asked for. it is very important
a member of the cuban delegation said it would not have a statement thursday
the document approved is brief and does not give conditions of the visit, saying only that a six-member team ``should visit cuba in order to observe the human rights situation'' and prepare a report
sene told the organization the investigating team would have unrestricted access to information while in cuba
they will visit cuba for ``about five days'' in july or august, then reconvene in geneva in january to consider and adopt their report, said nyamekye
dartmouth college suspended two members of a conservative student newspaper for two years thursday and another for two terms for harassing a black professor in his classroom
a fourth student staffer for the independent dartmouth review was placed on disciplinary probation for one year for disorderly conduct
the four white students had faced possible expulsion over a feb. 25 confrontation with music professor william cole over a review article criticizing his class and his teaching ability
the article and the confrontation had drawn allegations of racism against the review and prompted demonstrations by black students at the ivy league school
the penalties imposed by the student-faculty dartmouth committee on standards take effect wednesday, the end of the current academic term
christopher baldwin of hinsdale, ill., john quilhot of fort wayne, ind., john sutter of st. louis, and sean nolan of lexington, mass., were charged with harassment, disorderly conduct and invasion of privacy
baldwin, a junior who is the review editor, and sutter, a senior who is its executive editor, were suspended until the fall of 1989, or six terms
quilhot, a sophomore photographer, was suspended for two terms. nolan, a freshman contributor to the paper, was placed on probation. dartmouth operates on a three-term college year
baldwin said the students will appeal
i knew we were going to get a sentence like that when we walked into the hearing,'' baldwin said. ``the hearing was conducted in a lynch-mob hysteria.''
they did what was politically expedient, not what was right,'' he said
the disciplinary panel found all four guilty of disorderly conduct for failure to leave cole's classroom after being asked repeatedly to leave
baldwin was guilty of harassment for initiating and persisting in a ``vexatious oral exchange'' with cole, and sutter was guilty of repeated ``aggressive, confrontational and particularly vexatious'' behavior, the committee said
cole, a specialist in african-american music and author of books on jazz musicians john coltrane and miles davis, sued the review for libel five years ago over an article questioning his competence and saying he ``looks like a used brillo pad.'' cole later dropped the suit
during nearly 16 hours of hearings last weekend, the four students proclaimed their innocence and denied any racial motivation
founded in 1980 with support from such conservatives as patrick buchanan and william f. buckley, the review repeatedly has been accused of insensitivity to blacks, women and homosexuals
baldwin led the group that approached cole in a recital hall after the professor finished a class
baldwin said the review wanted to give cole another chance to respond to an article in the review several days earlier. in that article the review printed remarks, including profanities, that cole made in a telephone interview
witnesses who testified before the committee last weekend agreed that cole became agitated and yelled and cursed when the four approached him. cole testified that he felt harassed and provoked, and he accused the review of bigotry
the invasion of privacy charge arose because cole was photographed and tape-recorded without permission
one witness, luzmila johnson, head of the afro-american society at dartmouth, testified that sutter uttered a racial slur as he left the recital hall. sutter vehemently denied the charge
two years ago, 12 people, most of them review members, mounted a sledgehammer attack on symbolic anti-apartheid shanties on the college green
three of the students were suspended. seven others received community-service sentences, including baldwin
dartmouth has nearly 4,100 undergraduates, nearly 7 percent of them black. bush</head>
republican party officials said thursday they intend to award puerto rico's 14 gop national convention votes to vice president george bush and are considering calling off the primary to do it
we haven't canceled the primary, but we are considering every way possible not to have one,'' gop vice chairman and local bush campaign manager jose dapena thompson said. ``the reason is simple: the nomination of george bush has been practically assured.''
however, the underlying issues at stake turn more on statehood for the u.s. commonwealth than on presidential politics
the republican primary is scheduled for march 20, when voters are to cast ballots for slates committed to bush; his main rival, sen. bob dole, r-kan.; or any other republican candidate as a write-in
bush needs 1,139 votes to win the gop presidential nomination. his total thursday was 705
dole's campaign chairman in puerto rico, alejandro cruz, agreed with dapena thompson, but he, too, was unsure whether it was possible to cancel the primary, or somehow to require dole's 14 delegates to vote instead for bush
the republican party will meet saturday to review its alternatives
a democratic primary also is set for march 20, at which 51 puerto rico's national elegates are at stake
the main issue for both parties is the political status of the commonwealth, whose citizens enjoy most every right and obligation as other americans with the exception that they cannot vote for president or congress, and pay no federal taxes
the popular democratic party of gov. rafael hernandez colon favors a continuation of commonwealth or limited autonomy. the opposition new progressive party, which has strong ties with the national republican party, wants puerto rico to be the 51st state
our first goal is statehood and we have to be united to fight for that,'' said dapena thompson, the mayor of the south coast city of ponce and the new progressive party's vice chairman
four presidential candidates _ two republicans and two democrats _ have sided with deaf students at gallaudet university who want a hearing-impaired person to head their school
sen. bob dole, r-kan., was the first to support the idea with a letter on feb. 18, before the selection of elisabeth ann zinser was made. zinser, who was named the school's president on sunday, is not deaf and does not know sign language
in his letter, dole noted the accomplishments of gallaudet, which is the nation's only school for the deaf, and asked, ``isn't it time for the university to once again lead the way, instead of following it, and place a deaf individual in a position of public responsibility?''
vice president george bush's support came next, in a letter march 1 to the committee searching for a new school president
as an entity funded by the federal government, gallaudet has a responsibility to set an example and thus to appoint a president who is not only highly qualified, but who is also deaf,'' he wrote
the march 6 appointment of zinser, an administrator at the university of north carolina at greensboro, set off demonstrations by students, alumni and faculty at gallaudet that have virtually paralyzed the campus
the protests drew support from two democratic presidential hopefuls
democrat jesse jackson on wednesday issued a statement supporting the demonstrations and saying, ``the problem is not that the students do not hear. the problem is that the hearing world does not listen.''
illinois sen. paul simon, also running for the democratic nomination, on thursday called for zinser's resignation
simon, a longtime member of the senate labor and human resources subcommittee on the handicapped, which has jurisdiction over funding for gallaudet, said zinser's appointment was a ``slap in the face to the entire purpose of the university.''
simon, who wears two hearing aids to compensate for a hearing impairment, cited the job listing placed by the school's presidential search committee, which said, in part:
broad and deep knowledge of deafness and the variety of issues important to the higher education of hearing impaired persons is necessary.''
even if elisabeth zinser were deaf,'' simon said, ``the fact that she doesn't meet this qualification demonstrates that she is not the best candidate for the job.''
tate said more than half the campaign's 300 staffers were being laid off
she declined to say who among the national staff was being let go, saying workers were still being notified thursday evening
it is significant _ it ranges from the top to the bottom in every department,'' she said of the layoffs
some of the layoffs had been planned for the period following super tuesday, regardless of its outcome, she said
but dole's campaign was reeling from its complete, 17-state loss on that day. vice president bush won in 16 of the states and took a giant step toward the gop nomination
you have a much different campaign staff when you're trying to compete in 17 states at once'' rather than one at a time, she said
she said the key members of dole's traveling staff would be unaffected by the cutbacks, naming press secretary mari maseng, adviser thomas rath, campaign chairman william brock and consultant kim wells
she said the campaign would keep ``a full complement'' of staff in illinois
the news of the cutbacks came as dole continued to campaign in illinois _ a state he said on wednesday that he had to win
on thursday, he appeared to back off on that contention, saying instead he had to ``do very well'' in the state. he dismissed questions from reporters on whether he was scaling down his expectations in the state
at one point, however, he addressed the possibility of dropping out, saying: ``i've been in this business long enough to know that there comes a time you have to say, well, maybe it would happen.'' bush</head>
republican party officials said thursday they intend to award puerto rico's 14 gop national convention votes to vice president george bush and are considering calling off the primary to do it
we havn't canceled the primary, but we are considering every way possible not to have one,'' gop vice chairman and local bush campaign manager jose dapena thompson said. ``the reason is simple: the nomination of george bush has been practically assured.''
however, the underlying issues at stake turn more on statehood for the u.s. commonwealth than on presidential politics
the republican primary is scheduled for march 20, when voters are to cast ballots for slates committed to bush; his main rival, sen. bob dole, r-kan.; or any other republican candidate as a write-in
bush needs 1,139 votes to win the gop presidential nomination. his total thursday was 705
dole's campaign chairman in puerto rico, alejandro cruz, agreed with dapena thompson, but he, too, was unsure whether it was possible to cancel the primary, or somehow to require dole's 14 delegates to vote instead for bush
the republican party will meet saturday to review its alternatives
a democratic primary also is set for march 20, at which 51 puerto rico's national elegates are at stake
the main issue for both parties is the political status of the commonwealth, whose citizens enjoy most every right and obligation as other americans with the exception that they cannot vote for president or congress, and pay no federal taxes
the popular democratic party of gov. rafael hernandez colon favors a continuation of commonwealth or limited autonomy. the opposition new progressive party, which has strong ties with the national republican party, wants puerto rico to be the 51st state
our first goal is statehood and we have to be united to fight for that,'' said dapena thompson, the mayor of the south coast city of ponce and the new progressive party's vice chairman
a storm dumped heavy snow in utah, colorado and wyoming, covering some mountain areas with up to 28 inches, shutting down highways and abruptly ending spring-like weather in the region
the storm also generated high winds in the central and southern rockies and the central and southern plains, creating blizzard conditions in some areas
winter storm advisories, watches and warnings were posted in the rockies and northern plains through friday. up to 16 inches of snow were expected in colorado's mountains overnight
in utah's mountains, 28 inches of snow blanketed brian head by thursday morning. elsewhere in the state, little cottonwood canyon got 18 inches, and big cottonwood canyon and solitude 8 inches
snow was heavy in parts of western wyoming, with a foot of new snow at casper mountain and rock springs, and wind gusts to 50 mph created blizzard conditions
more than 200 miles of interstate 80 were shut down in southern wyoming between laramie and rock springs, and numerous roads in wyoming were closed
about 4,000 state employess left work early in cheyenne and caspar, and many schools closed early
snow also fell over parts of western and central montana and south dakota
as the storm moved eastward, the temperature fell dramatically. rapid city, s.d., had a high in the low 70s on wednesday, but readings climbed only into the mid-30s early thursday afternoon
temperatures elsewhere in the northern high plains were 20 to 30 degrees lower than readings on wednesday
gusty winds also buffeted western kansas, the nebraska panhandle and southern new mexico, where ruidoso had winds up to 63 mph
rainshowers were scattered across the carolinas into northern georgia as a storm system slowly moved into the atlantic ocean
heavier rainfall during the six hours ending at 1 p.m. est included 1.20 inches at fayetteville, n.c., 0.91 inch at charlotte, n.c., 0.86 inch at florence, s.c., 0.82 inch at key west, fla., and 0.67 inch at hickory, n.c
temperatures at 2 p.m. est ranged from 21 degrees at yellowstone park, wyo., to 89 degrees at cotulla, texas. the morning low was 3 degrees at gunnison, colo
friday's forecast called for snow from the plains of wyoming and northern colorado through the upper mississippi valley, showers and a few thunderstorms scattered across the central plains and lower missouri valley, from much of kansas and western missouri into central iowa and southern wisconsin, and mostly sunny or partly cloudy skies elsewhere
high temperatures were expected to reach the 40s, 50s or 60s across much of the nation, with readings in the 20s from wyoming to the northern great lakes and across northern new england, in the 30s from the northern rockies through the central intermountain region, the central high plains into central wisconsin and northern michigan as well as central new england, in the 70s across the southern california coast and from the upper rio grande valley through northern texas, the lower mississippi valley and gulf coast into much of florida, and in the 80s across southern texas
african governments more than nature now cause the famines that threaten millions of lives, a reagan administration official told congress thursday
although natural factors are still present and important in each of these countries, man-made factors predominate and drive the seemingly intractable emergency situations and ever-escalating needs,'' said charles l. gladson, assistant administrator for africa of the agency for international development
he listed as the ``most obvious'' factors:
_internal strife and civil wars
_policies that fail to give incentives to farmers to grow enough food
_poorly developed infrastructure, such as roads and railroads
_governments incapable of coordinating relief
gladson's testimony was prepared for a hearing by the house select committee on hunger and the foreign affairs subcommittee that deals with africa. the hearing dealt with the crisis in angola, mozambique, ethiopia and sudan
even in the best of times, ethiopia cannot feed itself with its current policies,'' said roy stacy, deputy assistant secretary of state for africa
the u.s. government alone spent over $600 million for emergency aid to save lives, but without incentive farming policies such assistance does not result in recovery and provides little resistance to the next drought,'' he said
according to the hunger committee, a drought in ethiopia has again resulted in crop failures and a food deficit of 1.3 million metric tons, with 5.2 million to 8 million people at risk. it said the u.s. government has provided more than $100 million in aid in the current crisis
the administration view was endorsed by rep. tony roth, r-wis
ethiopia, mozambique and angola _ is there some reason that mother nature has singled out these three countries by chance? i don't think so,'' he said
all of these countries share one other common trait: their disastrous agricultural yields can be directly attributed to the failures of collectivized farming and to a patent disegard for human life,'' he said
all three have communist governments
he complained that a proposed resolution on famine relief, introduced by rep. tony p. hall, d-ohio, and mickey leland, d-texas, contained no condemnation of the ethiopian government of mengistu haile-mariam for withholding food as a means of combatting rebel forces
he also criticized the proposed resolution for suggesting that the u.s. government prevent refugees from crossing borders or going into relief camps
it seems to me altogether inappropriate for it to to be a policy of the u.s. government to prevent people from voting with their feet and escaping from a brutal dictatorship,'' he said
two 13-year-old girls were found guilty of involuntary manslaughter thursday in the slaying of a 12-year-old boy who was forced to drink lighter fluid and suffocated with a plastic bag over his head
police said the girls feb. 8 helped two teen-agers get into the victim's apartment, where the boys attacked antonio r. cooley for not letting them use a videotape recorder
the 15-year-old boys sprayed cooley with insecticide and forced him to drink charcoal lighter fluid while he screamed for his life, authorities said. a deputy coroner said cooley was suffocated with a bag
as judge arthur o. fisher of juvenile court read the verdict in the non-jury trial, the two girls sat almost motionless, and one mouthed a curse. the other clutched a stuffed bear and sobbed lightly as she was led away
they were also found guilty of grand theft for helping steal cooley's stereo and videotape recorder
the girls, whose identities were not released because of their age, were being held in a youth detention center
the judge could order them held for a year, and state officials then could decide whether to hold them until age 21, siad assistant prosecutor debra armanini. no sentencing date was set
the judge said the girls helped the two boys get into cooley's apartment while his father was at work, knowing the boys intended to beat cooley and steal several electronic items
prosecutors are seeking to have the two 15-year-olds tried as adults on charges including aggravated murder and aggravated robbery
defense attorneys argued the girls did not know cooley was to die. but the judge said even if the girls had warned cooley, as they testified, they still were guilty for not trying to prevent the attack
a 13-year-old accomplice has pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and theft and awaits sentencing. the defense at the girls' trial contended the 13-year-old kept the girls in a back room while the older boys did the killing
i think the verdict sends a message across this city that the courts are not going to permit anyone, no matter what their age, to take part in a scheme or plan to snuff out another life,'' said assistant prosecutor mathias heck jr
col. jean-claude paul is a household name in the capital port-au-prince, but one that few people are comfortable speaking out loud
paul was indicted wednesday on drug trafficking charges in u.s. district court in miami, but many radio stations in the haitian capital chose not to broadcast the news. of those that did, only one, the roman catholic station radio soleil, identified paul by name
we're not yet going to announce the news ... for security reasons,'' a reporter at the independent station radio metropole said thursday, speaking on condition of anonymity. ``we've already received threats. we'll announce the news when it's formally made public.''
paul has been prominent in the impoverished caribbean nation of 6 million since he was promote to colonel and given command of the 700-man dessalines battalion in january 1986
the battalion, quartered in a low-slung, mustard colored building adjacent to the national palace, was involved in almost every incident last summer in which soldiers broke up peaceful anti-government demonstrations. more than 30 people were killed and 200 wounded
opposition leaders blame the battalion for standing by idly nov. 29 while gunmen in the capital killed at least 34 people, forcing the cancellation of what would have been haiti's first free presidential vote in 30 years
paul refused requests to be interviewed at that time. his colleagues and superiors have publicly defended and shielded him
leslie manigat was elected president jan. 17 in balloting boycotted by the opposition and marked by widespread irregularities
a communique three weeks ago by army chief of staff gen. carl nicolas rebutted the ``so-called involvement of (paul) in affairs of drug trafficking.''
col. gary leon, a spokesman for the military, refused a request thursday by the associated press for biographical information on paul
nevertheless, a sketchy picture of paul emerged from interviews with acquaintances, colleagues and foreign observers, most of whom spoke on condition their names not be used
paul was born in 1938 to a family that supported dictator francois ``papa doc'' duvalier
his father was a high-ranking member of the tontons macoute private militia. it was organized by duvalier to throttle political opposition and challenge the power of the army, which launched several coups against duvalier after his election in 1957
paul's brother alexandre was haiti's consul general to the bahamas and the united states, based in miami, until the duvalier family dictatorship ended in february 1986 with the flight of jean-claude duvalier to france following popular demonstrations
as a young officer, paul was a protege of francois duvalier's finance minister, clovis desinor. he rose through the ranks during the 1970s and served with the elite leopards counterinsurgency squad before taking command of the dessalines battalion
rumors of paul's alleged involvement with cocaine trafficking surfaced in march 1987 when his ex-wife, marie merielle delinois, was arrested in miami on drug charges. she pleaded innocent, was released on $250,000 bond and promptly fled
paul and his brother antonio face three drug counts _ conspiracy to distribute, distribution and attempted importation of cocaine into the united states. they could face up to 45 years in prison and $375,000 in fines if they are convicted. ms. delinois was also indicted
jean-claude paul's activity in cocaine smuggling is well known,'' said one western diplomat in a recent interview. ``he has a landing strip near thomozeau,'' a village about 90 miles northeast of the capital near haiti's border with the dominican republic
raymond joseph, publisher of the brooklyn, n.y.-based newspaper ``haiti observateur,'' said the colonel has several houses in and around the capital, in addition to a cattle ranch in thomozeau
paul, a short, stocky man who customarily wears a ring, bracelet and necklace of heavy gold, lives above his salary of $1,800 a month, said joseph
the mission of dessalines battalion is to help police provide order in the capital. paul is seen most frequently in public providing security for top government officials
the western diplomat said paul is popular with his troops and pays them extra from his own pocket
he (paul) ignores the chain of command,'' said the diplomat, who added that paul incorporated about 100 tontons macoutes into his battalion and helped others flee haiti at the end of the duvalier dictatorship
he is capable of making a coup d'etat,'' the diplomat said
howard stern, a radio personality known for his outrageous, innuendo-laced broadcasts, is the target of a federal investigation begun after he bragged on the air about getting drugs for someone, according to a published report
the new york daily news on wednesday said it learned of the investigation from a letter to the newspaper from michael levine, a drug enforcement administration agent
levine said stern, who has come under fire from the federal communications commission for his broadcasts, bragged on his morning radio show monday of getting drugs for an unidentified guest on his cable tv special ``howard stern's underpants and negligee party,'' shown feb. 27
maybe somebody should have warned him (stern) that he was admitting to the commission of a federal and state felony,'' levine said
the daily news, citing unidentified sources, said that dea agents had taken the unusual step of clearing the investigation with the u.s. attorney's office. because of stern's habit of making outrageous statements on radio, investigators wanted to know if the office would press charges, the newspaper said
robert stutman, head of the new york dea office, said levine's letter was written without his office's knowledge. he declined comment on any investigation
stern, whose morning radio program is heard on wxrk-fm in new york and on wysp-fm in philadelphia, could not be reached for comment. a message left at the new york station was not immediately returned thursday
stern's radio broadcasts are filled with veiled and obvious references to sex and other bodily functions. he testified at an fcc hearing in april, and the commission warned him to avoid certain sexual innuendoes and double entenderes
the fcc said stern's broadcasts ``dwelt on sexual and excretory matters in a pandering and titillating fashion that was patently offensive as measured by contemporary community standards.''
but because the fcc's own standards for decency may have been unclear, the commission said it was forced to limit its sanction against stern to a warning. becomes youngest state prisoner, quote from mother. picks up 8th graf pvs, `defense attorney ...'</note>
a 15-year-old boy who beat a classmate to death with a baseball bat to find out what it was like to kill someone was convicted of second-degree murder thursday and sentenced to life in prison
rod matthews, who was 14 when he lured shaun ouillette into the woods with a promise of fireworks, showed no emotion when the verdict was announced. he had been expressionless throughout the weeklong trial, sitting with his eyes downcast
matthews will be eligible for parole in 15 years
carrying a portrait of her son and choking back tears, jeanne quinn, the victim's mother, said she had hoped matthews would not be eligible for parole, which would have been the case if he had been convicted of first-degree murder
he planned this. i'm sorry. fifteen years. no, i'm sorry, that's wrong,'' said mrs. quinn. ``shaun is not coming home in 15 years, is he? he's not ever coming home.''
the trial in this suburb 15 miles south of boston was highlighted by graphic descriptions of the slaying and testimony from two young people who described how matthews plotted the killing and then took them to see the bludgeoned body in the woods in canton
matthews' family, including two sisters and a brother, was escorted out of court by officers shielding them from journalists. kenneth matthews, the father, said he felt his son belonged in a treatment facility rather than in prison
matthews becomes the youngest of more than 6,500 inmates in the state's prisons, possibly the youngest ever, said correction department spokeswoman mary mcgeown
it's terrible,'' said matthews' mother, janice. ``a child shouldn't be persecuted and forced to go through something like this. they're children. god only knows how much worse it's going to make his condition.''
defense attorney john philip white had argued that matthews should be acquitted by reason of insanity. he portrayed him as a mentally unstable child whose pleas for help were ignored by teachers and friends, and as someone adversely affected by taking the drug ritalin to control hyeractivity
white said after the verdict that he was concerned about matthews' safety at the adult prison at walpole and about ``the suicidal ideation he has shown.''
norfolk county superior court judge roger j. donahue said defense attorneys could appeal the verdict within 30 days. donahue rejected a defense motion to reconsider the sentence and classify matthews as a juvenile
the jurors had deliberated for nearly 10 hours over two days before making their decision
norfolk county assistant district attorney peter casey called the decision an ``appropriate, well-counseled verdict.''
the widely publicized case was compared to the trial of anthony broussard, 18, sentenced to 25 years to life in 1982 in san jose, calif., for killing his girlfriend. broussard took at least 13 schoolmates to see the victim's body and the movie ``the river's edge'' was based on that case
two child behavior specialists testified that matthews did not experience classic symptoms of psychosis and that continued use of ritalin could not have triggered violent behavior
but a doctor said monday that matthews' irrational conduct may have been exacerbated by the drug, which matthews had been taking since the third grade
two friends of matthews', rob peterson and jonathan cash, testified earlier this week that matthews told them of his desire to kill in the fall of 1986. they said two potential victims were mentioned and rejected before matthews decided on ouillette
no charges were filed against peterson and cash
matthews chose ouillette because he felt he would not be missed, the teen-agers said. ouillette, 14, was relatively new to canton, his family having moved there two years before the slaying
witnesses said matthews befriended ouillette before he lured him to the wooded area after school on nov. 20, 1986. he hit ouillette on the head with a baseball bat at least three times. matthews recalled ouillette cried for help, the friends testified
matthews took peterson to see the body several hours after the slaying and they hid a knife matthews planned to use to cut off ouillette's arms and legs
several days later, peterson and cash went with matthews to see the body after a pre-thanksgiving pep rally at canton high school
police found the body on dec. 15, 1986, after receiving an anonymous letter sent by cash
matthews told a psychiatric counselor after the slaying that he first decided to kill someone after viewing the videotape ``faces of death,'' which depicts animal and human deaths
about 200 students from the national technical institute for the deaf rallied thursday in support of demands by students at washington's gallaudet university for a hearing-impaired president
we will keep the spirit. the spirit shall never die,'' said scot atkins, a spokesman for the ntid students. ``it's time for a deaf president at gallaudet.''
the protests came in response to the appointment of elisabeth ann zinser, who can hear, as president of gallaudet. the nation's only liberal arts college for the deaf has not had a hearing-impaired president in its its 124-year history
gallaudet students have said zinser is not welcome on campus, and they have called for the resignation of jane bassett spilman, chairwoman of the school's board of trustees
at ntid, students carried signs with slogans such as ``it ain't over till the hearing ladies quit'' and ``deaf people have been ready to function forever,'' and chanted, signed and waved their arms over their heads
deaf people can be president. we can do anything we want. and the idea that we can't is just nonsense,'' said student linda whitmore, through an interpreter. ``i plan to work with hearing people when i graduate.''
ntid, with an enrollment of 1,250, is a part of rochester institute of technology and offers two-year programs in such fields as business, computers, engineering and architecture
some of the students go on to gallaudet or to rit, said ntid spokesman vince dollard
two busloads of students and numerous cars with a total of about 150 people were scheduled to leave the campus at midnight for a rally friday in washington
atkins said thursday's rally and the support for gallaudet's students has nothing to do with ntid, whose director and president both can hear
they've been very good to us and we've been very good to them and we have no problem with the way things are here,'' he said
armenian nationalists claimed wednesday that ethnic clashes in the southern soviet republic of azerbaijan killed more than 1,500 armenians
the armenian revolutionary federation made the claim in statements issued by its headquarters in athens and an office in nicosia. there was no way to verify the report
soviet officials have said 32 people died in the unrest last week, but armenian nationalists in moscow have said the toll was much higher. foreign correspondents have not been allowed to travel to the region
the violence against the armenian population has reached the scale of a massacre,'' said the group
the federation said more than 1,500 armenians have been confirmed dead as a result of ``mob attacks.''
tension between armenians and residents of azerbaijan erupted in violence feb. 28 in the azerbaijan city of sumgait. the unrest was triggered by armenian demands that nagorno-karabakh, a predominantly armenian region in azerbaijan, be annexed to neighboring armenia
simom ainedjian, spokesman for the armenian group in nicosia, told the ap the group's sources were contacts in armenia. the statement from athens cited reports from sources in moscow, karabakh and the armenian capital of yerevan
the statement said moslem azeris, natives of azerbaijan, attacked the christian armenians in sumgait. it said the azeris blew up many armenian buildings ``with the result that the tenants were buried in the ruins.''
a group affiliated with the federation, the armenian national committee, also said in athens wednesday that more than 1,500 people were killed in the clashes
a spokesman for the committee identified its source as armen sahakian, an armenian dissident living in moscow
we've had similar information from other dissidents and in telephone calls with people living in yerevan, but he is our main source,'' the spokesman, jirayr beudjian, told the associated press
beudjian said sahakian had met with people that fled to moscow from the two republics
soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev met with the leaders of armenia and azerbaijan in moscow wednesday to discuss the ethnic unrest
seagram co. said thursday it is buying the makers of tropicana orange juice in a $1.2 billion transaction dubbed the ``screwdriver deal.''
we have already broadened our base with seagram's (wine) coolers, and tropicana is another step in this direction,'' chairman edgar m. bronfman said in announcing the purchase of tropicana products from beatrice u.s. food corp
the deal will be financed initially with a combination of bank loans and short-term borrowings, said the canadian liquor and beverage giant
market watchers jokingly called the sale the ``screwdriver deal'' in a reference to the popular cocktail made of vodka and orange juice
montreal-based seagram is best known for its distilled spirits and wines but in recent years has moved into the manufacturing of wine coolers and sells cocktail mixers such as tonic, seltzer and ginger ale under the seagram's name
seagram is also acquiring french cognac producer martell &amp; co
securities analysts said the move into the orange juice business was a logical step for seagram
they understand the business, and it's growing, unlike most of their liquor products,'' said ian osler, an analyst with prudential-bache securities in toronto
however, the new york credit-rating firm standard &amp; poor's corp. said the pending sale had negative debt implications for both seagram and beatrice
s&amp;p said the deal would reduce seagram's dependence on distilled spirits but increase the company's debt load, raising questions about seagram's ability to absorb both tropicana and martell
tropicana, with headquarters in bradenton, fla., had sales of about $750 million in its last fiscal year, which ended feb. 29, said marcelline thomson, a seagram spokeswoman
seagram earned nearly $423.5 billion on sales of $3.3 billion in the fiscal year ending jan. 31, 1987, and reported a profit of more than $402.4 million on sales of $2.6 billion for the nine months ending oct. 31, ms. thomson said
beatrice u.s. food corp., based in chicago, is a division of beatrice co., whose holdings include hunt's tomato products, wesson oil, swift-ekrich inc. meats, peter pan peanut butter and orville redenbacher popcorn. other detail; picks up 11th pvs `hanspeter kirchhofer ...' and subs 15th `charles, diana ... to conform</note>
an avalanche roared down on prince charles's skiing party thursday, killing a close friend. the future british king was unhurt, but a witness said he trembled and wept as a rescue helicopter arrived
swiss officials had warned earlier thursday of possible avalanches in the area
the dead skier was identified as maj. hugh lindsay, 34, a former aide to queen elizabeth ii, the prince's mother. buckingham palace said another skiier, patricia palmer-tomkinson, suffered leg injuries
press association, the british domestic news agency, said charles helped dig the victims out of the snow
charles was not injured, and his wife diana and pregnant sister-in-law the duchess of york were safe in a chalet at the time of the avalanche, said the palace statement issued in london
there were calls in britain for members of the royal family to take more care. press association said the dutchess of york, the wife of charles's younger brother prince andrew, had a fall earlier in the day from which she emerged wet and shaken. she was told to spend the afternoon resting
prince andrew was not on the ski trip
queen elizabeth and her husband, prince philip, were attending an official engagement in london when informed of the avalanche. the queen later talked to charles, 39, at the alpine chalet where the royal party had stayed since arriving tuesday
witnesses on the mountain said charles, the prince of wales and heir to the throne, looked distraught after the avalanche buried two of the six people in his party. one said he was weeping and shaking when the helicopter came
buckingham palace said charles and the others were off the main ski trails near an extremely steep run, and were stationary when the snow began to move
charles has vacationed in the klosters ski area for years, knows it well and is considered good on the slopes
the party, including a guide, was on mount gotschnawang when the snow rushed down from about 100 yards above at 2:50 p.m., said officials of the grisons canton, or state
lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson were flown to a hospital in davos, the officials said
according to the palace statement, ``all members of the party were in a position to take avoiding action with the exception of maj. lindsay and mrs. palmer-tomkinson who were both caught in the avalanche.''
another statement thursday night said: ``the prince of wales and the whole party are naturally extremely distressed by this tragic accident which resulted in the death of their close friend maj. hugh lindsay and serious injury to mrs. patti palmer-tomkinson.''
hanspeter kirchhofer, an investigating magistrate in davos, said mrs. palmer-tomkinson was being treated for fractures of both legs and was ``doing well under the circumstances.''
the gotschnawang station on the cable car, which skiiers ride up the mountain, is at 7,540 feet and the prince's party had skied down to about 5,800. the swiss federal avalanche research institute had warned of considerable avalanche danger above 5,200 feet in northern grisons
lindsay was the 12th snowslide victim of the winter in switzerland
earlier thursday, a polish mountain climber was killed on the north wall of mount eiger, about 95 miles to the southwest
charles, diana and the duchess of york posed for photographers wednesday at klosters. the 28-year-old duchess, the former sarah ferguson, is expecting her first baby in august
lindsay was a close friend of charles and diana, who attended his wedding last july. he frequently accompanied them on their annual ski holiday at klosters
mrs. palmer-tomkinson and her husband, charles, also vacation with the royal couple at klosters
harold brooks-baker, publisher of the burke's peerage directory of the aristocracy, said his representative in switzerland told him the royal party was warned of the avalanche danger
we have constantly suggested to the royal family that they be more prudent,'' he told a reporter. ``they constantly act as though nothing can harm them. ... after all, these people don't belong just to families but to the world.''
charles had a spectacular crash on gotschnawang in 1979, landing on his hip and escaping unhurt. secretary's testimony.</note>
gov. evan mecham's last chief of staff testified thursday that he would not have responded as the governor did to reports that another official threatened a former mecham aide who was a grand jury witness
but richard burke, a former u.s. attorney and justice deparment official who was the first defense witness at mecham's impeachment trial, refused to say whether he thought the governor obstructed the investigation of the alleged threat
i don't think i should comment on that,'' burke said, as members of the arizona senate pressed him for a legal opinion. ``i think the governor would have a very different view of that than i would.''
mecham, 63, is accused of obstructing justice by telling the state's top police official not to give the attorney general information about the alleged threat
he also is accused of concealing a $350,000 campaign loan and misusing $80,000 from a state fund, but the senate is hearing testimony on the obstruction charge first
mecham, who has not appeared at the impeachment trial since it began feb. 29, also faces a criminal trial april 21 on felony charges of concealing the $350,000 and a recall election may 17
the first-term republican is the first u.s. governor to be impeached in six decades
burke, who tried to reorganize the chaotic mecham offices in the two months before the governor's impeachment, said he believed that the reported threat was serious and that mecham should have fired the accused aide, lee watkins, much earlier than he did
i certainly took it as a serious threat,'' said burke. ``it wasn't a threat of tiddlywinks. i think all of us assumed it was a crime or a potential crime or it wouldn't have been reported to us.''
according to testimony in the impeachment trial, mecham first was told nov. 13 that watkins threatened former mecham adviser donna carlson, saying she might go ``on a long boat ride'' if she talked to a grand jury investigating finances of mecham's 1986 campaign
watkins has denied threatening ms. carlson. last week he refused to testify when called as a prosecution witness
ralph milstead, director of the department of public safety, said he was told nov. 15 by mecham to refuse any request for information by the attorney general. he has said he did cooperate, however
mecham has testified in house impeachment hearings that he may have told milstead not to cooperate with the attorney general
in other developments, a secretary to peggy griffith, the official who first reported the alleged death threat, said that her boss often exaggerated things and that she questioned mrs. griffith's version of what occurred
but when senators asked her for examples of exaggerations, the secretary, terri elaine fields, paused and said, ``i can't even think of any right now.''
under questioning by mecham attorney fred craft, burke said the governor was ill-served by his subordinates because they did not give him complete information on the alleged threat quickly enough
but on cross-examination, house prosecutor william french honed in on mecham's exact instructions to milstead: ``would you say this: `don't tell the attorney general anything?'''
no,'' said burke
would you say this to col. milstead: `never. don't give him any help?''
no,'' said burke
burke, in apparent agreement with a number of prosecution witnesses, said political loyalty impelled the governor to ignore staff warnings and support watkins
why was mr. watkins not let go at an earlier date?'' asked democratic sen. lela alston
burke replied that mecham ignored nearly unanimous advice from his staff to fire watkins
i think the governor felt a great deal of loyalty to mr. watkins,'' said the witness, ``because mr. watkins hd been very active and supportive of his campaign.''
prosecution witnesses have suggested watkins won favor by raising money for mecham's campaign. they said watkins told of being rewarded with a state job and intimated he had information which could bring down the mecham administration
a two-thirds vote in the senate is required to convict mecham on impeachment charges and remove him from office. senators then could take another vote and forbid him from holding state office again
a swiss tycoon involved in a plan to build an iraqi oil pipeline attended an event thursday with shimon peres, whom he allegedly tried to bribe into guaranteeing the line's safety
bruce rappaport joined the foreign minister at a haifa university symposium on heart disease, which rappaport financed. he denied offering peres a bribe and said he would ``tell all at the appropriate time and place'' about the $1 billion pipeline project
peres angrily brushed aside questions about the pipeline case, which also has been linked to edwin meese iii, the u.s. attorney general
my name is not connected with anything and i don't want you to connect it,'' peres said, interrupting a reporter. ``did anyone say they gave me anything? did anyone say they promised me anything? please, a little fairness.''
rappaport told reporters israel lost $60-$70 million because the project was not built _ the sum it was to receive for promising not to bomb the line
he said peres, then prime minister, gave the guarantee after consulting yitzhak shamir, who then was foreign minister, and two other cabinet ministers
there was never a question of giving this sum to ministers or a political party and the only one who would have benefited from the deal would have been the israeli treasury,'' the israeli news agency itim quoted rappaport as saying
in washington, independent counsel james mckay is investigating whether meese violated a law that prohibits payment of bribes to foreign officials by u.s. companies and authorizes the attorney general to intervene to block them
the investigation stems from a 1985 memo to meese from his longime friend e. robert wallach, who had been hired as legal counsel by rappaport to help secure u.s. support for the pipeline project
wallach's memo says payments were planned to the israeli labor party, which peres leads, in connection with the pipeline. meese has said he does not recall reading the portion that mentioned payments to the party
a treaty requiring nations to prosecute or extradite terrorists who commit acts of violence on the high seas was signed by 23 countries thursday, including the united states
agreement comes more than two years after palestinian terrorists hijacked the italian cruise ship achille lauro and killed an american passenger
representatives from 53 other nations, including the soviet union, israel, egypt and libya expressed approval of the document, the first maritime convention against terrorism
i have a very vivid memory of the achille lauro and i can only feel the deepest emotion today,'' said u.s. ambassador maxwell rabb, who signed for the united states. ``this document corrects a tremendous void in the law of terrorism.''
the treaty still must be formally ratified by the governments that signed
a u.s. government official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he expected most of the 53 other countries would sign within a year. he said many representatives wanted their governments to review the treaty before signing
the palestine liberation organization sent observers to the treaty conference
the treaty requires ratifying countries to make it a crime to commit violent acts against ships or the people aboard them. it also covers oil rigs or platforms anchored to the bottom of the sea and the people aboard them
the countries agree to either prosecute or extradite terrorists who commit violent acts at sea. a country whose citizens are victims of an attack can seek extradition of the terrorists
the treaty was the final document of a 10-day conference of diplomats and international law specialists convened by the london-based international maritime organization, an agency of the united nations
italy, egypt and austria requested the convening of such a conference in 1986, following the achille lauro hijacking. the ship was seized off egypt and many passengers were austrian
the u.s. government official said the treaty ``clarifies which countries have the criminal jurisdiction to prosecute people who commit acts of violence on vessels outside their territorial waters.''
he said it fills ``a gap in international anti-terrorist law.''
in october 1985, four palestinian terrorists hijacked the achille lauro, killing leon klinghoffer, a 69-year-old passenger from new york confined to a wheelchair. at the time, the united states accused italy of releasing mohammed abbas, the accused mastermind of the hijacking who was later convicted in absentia by an italian court of the murder
president reagan said thursday the reunification of germany could result from efforts to resolve east-west differences over berlin's divided status
reagan spoke in an interview with the washington correspondent of zdf television, which broadcast excerpts on its evening newscast
the u.s. president repeated a suggestion that the olympic games be held in both halves of divided berlin. he also said he hoped berlin could become an international meeting place and an air traffic transportation center
reagan was asked about the possibility of a future reunification of the two germanys as a consequence of improved east-west dialogue
maybe out of these things (talks about berlin's status) reunification could grow,'' reagan replied
the president said holding the olympic games in berlin would be an ``important contribution toward peaceful development between east and west.''
reagan first suggested the games be held in berlin during a visit to the city last year
reagan said the berlin wall would continue to be an important issue in talks with soviet officials
the german state was divided into communist east germany and pro-western west germany following the defeat of adolf hitler's third reich in world war ii
a tobacco-company representative who telephoned jurors during a $17 million liability suit against the makers of pall mall cigarettes did not break the law, a district attorney said thursday
we're not sure of the specifics of the calls but in essence it was simply a case of trying to be friendly or trying to help _ even being a bit nosy,'' frank carlton said in detailing the findings of a state investigation
the investigation followed january's trial of a suit brought against american brands inc. by the family of nathan henry horton, who died of lung cancer after smoking two packs a day of unfiltered pall malls for more than 30 years
a mistrial was declared in the case when jurors couldn't agree on a verdict
allegations of attempted jury tampering later surfaced, and norman clark, a jury consultant for the defense, said he had called jurors at one point to inform them that the judge was sick and that the day's session had been called off
what occurred was improper but being improper is not a crime,'' carlton said
the truth is there is not supposed to be contact with jurors during trial for any reason. even innocent contact can be misconstrued, as it was in this case.''
dirt collapsed in a gully where three boys were digging a hole, burying the youngsters and killing two despite neighbors' efforts to save them, police said. the third boy dug himself out
joel rogers and damon deakin, both 13, died wednesday evening, said police spokesman tony herrera
residents of the trailer park where the three lived saw the teen-agers digging in the gully then saw a cloud of dust, herrera said
neighbors who heard screams pulled joel out and were trying to revive him when officers arrived, herrera said. paramedics pulled damon out about 15 minutes later, he said
damon was pronounced dead at the scene and joel was pronounced dead at university of new mexico hospital
one of the boys, 14, whose name was withheld, dug out and went for help, herrera said
dave wild, a resident of the trailer park, said he had warned the boys of the danger of digging in the dry gully, or arroyo, but they continued to play, and moments later he saw a cloud of dust
i didn't think anything of it,'' he said. ``then i remembered the kids digging. i ran out and one of them was yelling that the other two were trapped inside. i jumped into the arroyo and started digging
i kept digging until i got to a foot, then i reached his head,'' he said. ``i pulled him out and he wasn't breathing.''
trailer park manager kaylin morris said she heard the boys talking earlier wednesday about digging a tunnel. ``the three were inseparable,'' she said. ``it was just like the three musketeers.'' updating with iran's u.n. activity. picks up 13th graf pvs, iran's islamic ...</note>
iraq and iran said thursday they would stop rocketing each other's cities, but within hours both had launched new missile attacks
iraq fired three long-range missiles at tehran on thursday and two into qom. the iraqi news agency said the attacks brought to 51 the number of missiles fired at tehran since feb. 29
iran's official islamic republic news agency said iranian revolutionary guards fired two missiles into baghdad. iran has reported firing 27 missiles into the iraqi capital since feb 29
there was confusion over the timing of a possible cease-fire
an iraqi statement broadcast over baghdad radio and monitored in nicosia said the bombardment of tehran and other iranian cities would halt by 4 p.m. friday if the iranians stopped firing at iraq's cities
iranian prime minister hussein musavi said that iran would halt attacks on iraqi cities if iraq stopped attacking iranian cities, tehran radio reported
musavi said he was responding to a call by turkish prime minister turgut ozal, who asked iran and iraq to stop the ``war of the cities'' by thursday at 5 p.m
ozal sent messages to iran and iraq on wednesday asking them to end the bombardments on population centers
twenty diplomats and their families drove to turkey on wednesday night after evacuating tehran, the independent turkish hurriyet news agency reported. it said the group included diplomats from norway, finland, the netherlands, denmark, west germany and syria
iraq claimed that tehran triggered the latest round of the ``war of the cities'' by hitting baghdad with two missiles feb. 29
so the last bombardment should be iraq's before the cessation goes into effect,'' the statement said. ``if the enemy iranian regime attacks any of our cities ... in retaliation for the last iraqi bombardment, we will continue attacking.''
the statement came after a meeting of top iraqi officials chaired by president saddam hussein
iranian envoy mohammad ja'afar mahallati told a news conference at the united nations that iran would honor any unconditional truce called for by secretary-general javier perez de cuellar. he said iran would not fire back if iraq got in the last shot before any deadline set by perez de cuellar
we can respond to anyone _ but unconditionally, unconditionally,'' he said
the u.n. chief did not respond to mahallati's call. sources close to perez de cuellar said iran also insisted he condemn iraq for starting the missile duel, something he was unwilling to do
iran's islamic republic news agency said scores of civilians were killed or wounded in the latest iraqi missile attacks
in the event of a complete halt to the air and missile attacks by the iraqi regime, we too will stop these attacks,'' musavi told the state-run radio
but if the rulers of iraq refrain from accepting this request by turkey, we will strengthen the intensity of our retaliatory measures,'' he said in the broadcast, monitored by the british broadcasting corp
musavi said his nation was eager to defeat iraq on the ground and to end attacks on civilians
we believe that the war must take place chivalrously on the battlefields and that extending the hostilities to residential areas to victimize women and children signifies only the impotence of the party that started such a crime,'' he said
the all-swiss international committee of the red cross called the missile exchange a ``very grave violation'' of international humanitarian law. a statement issued in geneva said the icrc made a ``solemn appeal'' to end what it called ``this tragic escalation'' of the war
the official iraq news agency said ``a number of civilians'' were killed thursday in iranian shelling
iran said its warplanes attacked basra and al-amarah farther north
cities in western or central iran reported hit by iraqi warplanes on thursday included isfahan, hamadan, arak, dezful, shustar, shahr-e kord and burujerd. a mosque and a school were hit in isfahan, and two schools and a hospital were destroyed in shahr-kord, tehran radio said. iraq reported its planes also raided khorramabad, guilan-e-gharb, and sar-e-pol-zahab. spree</head>
a jury thursday convicted a man of murder and arson in a grisly crime spree that left five people dead, a verdict returned one day after a second jury in the rare ``dual trial'' convicted a co-defendant
one jury was selected for each defendant at the trial to save time and to prevent the possibility of publicity from one trial tainting potential jurors for a second
carl ``butch'' campbell, 28, and robert ahalt, 42, were accused of beating three people to death in a bar in 1986 during a robbery, then killing campbell and ahalt's girlfriends the next day in the women's homes
one of the women, who was six months' pregnant, was sexually mutilated and forced to eat glass before she and her fetus died. the bar and the women's homes were set afire
it was only the second time in new york legal history that two juries have been called on to listen to one case and give two verdicts
during the trial, the defendants sat at the same table, but the two juries sat on opposite sides of the courtroom, one in a specially built jury box
the juries and evidence were color coded. the jury considering ahalt's case wore blue lapel tags, and campbell's jury wore yellow tags
most testimony involved both cases, but when a witness was providing information that involved only one defendant, the other jury was taken from the room. the defendants testified in front of their own jury only
campbell, convicted thursday, faces a sentence of 115 years to life in prison. ahalt could receive up to 125 years to life. sentencing was set for april 7
each defendant was charged with three counts of arson, five of intentional murder, five of murder during the commission of a felony, in this case, robbery, and one of murder during a sexual assault
campbell was acquitted of a charge of murder during a robbery at the home of one of the women and both murder counts in the slaying of the woman at the other home. ahalt was acquitted of murder during a sexual assault
attorneys for both men had objected to the dual juries and said they would appeal the verdicts
state supreme court justice donald mark had originally said that the verdicts would have to be delivered at the same time
but four hours after the ahalt jury reached its decision wednesday night, campbell's attorney waived his client's right to have the verdicts announced simultaneously
killed at dick's 43 lounge were the bar's 75-year-old co-owner martha gruttadauria; her sister-in-law concetta amatore, also 75, and colin tuttle, 56, a patron
the next day, dorreen grachus, 28, and evelyn allen, 38, were found slain in their homes a half-mile apart. grachus, campbell's girlfriend, was pregnant. allen, ahalt's girlfriend, was beaten to death, police said
firefighters found all five bodies during fires
the first dual trial was held in 1984 in nassau county and involved two young men who were drag racing and were charged with criminally negligent homicide when their cars slammed into another car, killing the driver
that case has been appealed to the state's highest court, largely because of the dual trial format, said bruce whitney, a nassau county assistant district attorney. picks up 4th graf pvs, `railey has ...'; subs 18th graf pvs, `mrs. railey's ...' to correct first name to billie jo sted peggi; adds one graf with details on railey turning temporary custody over to minister.</note>
a former minister left two telephone messages for his wife the night she was choked nearly to death, describing his whereabouts in keen detail and giving times, and warning her to lock the garage door, according to tapes released thursday
walker railey told police he found 39-year-old margaret ``peggy'' railey unconscious on the floor of the garage at their lake highlands home shortly after midnight last april 22, choked with a cord. she remains in a coma
railey, 40, senior pastor of the prominent united methodist church of dallas at the time of the attack, claimed his family was the victim of a racially motivated attack. after a suicide attempt and reported refusal to testify before a grand jury, he resigned and moved to san francisco, leaving his children, ages 2 and 5, and wife in texas
railey has denied attacking his wife and vows he is innocent. he has not been charged but his lawyer said he was a prime suspect, and police hope to have railey answer more questions
prosecutors released the answering-machine messages for the first time thursday
if you want to, go ahead and lock the garage door and i'll park out front,'' railey said on the tape. ``it really doesn't matter to me at this point. my concern is that you're safe.''
one of the biggest discrepancies with the tapes is the time element. in the first message, railey told his wife he didn't have his watch on but thought it was about 10:30 p.m
telephone company records, however, indicate he placed the call at 12:04 a.m., dallas county assistant district attorney norman kinne said thursday
in the first message, which lasted more than 1{ minutes, railey told his wife twice to lock the door and described his step-by-step trail conducting research at two southern methodist university libraries
he explained that he had to leave one library when it closed and was on his way to another, and later called to explain that he was on his way home
i'm not calling on the private line because i know you're already asleep,' he said in the message saying he was on his way home, ``but in case you get up with the kids, i just wanted you to know that i'm on my way home. it's 12:30. i'll be home by about 12:45. love you, dear. bye bye.''
after waffling on the time in his first message, railey noted without hesitation in the second that the time was 12:29 a.m., a figure kinne said was confirmed to the minute by telephone company records
he told police he arrived home at 12:40 a.m. and found his wife unconscious
kinne initially refused to release the tapes, prompting abc news to file suit. the network's suit failed but kinne he decided to release the material after an appeals court ruled it was up to local officials to decide the issue
the attack occurred after railey appeared at an easter service in a bullet-proof vest, claiming racially motivated death threats had been made against him and his family because of his pro-civil rights stands
he produced typed letters that threatened his life, but police traced them to a typewriter in his church. the day police were scheduled to question him further, he attempted to commit suicide and left a note saying demons were torturing him
railey became less cooperative, eventually appearing before a grand jury last july when he reportedly cited his 5th amendment rights against self-incrimination 43 times
mrs. railey's mother and legal guardian, billie jo nicolai, filed a civil suit accusing railey of the crime. he has not yet responded to that lawsuit and must do so by monday
railey moved to san francisco late last year and signed a year's lease for an apartment with dallas psychologist lucy papillon
that apartment's telephone number is unlisted, and the associated press could not reach him for comment thursday
ms. papillon has reportedly told grand jurors that she and railey were having an affair and that he was with her at her home during part of the evening when mrs. railey was attacked
railey gave temporary legal custody of his children to a minister at the church where railey served. route</note>
eastern airlines inc. was held in contempt of court thursday for taking steps to sell its eastern air shuttle to its parent company, texas air corp., for $225 million
u.s. district judge john h. pratt ruled that the financially troubled miami-based airline had flouted his july 2, 1987 injunction directing eastern to maintain the status quo under its contract with a union that represents 12,000 employees of the airline
the preliminary injunction was issued in an different case last summer after the international association of machinists and aerospace workers, afl-cio, challenged eastern's plans to transfer ground crews and baggage handlers to a new subsidiary called air ground services inc
at the time, pratt ruled the proposed transfer of 6,000 iam members to the new subsidiary could not take place unless eastern bargained with the union
in thursday's opinion, pratt said the eastern's financial troubles ``do not change the fact that it proposed a `spin off' of the air shuttle ... in clear violation of our july 2, 1987 order, which, whatever doubts eastern had as to its meaning and application, it made no attempt to have clarified or modified.''
the judge noted that eastern announced the deal a day after it dropped its appeal of the preliminary injunction
pratt scheduled a march 18 hearing to determine what sanctions should be imposed against the airline
the court's order today sends a message to texas air that it is not above the law and it too must comply with the railway labor act,'' the union said in a statement from its district 100 headquarters in miami
an airline spokesman, robin matell, said: ``eastern's view is that the court's ruling is incorrect and we intend to file an expedited appeal. ... we are confident the court will rule in our favor.''
pratt agreed with the union's claim that steps taken last month toward the sale of eastern air shuttle _ which operates between boston, new york and washington _ to texas air amounted to a change in the status quo of the machinists' working conditions and therefore violated the injunction
the sale was announced last month pending federal aviation administration approval, which is not expected for at least another month
we find that the proposed `spin off' of eastern's air shuttle operations ... is not fundamentally different from the proposed `spin off' of eastern's fleet services employees to air ground services'' that was barred last summer, the judge said
the judge also determined that the ``proposed transfer to texas air significantly changes the working conditions of iam members'' and is therefore a major dispute under the railway labor act
the judge accepted the union's contention that spinning off the air shuttle could undermine the machinists' bargaining position with the company. if less than 50 percent of the spin off company's employees opt to join the iam, machinists who transferred to the new subsidiary from eastern would be without union representation, the judge noted
since texas air would be in control of the air shuttle operations including its labor policy, it will control the hiring,'' the judge said. ``it can thus manipulate the composition of its employees and alone determine whether such employees will qualify for union representation.''
the reagan administration thursday appealed a federal judge's order declaring unconstitutional regulations that would have cut off federal funding to family planning clinics that offer abortion counseling
the administration filed notice it was asking the 1st u.s. circuit court of appeals to overturn the march 3 ruling. no date was set for arguments
the ruling by u.s. district judge walter jay skinner was announced the day the regulations were to take effect. in response, the administration ordered health and human services offices nationwide not to enforce the regulations
the rules would have prevented federally funded family planning programs from providing abortion counseling, abortion referrals, and engaging in lobbying or legal action to increase availability of abortions
if the clinic also performed abortions, it would have to maintain separate facilities for those patients if it wanted to continue to receive federal funding under a provision of the public health service act of 1970
skinner said the regulations violated a woman's rights to privacy and to choose an abortion. ``abortion referral and abortion counseling are constitutionally protected speech under the first amendment,'' he said
about 5 million low- and moderate-income women receive services at the 4,000 clinics nationwide that would have been affected by the regulations announced in february by hhs secretary otis r. bowen
federal judges in colorado and new york had issued temporary injunctions against the regulations but skinner was the first to rule on their constitutionality
he ruled on an injunction requested by the massachusetts, the national family planning and reproductive health association and 13 other local and national family planning groups
diseases that now kill or cripple millions of children probably will be wiped out by the end of the century, a leading american health expert said thursday
the news on child survival is very good,'' said dr. william foege, head of the task force for child survival and former director of the centers for disease control in atlanta
by the end of the century we hope that measles will be reduced by 90 percent and that measle deaths, which are now over 2 million a year, will be reduced by 95 percent.''
measles was just one aspect of the optimistic vision foege presented to some of the world's leading experts on children, health and third world development
attending the meeting are barber conable, president of the world bank; james p. grant, director of unicef, the u.n. children's fund; halfdan mahler, head of the world health organization; leaders of more than a dozen other international aid agencies, doctors and health ministers from 11 developing countries
they will review a project that already is saving millions of lives and plan other efforts for the remainder of the century
the three-day symposium, at a 16th-century former monastery on the shores of lake annecy, is sponsored by the task force for child survival, whose members are unicef, the world health organization, the world bank, the u.n. development program and the rockefeller foundation
since the early 1980s, the organizations have been working together on an international campaign to immunize children against polio, diphtheria, whooping cough, tuberculosis and tetanus. the project, aimed particularly at developing countries, has been a great success
chinese officials said they believe 85 percent of china's 110 million children under age 7 will be vaccinated by the end of this year
the number of the world's children vaccinated against the five diseases has risen from 5 percent in 1974 to 50 percent today. experts attending the conference say predict virtually every child in the world will be immunized by the early 1990s
in a little over a decade, a public health revolution has quietly taken place,'' said dr. ralph h. henderson, director of the expanded who immunization program
he said the vaccination campaign against measles, neonatal tetanus, tuberculosis and whooping cough is saving the lives of more than 1 million children a year in poor countries. another 200,000 children are being saved from the paralysis of polio, henderson said
dr. ken warren of the rockefeller foundation called the project ``the single most remarkable example of international interagency cooperation i've ever seen.''
the task force took as its model a campaign against smallpox begun in 1966. in october 1978, the world was declared free of the disease
henderson said eradication of polio in the americas by 1990 is achievable and foege said experience gained in the next two years in the americas will allow the task force ``to set a reasonable date for eliminating polio from the world.''
polio already has been overcome in the united states, although cases sometimes are reported among immigrant groups
a world without polio would be a fitting gift from the 20th to the 21st century,'' henderson said
sen. bob dole said thursday he would not drop out of the republican presidential race, but confirmed that he had canceled all television advertising in advance of next tuesday's critical illinois primary. he also ordered deep layoffs in his campaign staff
even as dole issued a statement saying he was ``no dropout,'' campaign aides said dole had discussed abandoning his presidential bid. the kansas senator's campaign was gravely weakened by vice president george bush's sweep of 16 primaries on super tuesday
one aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said dole's private polls showed bush with a lead of between 15 and 20 percentage points in illinois, reflecting a significant jump for the vice president in the 48 hours since bush's stunning showing in this week's primries
an abc news poll released thursday night suggested bush led dole in illinois by a wide margin _ 58 percent to 31 percent
in his statement, dole did not say explicitly whether he would stay in the race if he lost illinois next tuesday. one aide said: ``i think it's clear to dole that it's do or die.''
several campaign sources said dole met with campaign manager bill brock and other aides over the last few days in illinois and discussed the possibility of quitting the race in the wake of bush's commanding lead in the race for national convention delegates
but dole decided to stay in
in his statement, issued in washington and illinois, dole ``categorically denied rumors'' that he would quit
bob dole's no dropout. i'm in this one to win,'' he said
in his statement, dole confirmed the sweeping staff cutbacks, but said they were sparked by the fact that the campaign no longer needed to run in so many states at once
dole said no cuts were involved in states with primaries after next tuesday
dole's statement also confirmed he had ordered his television ads shut down in illinois. but one source said the campaign may air a 30-minute paid broadcast in the closing hours of the illinois campaign
in the meantime, dole took another shot at bush
he said if the vice president still refuses to meet him in a series of one-on-one debates, they should agree to back-to-back, live one-hour press conferences staged before the illinois primary
the people of illinois and america have a right to see where george bush and bob dole stand on the issues,'' he said in his statement
bush, campaigning in illinois, was asked about the reports of dole considering withdrawal
i just heard that. i don't know anything about it,'' he told reporters in champaign, ill
bush's chief of staff craig fuller said the vice president was aware of the reports that dole was talking with aides abut whether to continue his campaign. he said bush's reaction was: ``we'll go about our business, do our job.''
earlier, campaign spokeswoman dale tate said more than half the dole campaign's 300 staffers were being laid off. many were still getting the word thursday evening
dole continued campaigning thursday in illinois. at one point he obliquely addressed the possibility of dropping out, saying: ``i've been in this business long enough to know that there comes a time you have to say, well, maybe it would happen.''
tate declined to say who among the national staff was being let go
it is significant _ it ranges from the top to the bottom in every department,'' she said of the cutback
some of the layoffs had been planned for the period following super tuesday, regardless of its outcome, she said. she said the key members of dole's traveling staff would be unaffected by the cutbacks, naming press secretary mari maseng, adviser thomas rath, campaign chairman william brock and consultant kim wells
tate said the campaign would keep ``a full complement'' of staff in illinois
the developments came the same day that rep. jack kemp abandoned his presidential bid. kemp, after a round of fourth-place finishes on tuesday, called it quits at a washington news conference. he did not endorse any of his rivals. background with 1980 ambush. picks up 13th graf pvs, arab residents ...</note>
palestinians rioted near jewish enclaves and jews drove down arab streets early thursday firing at houses and savaging cars, the army and witnesses said. soldiers wounded three arabs
troops shot and critically wounded two other arabs in the occupied gaza strip, hospital officials said
in a new leaflet issued thursday, underground palestinian strike leaders told residents of the occupied territories to take revenge on jewish settlers, palestinians who aid israel and those who sympathize with jordan
leaflet no. 10, signed by the plo's united leadership of the uprising, also ordered all arab policemen to resign and told palestinian merchants to boycott israeli products and reduce prices charged to arabs
two alleged collaborators have been reported killed since arab riots began dec. 8 in the west bank and gaza strip, which israel captured from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war. at least 87 palestinians have been killed by israeli gunfire or beatings, and hundreds have been wounded
police detained moussa and ali darwish, who were free pending trial on charges of printing thousands of plo leaflets in east jerusalem, israel radio reported
jews in hebron, a city of 50,000 arabs with two small jewish enclaves, said they were awakened shortly before midnight wednesday by arabs shouting ``slaughter the jews!'' and ``god is great!'' some settlers said they rushed into the street and fired warning shots because they feared attacks on their homes
rabbi moshe levinger told the associated press the arabs ``ran down near the synagogue. they wanted to enter jewish homes. we responded by throwing stones and firing in the air. if we hadn't stopped them ... there would have been a slaughter of jews, men, women and children.''
noam arnon, another resident of the 40-family beit hadassah complex where levinger lives, said arabs did not attack jewish homes
there was no damage to jewish property,'' he said, adding that he believed militants from the kiryat arba settlement outside hebron were responsible for damaging arab property
the area military commander also disputed levinger's claim
it's important to stress that the riots were directed at the army and at no stage was there an intention or attempt to attack jewish homes,'' the commander, who did not give his name, said on israel radio
on may 2, 1980, arab guerrillas fired on jewish settlers returning to beit hadassah after friday evening prayers. six settlers were killed and 16 wounded by gunfire, grenades and explosives in an ambush outside the building which had been occupied by jewish settlers from kiryat arba months earlier
arab residents of hebron said they were awakened early thursday by carloads of settlers raiding their neighborhoods
all the city was sleeping. there was nobody in the streets,'' said mustafa natsche, the former mayor
his cousin, abdul-rahman natsche, said: ``suddenly there was a sort of battle under the windows of my house _ shooting, crying, moaning. the settlers demolished the cars of arabs and shot at the windows of homes.''
an ap reporter saw seven vandalized cars, including a station wagon with all its windows smashed and another gutted by fire. the cars were in four divergent locations, some more than a mile from any jewish settlement
the owner of the burned-out car, khader kafishei, reported seeing a jew set it ablaze and pointed to bullet holes in the windows of his home
arab residents showed several revolver cartridges they said were collected after the raids and said they turned over hundreds of casings to israeli authorities as evidence
levinger claimed 500 arabs were rioting and came to within 100 yards of jewish homes. he said about 50 settlers defended the homes
an ap reporter saw no apparent damage either to the stone facing of beit hadassah, a former hospital, or the other jewish enclave, tel rumayda. only a few hundred jews live in beit hadassah and tel rumayda
army spokesmen said 20 to 30 arabs were involved in each of three disturbances in hebron, and jewish settlers set one arab car ablaze. soldiers wounded three palestinians in the legs when rioters trapped their jeep, the army said
soldiers surrounded the walled campus of hebron university, where dozens of students barricaded themselves inside for two hours, chanting anti-israeli slogans and waving posters demanding a palestinian state, witnesses said. the students dispersed peacefully
at the beach refugee camp in the gaza strip, soldiers shot and wounded two palestinians, hospital officials said. both were in critical condition with gunshot wounds in the chest and abdomen, said the spokesmen at gaza city's shifa hospital. 7thgraf pvs, bgng: the dole developments</note>
republican bob dole, clobbered by vice president george bush in the super tuesday contests, cut back staff and television advertising but insisted he was ``in this one to win,'' despite polls putting him far behind in the illinois primary race. bush said whatever happened, his campaign would ``go about our business, do our job.''
bush, meanwhile, declared himself ``personally disturbed at the breaches of ethics'' he'd seen in government, and said thursday he would set up a white house ethics panel if elected president
dole pulled television commercials off the air in illinois and laid off more than half his staff thursday. and a source said his campaign advisers discussed whether dole should suspend campaigning before the illinis primary on tuesday
an abc news-washington post poll, published in friday's editions of the post, indicated dole trailed bush in illinois, 58 percent to 31 percent
however, national campaign spokeswoman dale tate said dole intended to remain a candidate. ``we're not pulling the plug on the campaign,'' she said
later, dole aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the possibility of dropping out was discussed, but the kansas senator would keep campaigning at least through tuesday's illinois contest
dole issued a statment thursday night denying he would withdraw. ``bob dole is no dropout,'' he said. ``i'm in this one to win.''
the dole developments came the same day that bush's super tuesday victories claimed another republican _ jack kemp. and democrat gary hart was preparing to quit the democratic race
bush's chief of staff, craig fuller, told reporters traveling with the vice president that on hearing reports about dole, bush's reaction was: ``we'll go about our business, do our job.''
democrat richard gephardt, who ran a poor fourth among democrats on tuesday, said michigan could decide his fate
republican pat robertson, who finished a distant third to bush and sen. bob dole in the super tuesday contests, said, ``strange things happen in politics, so i have no reason to get out.'' however, robertson, campaigning in chicago, said he planned to buy no television ads in illinois, which has its primary next tuesday
he said he expected to pick up a bit of support from conservatives who had backed kemp
bush flew to illinois to press his campaign for the 82 gop delegates at stake in the state's primary. and he quickly took up a new issue, saying he was ``tired of being embarrassed'' by scandals surrounding public officials, though he named no names
democrats michael dukakis, jesse jackson and albert gore jr. also campaigned in illinois for a share of the 173 delegates at stake in their party's primary there
rep. gephardt, d-mo., who is focusing on michigan, was joining the other hopefuls in chicago for a dinner and town meeting thursday night
bush, speaking about what he would do if elected president, promised to create the ethics panel and also to set up a deficit summit with congressional leaders on ``day one'' of his administration
when a congressman goes bad or someone in the executive branch violates the public trust, it hurts,'' bush told a governor's club luncheon at the chicago hilton. ``i'm tired of being embarrassed. i'm tired of seeing our children seeing things that should embarrass us all. people at all levels of government should come to serve, not to profit.''
clearly, i have big plans,'' he told the audience of republican boosters, who sat silently throughout the speech
kemp withdrew from the gop field after a string of third- and fourth-place finishes in the early primaries and caucuses. but the new york congressman hinted that he would be interested in the no. 2 spot on the ticket
obviously you don't make plans to run for vice president,'' kemp said at a capitol hill news conference. but he called the idea ``a very flattering and awesome thought. ... would i think about it? the answer to that is yes.''
kemp refused to endorse any of the remaining republican contenders. ``they're all reagan conservatives,'' he said
the embattled hart, who polled no more than 5 percent of the vote in any of the super tuesday primaries and won no convention delegates, planned to announce his withdrawal from the campaign at a news conference on friday in denver, said sources who spoke on condition of anonymity
the departure would mark the second time the one-time democratic front-runner had quit the 1988 race. hart withdrew last may after questions were raised about his relationship with model donna rice
gephardt, who also faired poorly on super tuesday, issued an ultimatum to his own campaign: michigan or bust
if we don't do well here obviously we aren't going to be able to continue in this race,'' the missouri congressman said before a rally in lansing. ``our real thrust, our real force is going to be in michigan,'' which has its caucus on march 26
the gephardt campaign plans to shore up its forces in michigan with as many as 70 paid staffers, who are scheduled to arrive by next week. in comparison, the campaign has about 20 paid staffers in illinois
gephardt bristled at suggestions that his candidacy would suffer the same fate as kemp's
unlike jack kemp, i have been in the middle of this race from the beginning,'' he said. ``i have a delegate count that is within striking distance of being back in the leadership.''
dole, who failed to capture any super tuesday states from bush, focused on the vice president's chances of winning in november against any of the democratic candidates
my view is it's going to be a very tough, tough race for george bush,'' dole said in chicago. ``he does not attract democrats or independents.''
i would be a much stronger candidate. that's the message we're going to try to make in the next couple of days,'' he said
gore also questioned whether his party's front-runner, massachusetts gov. dukakis, could defeat the republican nominee in november
the people want a president who understands it's necessary to fight for working men and women, not a technocratic manager,'' gore said as he greeted commuters at a downtown chicago mass transit stop. ``for those who want another election blowout and see the democratic party losing 49 of 50 states, vote for mike dukakis.''
jackson, who is expected to do well in illinois, challenged voters in wheaton to continue his super tuesday success
a generation must dare to hope,'' jackson told students at wheaton college. ``super tuesday has come and gone. we were no. 1 or no. 2 in 17 states. lots of gold and silver medals. ... the people responded.''
jackson and dukakis were favored to pick up some of the 12 delegates at stake in alaska, which held caucuses thursday night
soldiers shot and wounded three palestinians today in a pre-dawn riot in the west bank town of hebron that arab reports said began when jewish settlers smashed windshields of arab-owned cars
jewish settlers said they awoke to arab rioters shouting ``god is great'' and ``slaughter the jews.'' fearing the arabs wanted to attack their homes, some settlers said they rushed into the streets and fired warning shots
they (the arabs) ran down near the synagogue. they wanted to enter jewish homes,'' rabbi moshe levinger of hebron told the associated press. ``they carried stones. we responded by throwing stones and firing in the air. it was a two-hour fight.''
the list of american high-technology goods china is allowed to buy will start expanding again because the reagan administration has determined the chinese are not selling silkworm missiles to iran
china also says it wants a commodity the united states is sending to 64 other countries: peace corps volunteers
under an agreement announced wednesday at the conclusion of a three-day visit by chinese foreign minister wu xueqian, the united states will lift a five-month suspension on liberalization of high-tech products china is permitted to buy from american companies
as the reagan administration contemplates new sanctions against panama, the desertion of two prominent panamanians indicates growing discontent with the rule of military strongman manuel antonio noriega
santiago torrijos, nephew of former panamanian leader omar torrijos, abandoned his post as consul general in los angeles and flew to washington to join forces with allies of ousted president eric arturo delvalle. he accused noriega's government of plunging panama into a political crisis
meanwhile, the panamanian embassy made public a copy of a letter by panama's ambassador to mexico, emilia arosemena vallarino, in which she announced her resignation because she was ``in disagreement with political events'' in her country. she had served in mexico for 18 years and was dean of the diplomatic corps there
world experts on children's health are gathered in a french alpine town to review an immunization project that has been saving millions of young lives and to plan ways of helping more
anyone who is anyone in international aid will be at this meeting,'' said dr. ken warren of the rockefeller foundation. ``people want to come because this is a group that is actually doing something and not just talking.''
the three-day meeting in talloires, france, opens today
for a brief moment, president reagan was transported back in time _ hurling a pigskin to a wide receiver at a sentimental celebration of notre dame's knute rockne and his own days as a hollywood star
the gipper'' returned to the notre dame campus wednesday to pay tribute to the late football legend and dedicate a 22-cent stamp issued in honor of the coach's 100th birthday
it was a nostalgic trip into the past for ronald reagan, the one-time actor, sports announcer and college football player who clearly reveled in the crowd's friendly applause
the probe of the collision of two army blackhawk helicopters that killed 17 soldiers has found no link to mechanical problems that have grounded the military's uh-60s in recent years, an investigator says
i would say now there is no indication of any mechanical factor'' in tuesday night's crash, said chief warrant officer joe s. adams, one of three investigators from the army safety center at fort rucker, ala
we are looking at human and environmental factors. the human factors might include some restriction of vision,'' he said wednesday
the first defense witness in gov. evan mecham's impeachment trial contradicted the governor's claim that an alleged death threat should not have been reported to the state police
richard burke, mecham's former chief of staff, told the state senate wednesday he considered it routine for the governor's bodyguards to have reported the alleged threat to their superiors at the department of public safety
during house impeachment hearings in january, mecham insisted that the report to dps superiors violated an unwritten rule against disclosing things that happen in the governor's office
this week austria marks the 50th anniversary of anschluss, its annexation by nazi germany, with soul-searching events likened by some to an exorcism
the disclosure of president kurt waldheim's world war ii service in the german army has coincided with a historical reckoning that forced many austrians to confront the nazi past they have tried for decades to forget
nobody wanted to talk about the past,'' prominent austrian writer gerhard roth said in an interview. ``waldheim forced it. if waldheim hadn't come along, this never would have happened.''
the stock market crash of last october obliterated faith in the usual economic forecasting tools, leaving forecasters thrashing about in the debris
they're still at it, wondering if the economic signals mean what they used to mean. does a red light mean ``stop,'' or could it possibly mean ``go.''
the usual tools and instruments, such as the index of leading economic indicators, proved of little value in foretelling the earthquake in securities markets, and so the question now is whether they can be relied upon at all
immediately after the crash almost every popular forecaster went with his or her emotions and lowered estimates for economic activity. it was a safe bet, they reasoned, because crashes always led to recessions
the recession didn't come, however. impossible to comprehend then, and still hard to believe, so-called consumer confidence appeared not to be as badly damaged as they had thought. people still bought. companies still hired
gradually, the forecasters became brave again. before the end of the year the mass of them had raised their estimates again, not as high as before but enough to push the likelihood of recession further back into 1988
they were on safe ground, because such ``forecasts'' weren't forecasts at all but recognition of what already had occurred. car sales were strong, people continued to take out credit and consumer confidence had resumed rising
by january the evidence was sufficient for most of the breed to stick their necks out and declare that the chances of recession were growing remote. still, they said, it would be a very dull economy in 1988, with little expansion
no sooner had they braved the fates and showed their courage than they were shocked again. having recovered from their own shock, economic historians declared in retrospect that the fourth quarter had been stronger than realized
now, the sturdy crew of forecasters was confronted with a dilemma: if the economy was stronger than had been realized before, perhaps it might be stronger in the future than had been forecast. who could be certain?
indeed, nobody could be certain. what could you believe? if you couldn't believe the measurements of what had occurred in the past you really couldn't understand the present and that left you without a stick to measure the future
in such a predicament it is a wise forecaster who uses both hands, one to point gamely to the future and the other to wave a warning that ``if on the other hand ...'' it was a time for hedging
the hedge was this: the economy would grow, but sluggishly. the consumer would spend, but cautiously. couples would buy homes, but carefully. cars would sell, but slowly. credit would expand, but barely
now the hedge needs clipping
there are signs the economy is expanding smartly, as indicated by a surge in job creation and a jobless rate that fell in february to just 5.7 percent, the lowest since july 1979. the use of credit is strong. car sales rose so sharply in late february that even manufacturers and dealers were surprised
the evidence of economic strength piling up recently makes it necessary for forecasters to forecast more often, just to keep their revisions ahead of the event
meanwhile, deep in the privacy of their own minds, it seems safe to say, there is a gnawing uncertainty among economic forecasters regarding their powers
among the public, it seems just as safe to say, there is conviction rather than uncertainty: they are certain that the forecasters' uncertainty is fully justified
the following are the top record hits and leading popular compact disks as they appear in next week's issue of billboard magazine. copyright 1988, billboard publications, inc. reprinted with permission
hot singles
1.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
2.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
3.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
4.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
5.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
6.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
7.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)
8.``just like paradise'' david lee roth (warner bros
9.``i want her'' keith sweat (vintertainment)
10.``get outta my dreams, get into my car'' billy ocean (jive)
11.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)
12.``rocket 2 u'' the jets (mca)
13.``the dock of the bay'' michael bolton (columbia)
14.``girlfriend'' pebbles (mca)
15.``be still my beating heart'' sting (a&amp;m)
16.``devil inside'' inxs (atlantic)
17.``i found someone'' cher (geffen)
18.``some kind of lover'' jody watley (mca)
19.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
20.``wishing well'' terence trent d'arby (columbia)
top lp's
1.```dirty dancing' soundtrack'' (rca)--platinum (more than 1 million units sold
2.``faith'' george michael (columbia)--platinum
3.``kick'' inxs (atlantic)--platinum
4.``bad'' michael jackson (epic)--platinum
5.``tiffany'' tiffany (mca)--platinum
6.``skyscraper'' david lee roth (warner bros
7.``hysteria'' def leppard (mercury)--platinum
8.``out of the blue'' debbie gibson (atlantic)--platinum
9.``the lonesome jubilee'' john cougar mellencamp (mercury)--platinum
10.``whenever you need somebody'' rick astley (rca)--gold (more than 500,000 units sold
11.```good morning, vietnam' soundtrack'' (a&amp;m)
12.``whitney'' whitney houston (arista)--platinum
13.``nothing like the sun'' sting (a&amp;m)--platinum
14.``blow up your video'' ac-dc (atlantic)
15.``heaven on earth'' belinda carlisle (mca)--platinum
16.``tunnel of love'' bruce springsteen (columbia)--platinum
17.``appetite for destruction'' guns &amp; roses (geffen)--gold
18.``permanent vacation'' aerosmith (geffen)--platinum
19.``cloud nine'' george harrison (dark horse)--platinum
20.``make it last forever'' keith sweat (vintertainment)
country singles
1.``life turned her that way'' ricky van shelton (columbia)
2.``turn it loose'' the judds (rca-curb)
3.``this missin' you heart of mine'' sawyer brown (capitol-curb)
4.``love will find its way to you'' reba mcentire (mca)
5.``touch and go crazy'' lee greenwood (mca)
6.``shouldn't it be easier than this'' charley pride (16th avenue)
7.``i wanna dance with you'' eddie rabbitt (rca)
8.``famous last words of a fool'' george strait (mca)
9.``wilder days'' baillie &amp; the boys (rca)
10.``santa fe'' the bellamy bros. (mca-curb)
11.``i'll always come back'' k.t. oslin (rca)
12.``i didn't'' johnny rodriguez (capitol)
13.``timeless and true love'' the mccarters (warner bros
14.``it's only make believe'' ronnie mcdowell (curb)
15.``it's such a small world'' rodney crowell &amp; roseanne cash (columbia)
16.``too gone too long'' randy travis (warner bros
17.``strangers again'' holly dunn (mtm)
18.``cry, cry, cry'' highway 101 (warner bros
19.``the last resort'' t. graham brown (capitol)
20.``everybody's sweetheart'' vince gill (rca)
adult contemporary singles
1.``never gonna give you up'' rick astley (rca)
2.``endless summer nights'' richard marx (emi-manhattan)
3.``father figure'' george michael (columbia)
4.``she's like the wind'' patrick swayze &amp; wendy fraser (rca)
5.``never die young'' james taylor (columbia)
6.``where do broken hearts go'' whitney houston (arista)
7.``man in the mirror'' michael jackson (epic)
8.``without you'' peabo bryson &amp; regina belle (elektra)
9.``seasons change'' expose (arista)
10.``can't stay away from you'' gloria estefan &amp; miami sound machine (epic)
11.``hungry eyes'' eric carmen (rca)
12.``dreams i dream'' dave mason (with phoebe snow) (mca)
13.``i get weak'' belinda carlisle (mca)
14.``when we was fab'' george harrison (dark horse)
15.``what a wonderful world'' louis armstrong (a&amp;m)
16.``you will know'' stevie wonder (motown)
17.``theme from `l.a. law''' mike post (polydor)
18.``twilight world'' swing out sister (mercury)
19.``the dock of the bay'' michael bolton (columbia)
20.``what have i done to deserve this?'' pet shop boys (emi-manhattan) 
representatives of major u.s. protestant, eastern orthodox and roman catholic bodies have declared their solidarity with 18 organizations effectively silenced by south africa's government for opposing apartheid
officials of the national council of churches, including protestant and eastern orthodox denominations, pledged continued backing of the anti-apartheid efforts, and urged u.s. sanctions against south africa to spur ``peaceful change.''
archbishop john l. may of st. louis, president of the national conference of catholic bishops, called the new repressive measures an ``intolerable affront to the dignity'' of south africans, and voiced support of those working for ``a more just and democratic society.''
gideons international, which has supplied bibles to hotels, hospitals, prisons and schools since 1889, was cited for ``outstanding achievements in scripture distribution'' by the layman's national bible association
the interfaith association, which promotes bible reading, said the gideons have distributed over 400 million bibles in 137 countries. the 93,000-member organization currently places a million bibles every 15 days
presbyterians have ``got to figure out how to respect each other and learn from each other in our differences,'' says the moderator of the presbyterian church (usa)
isabel rogers, who holds the top titular office in the 3-million-member denomination, a merger of southern and norther branches, told a regional meeting:
my yearning is to identify ways to enable people in congrgations to talk to and listen to each other in trust.''
the u.s. supreme court has turned down a two-year-old legal effort to overturn an action by a former southern baptist president that voided a convention vote and helped consolidate power of a fundamentalist wing
the disputed parliamentary procedure occured in 1985 when the rev. charles stanley of atlanta headed the denomination, and a group of opponents have fought it since through district and appeals courts, which held they couldn't interfere in church matters
the supreme court declined to review those lower-court decisions
southern baptist home and foreign mission boards report that contributions to their denomination's program for world hunger relief in 1987 declined for the second year in a row
sums given fell to $8.9 million, a decline of 2.3 percent
the president of the rabbinical council of america says reactions of jewish groups to the riots in israel's occupied territories should be conveyed directly to israel's government and not made in the public media
rabbi milton h. polin, head of the orthodox body, said this applied to ``all expressions of support or criticism of israel.'' he said some advertised ``fringe'' jewish reaction has been ``especially odious.''
the presidential biblical scoreboard magazine, put out by right-wing evangelicals, has issued its 1988 survey ratings, scoring republican contenders from 40 to 95 and democrats from 0 to 15
comparing the candidates on a variety of what were termed family-moral-freedom issues, the magazine said the higher the score the more supportive the candidate is of bible-based issues
among the issues were abortion, abortion funding, capital punishment, school prayer, pornography, homosexuality and national security
the highest mark of 95 was given republican pat robertson, and the highest given a democrat was 15 to albert gore jr. except for paul simon, with a 5 score, the other democrats were marked zero
as he stripped and cleaned the ak-47 assault rifle on his desk, federal judge miguel angel izaguirre said he has good reason to try to stop latin american cocaine from reaching the streets of the united states
in 20 years, the youth that is taking all this cocaine will be running america and influencing latin america _ with the mentality of cokeheads,'' he said. ``north america's influence in this region is tremendous. so we latin americans have to try to ensure that american youth does not take cocaine.''
the 41-year-old izaguirre is the federal judge in this caribbean coastal town. he also is a weapons buff and student of military history
men, like arms, are proven on the field of battle,'' he said in an interview in his cramped and cluttered office that also contained an uzi submachine gun. ``and this is my field of battle.''
he has survived two attempts on his life, he said _ one with an incendiary bomb, the other a machine-gun attack on his home during which he returned fire with his soviet-made ak-47
i love the ak,'' he said. his arsenal of weapons, he explained, is ``to defend myself against the medellin cartel.''
the medellin cartel, named for the city in colombia where it is based, is believed responsible for more than 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the united states
they have tried to bribe me with money, women, airplanes and yachts,'' he said
leaning against the wall were five segments of hollowed out honduran redwood ostensibly intended for assembly into rustic doors. they are evidence from the biggest drug bust in u.s. history _ the confiscation in november of four tons of cocaine by u.s. federal agents in florida. the drug, shipped from the northern honduran coast, was hidden in the hollows
according to our information, the shipment was 8,000 kilos (almost 9 tons). so more than half of it got through,'' he said
u.s. authorities were greatly concerned when, over the past few years, honduras became an increasingly important transshipment point for colombian cocaine
izaguirre has been cited as a key man in joint u.s.-honduran efforts to reduce the flow
the judge said honduras, with its long and relatively unguarded coast and scores of clandestine air strips, provided the ideal midpoint for northbound shipments
when i came here in june 1987, i found a series of cases, all of which were being dismissed for lack of evidence. ... other judges had certain fears, some got sick, some left,'' he said. but within two months, he had handed down the first conviction and prison term for cocaine trafficking in honduran judicial history
he has convicted 10 others on drug charges, and has nearly three dozen suspected traffickers in jail awaiting judgment. two major traffickers based here, the colombian luis guerrero and the cuban-american rafael gonzalez, were extradited to the united states after being arraigned by izaguirre. they are both serving terms in u.s. prisons
izaguirre said he has given the maximum penalty under honduran law to all the drug traffickers he has convicted _ five years in prison and a 5,000 lempira ($2,500) fine. he complains, however, that the law is too lenient and would like to see penalties increased. he said the law provides the same penalties for cocaine trafficking as it does for marijuana trafficking
the judge _ divorced four times and the father of five children _ carries his weapons with him wherever he goes
if it befalls me to die in this post, then i'll die, without the slightest fear,'' he said
he keeps a .357 magnun revolver on his desk within easy reach
the judge insists he has no political ambitions, but maintains contact with a number of the country's political leaders
i tell them it is imperative that we verify the origin of the parties' funds. because if we don't, we're running the grave risk that the traffickers get their people elected to congress. then they reform the constitution in their favor, they gut the anti-narcotics law; they destroy us.''
though u.s. authorities have expressed concern that drug money has corrupted some officers in honduras' armed forces, izaguirre said the cooperation given him by the military has been ``total.''
he said his interest in the military began when he was 12 years old, with the reading of karl von clausewitz, the 19th century prussian general and writer of military strategy
i was two centimeters (about an inch) too short to get into the military academy,'' he said. ``but if i had, i'm sure i would have made general.''
in hopes of making greeks more familiar with their ancestors' ideas, the education minister has ordered high school students to start taking daily classes in ancient greek in september
the decision by education minister antonis tritsis was reached after months of public debate by scholars and educators, but some teachers claim the language used by homer, plato and the great greek dramatists might confuse young students and be too hard for them to learn
ancient greek ideas should have a living medium in the world today,'' tritsis said in an interview, ``and i think that living medium is the greek people who continue to speak the same language as the ancient greeks.''
he added that high school students 13 to 18 years old will be the first to take compulsory ancient greek, but that eventually 6-year-olds will start learning the language through word-games
we want every young greek to be directly familiar with the great wealth of his ancestors and those ancient greek works that have influenced the world,'' said tritsis, an american-trained architect
european literature began with homer's poems about the legendary greek heroes of the trojan war, the ``iliad'' and the ``odyssey.''
plays by aeschylus, sophocles and euripides in the 5th century b.c. are studied and performed in translation all over the world. plato's philosophic dialogues and thucydides' histories contain ideas that shaped western thinking for centuries
although greek classical scholars and university professors say they welcome tritsis' project, schoolteachers protest that ancient greek is too difficult for all but the most talented linguists
while ancient greek shares an alphabet and a wide range of vocabulary with the present-day language, its grammar and structure are much more complex
it is a fallacy that ancient greek can be easily grasped by every schoolchild,'' christos doukas, who heads the athens-based high school teachers' union, said in an interview
but tritsis said greek is a very conservative language. he indicated it would be much less difficult for greek students to learn ancient greek than it would be for american high school students to learn old english, which was spoken in england from around 400 to 1100 a.d., or even the english of chaucer and shakespeare
the difference in language between shakespeare's english and modern english or chaucer and modern english is greater than that between homer and heroditus and the greek spoken today,'' he said. ``despite changes in forms ... the vast amount of words and expressions are the very same language we use today.''
junior high students now study ancient greek literature during four 45-minute classes a week. but they read texts that have been translated into modern greek
tritsis wants students to begin reading the texts in ancient greek
high school students take a two-year basic course in ancient greek and read some of the original literature. however, they are not examined on the ancient greek texts. tritsis wants those studies continued at a higher level entirely in the original greek
the students will continue their usual studies of modern greek and their two classes a week of either french or english
the teachers, however, argue that language lessons should focus on modern greek, which a difficult language to master but still easier than ancient greek
learning ancient greek from original texts will only confuse schoolchildren,'' said doukas of the teachers union. ``instead we should all spend more time and energy concentrating on the greek we speak today, itself a rich and expressive language.''
in a major reform of the greek school system in 1976, compulsory ancient greek was dropped from the state high school curriculum as a ``dead'' language, irrelevant to modern educational needs
now 15- and 16-year-old students intending to go to university usually take a two-year basic course in ancient greek, but scholars say that isn't enough to keep the heritage alive
ancient greek has to be introduced at a much earlier stage in a child's education, when it helps to develop his imagination, judgment and memory,'' said constantine trypanis, a former culture minister and retired oxford university professor of byzantine and modern greek studies
the study of ancient greek language and literature in the original is of cardinal importance if that tradition of culture is to survive.''
economics and the irs may be undoing an idea hailed as a possible antidote to rising college costs: tuition prepayment plans
when duquesne university in pittsburgh pioneered such a plan in 1985, it seemed a natural. at a time of soaring tuitions, families could buy higher education ``futures'' contracts. the idea was that parents would pay a lump sum _ less if their child was young, more if older _ and investments by the college would swell those funds to cover tuition costs down the road
at duquesne, for example, the family of a 1-year-old eligible for college in the year 2005 could have paid a lump sum of $8,630 last fall to cover the projected four-year tuition of $102,604. but a family of a 12-year-old hoping to enroll at duquesne in 1994 would have had to put up $19,410 to cover the projected four-year tuition of $48,747
so far so good. parents purchase peace of mind at a discount, knowing the plan guarantees four years of college as long as their child is accepted. the school, in turn, gets a virtual lock on a future student, hedging against future enrollment declines
but it hasn't worked smoothly for duquesne or the several other colleges that followed its example, nor for the five states that have adopted tuition futures plans for public colleges since 1985
duquesne announced last week it was recommending suspension of its program because of higher-than-expected tuition increases and lower-than-anticipated earnings on investments. the board of directors is scheduled to make a final decision march 17
similar programs at the university of detroit and canisius college in buffalo, n.y., are likewise at a standstill and not taking new applicants
three of the five states that enacted tuition futures plans for public colleges _ tennessee, indiana and michigan _ are in limbo because the internal revenue service has yet to rule on the tax status of investment earnings from those plans
wilson fadely, an irs spokesman in washington, refused to comment on when such a ruling might be handed down
people contact me and say they are interested,'' said lawrence a. jegen, chairman of the board setting up indiana's program. ``they have a thirst for a regimented investment program so they know that if they put their money on the table, their children's or grandchildren's tuition will be guaranteed.''
but jergen said the plan might not be operating july 1 as originally hoped because of difficulties in predicting future tuition levels and because of the pending irs ruling
a state-sponsored program that began last august at the university of wyoming is going strong and has signed up 332 future students. florida officials say they hope to start accepting applicants next fall
michigan officials remain confident they will eventually get their program off the ground despite the questions raised by duquesne, and despite the fact that state law forbids them from accepting a single student until the irs rules
we'll have no problem at all paying for the program out of public investments,'' said richard cole, higher education adviser to gov. james blanchard
duquesne's heart was in the right place, but it appears their financial brains were in the wrong place,'' said michigan treasurer robert bowman. ``they couldn't even gauge their own tuition.''
but prepayment programs have been controversial from the start. a number of colleges _ fairleigh dickinson university in new jersey, for one _ considered and rejected the idea because of the built-in risks and unpredictability
keith briscoe, president of buena vista college in storm lake, iowa, called the idea a ``gimmick'' that ``overlooks students' best interests'' because it deprives them of the chance to select a school freely
the national association of independent colleges and universities, which represents about 1,000 private institutions, has likewise criticized them as inflexible
even backers concede they are a high-risk gamble for both parents and schools
a state or college offering the plan must accurately predict future tuition and investment trends for years ahead _ or risk losing money honoring its tuition guarantees
parents, for their part, are gambling that their child will want to attend a given college, and will qualify for admission. if for any reaon the child doesn't attend the school in the prepayment plan, refunds are often limited to the amount parents actually paid in. that means parents stand to lose tens of thousands of dollars in investment income
what happened at duquesne was exactly what so many states and private colleges had feared all along: bond markets weakened last year and undercut the plan's investment income. tuitions went up more than anticipated: by 7.95 percent instead of the predicted 6 percent
the result was that the 622 alumni families who had signed up found themselves with a far more generous bargain than duquesne ever intended, or could afford
duquesne may be unique, or it may be the likely outcome for many of these programs. there's just not enough history to determine the real viability of programs like this,'' said ron gambill, executive director of the tennessee student assistance corp., the agency that will administer that state's program once the irs rules
some, like richard anderson, director of the federally funded forum for college financing at columbia teachers college, believe duquesne's program must have been, ``first and last, a marketing tool,'' a premeditated financial giveaway aimed at attracting future students
it's true we wanted to offer a program that was going to be attractive,'' said duquesne spokeswoman ann rago. ``however, the changes in the economy were drastic. we never said our program was forever. we started our program to help people, specifically alumni families. it was not just a marketing a tool.''
if this had been another issue, liberal sen. howard metzenbaum and conservative sen. james mcclure might have quietly hammered out differences between their rival bills to make certain that plastic pistols can't get through airport metal detectors
but history has taught that a gun control engagement is never fought with silencers, even in rare instances like this one, when rival sponsors have identical goals: stopping terrorists, especially at airports
so once again, bitter enemies of past gun control struggles are following the usual rules of engagement _ high-powered lobbying, full-page advertisements, fund-raising appeals and doomsday rhetoric
sparking the latest debate is a weapon not even on the market. red eye arms of winter park, fla. says it has a patent for plastic weapons, but won't start making handguns for at least two years _ and then only for military and police use
we would never allow anyone to build an undetectable civilian handgun,'' said company vice president dwight brunoehler
metzenbaum, d-ohio, and mcclure, r-idaho, have vastly different approaches to require that the guns be made detectable. both would ban manufacture or importation of any guns that did not meet their standards
metzenbaum's bill would require a minimum weight of metal to ensure that an alarm would be triggered at today's magnetometer settings. its target is not only future plastic guns, but pint-size metal pistols that are not detected today
the federal bureau of alcohol, tobacco and firearms estimates there are three small metal guns that could get through most magnetometers now used. the gun owners' lobby estimates there are countless other models
mcclure's legislation targets plastic guns only, and has no minimum metallic requirement. however, it would require that guns be detectable, by either including some metal, a serial number engraved or stamped on metal, or a substance detectable by x-ray machines used for luggage
using today's technology, mcclure's bill would require more sensitive magnetometer settings, more alarms, and therefore more airport passenger inconvenience _ some say gridlock
brunoehler, of red eye arms, says his firm has developed a computer chip for plastic guns that would make the lower settings unnecessary. the chip would emit a signal that would make it appear that an enormous amount of metal was passing through the machine, he said
federal aviation administration spokesman fred farrar said the faa is aware of the chip, but believes it could be disabled by drilling a hole in it or even placing the weapon in a microwave oven
while these are the technical points for debate, a congressional gun fight often ranges far beyond the issues at hand and this one is no exception
the principal gun owner's lobby, the national rifle association, told its 2.8 million members in a fund-raising letter last year that metzenbaum's real goal is ``the first federal gun ban bill in america.''
if sen. metzenbaum's bill passes, the next thing will be some government official knocking at your door to weigh your guns for inspection,'' said the nra, which backs the mcclure bill
to handgun control inc., the most visible lobby for pistol regulation, the issue is what the group calls the nra's extremism. ``cop-killer bullets, mail-order handguns, machine guns...has the nra gone off the deep end?'' says hci ads, which have different police chiefs using those same words
handgun control supports metzenbaum. so do a dozen law enforcement organizations
both sides are simply waving flags so believers will send money to handgun control inc. and to the national rifle association,'' says john aquilino, a former nra official who now publishes his own gun owners' newsletter. ``they're making advertising agencies very wealthy. it's flag-waving and fund-raising.''
the latest battle reflects new political realities that surfaced in 1986. then, the major law enforcement organizations joined forces with handgun control advocates to fight nra-backed legislation to ease many restrictions of the 1968 gun control act
the presence of uniformed policemen lobbying their local lawmakers began to neutralize some of the nra's seemingly invincible clout
nonetheless, the gun lobby attained many of its goals two years ago with passage of the mcclure-volkmer act, which changed a number of provisions of the 1968 law. but the invigorated gun control-police alliance was able to retain, as part of that fight, a ban on interstate sales of handguns
now, the same coalition of police and gun control advocates is back on the detectability question. but jerald r. vaughn, executive director of the international association of chiefs of police, says of his fellow police lobbyists, ``we're still babes in the woods when it comes to the political process.''
yet, the nra has taken an unusual turn by backing mcclure's bill. the group normally opposes any legislation that could bring more restrictions on firearms
only last may, nra governmental affairs director james jay baker told a house panel, ``the nra believes that the only workable approach'' to the detection problem is better security at airports
he said ``attempts to dictate metallic content of firearms or chemical composition of non-metallic components of firearms'' were unnecessary
their position from day one has been, there shall never be any law on guns,'' said n.t. ``pete'' shields, chairman of handgun control inc
all of a sudden this issue of plastic handguns has made them compromise this whole concept. i think they have come a long way, but i think they're trying to address it with smoke. mcclure's bill is impractical. you would bottle up the airport.''
baker said in an interview, ``the nra has moved a long way on this issue. we decided to take the bull by the horns and deal with the terms as framed by the other side. if they're interested in detectability, it can be done with no interference with existing firearms.''
metzenbaum's most prominent senate ally is strom thurmond, a conservative south carolina republican and ranking republican on the judiciary committee. metzenbaum and thurmond tried to win passage of their legislation last december, but it was tabled by a 47-42 vote
metzenbaum, in an interview, called mcclure's bill ``purely cosmetic.''
mcclure, also in an interview, said he rejects any arbitrary metallic standard, and called any potential inconvenience ``part of the price you pay for having secure airports.''
the lincoln town car, long a best-seller at ford motor co.'s lincoln-mercury division, continues to confound the skeptics
the body style, originally introduced as the 1980 lincoln continental town car has had a stronger increase in sales since 1983 than have european luxury cars, according to a ford analyst
after test-driving the 1988 signature series town car, i can see why
the auto, a big, heavy monster still with the basic design it had in the late 1970s, practically drove itself (although critics might note that for a price of nearly $28,000 the car should do a lot of things)
i didn't have to remember to turn on the headlights. they did that themselves, sensing when outside light was low, thanks to an auto lamp on-off system
the headlights also switched from low to high beams automatically and turned themselves off when the ignition was turned off. i didn't have to remember to lock the doors before i drove off
the car has an automatic system that locks them once ignition is on, all doors are closed, the transmission is shifted through reverse and someone is in the driver seat
i didn't even have to remember to switch the rearview mirror to ward off headlight glare from other vehicles. the test car had the optional (for $89) automatic dim day-night mirror that flipped to protect driver eyes from glare every time a vehicle approached the rear. it flipped back to normal when no vehicle was close behind
so, all i had to do was get inside, start up the car, shift and step on the gas pedal. away i went, along with 4,100 pounds of sheer automotive force
if you want that size of car and that configuration (rear drive, big weight, luxury domestic), there aren't many choices _ probably the town car or a cadillac, said ford analyst ray windecker. sales of town cars have increased 90 percent since 1983, while sales of all cadillac models have fallen 8 percent
european luxury car sales also haven't risen as fast as they have for town cars, he said, citing a 39 percent boost at mercedes-benz and 62 percent at bmw. overall, the u.s. luxury car market is up 35 percent from 1983, he added
town car sales in the 1987 model year totaled 136,085, up from 119,180 in the 1986 model year, windecker said
the plant producing the big cars has been on overtime nearly every day. the demand is that great, he said
however, he added sales likely will decline a bit in the current model year because the plant is building a newly designed lincoln continental and work on those models is expected to curtail some town car production
town car buyers are older, with median age of 60. (actually, 53 percent are over age 60.) forty percent of buyers are retired, and median income is $58,000 a year, ford said. thirty-eight percent are at least college grads
besides appreciating the many automatic features on the town car, those buyers can enjoy standard, heated outside side mirrors and lighted thermometer that tells the outside temperature. there's an expansive interior _ no complaints about a cramped back seat here _ and carpet is 30-ounce cut pile
also part of the 219-inch-long vehicle is a trunk that is huge, even with a full-sized spare tire inside. the hood, where the mighty 5-liter, electronic fuel-injected v-8 resides, juts out front so far i nearly hit the back of another car at a stop sign before i realized i wasn't in one of those down sized vehicles with little hoods i'm used to
i did find the interior cloth upholstery (navy in the test car) showed some spills, and i couldn't slide in the seat. rather, i had to lift myself and settle in
with so much weight and such a big engine coupled with automatic transmission, fuel economy suffers, with only 17 mpg listed for city driving. a fill up can be costly _ one gas station visit left me $20 poorer
and, the car had a somewhat mushy suspension
consumer reports said buyer surveys showed 1983-85 town cars ranked better than average in its trouble index and average in the 1986 model year, the last year available
the town car continues to show what a big american car can be and likely will be for the foreseeable future
despite talk that it's just a matter of time before large, rear-drive american cars disappear from showrooms, a ford official says the company plans on keeping the popular town car around for some time
ann job has covered the auto industry for the associated press, the detroit free press and the detroit news, where she is now assistant news editor

base price $26,179
as tested $27,732

type: front-engine, rear-drive, 6-passenger, large luxury sedan
engine: 5-liter, electronic fuel-injected v-8
mileage: 17 mpg (city) 24 mpg (highway)
top speed: not available
length: 219 inches
wheelbase: 117.3 inches
curb wt: 4,093 pounds
assembled by: ford, wixom, mich
options on test car: traction-lok axle ($101); white-sidewall tires ($200); leather-wrapped steering wheel ($115); automatic dim day-night mirror ($89); body side protection molding ($70); ford jbl audio system ($454)

delivery charge: $524
on the fringes of the multi-ethnic empire that the communists seized from the czars, minorities emboldened by mikhail s. gorbachev's reforms are clamoring for a greater say in their future and challenging the dictates of moscow
in recent weeks, armenians by the tens of thousands have marched in the streets, estonians have massed at a monument in their capital and police have locked lithuanian activists in their homes to keep them from marking the brief period lithuania was an independent country
in the most dramatic incident, some members of two neighboring nationalities in the southern caucasus republics have directed their hostility not at moscow, but at each other
a rancorous territorial dispute has caused bloodshed, injuries and deaths involving the armenians and neighboring azeris, and some fearful azeris, natives of the azerbaijan republic, have fled their homes
the violence, and the palpable swelling of nationalist feelings on the soviet periphery, pose one of the greatest problems yet for general secretary gorbachev's kremlin, which is trying to enact nationwide standards of discipline and efficiency, but also to decentralize economic control
events have also poignantly shown how much the soviet union, far from being an ethnic melting pot, is still the uneasy conglomeration of disparate peoples that was dubbed by one disapproving 19th-century visitor to russia, adolphe de custine, as ``a prison of nations.''
in the 70 years of soviet power, the moscow-based communist party and government have viciously fought centrifugal forces they feared might split the country into its ethnic components, and the current party program adopted in 1986 under gorbachev speaks of a ``single soviet people.''
but the soviet union extends from central europe to the far east and is peopled by more than 100 ethnic strains and speaking 120 different languages or dialects. they range from the dominant russians, who make up more than 40 percent of the population of 284.5 million, to the aleuts, a far northern tribe with fewer than 500 members
gorbachev has called the formulation of a comprehensive policy to ensure national unity while granting each ethnic group its own cultural and linguistic rights ``the most vital, fundamental issue of our society.''
the unique feature of our culture is that it is multi-ethnic,'' gorbachev said in february. ``nationalism in any form is blind. attempts at self-isolation lead down a spiritual blind alley.''
underlining the importance of working out a new policy on nationalities, gorbachev said the central committee, the communist party's policy-making body, would hold a special plenary session to discuss the matter
the day gorbachev made those remarks, feb. 18, demonstrations began in yerevan, the armenian capital, to protest the central committee's refusal to permit the joining of the nagorno-karabakh region, part of azerbaijan since 1923 despite its largely armenian population, to armenia itself
the protests swelled, with some witnesses claiming that more than 1 million people had taken to yerevan's streets. whatever the size, the rallies were the largest unsanctioned gatherings in soviet history
some in the crowd proclaimed that the future of the contested region that is smaller than the state of delaware will demonstrate how gorbachev's entire national reform program is to proceed
karabakh is a test of perestroika (gorbachev's reforms),'' declared some of the banners carried by chanting and singing armenians
although in theory and under the 1977 constitution, all of the country's nationalities are equal, the russians and their slavic cousins, the ukrainians and byelorussians, have a firm hold on the actual levers of power
the ruling politburo shows clearly the extent of slavic domination. a dozen of its members, including gorbachev, are slavs, while only one is not _ foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze, a georgian
despite official rhetoric lauding the equality of nations, russian pre-eminence is even enshrined in the soviet national anthem, whose first stanza begins: ``an unbreakable union of free republics has been forged forever by great russia.''
the 15 constituent soviet republics have been tightly controlled by moscow over the years, but gorbachev's drive for greater citizen participation, plus his campaign for ``glasnost,'' or openness, have stirred both hopes and doubts about how far moscow will allow ethnic minorities to go
at the same time, gorbachev has ignored the penchant of his predecessor, leonid i. brezhnev, to let local elites run the economic and social affairs of their republics, providing they adhered to the dictates of moscow
it was the replacement by gorbachev of kazakhstan's ethnic kazakh party chief by a russian that sparked two days of rioting in the central asian city of alma ata on dec. 17-18, 1986, in which two people were killed and 200 injured
the recent outbursts involving armenians and azeris may strengthen the hand of kremlin conservatives who think gorbachev's reforms undermine the traditional submission of distant nationalities to the central russian power structure
the more candid exploration of the legacy of dictator josef v. stalin promoted by orbachev has also brought calls from baltic activists to extend glasnost to cover the forced incorporation of latvia, lithuania and estonia into the soviet union in 1940
we want to raise the consciousness of people so they remember they have the right to be free,'' said the lithuanian activist jadvyga beliauskiene last month as police prevented activists from publicly marking the 70th anniversary feb. 17 of lithuania's declaration of independence
a group of estonians gathered in tallinn on feb. 26, the 70th anniversary of estonia's declaration of independence from soviet russia. dissident sources in moscow said 2,500 to 3,000 people attended, and official media confirmed the rally took place
the contested region in azerbaijan shows in microcosm the problems faced by the kremlin on a national scale in formulating a nationalities policy that takes all pieces of the country's human mosaic into account
the small region is more than three-quarters armenian, but has residents of 48 other groups
soviet nationality groups recently in the news:
russians _ 137.4 million, slavic, spread throughout the country but native to the european region west of the ural mountains. russian is the mother tongue of 99.9 percent of the russian nationality
kazakhs _ 6.6 million, central asian, former nomadic tribes that settled in the area that now forms kazakhstan. kazakh is spoken by 97.5 percent of the population and 52 percent of kazakhs also claim fluency in russian
azeris _ 5.5 million, also known as azerbaijanis, turkish, native to the area west of the caspian sea and concentrated in the azerbaijan republic. azeri is spoken by 98 percent, and 29.5 percent speak russian
armenians _ 4.2 million, turkish, native to the region between the caucasus mountains and turkey. armenian is spoken by 91 percent, and russian by 39 percent
lithuanians _ 2.9 million, baltic, native to the region northeast of poland and along the baltic sea. lithuanian is spoken by 98 percent, russian by 52 percent
latvians _ 1.4 million, baltic, native to the northwestern area of the country along the baltic sea. latvian is spoken by 95 percent and russian by 57 percent
estonians _ 1 million, baltic, native to the northwest region along the baltic coast. estonian is spoken by 95 percent, and russian by 24 percent
housing construction plunged 14 percent in 1987 from the previous year as rising interest rates and high apartment vacancies took their toll on the industry, a new survey says
the report by the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co. said wednesday that only three of the nation's top 10 metropolitan areas _ washington, d.c., detroit and philadelphia _ showed any pickup in construction activity last year
treasury secretary james a. baker iii says the federal reserve should be independent, but the central bank does not have to be ``totally sheltered from outside advice or criticism.''
baker defended the reagan administration wednesday against charges that it tried to pressure the central bank for easy money to avoid an election-year recession
baker testified before the joint economic committee of congress
deposits are up at savings institutions and mortgage rates are down, the government says
the federal home loan bank board said wednesday that net new deposits increased at the nation's 3,135 federally insured s&amp;ls in january for the fourth consecutive month
the bank board said mortgage rates dropped by nearly half a percentage point in early february when compared with early january
effective rates on typical 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages for single-family homes dropped from 10.97 percent in early january to 10.5 percent in early february
the united states will liberalize the sale of high technology to china and china has agreed in principle to accept peace corps volunteers
the reagan administration announced wednesday it lifted a five-month suspension on high-tech transfers after the chinese said they were not sending silkworm anti-ship missiles to iran
details of the peace corps plan are yet to be resolved
the nation's industrial heartland will prosper in the next few years, but lagging population growth threatens the region's political clout and share of federal programs, a public policy group says
the loss of jobs from the region was another point of weakness in the 18 northern states stretching from minnesota to new england, the northeast-midwest institute said wednesday in its study, ``the state of the region.''
vice chairman manuel h. johnson of the federal reserve board told congressmen he opposes their plan for an international body to lift some of the debt burden from third world countries
johnson said he prefers free-market solutions, such as mexico's effort to exchange old debt for new bonds. some observers have called the results of mexico's program disappointing
johnson spoke wednesday before subcommittees of the house banking committee
united artists communications inc. and united cable television corp. have announced a merger agreement that would produce a concern ranking among the nation's biggest cable companies
the companies declined to estimate the value of the cash-and-stock deal wednesday, but one analyst said the new company was being capitalized at about $3.8 billion
the product of the two denver-based companies is to be called united artists entertainment co
usg corp., a leading producer of building materials, has urged stockholders to reject a $1.9 billion hostile acquisition offer from a partnership led by two texas oilmen
usg chairman robert j. day said wednesday in a letter to stockholders that desert partners lp's unsolicited $42-a-share tender offer for their shares was ``wholly inadequate'' and ``coercive.''
day also questioned the value of junk bonds and warrants comprising a portion of desert partners' offer
desert partners in turn told usg to stop attempting to block the buyout offer
chrysler corp. and the united auto workers union could be meeting over a bargaining table as soon as next month if 140 local union leaders meeting here today agree to a request for early contract talks
local union leaders said wednesday they favor early talks and uaw vice president marc stepp has said ``the earlier the better.'' however, it is unclear if chrysler will agree to union demands to set an early strike deadline
texaco inc. has asked a federal bankruptcy judge to authorize a credit agreement allowing the company to borrow up to $3 billion to finance its chapter 11 reorganization plan
texaco sought protection from creditors under chapter 11 last year to avoid liens stemming from a $10.3 billion award granted rival pennzoil, after a texas jury found texaco illegally had derailed pennzoil's takeover of getty oil co
women business students are more eager for leadership positions than they were in the 1970s and men are more likely to accept the change, a wharton school study concludes
the improvement in relations between the sexes is dramatic,'' wharton professor ross a. webber wrote for the latest issue of human resources management journal of the university of michigan business school
clearly significant social change has occurred during the 10 years separating the two investigations,'' webber said
the stock market's recent rally bogged down wednesday. the dow jones average of 30 industrial stockss fell 6.80 points to 2,074.27
bond prices were little changed
the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies. gold prices also were higher
copper futures prices settled at the highest levels in three weeks wednesday on indications of tightening supplies and rising demand
rising interest rates and plentiful apartment vacancies contributed to a 14 percent decline in new housing starts last year, according to a report by a private business information concern
the report wednesday by the f.w. dodge division of mcgraw-hill information systems co. said only three of the nation's top 10 metropolitan areas _ washington, d.c., detroit and philadelphia _ showed any pickup in construction activity last year
high vacancy rates and high mortgage rates took a heavy toll of apartment and one-family building alike last year,'' said george a. christie, chief economist for f.w. dodge
in other news, the stock market's recent rally bogged down wednesday as blue chips gave up some of their gains from the day before. the dow jones average of 30 industrial stocks, up 24.70 points on tuesday, dropped back 6.80 to 2,074.27
nevertheless, advancing issues outnumbered decliners by about 4 to 3 on the new york stock exchange
confidence has continued to spread lately on wall street that the economy remains healthy nearly five months after black monday on oct. 19
in addition, stock prices have been less volatile lately than they were as recently as early january, suggesting that investors' mood is less subject to sudden change
analysts say investing institutions have grown more eager to put some of their cash reserves into stocks, in order to show in their first-quarter reports to clients that they participated in the recent market rally
bond prices finished little changed. the yield on the treasury's bellwether 30-year issue slipped to 8.51 percent from 8.52 percent
the dollar rose slightly against major currencies late in the day as world markets remained transfixed by the surging british pound, analysts said. gold prices were also higher
crude oil prices edged upward and refined products ended mixed. market analysts said there were few developments to influence trading
crude oil futures have crept higher in lackluster markets in the absence of any major influential developments
on the new york mercantile exchange, contracts for april delivery of west texas intermediate, the benchmark u.s. crude, settled at $15.49 per barrel on wednesday, up 4 cents from tuesday's close
refined products traded on the exchange were mixed
wholesale heating oil slipped .46 cent to 43.03 cents a gallon. some analysts attributed the decline in heating oil to milder weather, which reduces demand
but an expected increase in demand for gasoline was credited for a 0.29 cent rise, to 44.00 cents, in the april contract for wholesale unleaded gas. analysts said distributors have been carrying low inventories, and demand is expected to pick up with the imminent arrival of the spring and summer driving seasons
crude oil trading was stalled by conflicting reports about saudi arabia's support for a meeting of the opec pricing committee, said john azarow, senior trader for shearson lehman hutton inc
some members of the organization of petroleum exporting countries have called for a meeting of the committee because the price of opec oil has slipped to between $13 and $14 a barrel. at their last meeting in december, opec oil ministers reaffirmed their intention to maintain prices at $18 a barrel
prices on world markets have fallen because of moderate demand for oil, price discounting by opec members and an increase in output by non-opec producers
new york clothing designer alexander julian plans a return to his native tar heel state this summer with a new men's clothing store that he hopes will be the beginning of a national chain
julian, who also is designing uniforms for the charlotte hornets, a new national basketball association entry, will open a retail store here in july, said a spokesman for the designer
as a native north carolinian, alexander has a great affinity for the state,'' barry miguel, creative director for alexander julian inc. of new york, said in a recent telephone interview. ``at the same time, he feels charlotte is a growing city and a growing marketplace.''
julian was not available for an interview
the new stores will sell an upscale line of clothing and accessories called the alexander julian collection
we've expanded our men's collection,'' miguel said. ``we have more sportswear now than previously.''
julian, the 39-year-old son of a chapel hill haberdasher, is considered one of the nation's top clothing designers. although he resides just outside new york, in greenwich, conn., he makes no secret of his love for his native state
julian also shares the state's passion for basketball. that's why hornets owner george shinn approached julian last year about designing uniforms for the expansion team, which will begin play in the 1988-89 nba season
i felt like i wanted to lead the league in something the first year,'' shinn said at the time. ``i felt that being best dressed was the way to go.''
for his design work on the basketball team's uniforms, julian is being paid 10 pounds of north carolina barbecue, delivered once a month to his office on new york's east side office
julian's company is readying its 3,200-square-foot prototype store for the july opening, said company president, marty staff. the store's interior will be designed by walker &amp; associates of new york, which has done design work for bloomingdale's and calvin klein shops
a second store will open in late summer in atlanta, followed by another in the northeast corridor, miguel said
we hope to have 30 to 40 stores in the next five years,'' he said
cluett peabody &amp; co. will continue to produce the colours by alexander julian line for men and levi strauss &amp; co. will still make the colours by alexander julian for women, staff said
julian, who is chairman and part-owner of the new company, plans to visit the charlotte store frequently, miguel said. several venture capital firms also own stock in the company, including harvard management co. and new enterprises associates of san francisco, he said
campeau corp. is renewing its attempt to block federated department stores inc.'s ``poison pill'' takeover defense, contending the plan wrongly denies federated shareholders the chance to choose between rival buyout offers
campeau, which is competing with r.h. macy &amp; co. inc. to acquire federated, filed a brief tuesday in federal court to revive its request for an injunction against the plan
the toronto-based company called the rights plan a ``show stopper'' that would block campeau's $6.18 billion offer for federated
the plan makes a hostile takeover attempt more expensive by allowing federated shareholders to buy more of the company's stock at a heavy discount
campeau suspended its attack on the poison pill after the company appeared to be close to an acquisition agreement with federated in late february. however, when the federated board met to consider accepting campeau's offer on feb. 29, it also began reviewing the macy bid
macy, which last week signed a $6.1 billion definitive buyout agreement with federated, on tuesday began a tender offer for federated's common stock. under the offer, macy will pay $74.50 per share in cash for approximately 80 percent of federated's stock. macy plans to swap shares in a new company, macy's-federated inc., for the remaining 20 percent of federated's shares
analysts have valued the macy bid at $6.1 billion
campeau is offering $75 in cash per share for 80 percent of federated's stock and $44 in cash per share for the remaining 20 percent. the campeau bid, which has an aggregate value of $68 per share, totals $6.18 billion
macy also went to federal court tuesday, seeking an injunction against the campeau bid. macy contended the campeau offer, which was amended from an earlier $68-a-share outright cash bid, actually was a new offer and under federal law must remain open past its march 15 scheduled expiration
if the macy request is granted it effectively would put the campeau offer on a more equal footing with the macy bid, which is scheduled to expire april 4, by reducing pressure on federated shareholders to make a choice
under federal law, a new offer would have to remain open for at least 20 business days after publication or submission to stockholders
campeau's bid was announced march 2. if it is considered a new offer, it could not legally expire on march 15 as scheduled
federated, the nation's fifth-largest retailer, owns department stores including bloomingdale's, lazarus, rich's, abraham &amp; straus, bullock's and burdine's
macy holdings include nearly 100 department and specialty stores and campeau, a real estate developer, owns allied stores corp
united artists communications inc. and united cable television corp. have agreed to combine their operations into a $3.8 billion concern that would rank as one of nation's biggest cable companies
the transaction, disclosed wednesday and approved by the directors of both denver-based companies, would create united artists entertainment co., which would have interests in both cable television and motion picture theaters
the two companies had agreed on an all-stock merger shortly before the october stock market crash, but canceled the deal soon after, citing disagreement over the terms and uncertain market conditions
they announced in january that they had resumed their discussions
the new deal is subject to approval of the companies' shareholders and federal regulators and favorable tax rulings, among other conditions, the companies said. they said they hoped to complete the deal later this year
in trading on the new york stock exchange, united cable rose $2.87{ a share to $32.62{. in over-the-counter trading, united artists rose $2.25 a share to $29.75
the new company would have about 2.3 million cable subscribers by the end of the year, said stewart d. blair, chairman and chief executive of united artists
that would place the new concern behind only the two industry leaders in terms of subscribers, tele-communications inc. and american television and communications inc., according to paul kagan associates, a media research and investment concern in carmel, calif
tele-communications, which also is based in denver, currently owns 65 percent of united artists and 23.7 percent of united cable. its stake in the new company would be about 52 percent, the announcement said
under the new agreement, united artists' stockholders would receive one share of the new company for every share they currently own of united artists. united cable shareholders would be eligible to convert each of their shares into either $35 in cash or a share of stock in the new company and the separable right to sell a share of the new company's stock under special terms
the cash portion of the offer would be available on up to 49 percent of united cable's 46.4 million fully diluted shares
william j. elsner, senior vice president and chief financial officer at united cable, said the october agreement had been criticized for failing to include a cash alternative
sharon armbrust, a senior analyst for paul kagan associates, estimated the new company was being capitalized at about $3.8 billion
that figure includes $2.4 billion in stock, $600 million in existing debt and $800 million in new borrowing needed for the cash portion of the deal
blair would be chief executive and vice chairman of the new company. united cable's chairman, gene w. schneider, would be chairman of the new company
united artists has about 800,000 subscribers and recently agreed to acquire the cable television division of daniels &amp; associates, which has about 380,000 subscribers. united cable has about 1.1 million subscribers
united artists also is one of the nation's biggest motion picture operators with about 2,050 motion picture screens and plans to boost that total by the end of the year to about 3,000 through acquisitions and construction
the announcement said the new company would operate the cable operations under the name united cable and the theatrical operations under the united artists name
several major newspapers are hoping that putting an ``island'' of advertising in their sea of stock tables will help attract more national advertisers to the medium
the first ad buyer to participate in the unusual effort is national car rental system inc
the minneapolis-based company said wednesday it would spend $2 million through the end of the year to put quarter-page ads in what is being called a new ``island'' position on the first page of the stock table sections of 16 newspapers in the nation's 20 biggest markets
the ads, which will be surrounded on four sides by stock quotations, will appear a minimum of 26 times starting march 17 in each newspaper, according to lewis carbone, a national marketing executive
a committee of the national advertising bureau, a trade organization, came up with the idea for the unusual ad position and, along with national's ad agency, chiat-day inc., persuaded the 16 newspapers to sell it
michael davies, head of the newspaper bureau panel and editor and publisher of the hartford courant, said the committee looked at a dozen proposals for displaying advertising more distinctively before deciding on this approach
he said the committee wanted to find a way to help an ad message stand out without disrupting normal reading patterns
putting an ad in the stock tables seemed appropriate, he said, because people usually look for individual stock prices rather than reading through the entire section. ``this doesn't interrupt the flow of reading a page,'' he said
but some big newspapers turned down the idea
the new york times rejected it because ``it would make it too hard for the reader to get through the stock tables,'' according to spokeswoman nancy nielsen
the wall street journal also balked. bernard t. flanagan, vice president for marketing, said the placement would be ``an inconvenience to the reader.'' ``in a sense, we want to make it as easy as we can for readers to look up their stock quotes,'' he said
flanagan said the ad placement also ``takes prestige away from the page.''
newspapers have seen their share of national advertising spending decline steadily in recent years as national advertisers turned to television
newspapers took in 15.9 percent of total national ad spending in 1950, but fell to below 6 percent in 1986
last year, national advertisers spent $3.5 billion in newspapers, or about 5.8 percent of their total spending of $60.6 billion, according to an estimate by the ad agency mccann-erickson inc
but robert zach, media director for chiat-day, said the rising cost of television time is making advertisers more receptive to alternative ways to reach customers
davies said he expected other advertisers would take an interest in the new ad position and that other newspapers would embrace the idea
the 16 newspapers that have sold the space to national include: the atlanta journal and constitution, chicago sun-times, dallas morning news, detroit free press, hartford courant, houston chronicle, los angeles times, miami herald, minneapolis star and tribune, phoenix gazette, rocky mountain news, san francisco chronicle and examiner, seattle times, st. louis post-dispatch, st. paul pioneer press and dispatch and tampa tribune. mortgage rates</head>
home mortgage rates fell at the quickest pace since 1986 early this year, partly because of the broad decline in interest rates in the wake of the october stock market crash, according to the government
the stock market collapse also played a role in boosting net deposits at the nation's savings institutions during january for the fourth straight month, the federal home loan bank board reported wednesday
effective rates on typical 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages for single-family homes dropped to 10.5 percent in early february from 10.97 percent in early january. rates on the most popular type of adjustable rate mortgages, those with caps on how much the rate can change, fell to 8.74 percent from 8.98 percent over the same period
the decline in commitment rates is consistent with the softening of mortgage demand that generally occurs during the winter months,'' said james barth, the bank board's chief economist
however, the recent declines were the sharpest since 1986...and appear to have reflected mainly large deposit flows...after the stock market collapse...and an across-the-board decline in interest rates,'' he said
mortgage lending by s&amp;ls in january declined to the lowest level since february 1985. savings institutions lent $13.1 billion in mortgages, down more than the usual seasonal dropoff from $21.7 billion in december
contributing to the reduced lending volume was a lingering skittishness on the part of potential home buyers following the oct. 19 collapse in stock prices,'' barth said in a statement
the spread between fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgages narrowed to 1.76 percent, the smallest difference since last spring. the proportion of mortgages being closed with adjustable rates edged down from 65 percent in december to 63 percent a month later
but the popularity of adjustable-rate loans remains far higher than last spring, when they represented 20 to 30 percent of the market
a separate survey of mortgage rates by the federal home loan mortgage corp. indicated 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages averaged 9.85 percent last friday, down slightly from 9.87 percent a week earlier and sharply lower than 10.61 percent on jan. 1. this survey does not include add-on fees, known as points, which are included in the bank board's averages
the bank board also said net new deposits at the nation's 3,135 federally insured s&amp;ls increased by $5.6 billion in january, following a $2.6 billion increase in december. that compared with net withdrawals of $2.1 billion in january a year ago
barth said deposits normally increase from december to january, but he added, ``nearly half of the most recent improvement represented non-seasonal factors. undoubtedly, the precipitous decline in the stock market remains one of these factors.''
nervous investors, seeking a safe haven for their money, increased deposits by $6.2 billion in october and $3.2 billion in november
the last four months represent a sharp reversal of the trend in recent years, which has been described as a slow-motion run on thrift institutions. there were net withdrawals of $3.3 billion in 1986 and $13.7 billion in the first nine months of 1987
the securities and exchange commission says new york's anti-takeover law is an unconstitutional impediment to interstate commerce
the sec also contended wednesday that the statute conflicts with the williams act, the 1968 federal law regulating corporate takeovers
the agency made its arguments in a friend-of-the-court brief filed in a suit brought by salant acquisition corp. against manhattan industries inc., one of the nation's biggest makers of men's shirts and sportswear
proliferation of state anti-takeover laws since the supreme court upheld indiana's takeover statute last year has heightened the issue of whether the federal or state governments should take the lead in regulating corporate takeovers
the new york law prohibits a bidder who acquires more than 20 percent of a company's stock from completing a takeover or other major business transaciton with the company for five years, unless the bidder gets approval from the target's board of directors
the statute gives corporate management virtual veto power over whether the company will be acquired,'' sec general counsel daniel l. goelzer wrote in the brief
the law effectively preempts the williams act, he argued
goelzer said ``the structure and the legislative history of the (williams) act make it clear that congress believed that...it should be the shareholders _ the owners of the corporation _ who make the decision,'' not the management
the sec, which regulates the nation's securities markets, is intervening in the case in u.s. district court in manhattan on the side of salant
salant, a unit of salant corp., another major apparel maker, began a $95 million hostile takeover attempt of manhattan industries in february
manhattan industries had sought to block the $16-a-share buyout offer salant launched on feb. 2. u.s. district judge louis l. stanton last week denied manhattan industries' request for a court order blocking the tender offer but did not rule on salant's constitutional challenge
manhattan industries said wednesday it had entered into negotiations about a possible merger with salant
the sec took a similar position when the supreme court considered a challenge to indiana's anti-takeover law last year, but the court upheld the law
in another current battle, the sec has indicated it was considering whether to file briefs in suits challenging the newly enacted delaware anti-takeover law, which is structured somewhat similarly to new york's law
matsushita electric industrial co. ltd. says it may export to japan some of the approximately 1 million large-screen color television picture tubes it will make each year in this western ohio city
the $160 million matsushita plant is to open in spring 1989 with 240 people and production of 400,000 tubes, company officials said wednesday
that will expand to about 400 jobs once full production is reached in two or three years, said fumio kanazwa, president of the subsidiary matsushita electronics corp
the company announced it planned to build a plant in troy last december, but disclosed no details until wednesday
kanazawa declined to specify under what conditions matsushita would export tubes to japan, where matsushita already makes some large-screen tubes, but said it would not depend just on the yen-dollar exchange rate
the plant will make 29- and 33-inch tubes, although it could be reconfigured to produce smaller picture tubes, said yasuhiko yamaguchi, who will be president of american matsushita electronics corp
production at troy will represent slightly more than 10 percent of the total picture tube production by matsushita, which had total 1987 revenue of more than $36 billion
matsushita, which makes panasonic, quasar, technics and national brand consumer electronics, began producing televisions in the united states with acquisition of the quasar plant from motorola in 1974, spokesman justin camerlengo said
matsushita has been buying about one-third of its picture tubes in the united states, he said
honda of america on monday became the first japanese automaker to export to japan when it shipped off 540 accords made at its marysville plant
honda, the fourth-largest automaker in the united states, plans to export 4,000 accords to japan this year and 50,000 u.s.-built cars to japan annually by 1991
officers of usg corp. are urging the building materials company's shareholders to reject a $1.9 billion hostile takeover offer as inadequate and coercive, and say the company might sell a major stake to a third party
usg chairman robert j. day wrote shareholders wednesday that they should reject the unsolicited $42-a-share tender offer by desert partners lp, a group led by texas oilmen jack e. brown and cyril wagner jr
usg also disclosed in a securities and exchange commission filing that it may sell a substantial stake in usg to a third, unidentified company
placing a big block of shares in friendly hands, a maneuver known as the ``white squire'' takeover defense, would make it more difficult if not impossible for desert partners to acquire control of the company
desert partners on march 1 launched a tender offer of $42 in cash for each of 21.5 million shares of usg stock. the group also offered to acquire the balance of usg's 50.8 million outstanding shares with securities it valued at $42 a share. desert partners already owns about 9.9 percent of usg stock
day questioned the value of securities portion of desert partners' offer, saying it consisted of junk bonds and warrants ``purportedly worth $42 per share.''
paul colitti, a usg spokesman, said the company believed the $42-per-share cash portion of the offer also did not reflect usg's true value
usg stock fell $1.62{ to $36.50 a share wednesday on the new york stock exchange, indicating investor doubts about the seriousness of desert partners' offer
desert partners responded to usg's decision late wednesday with a letter to the company's board saying it was prepared to negotiate its tender offer
desert partners also chastised usg for considering selling a chunk of the company to a third party, in what the texas group called an attempt to block its takeover bid
we are certain that your stockholders would much prefer your entering into prompt good-faith negotiations with us rather than your continuing to devote effort and expense to defensive tactics that can only erode the value of usg shares,'' desert partners said in its letter
colitti said usg's discussions with another party did not necessarily mean a deal was imminent
desert partners bought its usg shares last year for about $44.30 a share in a previous takeover attempt that fizzled when the texas group was unable to arrange the necessary financing
desert partners also is seeking shareholder purchase rights that take effect friday and that were triggered by the tender offer
the purchase rights, part of usg's ``poison-pill'' takeover defense, would allow all shareholders except desert partners to buy additional new usg stock, making completion of a takeover prohibitively expensive
desert partners has filed a lawsuit in u.s. district court in chicago challenging the legality of the poison pill and has said it will seek to elect six directors to usg's 15-member board at the company's annual meeting in may
usg, based in chicago, is a leading producer of gypsum and building materials, with about 100 plants nationwide
consumer prices rose 8.3 percent in february but only 2.8 percent in the last half of the month, an indication that the government's inflation-fighting program is working, the central bank said
the bank of mexico report wednesday noted the rate was well below the 15.5 percent in january
it said there was the prospect, ``based on the two-week variation of 2.8 percent and the favorable behavior of the principal fiscal and financial variables, of strong further reductions in the inflationary rates.''
as part of its program, called the economic solidarity pact, the government has said prices on officially regulated items will be frozen for the month of march and the peso, which has been steadily devaluing against the dollar, will be held steady
a minimum wage increase was held to 3 percent for the month, below what was expected
the biggest price increases, both for the month of february and the last two weeks of the month, were in furniture and domestic goods, including appliances, soaps and paper articles, the bank said. for the month, prices on those articles jumped 16.2 percent
health and personal items, clothes and shoes and educational services were among others with substantial increases
also rising were rent; some foods, including basics such as cooking oil, processed milk, corn and wheat flour, rice and beans; automobiles; insurance; books, newspapers and school materials; alcoholic beverages, and cigarettes
the cities with the highest increases were matamoros, across the border from brownsville, texas, the northern city of chihuahua and cordoba, in the gulf coast state of veracruz
those where inflation was held down were navojoa, in the northwestern state of sonora; tulancingo, northeast of mexico city; and la paz, in southern baja california
bringing down inflation, which hit a record 159.2 percent for 1987, currently is the main target of the government's economic program
the pact, announced in mid-december, calls on business, industry and labor to cooperate with the government in holding down prices
former merchant banker lord patrick spens was arrested thursday in connection with the case stemming from guinness plc's 1986 takeover of distillers co. plc
fraud squad detectives arrested spens, 45, a former managing director of merchant bankers henry ansbacher and co. ltd., at his home in the southeast england town of gould and took him to a london police station for questioning, scotland yard said
he was the fifth man to be arrested in the case
scotland yard said it is investigating the alleged purchase of 2.15 million guinness shares for 7.6 million pounds, the equivalent of $14 million, from ansbacher clients during the guinness takeover of distillers, a scotch whiskey and gin maker
spens resigned from his 100,000-pound-a-year post at ansbacher in january 1987 under pressure from the bank of england, and told reporters his alleged role in the guinness affair was perceived as an error of judgment
i acted properly and i don't think there was anything inappropriate in what i did,'' he said
police are investigating guinness's tactics during its 2.6 billion-pound takeover of distillers
guinness, a major brewer, has admitted arranging for the illegal repurchase of its stock in an apparent effort to boost its share price and make its cash and stock offer for distillers more attractive than a rival bid from argyll group plc, a supermarket operator
at the center of the investigation is deposed guinness chairman ernest saunders, who remains free on 500,000 pounds bail after being charged with 40 offenses
others facing charges are former morgan grenfell merchant bank director roger seelig and businessmen sir jack lyons and gerald ronson
shopowners in the greek capital pulled down their shutters on thursday to demand the return of the traditional afternoon break abolished by the government last month in favor of continuous working hours
athens' 15,000 twxi drivers also locked up their taxis for a day to protest anti-pollution measures. the ban restricts half of the taxis from entering the center of the city on weekdays according to license plates that end in odd or even numbers
shopkeepers gathered at a downtown theater and later marched to parliament to press their claim for a different set of work hours. large department stores and supermarket chains, however, disregarded the strike call and remained open
the new store-hours, in effect from feb. 1, replaced more than 40 different work-schedules for different kinds of shops, with a continuous 50-hour work week
the stock market headed lower today, giving back some of its recent gains
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 6.63 to 2,067.64 in the first half hour of trading
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 505 up, 524 down and 495 unchanged
volume on the big board came to 24.11 million shares as of 10 a.m. on wall street
analysts said traders were disappointed by the dow jones industrial average's inability to make a run at the 2,100 level after reaching new early-1988 highs lately
investors evidently are skeptical about the market's ability to put together a sustained rally less than six months after the october crash
those traders who have been buying are quick to step in and take profits when prices move up, brokers say
a good many market participants are already looking ahead to next week's scheduled monthly report on the trade deficit, trying to figure out whether the figures are likely to maintain the favorable trend of the past couple of reports
today japan said its trade surplus fell in february from its comparable level a year ago
losers among the blue chips included international business machines, down | at 116, and ford motor, down \ at 44~
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks slipped .10 to 151.38. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was up .40 at 299.98
on wednesday the dow jones industrial average dropped 6.80 to 2,074.27
advancing issues outnumbered declines by about 4 to 3 on the nyse, with 871 up, 636 down and 459 unchanged. big board volume totaled 210.90 million shares, against 237.68 million in the previous session. that could be cleared. a version moving on general news wires.</note>
the list of american high-technology goods china is allowed to buy will start expanding again because the reagan administration has determined the chinese are not selling silkworm missiles to iran
china also says it wants a commodity the united states is sending to 64 other countries: peace corps volunteers
under an agreement announced wednesday at the conclusion of a three-day visit by chinese foreign minister wu xueqian, the united states will lift a five-month suspension on liberalization of high-tech products china is permitted to buy from american companies
the restriction was imposed in october to protest what the united states said was sale of chinese silkworm missiles used by iran to attack neutral shipping in the persian gulf
during his visit, wu continued to deny that such sales were ever made directly by china. without commenting on that assertion, the administration said it was satisfied with what the chinese are doing now
we are encouraged by chinese statements and actions regarding iran's acquisition of chinese anti-ship missiles, silkworms,'' state department spokesman charles e. redman said
we have therefore decided to resume the export control liberalization process for china,'' he said
this means experts from the state, commerce and defense departments will resume reviewing the list of high-technology products now banned for sale to china to see if any items can be removed. sales of high-technology products cleared for chinese purchase before last october have been continuing
among the technologies that could be cleared for export to china are computers, electronic components, communications gear and metallurgical processes
the decision removed an irritant in the relationship. ``clearly they weren't happy about it, but we weren't happy about the silkworms,'' said a reagan administration official, speaking on condition of anonymity
wu also assured the united states that china would go along with a united nations resolution banning all arms sales to iran, the u.s. official said. according to u.s. estimates, china sold nearly $1 billion worth of arms to iran in 1987
wu said at a national press club luncheon on wednesday that u.s. officials showed how upset they were about the silkworms by raising the issue 20 times during the three days of talks
he once again denied china ever sold weapons to iran, but when asked if chinese weapons were getting to iran through other countries he said, ``we have no idea.''
he gave an upbeat assessment of relations and called for more trade and more people-to-people contacts between chinese and americans. then he revealed that after years of u.s. requests, china had agreed in principle to accept peace corps volunteers
since the program began in 1961 under president kennedy, many nations' feelings about peace corps projects have reflected their overall view of relations with the united states
in india, for example, the largest country to have had peace corps volunteers, the welcome mat was put out in 1962 when ties were strong and was withdrawn in 1976, when relations soured. there are now peace corps volunteers in 64 countries
the program in china is likely to concentrate on english teaching, but further discussions will be needed to determine how large the peace corps contingent will be and what it will do
it will be good news for our country and i believe for the chinese people if the peace corps can send its volunteers to the most populous nation on earth,'' said sen. christopher dodd, d-conn., who served as a volunteer in the dominican republic in the 1960s. ``we could learn much about each other.''
rep. stephen j. solarz, d-n.y., chairman of the house foreign affairs subcommittee on asia called the peace corps agreement a ``potentially important step.''
i feel confident that these ambassadors for the american way of life will have a positive impact upon ties between the largest nation in the east and the largest nation in the west,'' solarz said
amid the good feeling they said was generated during the wu visit, u.s. officials had little comment on the issue of tibet, where chinese authorities are clashing with groups seeking tibetan independence
redman, the state department spokesman, said secretary of state george p. shultz raised the issue of human rights in tibet, but provided no details
in his press club remarks, wu denounced a proposal by the dalai lama, the religious leader of tibetan buddhists, who is living in exile in india. the dalai lama's proposal includes a withdrawal of chinese troops from tibet
wu said of the dalai lama, ``he is an exile who attacks and smears the people's republic of china.''
jaguar plc said thursday that it sold 3,873 luxury cars in february, a record for that month
compared with the same month a year ago, european exports rose by 28 percent to 554 and sales to the united states and canada jumped 42 percent to 258, the company said in a statement
sales to japan, australia and middle east markets also rose, while british sales were up 40 percent to 1,360, the company said. figures; also moved on general newswires</note>
a four-year dispute over allegations the army was fraudulently overcharged for helicopter spare parts has been resolved, with bell helicopter textron inc. agreeing to pay the government about $88 million, the army said today
the settlement, one of the largest ever in a defense contracting case, grew out of findings by pentagon auditors of numerous accounting and inventory irregularities at the fort worth, texas, company, pentagon sources said wednesday night
maj. phil soucy, an army spokesman, today confirmed a settlement had been reached and was scheduled to be signed on friday. a company statement said, ``we believe a settlement is in the offing.''
the army is fully satisfied with this settlement and believes it has recovered every dime out of this that we can get,'' said soucy
the pentagon sources said that in reaching the settlement, federal prosecutors had agreed to drop any potential criminal or civil charges and that bell helicopter would not acknowledge any wrongdoing
soucy agreed there would be no further prosecution in the case, but said the government had always hoped to strike a reasonable settlement rather than go to trial because of the case's complexity
this was a very complex case that turned on a bad accounting system (at bell helicopter) that was used in connection with contracts worth billions of dollars,'' the spokesman said
reached late wednesday, carl harris, a bell helicopter spokesman, read from a prepared statement which acknowledged there had been ``settlement discussions.''
we believe a settlement is in the offing,'' the statement said. ``we are hopeful it will be soon. however, we are not able to comment until a final agreement is reached. the terms that are currently under discussion will not have a material effect on bell helicopter textron in 1988.''
according to soucy, the settlement will require bell helicopter to pay $69 million directly to the u.s. treasury within the next 30 days. the company also will have to allow the army to assume possession of any or all of a spare parts inventory valued at about $11 million
in addition, bell will forego claims to about $6 million worth of interest on contract progress payments withheld by the army and about $1.5 million in legal fees. offsetting that will be a $1.1 million payment by the army to bell to cover a separate contract that got sidelined in the dispute
when a number of smaller provisions are added in, ``the final value of this settlement is roughly $88 million,'' soucy said
the spokesman said most of the overcharges came as a result of an accounting problem that dealt with the handling of contracts between 1983 and 1985. during the period, bell switched to a computerized accounting and inventory system that had the effect, among other things, of accelerating the company's requests for army progress payments for work performed
bell agreed to implement a new accounting system that met the army's approval in october 1985
the defense contract audit agency had originally identified about $107 million in overcharges by bell. soucy said subsequent investigation ``uncovered a number of overlapping amounts and duplication in the books.''
the overcharges never amounted to $107 million, soucy said, but he declined to estimate how much they did total
soucy said the company had also agreed to implement a business ethics program for its employees and to acknowledge ``our right to audit their books and documents.''
bell helicopter is a wholly owned subsidiary of textron inc., a conglomerate based in providence, r.i. in fiscal 1987, the parent company ranked as the pentagon's 18th largest contractor, with $1.55 billion in defense work
bell helicopter holds contracts from the army for such major helicopter programs as the ah-1 cobra attack helicopter, the uh-1 iroquois utility helicopter and the oh-58d kiowa light helicopter
a house committee is conducting its own investigation of the case. graf pvs bg'ng, chrysler's three-year ...</note>
early contract talks between chrysler corp. and the united auto workers union could help the company and its workers heal their recently-battered relationship, a labor expert said
the fact that both sides appear to be pushing for it reflects a desire for some stability,'' said harley shaiken, a labor and technology expert at the university of california at san diego
the uaw's 140-member national chrysler bargaining council, representing 71,700 workers at 49 local unions, was to meet here today to decide whether to start talks as soon as next month
uaw president owen bieber, in detroit to attend a conference on aging work forces, said he would urge the council to agree to early talks. but he declined to comment on possible establishment of an earlier strike deadline to accompany early talks
chrysler's three-year contract expires sept. 14. talks usually begin in mid-summer, but chrysler asked to start negotiations after its failed attempt to sell its 28,000-worker acustar inc. parts subsidiary
the no. 3 automaker last week canceled plans to sell acustar because of uaw opposition including threatened plant-by-plant strikes that could have crippled production. chrysler instead decided to sell or close four acustar plants within 18 months
in response to the acustar proposal, workers also stopped participating in union-management programs critical to improving productivity and quality and have not returned because of unresolved conflicts with the company, uaw leaders said
uaw vice president marc stepp wanted the council to agree to early talks, which local union leaders said wednesday could help prevent plant closures and movement of work by chrysler to outside companies or countries
i'm positive our membership would be 100 percent in favor of that. as long as we're talking about jobs they would be more than willing,'' said local 1264 official fred o'brien at chrysler's key sterling heights stamping plant
shaiken said an early settlement also would help chrysler and its workers put the acustar conflict behind them ``and basically settle into a pattern for the next few years.''
a key issue in the decision was whether chrysler also would accept an early strike deadline or insist on a target deadline without giving the union the right to strike if no settlement is reached
uaw spokesman peter laarman said the union preferred ``to actually start the clock'' rather than simply set an artificial bargaining deadline
chrysler chief negotiator anthony st. john told the detroit news on tuesday that the company did not want an early strike deadline, but the company would not comment wednesday
chrysler eventually is expected to agree to the pattern contract established last fall at ford motor co. and general motors corp. that includes job protection not included in chrysler's present contract
the gm and ford contracts forbid layoffs except when production falls because of slow sales, make it harder for the companies to move production outside the company or country and forbid plant closings that were not announced before talks started
o'brien said going to the table early would limit the time chrysler has to announce further plant closings and make it easier for the union to battle the possible closings of the four acustar plants
chrysler buys the largest percentage of outside parts of any big three maker _ 70 percent compared with 30 percent at gm and about 50 percent at ford _ and o'brien said workers want to prevent further outsourcing
stepp said he also wants the ford profit-sharing formula in the next contract. ford workers tuesday received profit-sharing checks averaging more than $3,700 from ford's industry-record 1987 profits of $4.6 billion
chrysler has no profit-sharing plan
united auto workers union members in kenosha, wis., have rented a billboard in this detroit enclave to ask chrysler corp. chairman lee iacocca to keep their plant open and save their jobs
chrysler has announced it will close the former american motors corp. car assembly plant in kenosha at the end of the 1988 model year, eliminating 5,500 jobs. chrysler acquired the plant when it bought amc last year
the billboard, located along interstate 75 in hamtramck, says: ```iacocca, keep your word to kenosha!' uaw local 72 kenosha.''
the uaw and wisconsin officials contend chrysler promised to modernize the plant and keep it open for five years of making dodge omni and plymouth horizon subcompacts. chrysler denies it gave any guarantees
we hope this will generate interest and motivate iacocca to change his mind,'' said rudy kuzel, spokesman for local 72
the local paid $4,200 for one month's rent on the sign, which is a few blocks from chrysler headquarters in highland park
we will not crawl off in a corner,'' kuzel said wednesday. ``they want us to lie down, play dead and wait to see how we are going to be buried.''
top chrysler and uaw leaders met in milwaukee on wednesday to discuss the kenosha plant and benefits for workers should it close. unlike other chrysler workers, those at kenosha and other former amc plants aren't covered by the supplemental unemployment benefits provision of the chrysler-uaw contract. thruout</note>
a federal appeals court today lifted a stay that had prevented the arbitrageur accused of threatening to kill ivan boesky from leaving federal detention and moving into a private psychiatric hospital
the 2nd u.s. court of appeals denied the government's motion for a continuation of a stay. the effect is to allow john mulheren to be moved to the private hospital
u.s. district judge whitman knapp had ruled wednesday that a three-hour examination by a court-appointed psychiatrist indicated that mulheren presented no threat to either himself or the community and released him from the metropolitan correctional center
but assistant u.s. attorney robert gage said he opposed releasing mulheren to the private hospital, and obtained a ruling from the 2nd u.s. court of appeals staying the matter until today's ruling
the government had argued that the private facility, the carrier foundation in montgomery township, n.j., was not secure enough to house mulheren, the senior partner at jamie securities co
however, knapp said, ``he's no danger at the moment, and if he's kept under proper surveillance there's no reason to believe he will become dangerous.''
mulheren, carrying a loaded assault rifle, was arrested feb. 18 by the police outside his rumson, n.j., home
he is being held on a criminal complaint that he threatened to kill admitted insider-trader boesky and michael davidoff, boesky's former head trader. the men have reportedly implicated mulheren in possible securities law violations
mulheren's lawyers argue that he is a manic depressive who had failed to take his lithium, a drug used to control impulses, the day of his arrest
knapp said he could not explain mulheren's actions, but agreed with the psychiatrist that they were an ``aberration.''
one of his defense lawyers, peter bennett, said wednesday that mulheren had not been getting the drug properly while in federal custody
stock prices sagged in quiet trading today, giving back some of their recent gains
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 7.46 to 2,066.81 by noontime on wall street
losers slightly outnumbered gainers in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 648 up, 683 down and 471 unchanged
analysts said traders were disappointed by the dow jones industrial average's inability to make a run at the 2,100 level after reaching new early-1988 highs lately
investors evidently are skeptical about the market's ability to put together a sustained rally less than six months after the october crash
those traders who have been buying are quick to step in and take profits when prices move up, brokers say
a good many market participants are already looking ahead to next week's scheduled monthly report on the trade deficit, trying to figure out whether the figures are likely to maintain the favorable trend of the past couple of reports
today japan said its trade surplus fell in february from its comparable level a year ago
colt industries led the active list and jumped 5[ to 18]. the company said it agreed to be acquired by a group including its top executives for $17 a share
k mart gained { to 35]. the company reported earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended jan. 27 of $1.58 a share, up from $1.41 in the like period a year earlier
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks edged up .02 to 151.50. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down .87 at 298.71
volume on the big board came to 80.39 million shares at noontime, against 107.60 million at the same point wednesday
grain and soybean futures prices opened mixed today on the chicago board of trade, with soybeans posting some surprising gains in early trading
market analysts had expected soybeans to open lower on ideas that soybean plantings were on the rise and in response to an increase in the agriculture department's estimate of this year's ending stocks
instead, soybean futures were as much as 3 cents a bushel higher in early trading
it's a little bit of a surprise that some buying came into the soybean market but i don't think it's anything too significant because the market's starting to back off already,'' ted mao, grain specialist for shearson lehman hutton inc., said about a half-hour after the opening
wheat futures were steady to slightly higher. corn prices were mostly lower
in early trading, wheat was \ cent to 1\ cents higher with the contract for delivery in march at $2.96 a bushel; corn was { cent lower to } cent higher with march at $1.99{ a bushel; oats were unchanged to } cent higher with march at $1.85 a bushel; soybeans were { cent to 3 cents higher with march at $6.08{ a bushel
cattle futures were mixed while pork futures were mostly lower in early trading on the chicago mercantile exchange
live cattle were unchanged to .15 cent higher with april at 72.97 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .15 cent lower to .18 cent higher with march at 81.20 cents a pound; hogs were .05 cent to .25 cent lower with april at 43.37 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were unchanged to .17 cent lower with march at 52.10 cents a pound
livestock and meat futures closed mostly lower on wednesday
loss-plagued lorimar telepictures corp., which earlier this week said it was discussing a merger with warner communications inc., said today it has received an unsolicited $780.3 million takeover bid from investor marvin davis
the $17-a-share price being offered by davis is in the middle of the $14 to $20 range that analysts have said lorimar should be able to fetch and was seen as triggering a bidding war for lorimar
lorimar stock jumped $1.37{ a share to $15.75 in early trading after announcement of the offer from davis. the company has 45.9 million shares outstanding
it hasn't been disclosed what sort of terms are being discussed in talks between lorimar and new york-based warner. those talks, which began last weekend, have been described by both sides as preliminary
davis has been seeking to get back into the entertainment business since selling 20th century fox film corp. to media magnate rupert murdoch in 1985 for $575 million. davis had owned fox for four years, but the company was beset by persistent losses
last year, he made an unsuccessful $321.9 million bid for the 90.6 percent he didn't already own of texas-based spectradyne inc., the nation's largest supplier of cable television and pay-per-view movies for hotels
in a brief announcement, lorimar noted that davis' offer was subject to a number of conditions and said it ``would bear davis' letter in mind.''
lorimar is a leading producer of original television programming, but in recent years it has been troubled as its ambitious plans to expand into other areas disintegrated and sometimes caused the company to incur losses or heavy costs that depressed earnings
for the first nine months of its current fiscal year, lorimar posted a loss of $82.6 million on revenue of $616.8 million. the deficit included $45 million in writedowns on five movies and $22 million in reserves for possible future losses in its home-video unit
management of both the movie and home-video units have been replaced
for fiscal 1987 ended last march 31, the company lost $58.6 million, mostly because of restructuring costs, on revenue of $766.2 million
four disgruntled shareholders filed a class-action lawsuit against lorimar telepictures corp. alleging the company overstated its income and net worth, causing investors to pay more for stock
the federal suit filed wednesday also alleges that lorimar misled investors to believe that problems in the company's videocassette division were cleared up and would cause no further financial problems, the suit said
lorimar spokeswoman sue binford said there would be no comment because company officials have not yet seen the suit
last june, lorimar reported in a letter to shareholders that the company had suffered substantial losses of $31.5 million, but said the problems in the videocassette division were resolved, the suit alleged
however, a recent company announcement indicated that additional problems in the videocassette division could cost another $22 million, the suit said
the suit, which asks for general damages, seeks to represent an estimated hundreds of thousands of shareholders who traded on 30 million shares between aug. 14, 1986, and feb. 12 of this year
the plaintiffs, all from westchester county, n.y., are identified as ted streit, eli berman, shirley sichel, and louis haber. they bought lorimar stock between september 1987 and december 1987
earlier this week, lorimar said it is discussing the possibility of being acquired by warner communications inc. that information sent the firm's stock price up $2.50 a share to $15
and lorimar said today it has received an unsolicited $780.3 million takeover bid from investor marvin davis
the culver city-based company was formed in february 1986 by the stock-swap combination of lorimar inc., best known as the producer of ``dallas'' and ``knot's landing,'' and new york-based telepictures corp., which made most of its revenue from animated shows and other programs such as ``people's court.''
the company is producing 12 hours of prime-time shows for the 1987-88 television season, including ``mama's family,'' ``it's a living'' and ``she's the sheriff.''
getting more house for the money has been the perennial goal of young couples, and many of them may have achieved it _ in a relatively unpublicized way
the statistical evidence of the phenomenon is overwhelming. and visual proof also is available from a stroll through certain neighborhoods in almost every city and town in the nation
first-home buyers have used the technique. so have homeowners who found ``move-up'' houses priced beyond reach. and so also have thousands of people who discovered that their own hands were the most useful tools ever made
what all these people have done is enlarge existing homes to meet their needs rather than purchase larger homes. in so doing, some have saved more money than they ever could have accumulated in a savings account
in many instances, additions exceed the original
statistics add documentation. in 1977, additions and alterations amounted to $14.2 billion nationwide; in 1987, the total exceeded $40 billion. in 1977, major replacement expenditures ran $5.7 billion, but triple that in 1987
between 1980 and 1986, according to the national association of home builders, remodeling activity increased 117 percent, and often became the major occupation of companies that once considered themselves new-home builders
one of the major factors in such activity is the soaring price of land, especially as a percentage of the total price
land accounted for only 11 percent of the total cost of a single-family home in 1949. but those were the good old days. by 1969 the percentage had jumped to 21, and by 1986 to 25
meanwhile, the relative cost of labor and materials has been shrinking, from 69 percent in 1949 to 55 percent in 1969 to 47 percent in 1986
land costs, therefore, are something to be avoided by budget-conscious homebuyers. inevitably, the latest prices for land are included in the pricing of new homes, since builders must cover their costs or go broke
it isn't quite the same in an established neighborhood, where new buyers sometimes find sellers aren't quite as sensitive to the prices of lots. and smart buyers know that a small house at a low price can be doubled in size
existing homeowners seeking larger homes are also recognizing the same factors. it's an old story. after weeks of examining prices of newer houses, in which latest land prices are incorporated, they decide to enlarge their existing home
aiding these homeowners is the ease with which funds can be obtained for renovations, especially through home equity loans, often at rates lower than they would have paid for a new-home mortgage
a warning to those seeking existing homes with the idea of adding on: make certain beforehand that you are free from zoning or other problems. in many areas, for example, home size is limited to a small percentage of lot size. percent in february</head>
japan's unadjusted trade surplus with the united states fell 14.4 percent in february as imports from the united states reached record levels, the finance ministry said thursday
the politically sensitive surplus was squeezed by the strong japanese yen, which makes it cheap for the japanese to buy foreign-made goods and inhibits sales of japanese goods abroad
the japanese-u.s. surplus fell to $3.40 billion from $3.97 billion in february 1987, unadjusted for seasonal fluctuations. exports to the united states rose 9.7 percent to $6.81 billion, while imports from the united states soared by 51.9 percent to $3.41 billion
the imports from the united states broke the previous one-month record of $3.12 billion, set in june 1986
japan's overall trade surplus declined 26.5 percent in february as imports of foreign goods set another record, the ministry said
the overall surplus fell to $5.24 billion from $7.13 billion in february 1987, the 10th consecutive month of year-to-year declines
the february surplus was up from $3.07 billion in january, but the ministry said the scope of trade usually dwindles in january because of japan's long new year holidays
imports shot up 48.0 percent from a year ago to a record $15.0 billion in february, while exports rose 17.2 percent to $20.2 billion. the previous high for imports was $14.8 billion in december 1987
imports of u.s. aircraft in the month nearly tripled to $478 million
the ministry said the aircraft purchases were a special factor in february, but over the last several months, export growth has been held back and imports have been encouraged by the yen's sharp rise against the u.s. dollar. the dollar was trading at 128 yen in february, compared with 152 yen a year earlier
meanwhile, machinery imports from the united states in february grew by 77.9 percent to $1.26 billion and motor vehicle imports rose 91.6 percent to $15.6 million
japanese motor vehicle exports to the united states fell 5.4 percent to $1.71 billion
japan ran a february trade surplus of $1.94 billion with the european economic community, up by $4 million from a year earlier
because of large oil imports, japan's deficit in trade with the middle east rose to $1.20 billion from $844 million in february 1987
k mart corp. reported thursday its fourth-quarter earnings rose nearly 13 percent while dayton hudson corp. said its income fell from a year earlier, when it had a one-time gain from the sale of one of its divisions
k mart, the nation's second-largest retailer, said it earned $321.2 million, or $1.58 a share, in the quarter ended jan. 27, compared with $285 million, or $1.41 a share, in the same period a year earlier
sales for the quarter totaled $7.75 billion, up from $7.23 billion in the year-earlier quarter
for all of fiscal 1987, k mart earned $692.2 million, or $3.40 a share, up 19 percent from the $582.3 million, or $2.90 a share, the company recorded in 1986
the retailer's full-year sales totaled $25.6 billion, up from $23.8 billion the previous year
k mart had good, solid earnings improvement because of effective control of their business,'' said jeffrey b. edelman, a retail industry analyst for the investment firm drexel burnham lambert inc. ``markdowns were held to a minimum.''
dayton hudson, the nation's sixth-largest retailer, said it earned $133.7 million, or $1.54 a share, in the quarter ended jan. 30, down 34 percent from $202.4 million, or $2.08 a share, in the year-earlier period
however, the 1986 fourth quarter included an $85.2 million gain from the sale of dayton hudson's b. dalton booksellers chain. excluding that gain, dayton hudson's earnings rose 11 percent in the latest quarter
dayton hudson's fourth-quarter figures reflect ``some positive earnings swings from a division that had been very depressed last year,'' said edelman
edelman referred to the company's mervyn's apparel stores, which had helped pull dayton hudson's earnings into a decline in recent quarters
sales for the latest quarter totaled $3.68 billion, up from $3.12 billion in the year-earlier quarter
for all of fiscal 1987, dayton hudson earned $228.4 million, or $2.41 a share, down 26 percent from $310 million, or $3.19 a share, in 1986
excluding the fourth-quarter 1986 gain, the retailer's earnings fell 10 percent
full-year sales totaled $10.68 billion, up from $9.26 billion
dayton hudson said its target discount stores division continued to do well in 1987, but its department stores suffered from a drop in sales
edelman said both companies benefited from lower tax rates in 1987
meanwhile, charming shoppes inc. reported its fourth-quarter income plummeted 46 percent as its sales declined along with those of many other apparel retailers
charming shoppes said it earned $7.5 million, or 15 cents a share, in the quarter ended jan. 30, down from nearly $14 billion, or 28 cents a share, in the year-earlier period
sales rose to $182.9 million from $163.8 million
many apparel retailers have seen their fourth-quarter profits tumble because they were forced to slash prices in the face of sluggish sales. analysts said consumers were bored by the fall and winter fashions in most stores
for the full year, charming shoppes said it earned $42.6 million, up 5 percent from $40.5 million in 1986. sales totaled $638.6 million in fiscal 1987, up from $521.2 million the year before
charming shoppes operates 840 stores in 33 states under the names fashion bug and fashion bug plus
k mart, the nation's second-largest retailer, said it had 3,934 stores at the year's end, including k mart, waldenbooks, builders square and pay less drug stores
besides mervyn's and target, dayton hudson's divisions include dayton hudson department stores and lechmere's home electronics, appliance and sporting goods stores
the company had a total of 577 stores at year's end
more than 2.4 million jobs are expected to be created in the united states this year, fewer than in 1987 but ``still a very healthy number,'' a business research company said thursday
manufacturers and companies with fewer than 20 employees will again be leaders in creating jobs, according to dun &amp; bradstreet corp., which announced the results of its annual survey of employment expectations at 5,000 companies
last year, the u.s. economy created about 3 million jobs. the labor department announced last week that the nation's civilian unemployment rate fell to 5.7 percent in february, its lowest point since 1979
dun &amp; bradstreet has predicted in a separate report that the jobless rate will average 5.7 percent this year, down from an average of 6.2 percent last year. the new jobs will be filled by new entrants to the labor force
the goods-producing sector, aided by a cheaper dollar, is likely to produce more than 610,000 jobs this year, the most since 1979, dun &amp; bradstreet said
in contrast, the goods-producing sector lost 180,000 jobs in 1986, and then added 210,000 last year as it began to recover, the company said
this represents a significant departure from the pattern in recent years, when job growth was driven largely by the services sector,'' joseph w. duncan, the chief economist, said in a news release
the hot spot, so to speak, in 1988 is going to be the industrial midwest,'' reid gearhart, a dun &amp; bradstreet analyst, said in an interview
companies with fewer than 20 employees are expected to generate 35 percent of the new jobs in 1988, even though they make up less than 19 percent of total employment, the company said
similarly, it said, companies with fewer than 100 employees are likely to generate just over half of the new jobs in spite of making up only a third of the employment
companies with over 25,000 employees are likely to lag again in 1988, contributing slightly less than 7 percent of new jobs in spite of making up 20 percent of employment, dun &amp; bradstreet said
just over 32 percent of manufacturers in the survey said they expected to increase employment, the highest of any sector. the corresponding figures in other sectors were 12.8 percent in agriculture, 27.8 percent in mining, 31.3 percent in construction, 27.5 percent in transportation and public utilities, 30.1 percent in wholesale and retail trade, 25.7 percent in finance, insurance and real estate, 31.5 percent in services and 25.5 percent in government
the stock market took a tumble today, giving back some of its recent gains
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 22.05 to 2,052.22 by 3 p.m. on wall street
losers outnumbered gainers by about 5 to 3 in the overall tally of new york stock exchange-listed issues, with 556 up, 962 down and 441 unchanged
analysts said traders were disappointed by the dow jones industrial average's inability to make a run at the 2,100 level after reaching new early-1988 highs lately
investors evidently are skeptical about the market's ability to put together a sustained rally less than six months after the october crash
those traders who have been buying are quick to step in and take profits when prices move up, brokers say
a good many market participants are already looking ahead to next week's scheduled monthly report on the trade deficit, trying to figure out whether the figures are likely to maintain the favorable trend of the past couple of reports
today japan said its trade surplus fell in february from its comparable level a year ago
colt industries led the active list and jumped 4{ to 17}. the company said it agreed to be acquired by a group including its top executives for $17 a share
afg industries fell 5 to 31|. forstmann little &amp; co. said it had decided after studying the matter not to make an offer to acquire afg
k mart gained ] to 35\. the company reported earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended jan. 27 of $1.58 a share, up from $1.41 in the like period a year earlier
the nyse's composite index of all its listed common stocks fell .97 to 150.51. at the american stock exchange, the market value index was down 1.99 at 297.59
volume on the big board came to 148.47 million shares with an hour to go
grain and soybean futures closed moderately lower thursday on the chicago board of trade as traders showed little buying interest
of overriding concern was an expectation that a march 31 government report on spring plantings will show a broad increase in crop acreage, said ted mao, grain specialist with shearson lehman hutton inc
other maret pressures include the large soybean crop now being harvested in south america, an increase in world vegetable-oil production and the lackluster prospects for new grain export sales to the soviet union in the near term, mao said
it's a combination of all that in the atmosphere of a market that's been kind of on the defensive and it's just feeding on itself temporarily,'' mao said
at the close, wheat was 3} cents to 6\ cents lower with the contract for delivery in march at $2.91 a bushel; corn was 1\ cents to 1} cents lower with march at $1.97{ a bushel; oats were 3\ cents to 5} cents lower with march at $1.81 a bushel; soybeans were 4 cents to 5{ cents lower with march at $6.01{ a bushel
italian investor carlo de benedetti, who is vying for control of belgium's biggest holding company, thursday called for an extraordinary meeting of the shareholders of societe generale de belgique s.a
de benedetti said he would ask the meeting to consider himself and two of his belgian allies, andre leysen of gevaert n.v and pierre scohier of copeba s.a, as company directors
de benedetti and an array of belgian and international partners claim to control over 47 percent of the company's 28.2 million shares
a franco-belgian alliance is fighting de benedetti's bid to get control of societe generale and claims a majority stake of 52 percent
the group formed around belgium's biggest insurer, group ag, and the french investment firm companie financiere de suez, has also said it would like a shareholders meeting to discuss the company's future but has not called for a specific date
in addition, it stressed it is willing to talk with de benedetti, but only on the condition that the italian admits he does not have control of the company
while the uncertainty on the corporate battle continued, suez president renaud de la geniere said the fight ``could take months perhaps, but i hope i will not take years.''
de la geniere had talks with caretaker prime minister wilfried martens on the takeover bid, but no details were available
in a statement released by his french investment company cerus s.a, de benedetti said the shareholders meeting should discuss how many directors should run the company, which controls a third of the belgian economy
any shareholder with at least 20 percent of the share capital is able to convene such a meeting according to belgian commercial law
the stakes each side holds could change dramatically since a brussels court approved a capital increase of 12 million shares for societe generale. both camps claim they are entitled to the new stock. a higher court still has to rule on the increase
to sidestep the issue, de benedetti announced a request would be made at the meeting that the company not make use of its recent capital increase
leysen said de la geniere had made similar suggestions earlier and said the two sides might agree to annul the capital increase
the shares were issued by societe generale immediately after it was aware of de benedetti's intentions, which it considers hostile. the increase would dilute the stakes each side currently holds
de benedetti wants to turn the 166-year-old company into a holding company for enterprises across europe, anticipating 1992, when the movement of goods, capital and people should be free throughout the 12-nation european economic community
the alliance fighting de benedetti wants the company to remained focused in belgium. resources, inc.</head>
southdown inc., a cement and energy company, says it is increasing its tender offer for moore mccormack resources inc. to $35 per share of common stock from its previous offer of $31 per share
the increase was estimated to raise the total value of the takeover to about $450 million from a previous estimate of roughly $395 million, including offers for moore mccormack preferred stock and subordinated debt, southdown officials said thursday
we will consider this development in due course,'' said tony doumlele, director of corporate relations for moore mccormack
on march 23, southdown announced its initial cash tender offer for the stamford, conn.-based oil and gas and building materials company. at the time, moore mccormack officials called th offer ``totally unsolicited,'' but said they would study it
we haven't heard anything more (from moore mccormack management),'' said ruth pachman, spokeswoman for southdown
southdown said its tender offer is conditional upon the valid tender of a majority of moore mccormack common stock, the invalidation of moore mccormack's ``poison pill'' anti-takeover defense and the acquisition of sufficient financing
southdown said it was confident it could obtain the necessary financing to cover the tender offer and related costs
southdown produces and sells cement and ready-mixed concrete and is active in oil and gas production. moore mccormack produces building materials and is involved in oil and gas exploration and production, mainly in texas and louisiana
domestic automakers were scheduled to produce 220,309 cars and trucks this week, up from last week's 212,279, ward's automotive reports said thursday
automakers produced 247,047 cars and trucks during the same week a year ago
they were were scheduled to make 135,532 cars this week, compared with 127,908 a week ago and 167,443 in the same week in 1987
truck production for the week was scheduled at 84,777, compared with last week's 84,371 and last year's 79,604
canadian automakers were to build 24,162 cars this week, compared with 21,609 last week and 17,587 in the same week last year. canadian truck production was scheduled at 20,435, compared with 20,335 last week and 17,928 in the same week last year
after almost 70 years of tallying livestock sales at the historic pens of the fort worth stockyards, the livestock market news service said its reports are headed for their last roundup
government officials have issued daily or weekly reports on sales at the pens since around 1920, but said wednesday that so few cattle and hogs are sold in the city still nicknamed cowtown that regular sales reports will be halted march 31
the oldest cattle pens in fort worth date to 1887. but as urban growth has swallowed the stockyards, cattle raisers have turned away from the maze of traffic lights and freeways to competing auctions in small towns, said rick wahrmund, statewide director of the livestock market news service
ronnie steen, who has been reporting stockyard sales since 1976, said sales have dropped to between 200 and 300 cattle a week for months, from an average of about 5,000 weekly in 1976. daily auctions have long since been replaced with a weekly cattle auction on mondays
we don't have enough cattle to know what the market is,'' steen said. sales volumes of at least 500 are needed to establish clear market trends for farmers, ranchers and others who use the information
the u.s. department of agriculture began issuing daily livestock reports from the fort worth stockyards around 1920, when annual sales regularly topped 6 million cattle, 1 million hogs and 400,000 sheep
retailing giant gb-inno-bm s.a., one of belgium's biggest companies, proclaimed a ``poison pill'' takeover defense thursday to thwart potentially hostile acquirers
the company said it issued new bonds with warrants to five friendly companies, which if fully exercised would create 6.1 million new shares, inflating the total shares outstanding by nearly 20 percent to 37.1 million shares. this would make it difficult for a hostile bidder to buy the retailer
its stock value soared 51 percent last week on rumors that a takeover bid might be imminent
since belgium does not have any disclosure rules for investors in publicly traded companies, it was not clear whether a takeover might be planned
the company said it knew of no parties interested in acquiring it, but undertook the takeover defense in the interest of protecting shareholder value and supporting management policies. it said the unusual movement of the shares in recent days had ``created uncertainty.''
the move by gb-inno-bm came against a background of sudden management uncertainty caused by a hostile takeover fight surrounding belgium's biggest company, societe generale de belgique s.a. italian investor carlo de benedetti has been vying for control of societe generale
a unit of pirelli spa arranged a $2.3 billion credit line thursday through sbci swiss bank corp. to finance its takeover bid for firestone tire and rubber co., sbci said
veere inc., a unit of pirelli and pirelli societe internationale sa, will use $1.93 billion dollars to finance the $58 dollar-a-share bid for the u.s. tire maker, the bank said
the bid by the milan-based tire maker was announced monday after being rumored for more than a week
the remainder of the credit line will go to refinance ``certain obligations of firestone,'' the bank said. it did not elaborate
the bank also did not state the terms of the credit facility, which is being fully underwritten by swiss bank corp. and credit suisse
pirelli has said it will spin off part of firestone to france's michelin &amp; co. but pirelli's offer was made after firestone already had agreed to sell its tire business to japan's bridgestone corp. for about $1.25 billion by setting up a joint venture that would give the japanese company a 75 percent stake in firestone's factories and retail network
analysts have said they expect bridgestone to make a counter offer
the stock market fell sharply today, giving back some of the gains from its early-1988 rally
analysts said traders were disappointed by the dow jones industrial average's inability to make a run at the 2,100 level after reaching new highs for the year on tuesday
investors evidently are skeptical about the market's ability to put together a sustained rally less than six months after the october crash
those traders who have been buying are quick to step in and take profits when prices move up, brokers say
a good many market participants are already looking ahead to next week's scheduled monthly report on the trade deficit, trying to figure out whether the figures are likely to maintain the favorable trend of the past couple of reports
today japan said its trade surplus fell in february from its comparable level a year ago
canadian liquor giant seagram co. ltd. proposed the ultimate in mixed drinks thursday, announcing it will buy orange juice producer tropicana products inc. for $1.2 billion to expand seagram's share of the beverage market
the canadian liquor-and-beverage giant's acquisition of tropicana from beatrice u.s. food corp. marks a ``diversification and an expansion'' of seagram's product line, seagram chairman edgar m. bronfman said in a statement
securities analysts said the move into the orange juice business was a logical step for seagram, which has limited growth potential through its liquor products
the purchase _ made throught the company's u.s. subsidiary, joseph e. seagram &amp; sons inc. _ will be financed initially with a combination of bank loans and short-term borrowings, seagram said
montreal-based seagram, best known for its distilled spirits and wines, has in recent years moved into the manufacturing of wine coolers and sells cocktail mixers such as tonic, seltzer and ginger ale under the seagram's name
seagram is also in the process of acquiring french cognac producer martell &amp; co. in a deal valued at $930 million
we have already broadened our base with seagram's (wine) coolers and tropicana is another step in this direction,'' bronfman said
tropicana, with headquarters in bradenton, fla., is a well-known fruit juice and beverage manufacturer and distributor. it had sales of about $750 million in its last fiscal year, which ended feb. 29, said marcelline thomson, a seagram spokeswoman in new york
tropicana is a leading producer of both ready-to-serve orange juice and frozen concentrate
it's a good fit,'' said robert s. reitzes, who tracks seagram for the investment firm mabon, nugent &amp; co. in new york. ``it makes sense in their business.''
ian osler, an analyst with prudential-bache securities inc. in toronto, agreed, saying orange juice is not that different from seagram's current businesses
they understand the business and it's growing, unlike most of their liquor products,'' osler said
reitzes said it was possible seagram would use the tropicana name to introduce new products
seagram had net income of nearly $423.5 billion on sales of $3.3 billion in the fiscal year ending jan. 31, 1987, and reported a profit of more than $402.4 million on sales of $2.6 billion for the nine months ending oct. 31, ms. thomson said
beatrice u.s. food corp., based in chicago, is a division of closely-held beatrice co., which put itself up for sale last september
beatrice chairman donald kelly had hoped to sell the company as a whole, but could not find a buyer at his asking price, reportedly $4.5 billion
beatrice spokesman charles long said the company also is considering selling its hunt's tomato products and wesson oils lines
beatrice also owns the meat company swift-ekrich inc., peter pan peanut butter and orville redenbacher popcorn
the company's predecessor, beatrice cos., was taken private in 1986 in a $6.2 billion leveraged buyout led by kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co
a number of beatrice cos.' assets, including avis car rental and international playtex inc. personal products, were sold off, and others were spun off as e-ii holdings inc
e-ii agreed last month to be taken over by american brands inc
the dow jones average of 30 industrials dropped 48.24 points to 2,026.03
declining issues outnumbered advances by nearly 3 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 413 up, 1,198 down and 371 unchanged
big board volume totaled 197.26 million shares, against 210.90 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index fell 2.56 to 148.92. index; no pickup</note>
share prices rose sharply on the london stock exchange thursday after britain's top treasury official, chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson, said a further steep rise in the pound against the west german mark could not be sustained
trading was heavy in selected stocks, with oil shares setting a fast pace on good gains in crude oil prices
at the close, the financial times-stock exchange 100-share index was up 19.3 points at 1,834.6
the pound surged on world currency markets monday and tuesday after the bank of england stopped selling pounds to prevent the british currency from rising too sharply. the pound retreated wednesday and thursday when the central bank renewed its pound sales
lawson's comments in parliament calmed fears that a strong pound, which increases the price of exports, would make british companies less competitive, dealers said
they said there was a general feeling in the market that the british government will not let the pound go much above 3.10 marks without taking steps to halt the rise
the pound fell in late trading to 3.06 marks from 3.08 marks late wednesday. report are for week ended tuesday. all other figures are for the week ended wednesday.</note>
assets of the nation's 240 money market mutual funds rose $1.41 billion in the latest week, setting a record, the investment company institute said thursday
the rise, to $280.06 billion in the seven-day period ended wednesday, followed a $1.37 billion drop in the funds' assets the previous week to a revised $278.65 billion, according to the washington-based mutual fund trade group
the funds' assets previous record high was $280.02 billion in the week ended feb. 24
the investment company institute said that in the latest week, assets of 210 general purpose funds fell $306.5 million to $81.50 billion, assets of 97 broker-dealer funds rose $1.29 billion to $116.39 billion, and assets of 113 institutional funds rose $423.7 million to $82.17 billion
the seven-day average yield on money market mutual funds fell in the week ended tuesday to 6.05 percent from 6.10 percent the previous week, according to donoghue's money fund report, a trade journal based in holliston, mass
the 30-day average yield fell to 6.12 percent from 6.17 percent, donoghue's said
the average maturity of the portfolios held by money funds was 43 days, down from 45 days, donoghue's said
separately, the newsletter bank rate monitor said its survey of 100 leading commercial banks, savings and loan assocations and savings banks in the nation's 10 largest markets showed the effective annual yield available on money market accounts fell to 5.73 percent as of wednesday from 5.74 percent a week earlier
the north palm beach, fla.-based newsletter said the effective annual yield available on special savings accounts, called super now accounts, remained unchanged at 5.17 percent
bank rate monitor said the effective annual yield was 6.83 percent on six-month certificates of deposit, down from 6.85 percent the previous week. yields were 7.15 percent on 1-year cds, down from 7.16 percent; 7.55 percent on 2{-year cds, down from 7.57 percent; and 8.02 percent on 5-year cds, down from 8.04 percent
a joint board of directors for hollywood's two top acting unions voted to authorize a strike for march 21 against television and radio advertisers, with cable television residuals a top sticking point
the vote by the directors for the screen actors guild and the american federation of radio and television artists came late wednesday, actors guild spokesman mark locher said thursday
in 1987, actors were paid about $400 million for radio and television commercials, according to advertisers. the unions said the members earned $520 million
it's our bread-and-butter contract,'' said locher. ``it certainly means survival to most actors between jobs.''
if actors strike it will be the second labor action by a hollywood talent union this month. the writers guild of america struck studios and producers on sunday
in new york, chief advertising group negotiator john mcguinn warned thursday that a strike could last as long as six months, and urged advertisers to resist signing any interim agreements with the unions. mcguinn made his comments at a television advertising seminar
talks between sag-aftra and the joint policy committee of the american association of advertising agencies and the association of national advertisers have been held in manhattan. the two management agencies represent 400 advertisers and about 300 agencies, spokeswoman dorothy forget said
negotiations for a new three-year contract began january 11, with the old contract expiring on feb. 6. the joint union membership voted 93 percent for a strike authorization on march 2, and talks broke off on march 7
the joint sag-aftra membership is more than 100,000. the unions negotiate jointly on the issue of commercials
advertising negotiator mcguinn and guild national executive secretary ken orsatti, the chief bargaining agent for the actors, both cited the matter of residuals from commercials shown on cable television as one unresolved point
actors currently receive no residuals from cable television showings of their commercials after they have earned their first $1,000 in payments from showings on regular, prime-time television
orsatti noted that virtually all commercials chosen for cable television have met the $1,000 requirement
orsatti also said advertisers want to take away the 10-year-old cost of living clause in the commercial contract. he said a cost of living raise has been the only kind of increase actors have had in the last two contracts
deteriorating viewership of network television over the past six years has kept other commercial residual increases in check, orsatti said
management has used the argument that the erosion in the network area was caused by cable,'' orsatti said, ``but they are unwilling to consider any formula which restructures cable payments so that the performer has an opportunity to somewhat make up for those dollars lost on the network side.''
orsatti said the union wants to negotiate actors' payments for commercials shown on cable tv based on subscribers, wit an actor receiving a one-day session fee of $333 for the first 20 million subscribers, and another session fee for each additional 30 million subscribers thereafter
mcguinn said the advertisers offered to pay one session fee for 13 weeks of cable use, regardless of any previous use of the commercial on broadcast newtorks. he said the union's proposal would be too costly
orsatti said several formulas have been discussed
union members on thursday accused eastern airline's parent company of trying to financially cripple the air carrier to win wage concessions
the primary focus of our new management seems to have strayed from safety to cutting operating costs,'' eastern pilot john knudson told a rally of 1,500 union members and supporters
union representatives said frank lorenzo, chairman of eastern's parent texas air corp., has stripped eastern of valuable assets and has hired merrill lynch to amass a $200 million strike fund
under lorenzo, eastern management also has asked pilots to fly in unsafe conditions and has harassed flight attendants, union officials said
a three-year contract with the airline's 12,000 members of the machinists union expired at the end of december. negotiations have failed to produce a new agreement and the issues are now in federal mediation
lorenzo purchased the miami-based airline in 1986. giant texas air also owns continental airlines, people express, new york air and other aviation subsidiaries
these management practices of frank lorenzo are in direct contrast to the policies of the other six major carriers, and they will spread like a cancer to the rest of the industry if they are ignored now,'' knudson said
paula musto, a spokeswoman for eastern, said the rally was a union attempt to gain public support during contract negotiations
we feel that it's public grandstanding while we're in the midst of contract negotiations with our largest union,'' ms. musto said
protesters, who rallied a block from the philadelphia offices of eastern and merrill lynch, said they did not want boycotts of either company but wanted to raise public awareness about what they called union-busting practices
demonstrations will be scheduled in other cities, including houston, denver and los angeles, said joseph b. uehlein, an afl-cio official who is coordinating a national campaign against lorenzo and merrill lynch
eastern has sold the airline's most valuable assets, such as wide-body planes and its computerized reservation system, to subsidiaries for less than market value, uehlein and other union officials said
in complaining about the airline's safety concerns, knudson, who has been with eastern for 21 years, said he was grounded for six days in september 1987 after refusing to fly a plane with a broken altitude alert
the warning device, which tells pilots when they have strayed from a set altitude, is required on all civil passenger planes, he said. knudson said he was reinstated when eastern failed to show sufficient cause for his grounding
knudson also said his co-pilot had been asked to fly more than the 30 hours allowed during a seven-day period
nancy tauss, a flight attendant and vice president of the transport workers union, said eastern management had searched flight attendants and fired others for technicalities
our people go to work each day not knowing if they're going to be fired,'' she said
ms. musto said work rules, ignored for years, were being enforced recently
of eastern's 32,000 employees, 7,000 belong to the transport workers union and 3,600 belong to the air line pilots association, union officials said. their contracts expire later this year
eastern lost $182 million on total revenue of $4.4 billion in 1987 and has lost $500 million since airline deregulation in 1978, ms. musto said. since jan. 20, sted jan. 8.</note>
the stock market took its sharpest drop in nearly two months thursday, giving back some of the gains from its early-1988 rally
the selloff hit both the blue chips and the smaller secondary stocks that had been especially strong of late
the dow jones average of 30 industrials fell 48.24 to 2,026.03, its largest loss since falling 57.20 on jan. 20
declining issues outnumbered advances by nearly 3 to 1 on the new york stock exchange, with 419 up, 1,202 down and 382 unchanged
big board volume totaled 197.26 million shares, against 210.90 million in the previous session. the nyse's composite index fell 2.56 to 148.92
analysts said traders were disappointed by the dow jones industrial average's inability to make a run at the 2,100 level after reaching new highs for the year on tuesday
investors evidently are skeptical about the market's ability to put together a sustained rally less than six months after the october crash
those traders who have been buying are quick to step in and take profits when prices move up, brokers say
a good many market participants are already looking ahead to next week's scheduled monthly report on the trade deficit, trying to figure out whether the figures are likely to maintain the favorable trend of the past couple of reports
on thursday japan said its trade surplus fell in february from its comparable level a year ago
point-plus losers among the blue chips included international business machines, down 2~ at 113}; ford motor, down 1} at 43]; alcan aluminium, down 1~ at 28]; merck, down 3| at 160|; international paper, down 2[ at 43}, and dupont, down 2| at 84\
afg industries fell 5 to 31|. forstmann little &amp; co. said it had decided after studying the matter not to make an offer to acquire afg
on the plus side, colt industries jumped 4~ to 18[ in active trading. the company said it agreed to be acquired by a group including its top executives for $17 a share
k mart dropped { to 34] after trading higher for most of the session on the company's report that earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended jan. 27 were $1.58 a share, up from $1.41 in the like period a year earlier
as measured by wilshire associates' index of more than 5,000 actively traded stocks, the market lost $39.96 billion, or 1.50 percent, in value
nationwide turnover in nyse-listed issues, including trades in those stocks on regional exchanges and in the over-the-counter market, totaled 226.80 million shares
standard &amp; poor's index of 400 industrials fell 6.21 to 306.25, and s&amp;p's 500-stock composite index was down 5.22 at 263.84
the nasdaq composite index for the over-the-counter market dropped 3.52 to 376.76. at the american stock exchange, the market value index closed at 296.00, down 3.58
gold and platinum futures prices made strong gains thursday, partly in response to a rise in the price of crude oil to $16 a barrel for the first time this month, analysts said
on other markets, stock-index futures fell sharply; grain and soybean prices retreated broadly; and livestock and meat futures were mixed
the sharp increase in energy futures prices on a rumored production cut by the organization of petroleum exporting countries had inflationary implications that supported precious metals futures, analysts said
there's a view in the market that inflation's going to be picking up toward the end of the year and that inflation is going to be more of a concern than recession at year end,'' said fred demler, metals economist for drexel burnham lambert inc. in new york
in addition, talk of physical tightness developing in the cash platinum market after two quarters of price weakness helped spur buying of platinum futures, and some of that buying interest spilled over into the gold market, demler said
demler said the gold and platinum markets were oversold and due for an upside correction to bring futures prices more in line with reality
silver futures declined slightly
on new york's commodity exchange, gold settled $7 to $8.40 higher with the contract for delivery in april at $444.50 a troy ounce; silver was 3.3 cents to 3.7 cents lower with march at $6.265 a troy ounce
platinum settled $16.80 to $18.50 higher on the new york mercantile exchange with april at $498.10
the rumors of opec production cuts that fueled the jump in energy futures on the new york mercantile exchange were later denied, but oil prices fell only slightly from their highs of the day
market players still expect opec nations to take measures aimed at boosting prices, said bob baker, an analyst for prudential-bache securities inc. in new york
west texas intermediate crude oil settled 44 cents to 51 cents higher with april at $16 a barrel; heating oil was .72 cent to 1.07 cents higher with april at 43.93 cents a gallon; unleaded gasoline was .66 cent to 1.14 cents higher at 45.14 cents a gallon
inflationary fears also contributed to a sharp drop in stock-index futures on the chicago mercantile exchange, analysts said
the chicago mercantile exchange's contract for march delivery of the standard &amp; poor's 500 index settled 6.75 points lower at 262.90, nearly a full point below the spot index
grain and soybean futures closed broadly lower on the chicago board of trade with little buying interest in the face of bearish fundamentals
traders expect a march 31 government report on spring plantings will show a general increase in crop acreage, said ted mao, grain specialist with shearson lehman hutton inc
other market pressures include the large soybean crop now being harvested in south america, an increase in world vegetable-oil production and the lackluster prospects for new grain export sales to the soviet union in the near term, mao said
wheat settled 4} cents to 9 cents lower with march at $2.90 a bushel; corn was 1 cent to 2\ cents lower with march at $1.97} a bushel; oats were 3 cents to 6 cents lower with march at $1.81\ a bushel; soybeans were 2\ cents to 6 cents lower with march at $6.03} a bushel
live cattle futures finished slightly lower on the chicago mercantile exchange on expectations of increased slaughters next week, analysts said. feeder cattle were mostly higher
pork futures retreated on ideas that ham supplies were sufficient to satisfy eastertime demand, said tom o'hare, analyst in new york with smith barney, harris upham &amp; co
live cattle were .08 cent lower to .02 cent higher with april at 72.92 cents a pound; feeder cattle were .20 cent lower to .48 cent higher with march at 81.55 cents a pound; hogs were .28 cent lower to .05 cent higher with april at 43.32 cents a pound; frozen pork bellies were .50 cent to .75 cent lower with march at 51.65 cents a pound
the dollar was mixed thursday as trading in the other major currencies continued to dominate foreign-exchange markets
gold prices advanced sharply amid a confluence of factors. republic national bank of new york quoted a bid price of $442.50 for a troy ounce of gold as of 4 p.m. est, up $6.35 an ounce from $436.15 late wednesday
the british pound, which has soared in recent trading sessions, gave up some ground to profit-taking after britain's chancellor of the exchequer nigel lawson said sterling would be unable to sustain a further advance
in london, the pound fell to $1.8435 from $1.8460 late wednesday. in later new york trading, sterling slipped to $1.8462 from $1.8475 late wednesday
with the slippage in the pound, traders turned not to the dollar, but to other currencies, said james mcgroarty, a vice president at discount corp
the french franc fell and the west german mark gained following rumors that french president francois mitterrand might not run for re-election in may, mcgroarty said
the dollar has been very much sidetracked by all this,'' he said
he said trading in the dollar remained listless as the market awaited the release of several economic reports from washington: retail sales and producer price figures on friday, and balance of trade numbers next week
in europe, currency dealers said the mark gained against most other major currencies in late trading after the bank of france withdrew its support for the franc against the mark
in tokyo, the dollar rose to a closing 128.20 japanese yen from 128.08 yen at wednesday's close. later, in london, the dollar fell back to 127.85 yen, and in new york, it rose marginally to 127.955 yen from 127.95 yen late wednesday
other late dollar rates in new york, compared with late wednesday's prices, included: 1.66345 west german marks, down from 1.66895; 1.3785 swiss francs, down from 1.37905; 5.6665 french francs, up from 5.6530; 1,236.625 italian lire, up from 1,232.50; and 1.25685 canadian dollars, down from 1.2537
other late dollar rates in europe, compared with late wednesday, included: 1.6640 west german marks, down from 1.6685; 1.3785 swiss francs, unchanged; 5.6725 french francs, up from 5.6485; 1.8720 dutch guilders, down from 1.8750; 1,236.625 italian lire, up from 1,231.50; and 1.2564 canadian dollars, up from 1.2532
gold prices surged amid a variety of factors, said stephen platt, an analyst with dean witter reynolds inc. in chicago
there was nervousness in bullion markets about the upcoming economic reports and about rising energy prices, platt said
the benchmark u.s. crude oil jumped 51 cents to $16 a barrel on the new york mercantile exchange after reports that officials of the 13-nation organization of petroleum exporting countries were studying a plan to cut production
rising energy prices are believed to be a harbinger of higher inflation, and gold is considered a safe haven during inflationary periods
gold also rose because it may have been oversold recently, platt said
bullion soared $7 on the commodity exchange in new york, closing at $443.20 a troy ounce
in london, gold jumped to a late bid price of $443 a troy ounce, up from $436.50 bid late wednesday
in zurich, switzerland, it rose to $442.50 bid from $437 bid late wednesday
earlier, in hong kong, gold closed at $438.42 bid, up from $438.01 bid at wednesday's close
silver bullion rose in london to a late bid price of $6.36 a troy ounce, from $6.31 bid late wednesday. but it fell on the commodity exchange, slipping 3.3 cents to $6.265
the two broadest measures of the nation's money supply fell in late february, the federal reserve board reported thursday
the fed said the measure known as m2 fell to a seasonally adjusted $2,947.5 billion in the week ended feb. 29 from $2,953.1 billion the previous week
an even broader measure, m3, fell to a seasonally adjusted $3,722.4 billion from $3,724.4 billion
the narrowest measure of the money supply, m1, fell to a seasonally adjusted $755.1 billion from a revised $762.1 billion
m1 includes cash in circulation, deposits in checking accounts and non-bank travelers checks. m2 is m1 plus accounts like savings deposits and money-market mutual funds. m3 is m2 plus less-liquid accounts, such as certificates of deposit in minimum denominations of $100,000
in judging its monetary policy, the fed has indicated it is monitoring the value of the dollar, commodity prices and the difference between short- and long-term interest rates. it also has shifted its attention from m1 to the two broader money supply measures
the fed said in early 1988 that it would like annual growth for m2 and m3 to be between 4 percent and 8 percent, which is slightly lower than the 1987 target of 5.5 percent to 8.5 percent. the fed has not set a specific target range for m1 since early 1987
in other reports:
_the federal reserve bank of new york reported commercial and industrial loans at major new york city banks rose $1.3 billion, compared with a decline of $1.07 billion a week earlier
_the federal reserve said bank borrowings from the federal reserve system at the discount window averaged $378 million a day in the week ended wednesday, up from $187 million a day in the previous week
_the federal reserve said net free reserves averaged $615 million in the latest two-week period, down from a revised $879 million in the previous two-week period
_the federal reserve bank of st. louis reported that the monetary base, the seasonally adjusted total of member bank reserves held at federal reserve banks and cash in bank vaults and in circulation, was $271.2 billion in the two-week period ended wednesday, down from $272.4 billion two weeks earlier
the state-owned rover group said it lost money in 1987, but far less than it lost in 1986
the latest shortfall totaled 26.8 million pounds, or $49.3 million _ a fraction of the record 892.1 million-pound net loss the previous year, before it sold its leyland bus and truck divisions
at the time the 1986 loss was the equivalent of $1.09 billion
the group achieved an operating profit of 27.9 million pounds, or $51.3 million, in 1987, its best result for 19 years, the company announcement said. last year, the group posted an operating loss of 355.6 million pounds
it's land rover division surged ahead last year, increasing operating profits from 1.6 million pounds in 1986 to 22.5 million pounds, or $41.4 million, in 1987
the group's largest company, austin rover, turned an operating loss of 166.6 million pounds into a profit of 5.1 million pounds, or $9.4 million, last year
the group, whose models include the popular rover sterling and range rover, exported nearly 174,000 vehicles for just over 1 billion pounds, or $1.85 billion _ a 69 percent increase over 1986
total sales at 513,000 vehicles were up 11 percent, the company said
farmers group inc., a leading insurer, said thursday its board unanimously rejected an unsolicited $63 per share, or $4.4 billion, tender offer from the u.s. susidiary of british bat industries plc
farmers also said it was urging shareholders to reject the offer
the action by farmers had been expected since the company has consistently spurned bat's overtures since the the british company proposed a friendly $60-per-share merger in january
bat's louisville, ky.-based unit, batus inc., launched the sweetened hostile tender offer a week ago after farmers' repeatedly refused to meet and discuss a merger. the tender offer expires march 30
batus had no comment on the rejection by farmers
the price being offered by batus is still well below the $70 to $80 per share that some analysts say farmers should be able to attract, although batus officials have insisted their offer represents a fair price
farmers' stock was trading in the mid-$40 range before batus made it initial proposal. it closed thursay at $60 per share, down 75 cents
meantime, the companies in the past week have filed a flurry of legal actions in the takeover fight
farmers filed suit in federal court in reno, nev., where it is incorporated, challenging batus' efforts to place a proposal before shareholders at the farmer's may 20 annual meeting urging that merger negotiations be held
batus has filed suit in nevada, nebraska and south carolina seeking to block enforcement of laws restricting takeovers in those states
wang laboratories inc.'s stock fell more than 20 percent thursday as the company said customers were delaying orders, cutting into the company's projected revenue and profitability
wang's class b stock fell $3.50 a share to $12.87{ in consolidated trading on the american stock exchange
in response to questions from securities analysts, wang said it expected its revenue in the third fiscal quarter ending march 31 to be up 4 percent to 6 percent from the year-earlier level, instead of 10 percent to 12 percent as previously projected
wang also said it expects third-quarter profits to be about 3 percent of revenue, instead of 3 percent to 5 percent as previously projected
the lowell, mass.-based maker of minicomputers and office-automation equipment said it continues to expect to achieve its goals for revenue and profits for the full fiscal year, indicating that orders expected for the third quarter will be recorded in the fourth quarter instead
wang also said its new family of wang integrated image systems, which allow users to manipulate data, text and images on the same terminals, were proceeding as planned and ``generating a higher-than-expected level of customer interest.''
fred wang, the president and chief executive, said some of the slowing of orders may have come from customers' doubts about the economic outlook, which has brightened recently
a powerful house committee chairman told the secretary of energy thursday the reagan administration's plan to sell the naval petroleum reserves in california and wyoming ``doesn't look good.''
privatization means let somebody have it so they can make some money,'' rep. jamie whitten, d-miss., told secretary john herrington, after recounting how he stopped the sale of the elk hills oil reserve in california as a young member of congress in 1943
i have a long memory,'' said whitten, who is chairman of the appropriations committee and as such, a member of the subcommittee on energy and water development before which herrington appeared. according to his account, the potential 1943 buyer would have taken oil from the field for immediate use and repaid the navy at such a slow rate that it would have taken 450 years to square accounts
though still called naval petroleum reserves, the two oil fields have been controlled by the energy department in commercial production since the mid-1970s
whitten's objections were seconded by the ranking republican on the subcommittee, rep. john t. myers of indiana, who said, ``i've never understood why you wanted to sell that and pump in new oil'' into storage in the strategic petroleum reserve in lousiana and texas
the elk hills field, 22 percent owned by chevron corp. and the rest by the government, is ``not a reserve, it's a cash cow'' being milked for money by a revenue-hungry congress, herrington said
we had no business selling oil from there (elk hills) at $8 and $10 a barrel'' in the price collapse of 1986, said herrington. but the department did not have authority to suspend production as a private owner would have done, he said
the administration's budget request assumes that sale of the two oil fields will bring in $3.5 billion over the next two fiscal years. the department's consultants said proceeds could be $4.3 billion, and herrington told the subcommittee the amount ``could be as high as $7 billion'' if congress allows the sale
you're going to have to get 3 million barrels a day or 4 million barrels a day into the economy on an asap basis and you can't do that at elk hills,'' said herrington
thus, he said, it makes sense to sell the naval reserves and use the money to buy oil for the louisiana-texas stockpile because elk hills can produce only about 115,000 barrels a day and the teapot dome reserve in wyoming can produce only about 3,000 barrels a day
the salt domes of the gulf coast now hold 540 million barrels of crude oil, roughly the equivalent of 90 days of imports, and can pump oil to refineries at the rate of 3.5 million barrels a day
if the sale goes through, the department proposes to use the money to increase additions to the strategic reserve from 50,000 barrels a day to 100,000 barrels a day
