secretary of state george p. shultz will have to overcome yitzhak shamir's growing opposition if he expects the new u.s. peace proposals to get anywhere
the 72-year-old prime minister, a former underground fighter and senior spymaster, has a reputation for being tough-minded. aides say he will not yield to the pressure of negative publicity or diplomatic arm-twisting
shamir has expressed serious reservations, and some annoyance, about american ideas for reviving progress toward peace in the middle east. to clear the air in advance of the shultz visit next week, he sent emissaries to washington to declare what he would and would not accept
one envoy was ehud olmert, a senior figure in shamir's conservative likud bloc, who said he told shultz the prime minister would not agree to territorial compromise in advance of peace talks
territory for peace is a non-starter,'' olmert said in an interview. ``we are ready to negotiate on the territorial issue, but that doesn't mean we are ready to accept withdrawing from the territories before negotiations.''
israel has occupied the west bank and gaza strip since capturing them from jordan and egypt in the 1967 middle east war
shultz suggested the land-for-peace formula in a speech to the council on foreign relations in washington and it apparently upset shamir
the timing, manner and phrasing was inappropriate, inasmuch as he wants to have the prime minister in the process,'' olmert said, adding that he believed the secretary of state realized his ``mistake.''
shultz's plan calls for:
_ an international forum that would convene by april to launch arab-israeli negotiations. the soviets would likely play an equal role with washington
_ an interim solution for the west bank and gaza in the form of self-rule for the 1.5 million palestinians who live there. elections would be held by october to choose a self-governing body
_ talks on the final status of the occupied lands to start by december even without progress on autonomy
shamir initially indicated flexibility, to encourage negotiations, but the suggestion that he would agree to yield some of the occupied land caused a storm of protest among likud hard-liners
perhaps fearing concessions would be seen as giving in to arab rioters, shamir has drawn back, with tougher rhetoric and warnings between the lines that he will not accept pressure from the americans
he has been cool to soviet involvement, requested a clearer definition of the forum that would launch negotiations, and expressed opposition to linking talks on a temporary solution in the occupied territories with negotiations on a permanent settlement
he argues that several years of experience with limited self-rule is needed to build confidence for a stable solution
there is a need for a considerable period of practical experience, of coexistence between us and the palestinian arab authorities before the question of sovereignty can be approached,'' shamir said in a speech this week
shultz will begin a middle east shuttle thursday after a visit to moscow, using jerusalem as a base and traveling to jordan, egypt and possibly other arab countries, israeli officials said
his most intensive shuttle, however, may be between shamir and foreign minister shimon peres. the two partners and rivals in israel's coalition government and who disagree sharply on strategy for peace
they are miles apart,'' an official close to peres said privately. ``shultz will try to bring them to together as he has in the past.''
peres, leader of the center-left labor party, has endorsed jordan's proposal for an international conference, which shamir says would be biased against israel. labor accepts the land-for-peace formula but the likud fears giving up land would make israel vulnerable
aides to both leaders say shultz will concentrate on winning shamir's agreement, since peres already has accepted the shultz plan. ``shultz's major goal is to convince shamir,'' one official said
a senior aide to shamir, also speaking on condition of anonymity, said the prime minister views the shultz visit ``with caution'' but is ready to listen and give his position. ``some of his (shultz's) ideas are okay and others are not,'' the aide said
nicolas b. tatro is chief of the associated press bureau in jerusalem. delayed.</note>
the reputed leader of a chicago-area group called the skinheads and five other alleged white supremacists were indicted friday for attacking a woman and drawing a swastika on her wall with her blood
authorities believe the defendants beat the 20-year-old woman, with whom they were acquainted, because she had black friends, state's attorney's spokeswoman lisa howard said
the group's leader, clark martell, 28, and the others were charged with home invasion, robbery, theft and two counts of aggravated battery, ms. howard said
arrested with them jan. 25 was an unidentified 16-year-old whose indictment had been expected friday but was delayed until later this month because a special hearing must be held to charge him as an adult, ms. howard said
the victim was not identified to protect her from members of the white supremacist group, ms. howard said
the suspects are accused of pushing their way into the woman's north side apartment last april, forcing her to the floor and repeatedly punching and kicking her
after her attackers sprayed a mace-type chemical in her face, the woman managed to break free and lock herself in the bathroom, where she passed out, ms. howard said
the defendants allegedly ransacked her apartment, stole jewelry and clothing and drew swastikas throughout her home, ms. howard said
most of the nazi symbols were spray-painted or drawn with markers, but one swastika on the woman's living room wall was drawn with the victim's blood,'' ms. howard said
prosecutors believe the attack was motivated by the defendants' anger over the victim's friendship'' with blacks, ms. howard said. the victim had formerly associated with the skinheads, she said
this type of crime, which is nothing more than vicious race hatred, will not be tolerated in cook county, just as it cannot be tolerated anywhere in our society,'' state's attorney richard m. daley said in a statement
these defendants will be prosecuted to fullest extent of the law, as will anyone who dares to commit such a cowardly crime,'' he said
the home invasion charge, which is the most serious, has a maximum prison sentence of 30 years and a minimum of six years without probation, ms. howard said. the robbery charge can bring as much as seven years in prison and the theft and battery charges can bring as much as five-year terms each, she said
the others indicted were identified as morgan kipp, 18, her brother sean kipp, 20, cassandra clark, 20, tracy zajdel, 20, and kevin jamison, 26. they are scheduled to be arraigned march 11 before chief criminal court judge richard fitzgerald. all except martell are free on $50,000 bond
the state's attorney's office will seek to try the juvenile as an adult
martell is scheduled to appear in court twice on charges stemming from separate racial attacks before the hearing on the latest indictments
skinheads is a name some white supremacists across the nation have given themselves, in accordance with their practice of shaving their heads. but some people enjoy the music and fashion of the skinheads without sharing their racist sentiments, said terry levin, a spokesman for the state's attorney's office
spanish women will be able to enlist in the armed forces under a decree that takes effect next week, but they won't be eligible for combat or military academies
women will be allowed to serve in 24 noncombatant units in the armed forces and paramilitary civil guards, government spokesman javier solana told reporters friday after the weekly cabinet meeting
the cabinet had just approved a decree providing for volunteer female military service in keeping with an article in the constitution that prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex
women can sign up for military service after publication tuesday of the decree in the official state bulletin, but they will not be eligible for admittance to the country's three military academies
all spanish males over the age of 18 are required to serve one year in the military
panama, apparently seeking a way out of a legal and diplomatic predicament with the united states, made discreet inquiries about u.s. willingness to drop federal charges against military strong man gen. manuel antonio noriega, administration officials say
the state department confirmed friday that panamanian authorities had asked about that possibility and that assistant secretary of state elliott abrams raised the matter with the justice department
after being told that dropping the charges was ``technically possible,'' abrams relayed that message wednesday to panamanian president eric arturo delvalle during an unannounced meeting in miami
but during their discussion, abrams ``made no deal, offered no deal and was not in a position to offer a deal,'' state department spokesman charles redman said
redman added that the indictments against noriega are ``obviously based on strong evidence, and we have every intention on carrying through with them.''
the panamanian embassy had no comment on the miami meeting, saying only that delvalle had gone to miami for medical treatment
redman denied an account in the new york times that said abrams told delvalle the indictment might be dropped if noriega withdrew from politics and went into exile. the times cited as its sources u.s. officials and congressional staff members it did not name
the panamanian inquiry was made as a political crisis grew in panama, brought on in part by noriega's legal problems
indictments handed down in florida two weeks ago portrayed noriega as a key member of an international drug trafficking conspiracy
among other activities, he was accused of providing protection and other government services to international drug smugglers who shipped cocaine and marijuana to the united states through panama
u.s.-panamanian agreements do not provide for his extradition, making it virtually impossible for noriega to be brought to trial
at the same time, the reagan administration is deeply concerned about panama's political stability and has been encouraging noriega and his military allies to withdraw from politics
the administration believes that the security of the panama canal is best assured through elected civilian rule. delvalle is widely viewed as a figurehead president who bows to noriega's wishes
the times account said that under the formula abrams discussed, noriega could move to any country he wished without having to concern himself with the possibility of extradition to the united states
with noriega living in exile, this scenario also could enhance the possibility _ consistent with u.s. objectives _ of an evolution to a civilian-led government in panama
but redman insisted that the administration has no interest in any arrangement for noriega to be exiled in exchange for a drop of the charges
we all see the drug problem of tremendous importance in the united states as well as throughout the hemisphere,'' redman said, reaffirming that the indictments will not be withdrawn

editors:

members who used the publishable editor's note on pm-black school-georgia, sent feb. 12 in advance as b0200 and repeated feb. 18 as a0414, are asked to use the following:

new york (ap) _ in an editor's note preceding a story feb. 18 about black private schools, the associated press erroneously said the national association of independent schools represents roman catholic schools. it does not. operation</head>
a federal prosecutor in miami says he was ``treated like the enemy'' by u.s. diplomats and stymied by superiors in the u.s. attorney's office after he discovered oliver north's contra supply network
jeffrey feldman, an assistant u.s. attorney, says in a sworn statement the u.s. ambassador to costa rica ``turned white'' after learning what feldman knew in the spring of 1986 _ eight months before the iran-contra arms and money affair dominated the news
and feldman described months of unsuccessful efforts to take the investigation to the grand jury, with his boss telling him in august 1986 that ``politics'' was responsible for the delay
feldman, other prosecutors and an fbi agent unveiled the story of the miami investigation in sworn statements to the congressional iran-contra committees. they were released this week by a senate foreign relations subcommittee
feldman admitted he should have ``been more aggressive'' in pursuing the north network, ``because history has basically spoken.''
feldman and two fbi agents went to costa rica on march 31, 1986, to investigate an alleged murder plot against then-u.s. ambassador lewis tambs. the prosecutor said the plot proved to be bogus, but he did obtain details about a private supply network for the u.s.-backed contra rebels trying to overthrow the nicaraguan government
feldman said he made the information into a chart with north's name on the top. north, a national security council aide, directed the secret operations to sell arms to iran and aid the contras despite a law prohibiting such assistance
the ambassador turned white,'' feldman said, describing tambs after he was shown the chart. tambs was identified in the iran-contra hearings as a key link in north's network
the only thing he said when i pulled out the chart was `get fernandez in here.' the words are indelibly imprinted in my mind,'' feldman said
joe fernandez, then cia station chief in costa rica, ``knew he was dealing with three people (feldman and two fbi agents) who had only seen the tip of an iceberg and was ... trying to rip the credibility of the various people who were making the allegations that we were exploring,'' feldman said
feldman said he and the fbi investigators with him in costa rica ``were being treated like the enemy'' for the rest of their stay. he added, ``i felt perhaps we were being watched.''
throughout the spring and summer of 1986, feldman asked his boss, u.s. attorney leon kellner in miami, to allow the case to go to a grand jury
but feldman _ who at the time did not realize the full significance of what he had discovered _ said he was stalled for months by kellner and other top assistants in the office
kellner's assistants said the case wasn't far enough along to move to the grand jury. and on aug. 29, feldman said kellner told him, ``politics are involved.''
the secret sale of u.s. weapons to iran and the diversion of profits to the contras didn't dominate public attention until nov. 25, 1986, after a lebanese news magazine disclosed secret negotiations over american hostages between the united states and iran
kellner, in his deposition, acknowledged telling feldman that politics were causing a delay, but denied that he was referring to the discovery of north's network
instead, kellner said he referred to allegations he received from pro-contra mercenaries that aides to massachusetts sen. john kerry were paying informants to lie
kellner admitted he did not tell feldman about these allegations when he used the word ``politics'' _ but kellner decided not to give the case to the grand jury without first discussing these allegations with the justice department
feldman, who then was 29 years old, acknowledged in his statement that he did not focus on north, who was directing the iran-contra effort. feldman said he thought the case was mainly about paramilitary groups illegally aiding the contras
for the most part, the case is about people in private organizations, basically on their own, going out and recruiting help for the (contras) or putting their own little paramilitary groups together,'' feldman said
retail food prices will rise more slowly this year than last year's 4.2 percent increase, mainly because of a sharp increase in meat production, the agriculture department says
the forecast, however, is based on an expected jump in pork and poultry production, which should more than offset a drop in beef output in figuring retail food prices, according to a usda report issued this week
that does not necessarily mean any boon for consumers unwilling to forgo beef in favor of pork and poultry. the national cattlemen's association already is hailing a decline of 3 million head in the u.s. herd as of jan. 1 to 99 million as a ``bullish'' signal for increased beef prices
usda's economic research service says red meat production in 1987 totaled 38,449,000 pounds and poultry 19,765,000 pounds. consumption of red meat and poultry combined was 216.7 pounds per capita last year
the forecast issued this week said red meat production this year should reach 38,345,000 pounds and poultry 20,935,000. it estimated per capita consumption at 221.9 pounds
retail food prices last year were 333 percent of their 1967 level, according to the report. the report did not attempt to estimate precisely how much they would climb over the year ahead but merely said the increase would be less than that of 1987
the report also said hog profits fell sharply in the final quarter of 1987 and probably will continue to drop this year. net returns could average only slightly above the break-even point, it said
overseas sale of u.s. wheat climbed sharply last week, primarily because of soviet, chinese and moroccan purchases, the agriculture department says
soybean and sorghum sales also climbed, but corn, barley and cotton fell compared with the four-week average, the department said
wheat sales hit 1,178,100 metric tons. the soviets purchased 308,500 tons, china 299,000 tons and morocco 220,800 tons, the department said
usda said sales of sorghum totaled 347,100 tons, the most in the current marketing year. the increase was attributed mainly to purchases by japan, venezuela and israel
soybean sales of 589,500 tons were 56 percent over the previous week's mark and 72 percent above the four-week average. japan was the main purchaser, followed by romania, the netherlands and mexico
corn sales fell to 777,400 tons, 14 percent below the previous week and 44 percent lower than the four-week average, despite substantial purchases by japan and south korea. barley sales were down, with tunisia purchasing all of the 25,000 tons sold last week
according to the report, cotton sales totaled 55,700 bales, 13 percent below the previous week's mark and 50 percent off from the four-week average
rice sales of 23,900 tons were 56 percent above the previous week but 46 percent below the four-week average. trinidad, canada and saudi arabia were the main purchasers
among other commodities, soybean cake and meal sales were up for the week but still well short of the four-week average, while soybean oil sales were down. sales of hides and skins were lower for the week but a shade above the four-week average
the nation's catfish farms processed a total of 26 million pounds of fish in january, the agriculture department says
that represents a 24 percent gain from january 1987, usda says. the average price was 68 cents a pound, up 8 cents from a year earlier
sales of catfish in the united states totaled 5,680 metric tons in january, the report said
here are tentative schedules for the presidential candidates for the week beginning feb. 21. the information was provided by the campaigns, most of which are holding open late-week schedules
sunday, feb. 21:
democrats:
dukakis _ down
gephardt _ aberdeen, watertown and sioux falls, s.d
gore _ washington, d.c
hart _ south dakota
jackson _ philadelphia, pa; newark, n.j.; augusta, ga
simon _ oklahoma city; mount rushmore and rapid city, s.d.; worthington, minn
republicans:
bush _ down
dole _ wyoming, minnesota
kemp _ minneapolis; eden prairie, minn
robertson _ down
monday, feb. 22:
democrats:
dukakis _ washington, d.c.; south dakota; minnesota
gephardt _ sioux falls, s.d.; sheridan, wyo.; rapid city, s.d
gore _ baltimore; washington, d.c
hart _ madison, watertown, sioux falls, s.d
jackson _ macon, griffin and atlanta, ga; washington, d.c
simon _ st. peter, minneapolis, rochester and winona, minn

republicans:
bush _ south carolina
dole _ duluth, moorhead, rochester, minneapolis, minn
kemp _ st. paul, minn.; washington, d.c
robertson _ open
tuesday, feb. 23:
democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ rapid city, s.d.; rock springs, laramie and cheyenne, wyo;
sioux falls, s.d
gore _ norfolk, va; greensboro, n.c.; little rock and ft. smith, ark
hart _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ washington, d.c
republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ mankato, minneapolis, coon rapids, st. paul, minn
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ open
wednesday, feb. 24:
democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ texas
hart _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ open
republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ open
thursday, feb. 25:
democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ lafayette, la.; mobile, ala.; jacksonville, fla
hart _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ open
republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ open
friday, feb. 26:
democrats:
dukakis _ open
gephardt _ open
gore _ open
hart _ open
jackson _ open
simon _ open
republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ open
saturday, feb. 27:
democrats:
dukakis _ atlanta
gephardt _ atlanta
gore _ atlanta
hart _ atlanta
jackson _ atlanta
simon _ atlanta
republicans:
bush _ open
dole _ open
kemp _ south carolina
robertson _ open
surgeon general c. everett koop says public health officials agree that heterosexuals are at risk for contracting aids, despite recent published accounts that give the impression heterosexuals are relatively safe
koop said friday that several articles, including one in cosmopolitan magazine, wrongly led women and heterosexual men to believe they are not at risk
the risk is real,'' koop told the house energy and commerce subcommittee on health. ``it is just not true that there is no danger from normal vaginal intercourse. what is unknown is the level of danger. there is always a danger whenever people engage in casual sex outside the marriage relationship, even if their promiscuity is heterosexual.''
as of feb. 15, there were 53,814 cases of acquired immune deficiency syndrome reported to the federal centers for disease control. about 65 percent were in homosexual or bisexual males, and 17 percent were in intravenous drug abusers
while only 4 percent of current aids cases are reported among heterosexuals, koop said that proportion is expected to rise to 5 percent in the 1990s
koop told the subcommittee that medical personnel generally have responded well to the aids crisis. but he said there is a minority of medical personnel who ``refuse not only to treat persons with aids, but also turn away patients alleged to be from population groups identified with those two high-risk behaviors: that is, homosexual and bisexual males and intravenous drug abusers.''
he characterized that behavior as ``unworthy of anyone in the health or social service professions.''
those who turn away aids patients use the excuse that the disease is fatal and contagious, koop said. ``but the plain fact is that the risk of contracting (aids) from an infected patient is extremely small and nearly always preventable.''
of nearly 7 million health professionals in the country, koop said, fewer than a dozen became infected with the aids virus while doing their jobs and, in most cases, that exposure could have been prevented if the person had followed guidelines published five years ago by the cdc
cdc director james mason, another witness, said more than 15 million americans are being tested anonymously each year for aids through blood banks and the military and in 30 communities
he said more anonymous testing should be done to get a better fix on the extent of aids infection in the united states, but he rejected rep. william dannemeyer's idea that anyone coming in contact with the health system be tested
dannemeyer, r-calif., has introduced legislation that would require testing of hospital patients, clinic patients, marriage license applicants and others. he also wants to require reporting by name of any positive test results
mason endorsed the general approach sponsored by subcommittee chairman rep. henry waxman, d-calif., which includes voluntary testing, confidentiality and anti-discrimination protection for those with the disease or virus
where there's worry about confidentiality or discrimination, there's a chilling effect,'' mason said
american military intervention may be needed in colombia to halt the flow of narcotics to u.s. cities, sen. john f. kerry says
we've gotten to the point where we have to be prepared to be tough. we cannot be patsies about this stuff,'' the massachusetts democrat said friday. ``we ought to make it permanently hot for them down there.''
kerry, chairman of the senate foreign relations subcommittee on narcotics and terrorism, said the united states should provide colombia with helicopters, communications equipment and other military systems to combat the region's drug czars. he said an estimated 80 percent of the narcotics entering the united states come from colombia
but the senator added that military assistance may not be enough and that the administration should be willing to send troops to the area, if necessary, to help colombian agents
i'm willing, and i think we ought to consider, the use of our southern command forces to assist in the interdiction effort on a case-by-case basis. they ought to be able to do that because what you have here is literally a paramilitary organization that you're fighting against,'' kerry told reporters
this is a very sophisticated effort we're working against, and if it takes the visibility of our military force ... that's worth it to me,'' he added
last april, 14 u.s. military advisers were sent to bolivia to help train bolivian anti-drug police
in july 1986, the united states sent 175 soldiers provide logistical support for bolivian anti-drug operations. that program ended in november 1986
meanwhile, kerry released a letter to sen. lawton chiles, d-fla., chairman of the senate budget committee, urging the immediate transfer of $50 million from the defense department to the coast guard, which is charged largely with battling drug trafficking at sea
kerry lambasted president reagan for a series of coast guard budget cuts
i'm tired of this phony war on drugs where they talk about it, where they stand nancy (reagan) up at the state of the union message and try to pretend the war on drugs is rampaging across the country, and meanwhile they cut the guts out of the law enforcement effort. that type of hypocrisy has simply got to stop,'' kerry said
he also called for a tightening of banking regulations for cash transactions and increasing penalties for drug trafficking
president reagan and west german chancellor helmut kohl are lauding a western effort to build a common arms control strategy so nato can manage the soviets with ``realism, strength and alliance unity.''
the two leaders ended talks at the white house on friday with a pledge to intensify the effort at a nato summit march 2-3
what we need now is an overall concept covering the whole field of disarmament, and there i do not see any difference between us and the americans,'' kohl told reporters before heading back to bonn
we agreed that we must deal with the soviet union from a position of realism, strength and alliance unity,''
since reaching agreement with the soviets to eliminate land-based nuclear missiles with ranges between 300 miles and 3,125 miles, the united states and its allies have been trying to set goals for further talks with soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and his aides
we want to get out of a situation where we merely react to proposals which have been submitted by gorbachev. we want to put down proposals and let him react to them,'' kohl said
secretary of state george p. shultz, who attended the white house meeting, left later in the day for another round of negotiations with the soviets in moscow. kohl said shultz pledged to convey to the soviets the west german concern about ethnic germans facing discrimination in soviet bloc countries
nato already has agreed on a first priority of a u.s.-soviet reduction in long-range missiles and bombers, while seeking cuts in conventional and chemical weapons
we were in agreement that all these disarmament questions and issues as well as the necessary measures to preserve our common security should be combined in form and overall concept for our alliance,'' kohl said
each of the 16 allies, depending on its politics and geography, has different interests to advance, and one of the key differences was reflected in comments after kohl's meeting with reagan
west germany is particularly eager for negotiations to reduce tactical nuclear weapons _ those with ranges below 300 miles _ and wants those talks included in any conferences that deal with conventional weapons. kohl, whose country would be threatened by such weapons if a war broke out in europe, reiterated the desire for quick and comprehensive talks on the short-range systems
the united states, which believes tactical nuclear weapons are necessary to deter a conventional attack, wants to defer negotiations to reduce the short-range systems. indeed, it is working on plans to modernize these weapons, with nato approval
during kohl's visit, the two sides sought to minimize the importance of the disagreement. kohl said he did not favor the elimination of the tactical nuclear weapons: artillery shells and short-range missiles
he does not seek a ``denuclearized zone, least of all in europe,'' kohl said
kohl was asked at the news conference about concerns that modernization of short-range weapons would touch off protests like those that rocked europe in the early 1980s after nato decided to deploy intermediate-range weapons
i don't share that fear,'' kohl said
in its efforts to play down the issue, the reagan administration noted during kohl's visit that further study is needed before the most powerful of the short-range systems _ a missile to replace the 75-mile-range lance _ is deployed and it may not go into operation before 1995
rep. newt gingrich, contending that published reports have outlined ``clear violations of house rules'' by speaker jim wright, says he intends to ask the house ethics committee next month to launch a formal investigation
gingrich, r-ga., told a news conference friday that the house needs to know the truth about the allegations of corruption that have been leveled at wright, d-texas, in news accounts over the past decade
we're going to have to at least at a minimum insist that we find out what the truth is, and on march 3, i intend to create that opportunity,'' gingrich said
wright's office did not return a telephone call friday seeking comment on gingrich's plan to seek an ethics committee investigation
gingrich said two specific published reports about wright provide clear evidence that he violated house rules. one involved wright's failure since 1980 to file the required financial disclosure reports for a company in which he is a partner
the other involved 55 percent royalties wright received for a book published by a friend whose printing company worked for wright's campaign committee. house rules prohibit members from receiving royalties in excess of ``the usual and customary value for such services,'' gingrich said, and most authors receive royalties of 6 percent to 8 percent
gingrich said the ethics panel also should investigate wright's connection to texas savings and loan association officials who are under investigation by federal authorities
the democratic congressional campaign committee last month accused gingrich and a political action committee he heads of mail fraud and asked the postal service to investigate. the dccc said the pac collected more than $200,000 through mail solicitations of contributions for conservative candidates, but provided only $3,000 to such candidates
gingrich, who has denied the accusations, said friday the dccc complaint was a ``smoke screen'' designed to discredit him politically so he could not pursue the ethics complaints against wright
under house rules, any member can ask the ethics panel to investigate another member. the committee, composed of six democrats and six republicans, can reject such a request only by a majority vote
gingrich said it would be ``inconceivable'' that the committee would refuse to investigate the allegations. but if that happens, he said he intends to force the issue on the house floor with a series of privileged votes that could tie up house business
gingrich tried unsuccessfully last year to persuade the house to create an outside commission to investigate ethics complaints against wright and other democratic leaders
he said he was announcing his intention to seek an investigation of wright now to give other house members time to familiarize themselves with the long list of allegations
gingrich has criticized the ethics committee in the past for its lenient treatment of democrats accused of wrongdoing. but he said friday he has more confidence in the panel after its recent votes to reprimand one democratic congressman and recommend the expulsion of another
he said he believes the panel can conduct a fair investigation of wright if it will agree to hire an outside attorney acceptable to both republican and democratic house leaders and to complete its investigation before congress adjourns for the year
a proposed merger between two of the nation's largest manufacturers of glass containers remains on hold today in the wake of a ruling by a federal appeals court
late friday afternoon, the u.s. court of appeals issued an administrative stay of a lower court decision that would have cleared the way for the merger between owens-illinois inc. and brockway inc
earlier in the day, the federal trade commission had asked the appeals court to extend until next tuesday a restraining order blocking the merger until the agency could decide whether to appeal a ruling by u.s. district court judge joyce hens green
on thursday, green refused the ftc's request for a preliminary injunction, ruling that the ftc had not proven the deal would harm competition
ftc spokeswoman susan tichnor said the agency will have until next tuesday to file an appeal and that the court will issue a decision sometime after owens-illinois files a response wednesday
attorneys for owens-illinois said there is no excuse for the ftc's ``unusual filing'' friday to keep the merger on hold until the agency can decide whether to appeal
the ftc has been acutely aware since the beginning of this case of the extreme time sensitivity surrounding the merger and, in that regard, has had ample time to prepare for the possibility of a decision adverse to it,'' said paul warnke, an attorney for owens-illinois
last september, the toledo, ohio-based owens-illinois proposed to buy brockway, of jacksonville, fla., for $750 million, or $60 per share
the merger would make the combined company the largest manufacturer of glass containers in the industry. the nation's top manufacturer is anchor glass container corp., which controls 23.7 percent of the market
the ftc has said the merger might violate federal antitrust laws by substantially reducing competition in the glass container industry and creating conditions for price discrimination. it wants to halt the merger until it can conduct an administrative review of the proposal
but green accepted the argument advanced by the two manufacturers that competition from the plastics and metal-packaging industry will hold down prices
peace talks between nicaragua's leftist sandinista government and contra rebels are right back where they began _ mired in a dispute over what comes first, democracy or a truce
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the nicaraguan roman catholic church leader who has been mediating the negotiations, abruptly suspended the latest round of talks friday, indirectly blaming the sandinistas for their failure
obando y bravo said he was disappointed that both sides had not accepted, at least in principle, a proposal he put forth thursday in an attempt to break a deadlock that arose in the first hours of the talks
that impasse stemmed from what the cardinal said was the inability of the two sides to agree on whether they should negotiate a cease-fire to obtain democracy, or negotiate democracy to obtain a cease-fire
more than 40,000 people have been killed since november 1981, when the contras began fighting the sandinista government
the cardinal's plan called on the contras to accept a truce in exchange for four major concessions by the government. they were concessions the contras have long sought, and they quickly accepted the proposal in principle
but victor hugo tinoco, nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said the cardinal suspended the talks in mid-afternoon friday before he could deliver his government's formal, written response, which also conditionally accepted the plan
the confusion apparently arose because president daniel ortega initially instructed his negotiators to reject obando y bravo's proposal as unsuitable for discussion at talks the sandinista leader felt should be aimed solely at the mechanics of achieving a cease-fire
the government apparently changed its mind later and authorized tinoco to accept conditionally the cardinal's plan. by then, obando y bravo had suspended the negotiations without setting a time or place for a new round of talks
contra negotiators announced their tentative acceptance of obando y bravo's proposal at a news conference thursday night. shortly afterward, tinoco told reporters the plan was ``interesting and constructive,'' but needed clarification
paul reichler, a washington, d.c., attorney advising the sandinistas, said ortega advised the government negotiators during a telephone conference later thursday evening to reject obando y bravo's proposal
reichler quoted ortega as saying that if obando y bravo felt the issues he raised in his proposal were of vital importance to the nicaraguan people, the president would discuss them with the cardinal personally
but reichler said ortega's initial reaction was that he would not discuss political issues at the bargaining table with the contras _ a position the nicaraguan leader has long held
obando y bravo's plan called for the contras to move into unspecified ``enclaves or zones'' with their arms and equipment during a 30-day truce, during which talks would continue toward a more lasting cease-fire
in exchange, the cardinal called on the nicaraguan government to:
_grant a ``full, general'' amnesty to the several thousand political prisoners in nicaraguan jails, including members of the national guard of former dictator gen. anastasio somoza, whom the sandinistas overthrew in 1979
_permit ``unrestricted'' freedom of the press, a right now granted only to a few mass media, including the opposition newspaper la prensa and radio catolica, the voice of the catholic church
_``reconsider'' mandatory military draft law, which has provoked violent disturbances by youths and mothers of draft-age people in several nicaraguan cities
_reopen a dialogue with its internal opposition, including 14 dissident political parties and a coalition of business, labor and political groups known as the democratic coordinating council. those talks broke down late last year
tinoco's initial response and the government's later written statement said the obando y bravo plan needed clarification on the size and location of the cease-fire zones, when the truce would start, how it would be verified and how the contras would be supplied during the cessation of hostilities
reichler said ortega suggested that roger fisher, a harvard professor who heads the center for conflict resolution in boston, draw up a new cease-fire proposal, drawing on plans already submitted by both sides
but in announcing suspension of the talks, obando y bravo issued a communique rejecting fisher's participation in the negotiations. the communique said such work was the proper task of each side's technical advisers
a european ariane rocket will launch an american and a french satellite into orbit next month from the program's french guiana space center, the commercial arm of the european space agency announced
the march 11 launch from the south american base is to be ariane's 21st and the first of eight planned for this year
it is to lift the american spacenet 3-r satellite and the french telecom 1c into orbit, arianespace said in its announcement friday
the 20th ariane shot on nov. 20 placed the west german satellite tv-sat1 into orbit. the launch was flawless, but one of the satellite's solar panels failed to deploy and it has not been able to carry out its function of direct television broadcasts
the u.s. space shuttle program was suspended after the january 1986 challenger disaster, making the ariane program the west's only regular vehicle for the lucrative satellite-launching market
siberia is the stroke capital of the world, and heavy drinking and cold weather could be partly to blame, researchers say
soviet stroke data, gathered as part of a world health organization program, were released for the first time friday at a stroke conference sponsored by the american heart association
we were surprised,'' said dr. kjell asplund. ``we thought that china and japan would be the higest.''
the study showed that canada and denmark are the safest places to live, at least as far as stroke is concerned, although the stroke rate is low throughout most of north america, southern europe and australia
asplund, a researcher at umea university in umea, sweden, said the data suggest that strokes must have several causes. while racial differences may play a role, they don't explain all of the variations in the risk of stroke around the world
the study found that in siberia, the stroke rate was 119 for every 100,000 men and 107 for every 100,000 women. these figures were the highest in the world and significantly ahead of china, the country with the second highest stroke rate
strokes are also common in japan, but data collected there were so sparse they were not included in the analysis
strokes among men are least common in canada, where they strike 21 in 100,000. in women they are least frequent in denmark, where they occur in 8 in 100,000
asked why strokes are so common in siberia, asplund said, ``at this point, we can only guess. we know that alcohol consumption is very high. high alcohol use among men is associated with a high risk for stroke. i also suspect that there are some climate factors involved.''
although there are exceptions, such as canada, he said it appears that strokes are more common in cold climates than in milder places. he noted that people are more likely to suffer strokes in northern sweden than in southern sweden and in scotland than in england
some experts suspect that asians are more likely to suffer strokes, at least in part, because of racial differences. however, asplund said that most people in siberia moved there from european parts of the soviet union
it's not only a racial thing,'' he said. ``it must have other determinants as well. the goal of this study is to find the determinants of the huge variations in stroke around the world.''
he said the researchers will be trying to learn why the stroke rate is falling rapidly in the united states, while it is stable or increasing in many other countries
the study found that in most places, strokes are more common in men than in women. the only exceptions to this were sweden, canada and israel, where strokes are slightly more common among women
the 10-year project, called monitoring of trends and determinants of cardiovascular disease, or monica, is being conducted in 26 countries and will conclude in 1994
contra rebels claim they downed a soviet-made sandinista air force helicopter in eastern nicaragua with a u.s.-made redeye missile this week
the rebels, in a statement released in san jose friday, said they used the heat-seeking anti-aircraft weapon last sunday to shoot down the mi-17 helicopter in chontales province
in the nicaraguan capital of managua, a defense ministry spokesman denied the rebel claim, saying mechanical failure caused the crash. the spokesman demanded anonymity
the defense ministry had reported on monday that seven people were killed in the crash, which occurred near the village of santo tomas, about 120 miles east of managua. the contras claimed 15 people
sandinista authorities said the helicopter was carrying new currency to the region to be exchanged for old bills. the contra statement said the rebels recovered 10 million new cordobas in the crash
the contras say they downed 26 helicopters with redeye missiles last year. foreign military observers put the number at a dozen. the sandinistas admitted to six
mexico and panama should not be penalized by the united states despite their failure to take adequate steps to control drug trafficking, according to a draft state department report
the new york times, citing unidentified administration officials, reported saturday that the report, prepared by the bureau of international narcotics matters, said ``other national interests'' warrant that the countries not be penalized
under a 1986 law, the president certifies countries that are ``fully cooperating'' in cracking down on the drug trade. those that don't qualify lose military and economic aid, trade preferences, loans and other economic advantages
the report charged that panama and mexico haven't made adequate progress in combating the drug trade but said they should be certified, the times reported
panama's military leader, gen. manuel antonio noriega, and some of his aides were indicted this month on drug and racketeering charges
it's ridiculous and stupid, absolutely ludicrous, and sends the wrong signals to both countries,'' sen. alfonse d'amato, r-n.y., said of the report's recommendation
sen. john kerry, d-mass., said, ``it is totally outrageous, particularly in the case of panama.''
the report is provisional and subject to clearance by other governmental agencies and regional assistant secretaries of state. it would then be submitted to the secretary of state and the president, who is to announce his decision march 1
the report also recommended decertification of iran, afghanistan, paraguay, syria and laos. it said colombia, the bahamas and bolivia should be certified
three hospitals turned down the liver of a brain-dead baby whose body was being maintained on life-support systems to preserve his organs for transplant, officials said friday
baby john, who was born tuesday with most of his brain missing, a condition known as anencephaly, was pronounced brain dead thursday at loma linda university medical center
no other cases in which anencephalics have been kept on life-support for organ transplant have been announced in the united states, although dr. leonard bailey, chief of loma linda's heart transplant program, last year suggested there have been such infants
doctors plan to maintain the body on life support for up to seven days in hope of finding recipients for its organs, hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell said
one liver transplant candidate in pittsburgh was not an appropriate match and another in that city became infected, delaying any transplant, ms. rockwell said
a medical center in wisconsin also was unable to accept the liver for another candidate because it had committed itself to do another transplant and could not perform two in one day, ms. rockwell said
ucla medical center in los angeles turned rejected the liver as not an ideal candidate for their recipient, ms. rockwell said
anencephaly usually is fatal within days after birth. an anencephalic infant's organs can be transplanted only if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infant on life-support from birth. debt swap</head>
mexico has asked the united states to give favorable treatment to banks that take part in the government's new program to exchange part of its foreign debt for long-term bonds, the treasury department said
finance secretary gustavo petricioli said in a statement that he discussed the plan with u.s. officials during president reagan's recent meeting with president miguel de la madrid in mazatlan, mexico
the mexican delegation,'' the statement said, ``emphasized that it is necessary that all parties involved continue working in the search for deeper and more permanent solutions to the problem of the foreign debt and financing.''
it said mexican officials acknowledged the u.s. help to mexico in restructuring foreign debt and in fashioning mexico's new debt exchange program. mexico has a foreign debt of $105 billion, the second highest in the developing world after brazil
the new program involves exchanging some of the debt mexico owes foreign commercial bankers for new, 20-year bonds that will be issued by the government
mexico has set feb. 26 as the date for an auction of the bonds
the bonds will be backed by $10 billion worth of special securities to be issued this year by the u.s. government. mexico is expected to pay about $2 billion for the 20-year, u.s. zero-coupon bonds, which pay no interest but are issued at a sharp discount of their face value
the government statement said petricioli asked u.s. officials at the mazatlan meeting ``that they give the most favorable treatment possible to the banks that decide to participate in this operation.''
some u.s. banks reportedly have expressed concern about taking part in the program because they are unhappy that mexico will continue obtaining loans at 100 percent of their value while paying back, through the bond program, its old loans at about half their value
they also are reportedly reluctant to accept losses of 50 percent or so on the loans entered into years ago, and worry about government regulations concerning accounting for the securities on their books
most of mexico's about 600 creditor banks have authorized the government to go ahead with the auction, which would apply to $51 billion of the foreign debt
under the program, banks would exchange their old debt for the new bonds, letting mexico recover 52 cents or so for each dollar in the secondary market. that means that mexico could retire part of its debt for half its face value
by reducing its debt, the government will also pare the amount of interest it pays each year on the loans. mexico has annual interest charges of $8 billion to $9 billion
heavy-metal rock group motley crue warned fans not to imitate its show stunts after a 12-year-old boy set his blue jeans on fire while trying to copy the group's ``human torch'' video act
bryan tucker, who had burns over 10 percent of his body, was reported in good condition today at memorial hospital after he poured rubbing alcohol on his jeans and torched them. he put the flames out in a filled bathtub
various of motley crue's show stunts require special equipment, clothing and other materials ... and should not be attempted at home,'' said the statement released thursday by management firm mcghee entertainment inc. in los angeles
bryan's mother, wendy tucker, said he was in great pain but that motley crue was not to blame for her son's experiment at their home wednesday
in my day, my mom would not let me watch superman, because he jumped out of buildings,'' she said. ``it's just a different time.''
actor kirk douglas, a veteran of more than 70 movies, was honored for his life's work at the berlin film festival, europe's second-largest annual movie event
the 71-year-old actor received the honorary golden camera award thursday in an invitation-only ceremony attended by about 500 guests
this evening, i am really very happy,'' said douglas, speaking in german. ``i have made three films in germany, and so have had the opportunity to learn a little german.''
douglas' wife, anne, also attended the ceremony
the berlin film festival is europe's second-biggest annual movie event after the more prestigious festival in cannes, france
singer michael jackson, rehearsing in secret for a new national tour, gave a sneak preview to 420 school children after viewing a rap video made in his honor by a third-grade class
in their video, the third-graders at the hallmark school rapped that they and other hallmark students ``don't have much money _ if they could just see you, it would make their lives bright and sunny.''
the video was sent to jackson at the civic center last week. teachers asked students to get permission slips signed by their parents for a trip to the civic center but the youngsters weren't told they were going to see jackson until just before boarding buses thursday
it was good,'' said a smiling kevin morris, 6, before bein spirited to the back of his bus by a woman who crisply said, ``we can't talk to anybody.''
jackson ended nearly two weeks of secretive rehearsals friday in the pensacola civic center for the tour scheduled to begin tuesday in kansas city, mo
film great myrna loy says she seldom gets the opportunity to see ``the thin man'' and her other classic movies because there aren't many theaters that show them
i'm glad to see people are making an effort'' to bring back old films, the 82-year-old miss loy said at a news conference friday. ``i applaud this effort to restore them.''
ms. loy and other celebrities were on hand at an opening ceremony for manhattan's cineplex odeon biograph cinema, formerly the new carnegie cinema
a letter from president reagan wishing ms. loy ``warm wishes'' was read, and ms. loy and frank rowley, who will program and operate the theatre, cut a symbolic strip of celluloid before a crowd of more than 100 people
tom selleck and two top executives from his ``magnum p.i.'' television series are considering producing another series in hawaii that could make its debut this fall
selleck, along with ``magnum'' co-executive producer charles floyd johnson and head writer chris abbott formed their own production company recently, and have been asked by universal studios to think about producing a show here
universal produces the 8-year-old ``magnum p.i.'' series, which is wrapping up its final season
johnson said selleck's participation in the new series would be limited to off-camera work, but said ``magnum'' co-star john hillerman, who plays stuffy major-domo jonathan higgins, might star in the new show
hillerman said the series would not be a higgins spinoff
dino de laurentiis, whose film company has been battered by a string of box-office flops, has stepped down as chairman and chief executive of de laurentiis entertainment group
the 68-year-old de laurentiis, who was a successful filmmaker in his native italy, also gave proxy to the company's board friday to vote his stock. he owns 60 percent of the los angeles company he founded in may 1986
for the nine months ended nov. 30, the company posted losses of $36.2 million on revenues of $46 million
the most recent results included $27 million in writedowns on four films that flopped at the box office _ ``near dark,'' ``weeds,'' ``hiding out'' and ``date with an angel'' _ and on a fifth, ``total recall,'' on which work was suspended
stephen greenwald, the company's president, was elected to take de laurentiis' posts
a nationwide lobbying campaign seeking a pardon for lt. col. oliver north for his involvement in the iran-contra affair has been launched by a conservative group that is working with activists from the rev. sun myung moon's unification church, the washington post reported saturday
we think north is a hero and he ought to be treated as such,'' said robert grant, chairman of the lobbying group christian voice and president of the new american freedom coalition
the coalition has extensive links to moon's unification church movement, according to the newspaper. it said bo hi pak, moon's top deputy and president of the washington times, which is owned by moon, was instrumental in founding the group and phillip sanchez, one of pak's chief political aides and president of causa usa, is a member of the coalition's national policy board
grant said causa has given the coalition a network of activists throughout the united states _ most of whom are unification church members _ to help build local support
however, the coalition's literature never mentions the unification church and pak's name is not included on the group's five-member board of directors, the post said
the coalition, chaired by former reps. richard ichord, d-mo., and bob wilson, r-calif., recently sent more than a million letters asking recipients to sign a ``pardon colonel north'' petition to president reagan
north is a target of the iran-contra investigation being conducted by independent counsel lawrence walsh but has not been indicted
michael dukakis, trying to add some midwestern momentum to his win in new hampshire, was pushed by democratic presidential rivals to defend his economic policies and complained during a debate that ``my name was taken in vain.''
missouri rep. richard gephardt, another democratic front-runner, also found himself in the cross fire friday during the latest debate of democratic presidential candidates, as jesse jackson asked if the missouri congressman was ``proud of your vote for the reagan tax cut in 1981.''
gephardt and dukakis, the governor of massachusetts, were the biggest targets in a debate that was freewheeling but less fiesty than a jangling exchange among the candidates in texas the day before
the st. paul debate came as the focus of the presidential campaign shifted briefly away from the super tuesday battlefield mainly in the south and returned to the midwest, where minnesota and south dakota hold contests on tuesday
though the delegates at stake from those two contests pale next to those to be allocated in the south, the closely bunched candidates are looking for a midwestern edge to propel them toward the march 8 super tuesday primaries and caucuses
in the latest debates, the candidates tried to block gephardt and dukakis from gaining more momentum. gephardt was hit on trade and taxes, while dukakis was forced to defend his budget plans
gephardt defended his overall tax voting record, saying most of the tax cut derided by jackson ``went to ordinary people.''
that was the trigger of this whole deficit crisis,'' jackson countered
and dukakis agreed: ``it wasn't just a bad vote as a matter of tax policy, it was the worst trade bill ever passed.''
the minnesota debate drew five of the six democratic contenders. tennessee sen. albert gore jr. was absent
dukakis fired one of the most direct shots of the debate at gephardt's trade policies, warning that ``we've got to do more than wave a fist at our foreign competitors.''
but gephardt queried: ``why is everyone defending unfair trade practices?''
after the candidates' exchange was interrupted by a moderator, gephardt predicted ``we'll never finish on trade.''
dukakis complained that ``my name was taken in vain'' by gary hart, who demanded to know why dukakis had not followed his example and released a budget proposal
the reason my colleagues have not put out budgets is because they don't want to tell the american people the facts,'' hart said
i'm the only person on this platform who has balanced a budget,'' retorted dukakis
turning to sen. paul simon, hart asked, ``why don't you put your budget out, paul?''
when a moderator interrupted the exchange with a joke about ``exchange your budgets tomorrow,'' hart complained: ``i thought that's what we were here to debate.''
the candidates paid homage to former vice president walter f. mondale, one of the ceremonial sponsors of the debate, with gephardt saying that mondale's call for a tax hike during his failed 1984 democratic presidential bid was ``to his everlasting credit.''
jackson noted that this campaign is the first in 20 years that minnesotans don't have a favorite son candidate to vote for
don't despair, let me be your favorite son,'' jackson said
i want to be your other favorite son'' interjected simon
friday's debate was sponsored by a series of groups, including the st. paul pioneer press dispatch and radio and television station wcco in minneapolis
marcel piattier cleared omaha beach of german mines the day after the allies stormed it on d-day, and went on to make a career out of defusing or detonating unexploded world war ii bombs
on friday, the 66-year-old piattier retired with a bang, safely exploding a 300-pound english bomb found in january in this town 150 miles north of paris
the live bomb couldn't be moved and was detonated near the center of town, causing no damage
in his last year as head of the regional bomb and mine clearing service, the man considered the dean of the 25 civil defense explosive experts in france was kept busy
in the second half of 1987, we received 560 calls to neutralize bombs found by individuals,'' piattier said
he says his work in his later years was safer than it used to be
in 1945, we probed mine fields with bayonettes,'' he recalled. ``in two years, 27 french mine clearers died, and that's not counting the german prisoners of war we used.''
to determine if the bomb detonated friday was still live, piattier used sophisticated x-ray equipment, similar to that used at nuclear power plants, to see inside to the strike-pin
normandy was the scene of the allied invasion in 1944 and saw intense fighting that left behind thousands of bombs and mines that often turn up unexpectedly. in the past year, bombs have been found by workers digging the english channel tunnel and near a hospital in caen
the most dangerous explosives still scattered throughout the verdant countryside are small anti-personnel bombs dropped in bunches from german planes
a woman had her leg torn away in june and a child died in september from these bombs,'' said piattier, who added that he has found ``several thousand'' bombs and mines in four decades of work
piattier's first task was clearing the german mines from omaha beach the day after u.s. forces landed on june 6, 1944
i was the first french soldier on the beach and even before the second soldier arrived i had found hundreds and hundreds of mines,'' he said
piattier was lucky to reach retirement. in the past two years, six of his colleagues have died in the line of duty, he said
my wife is happy. she thinks i'll be safe now at home, but i'm not so sure,'' he said. ``i'd like to stay in contact with the service and help out when i can.''
carrie,'' the $7 million broadway-bound musical based on the stephen king novel, received tepid reviews following its premiere at the royal shakespeare theater in stratford-upon-avon
jack tinker in the daily mail called the show, scheduled to open april 27 at new york's virginia theater, ``an expensive mess.''
but he praised 17-year-old newcomer linzi hateley as the telekinetic carrie of the title, a traumatized adolescent played by sissy spacek in the 1976 film version of the book
i hope sincerely that broadway takes miss hateley to its heart. it can take the rest wherever it pleases,'' tinker wrote of thursday's performance
milton shulman in the standard thought the show, presented in association with the royal shakespeare company, lacked ``that element of supernatural awe'' that made the movie memorable
he added: ``if `carrie' has to be transformed into a musical, (director) terry hands has probably done it as well as it can be done. but one has to ask whether the idea and the production were really necessary.''
originally mooted for broadway several years back, the show is now headed for new york in a cast made up equally of britons and americans under a special arrangement with the actors' union, equity
the behind-the-scenes talent is of mixed nationality, as well. choreographer debbie allen, composer michael gore and lyricist dean pitchford are all american. director hands and his design team _ ralph koltai and alexander reid _ are british
michael coveney in the financial times said the musical was ``enjoyable in a masochistic way,'' but lamented hands' participation in ``an utter cultural vacuum of dance studio robotics with a hint of cultural and classical pretensions.''
coveney and the other critics all had kind words for broadway veteran barbara cook, who plays carrie's mother margaret, the religious fanatic played on-screen by piper laurie
coveney said the 60-year-old miss cook was ``superb,'' and tinker called her ``broadway's reclaimed heroine.''
irving wardle in the times of london said the voices of linzi hateley and barbara cook provided ``the most thrilling sounds of the evening.''
carrie'' is the second mother-daughter musical to open back-to-back locally. wednesday night saw the london debut at the cambridge theater of ``the rink,'' the 1984 broadway flop that starred chita rivera and liza minnelli
the london bow received mixed marks for the material _ a maudlin reconciliation drama set in an abandoned roller skating rink _ but praise for the two leads: josephine blake and diane langton
president spyros kyprianou refused to back either presidential candidate in sunday's runoff elections after he lost a bid for a third term, throwing wide open cyprus' most hotly contested vote
kyprianou's centrist democratic party, diko, said friday that it did not agree with the stands of either glafcos clerides, leader of the right-wing democratic rally party, or millionaire businessman george vassiliou, an independent backed by the powerful communist party, akel
that left kyprianou's 91,000 supporters free to vote either way
diko's surprise move came after days of backroom bargaining. rivals were eliminated in a first-round ballot last sunday
kyprianou's third-place showing last sunday took him out of the race
the small socialist party, edek, announced it was putting the 9.4 percent of the vote it won sunday behind vassiliou in a leftist alliance
on paper, that guarantees vassiliou just under 40 percent of the vote when this mediterranean island's 363,000-strong greek cypriot electorate votes. vassilou gathered 30.11 percent of last sunday's vote
the conservative, pro-western clerides, 68, a veteran political warhorse, topped sunday's poll with 33.32 percent. but he will have to secure at least two-thirds of the votes kyprianou won to edge ahead of vassiliou this sunday
the election has developed into a straight left-right battle. for the first time in a cypriot presidential contest since independence from britain in 1960, the outcome cannot be predicted
political analysts believe the diko vote will split roughly down the middle, with just a slight swing toward clerides. that may not be enough to ensure him victory
the election has been dominated by the partition issue
cyprus has been divided since the turkish army invaded in july 1974 after a short-lived coup by militant greek cypriot supporters of union with greece
the turks overran the northern third of the island. the turkish cypriot minority declared a breakaway republic in 1983
clerides has pledged that if elected, he will form an all-party government of national unity to revive deadlocked negotiations between cyprus' greek and turkish communities to reunite the island
seeking to strengthen his national unity strategy, clerides announced in a television debate thursday night that he was resigning as leader of democratic rally to head into sunday's showdown poll as an independent
vassiliou dismissed that as an electoral ploy and pointed out that the other three parties have rejected clerides' coalition proposal as unfeasible
clerides and vassiliou, 56, earlier concentrated in knocking kyprianou out of the race and blocking his election for a third five-year term. with kyprianou out of the way, they are now slamming each other
clerides is accused of being a ``right-wing, anti-labor reactionary'' who heads a party that harbors the extremists who were behind the ill-starred 1974 coup that briefly ousted cyprus' first president, the late archbishop makarios
clerides rejects the charge and accuses vassiliou, a self-made millionaire making his first foray into politics, of being a communist pawn
both men, however, support the unconditional resumption of negotiations with the turkish side
kyprianou had insisted that talks should resume only after the withdrawal of the 35,000 turkish troops and 65,000 settlers shipped to northern cyprus from the turkish mainland
clerides and vassiliou also demand a turkish withdrawal, but do not make this a precondition for talks that have been stalled for the last three years
taverns and most restaurants will remain closed from noon today until noon monday in compliance with a law banning sale of alcohol at election time. uneasy</head>
senior conservatives are growing uneasy about the people's party backing president kurt waldheim, who for the first time in an opinion poll did not muster the support of a majority of austrian voters
the daily salzburger nachrichten today published a survey showing 45 percent of those who responded to the poll favored waldheim's resignation and 42 percent wanted him to stay
it said 31 percent of the respondents said they would vote for waldheim ``by all means'' if presidential elections were held, while 42 percent replied they would ``by no means'' elect him
the newspaper said 522 people were polled on feb. 18-19, but it was not known how representative was the sample nor give the margin of error
in previous polls, waldheim always had obtained the support of a majority of respondents
in an interview published in today's issue of the vienna conservative daily die presse, helmut kukacka, general secretary of the people's party, was quoted as saying that, for now at least, the party would give waldheim full backing
but waldheim must work ``to reduce his credibility deficits by an information strategy,'' the newspaper reported kukacka as saying
early this summer the party will decide whether it ``makes sense'' to further stand by waldheim or to ``signal a certain distance,'' kukacka said in the interview
kukacka pledged his party would do everything to strengthen the president's position, but noted waldheim has a responsibility to the people's party and to austria, ``so that all of us get out'' of the crisis
waldheim is not a member of the people's party but received its nomination in the june 8, 1986, presidential runoff, which he won with almost 54 percent of the vote
in a late friday night television interview, kukacka confirmed his comments published by die presse
the federal president has not yet sufficiently responded to the contents of the report of the historians' commission, while, on the other hand, a pressure of opinion, as it were ... was generated in the whole world,'' he said on the television
the historians' report presented no clear evidence to back allegations waldheim was directly involved in war crimes when he was a lieutenant with the german army in the occupied balkans
but the report left open the question of whether he was guilty of any crime. it said he was ``in close proximity'' to nazi atrocities, knew about them and did nothing to prevent them
the president must put forward all his arguments to restore his credibility, said kukacka
after a conservative national leadership caucus thursday, people's party chairman alois mock, waldheim's main defender, said the president's decision to remain in office must be respected
the conservative daily oberoesterreichische nachrichten in friday editions said segments of the people's party ``are crumbling away'' over waldheim
the socialist party, senior partner in the government coalition with the conservatives, has refrained from openly calling on waldheim to step down. but party officials have made clear they see his resignation as the best solution to the standoff
in an interview published in today's editions of the west german conservative newspaper die welt, waldheim said, ``(my) resignation from the office would throw the country into chaos.''
he said resigning would give the impression that ``not austrian voters but foreign media and groups decide who may be austrian head of state.''
mock, who is vice chancellor and foreign minister in the coalition government, apparently is coming under increasing pressure from waldheim critics in his party
mock is the keystone in this issue. he cannot move any more. if he were gone it would be easier'' to resolve the controversy over waldheim, a high-ranking people's party official told the associated press after the party caucus
meanwhile, public protests against waldheim continued throughout austria. those calling for his resignation friday included actors of a vienna theater and civil servants in four ministries
various petitions with signatures calling on waldheim to quit are circulating in vienna and elsewhere, including two separate lists of conservative and socialist university professors.  1 graf after 3rd graf to add quote from willett.</note>
a small plane crashed in dense fog and driving rain friday night in a wooded area near atlantic city, killing at least six people, officials said. there were no survivors
the twin-engine piper najavo en route from norwood, mass., to pomona went down about sometime after 10:10 p.m., when its radar signal was lost, said anthony willett, a federal aviation administration spokesman
willett said at least six people were killed. it was not immediately known how many people were aboard the plane, which went down about two miles from atlantic city airport, he said
i don't have a passenger manifest in front of me, so i can't be sure,'' he said. ``it's pouring rain down here, the plane is in the woods, it's just hard to be sure.''
willett said that the plane, 32 feet long with a 40-foot wing span, is of a type commonly used by commuter airlines, but that the aircraft may have been privately owned
the hour-long search for the wreckage was hampered by fog and rain, he said
mario vazquez rana, the mexican newspaper publisher, has announced he has sold his control of united press international. he said the former president of financial news network will take over direct operational control of the company
the transaction took the form of a sale by the mexican media executive of an ``irrevocable proxy'' of his stock ownership in upi to wnw group inc
upi, in an announcement moved on its news wires friday night, said the transfer is effective immediately
the announcement said vazquez rana relinquished his control over the news service in return for ``present and future financial considerations totaling more than $55 million.''
vazquez rana bought upi for $41 million in june 1986, ending bankruptcy court proceedings that began in april 1985, when the news service filed for protection from creditors
the announcement did not identify the owners of wnw. upi spokesman christopher smith said he believed wnw group inc. is an independent company with no connection to fnn but said he did not really know anything about them at this point
an irrevocable proxy represents a transfer of voting power represented by the ownership shares but not the shares themselves
smith said that vazquez rana ``considers his task of investment in upi completed at this time.''
smith said additional details would be released at a news conference, probably on monday
the agreement under which vazquez rana acquired upi after creditors approved a reorganization plan limited his ability to sell his interest in upi without first giving an employees stock ownership plan the right of first refusal during a 60-day period
the upi announcement said that the new president of the news service will be paul steinle, former president of financial news network, a 24-hour cable tv distributor of business news. the announcement said he would have ``total operational control of day-to-day management.''
the announcement identified the chairman of wnw group inc. as dr. earl brian, but provided no further identification
vazquez rana's statement said, ``this step was necessary because i could not devote a sufficient amount of time to hands-on management. i am pleased that in this agreement, we have assured the continuation of a venerable world news gathering and independent journalistic organization.''
in addition to steinle and brian, the upi announcement also listed three directors of wnw group inc. they are j. alexander mcmahon, chairman and professor of the health services administration department at duke university; james thistle, director of the school of journalism at the college of communications at boston university; and erik hendricks, executive director of the pennsylvania society for the prevention of cruelty to animals and a former journalist
three hospitals have turned down the liver of a brain-dead baby whose body was being maintained on life-support machines today, and tests indicated the organ was failing, a hospital spokeswoman said
the 7-pound infant known as baby john was born tuesday with most of its brain missing, and was pronounced dead two days later at loma linda university medical center
the baby was the first brain-absent infant in the nation to be placed on artificial life support to keep its organs healthy for transplant, hospital officials said. doctors had planned to maintain the body for up to seven days, but a blood test friday ``suggests that his liver is failing,'' hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell said
one prospective candidate in pittsburgh was not an appropriate match and another in the same hospital became infected, delaying any possible transplant, she said friday
a medical center in wisconsin also was unable to accept the liver for another candidate because they were committed to another transplant and could not do two in one day, ms. rockwell said
the doctors in wisconsin have refused the liver pending further studies,'' the spokeswoman said
ucla medical center in los angeles turned down the liver because they feel it is not an ideal candidate for their recipient, ms. rockwell said
baby john was born with only a brain stem, a condition known as anencephaly that usually is fatal within days of birth. an infant's healthy organs can be transplanted only if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infant on life support from birth
loma linda is the nation's only medical center to experiment with using anencephalics as organ donors
the air force, concerned that it's losing too many pilots to higher-paying commercial airlines, is considering a bonus program to encourage its aviators to stick with the military
air force secretary edward c. aldridge said friday that while the details haven't been worked out, ``basically we would pay pilots something on the order of $9,000 to $12,000 per year for signing up for a period of time as bonuses to the basic pay that they would have.''
the $54 million bonus program is needed because stepped-up hiring by commercial airlines has caused the re-enlistment rate for military pilots to drop steadily, aldridge said at a news conference
whatever the air force recommends still would have to be approved by congress
the government's latest aviation forecast predicts that passenger travel via commuter aircraft will increase sharply in the coming years, outpacing growth in travel on commercial jetliners
in a forecast released friday, the federal aviation administration said commuter planes are expected to carry 58 million people annually by 1999, up from 27 million people last year
the number of people flying commercial jetliners is expected to grow from about 445 million passengers in 1987 to nearly 765 million in 1999
the faa forecast said air traffic controllers will be handling a third more planes in 1999 than they do now
an organization that represents foreign service officers is asking a federal judge to halt the government's practice of making some employees sign agreements not to disclose classified information
the american foreign service association filed a motion friday in u.s. district court for a preliminary injunction to force secretary of state george shultz to stop ordering state department employees to sign the non-disclosure forms
the injunction also would direct cia director william webster and steven garfinkel, head of the information security oversight office, to order other federal agencies to stop forcing employees to sign the forms
critics in congress contend the forms violate the first amendment rights of government employees
the justice department says it won't join in negotiating any additional settlements for the families of the astronauts killed in the challenger shuttle crash
the department, which negotiated settlements with four of the seven families in december 1986, feels it would be unfair to contribute to any settlements higher than those agreed to in 1986 and that the government has no legal liability in the accident, department spokeswoman amelia brown said friday
last week, the father and brother of mission specialist judith a. resnik signed an agreement with shuttle contractor morton thiokol inc. for payment of from $1.5 million to $2.5 million. the justice department declined to participate in the negotiations leading to that settlement
resnik's relatives weren't involved in the 1986 settlement
if soviet troops withdraw from afghanistan before there is an interim coalition government in place, rival afghan factions could become embroiled in unending civil strife, pakistan's acting foreign minister warned
in our opinion, the way things are being worked out by the soviets, it is going to lead to a bloodbath,'' the diplomat, zain noorani, told a news conference in london friday
he said hundreds of thousands of afghans could be killed if a political settlement does not precede a soviet departure, and called on the west to press moscow for an agreement on an interim government
president mohammad zia ul-haq's government in islamabad wants a transition government in kabul, the afghan capital, before it will sign an agreement leading to soviet withdrawal and the return home of more than two million afghan refugees now living in pakistan
noorani said that without an interim coalition government, islamabad believes the refugees will not return to afghanistan
we anticipate that under such circumstances more refugees will be coming into pakistan from afghanistan,'' he said
noorani, who met with foreign secretary sir geoffrey howe earlier friday, denied pakistan was trying to sabotage the chances of an agreement at talks in geneva between pakistan and afghanistan on how to end the conflict
he said islamabad wants soviet forces to leave, but also wants a lasting settlement
noorani said afghan guerrilla leaders and refugee and emigre representatives on monday would propose what he called a detailed framework of a coalition government
earlier this month, mikhail s. gorbachev offered to begin withdrawing the estimated 115,000 soviet troops in afghanistan on may 15 if pakistan signs an accord at the next session of the u.n.-sponsored peace talks in geneva that begin march 2
but gorbachev also said the soviets would not attempt to influence the composition of the kabul government after they leave
the soviet leader said all soviet forces could be withdrawn in 10 months if agreement is reached at geneva. the soviets later accused pakistan of trying to block chances of an agreement
pakistan's stand has some backing in washington and london, but western leaders have urged islamabad not to go so far as to jeopardize gorbachev's withdrawal pledge
soviet forces entered afghanistan in december 1979 and replaced one pro-soviet government in kabul with another. the soviet move was condemned by the united states, britain and other western governments
the soviets and afghan government soldiers have been fighting moslem guerrillas trying to overthrow the kabul government
the guerrilla groups maintain bases in pakistan and have received support from the united states, iran and pakistan
the british foreign office said in a statement friday following noorani's meeting with howe: ``there is a tremendous amount of sympathy and concern for pakistan. after eight years of occupation (in afghanistan), the soviet withdrawal is bound to leave a tremendous vacuum.''
a published report today says two men closely linked with attorney general edwin meese iii received $150,000 from a swiss businessman pushing an iraqi oil pipeline, but meese's lawyer says the attorney general didn't benefit in any way
the washington post reported that bruce rappaport of geneva sent the money in mid-1985 to franklyn chinn, meese's former investment adviser, and e. bob wallach, a close friend of meese for more than 30 years
sources familiar with the payment said wallach said the money represents his legal fee for his work on the pipeline proposal, the newspaper said. that work included getting meese's help in setting up a meeting for rappaport in june 1985 with then-national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane, the post said
the post quoted one source as saying the money was ``sent to chinn for the benefit of wallach.''
meese's attorney, james rocap, said friday he was aware of the payment but that ``it has absolutely nothing to do with mr. meese.''
none of it (the money) ever went to mr. meese,'' he said. ``none of it was ever used for the benefit of mr. meese.''
the post said the payment is not included on wallach's 1985 income tax return and was not reported by him until may 1987, when independent counsel james c. mckay expanded his investigation of the scandal-plagued wedtech corp. to include meese's dealings with wallach and chinn
wallach and chinn and a third man were accused in a federal indictment in new york in december of taking illegal payments from wedtech to influence meese. mckay has been conducting a separate investigation of meese's dealings with the two men
rappaport hired wallach in 1985 to try to drum up u.s. support for the proposed 540-mile pipeline through jordan that would run close to israeli territory. the pipeline never was built
the san francisco-based bechtel group, which was seeking to build the project, had enlisted the swiss businessman's help because of his close ties to israeli political figures. there had been concern that israel might attack the pipeline
secretary of state george p. shultz today said the soviet union must ``face up'' to its human rights problems if it wants to participate in a middle east peace conference
shultz specifically cited restrictions on emigration and religious practices, as well as a lack of diplomatic relations with israel
so they have some work to do that will make their presence at an international conference more acceptable from our standpoint and israel's standpoint,'' shultz told reporters on his air force jet flight from washington
the middle east is one of the topics on his agenda for the talks shultz is to hold in moscow sunday with foreign minister eduard a. shevardnadze and on monday with general secretary mikhail s. gorbachev and shevardnadze
shultz is scheduled to go to the middle east next week to try to set up negotiations between israel and the arabs. he seemed doubtful that a peace conference would be the right framework
what is an international conference supposed to do if there is one?'' shultz said
but, he added, if the soviets ``continue to advocate seriously an international conference they have to face up to these problems that are posed by their lack of diplomatic presence in one of the key parties, and the immigration and other problems that i mentioned.''
shultz said he would not seek soviet backing for his efforts
we will talk around about the middle east, but we are not asking them for anything,'' he said. ``i think it will be more in the nature of information sharing.''
jewish emigration from the soviet union was nearly 800 people a month april through september of last year. it rose to over 900 monthly october through december. but in january, emigration dipped to about 650 to 700, and is at about the same rate this month
last year, applications were accepted from jews who did not have relatives in israel, but on jan. 1 the process was halted
the soviet union broke relations with israel after the 1967 mideast war, but sent a handful of diplomats to tel aviv last year
shultz said the soviets had imposed ``unwarranted'' restrictions on emigration and on the practice of judaism and other religions. ``so they have some work to do,'' he said
on another front, shultz backed pakistan's demand for a coalition government in afghanistan. he said it would make ``a contribution'' to stability as soviet troops withdrew from the country
shultz said the u.s.-backed afghan rebels would propose ``new ideas'' in geneva when negotiations for a settlement resume march 2
the soviets last week said pakistan was obstructing an end to the eight-year war in the country by insisting that a change of government in kabul precede the signing of a peace agreement
some 115,000 soviet troops are in afghanistan supporting the government in its war with the guerrillas. on feb. 8 gorbachev offered to begin a withdrawal on may 15 if an agreement is reached, and to carry it out over 10 months
the negotiations are being conducted by pakistan and afghanistan under the auspices of the united nations
the people's democratic party, which seized power in kabul in 1978, has presented its proposal for a future government to u.n. mediator diego cordovez. a u.s. official, who demanded anonymity, said it called for a dominant role for the kabul regime
shultz said the united states would suspend its military aid to the rebels provided the soviets ``cease similar supplies to the government forces.''
there has to be a symmetry there,'' shultz said
paul simon, who earlier had threatened to drop out of the democratic presidential race unless he started getting more votes, now says he's in the running ``until the finish line.''
the illinois senator said friday that he'd gotten so much support since he said he might drop out that it ``has convinced me that a great many americans want a clear-cut choice next november.''
this is a marathon race for the heart and soul of the democratic party, and i'm in it until the finish line in atlanta,'' simon told the minnehaha county democratic forum. the national convention will be held july 18-21 in the georgia capital
after placing third among democrats in this week's new hampshire primary, simon had said he would drop out of the race if he did not win south dakota's primary or minnesota's caucuses tuesday
a campaign leader for jesse jackson says a precinct caucus victory tuesday in minnesota, where about 96 percent of the population is white, would debunk the idea that jackson can't be elected president because he is black
the rev. thomas van leer made the statement friday at minneapolis north high school, where jackson talked to students about drug abuse. jackson made several campaign appearances in the twin cities friday, including a stop at an inner-city minneapolis church packed with lesbians and gays
i stood with you,'' the democratic candidate said. ``now make me a president.''
the rev. arlene ackerman, pastor of all god's children metropolitan community church, said jackson was the only presidential candidate to stand with gays and lesbians when they marched in washington, d.c., in october
national republican party chairman frank fahrenkopf says nevada republicans are ``a long way'' from determining their delegates to the gop convention despite a straw poll in which pat robertson's backers claimed victory
vice president george bush led nevada's gop presidential straw poll with 27 percent of the vote, but robertson forces claimed their candidate had won if undecided votes cast by robertson supporters were figured in
robertson's 15 percent of the vote thursday night placed him behind bush and senate gop leader bob dole, who had 22 percent, and ahead of rep. jack kemp who got 13 percent. but the robertson campaign urged followers to cast undecided votes, so the total of his support could have been higher than bush's
fahrenkopf, a nevada native, said friday the straw poll was non-binding and ``we are a long way from determining who the delegates are just at the state level. what happened in a straw poll at the nevada caucuses really doesn't mean a lot.''

here is a list of political stories that have moved for this cycle:

on the budget:

undated _ republican jack kemp used a rare one-on-one confrontation with gop presidential rival george bush to claim he is best qualified to continue ``the reagan revolution,'' while democratic candidates debated bitterly despite a plea to tone down their family feud
slug pm-political rdp. a0442

and:

st. paul, minn. _ michael dukakis, trying to add some midwestern momentum to his win in new hampshire, was pushed by democratic presidential rivals to defend his economic policies and complained during a debate that ``my name was taken in vain.''
slug pm-democrats debate. a0436

with:

_pm-candidates-schedules. a0412
_pm-politics-quotes. a0455
_pm-political briefs. a0458
---simon says he's in race to `finish line'
---jesse jackson seek support from lesbians, gays
---fahrenkopf discounts results of nevada straw poll
republican jack kemp used a rare one-on-one confrontation with gop presidential rival george bush to claim he is best qualified to continue ``the reagan revolution,'' while democratic candidates debated bitterly despite a plea to tone down their family feud
relishing the limelight relinquished by sen. bob dole and pat robertson, who boycotted the gop debate friday night in dallas, kemp assailed bush's stance on a nuclear missile defense and called the vice president's budget-balancing plan unworkable
the candidates in both parties kept up heavy-duty rhetorical fire as they sought to gain momentum going into upcoming primaries and caucuses, especially the super tuesday contests in 20 states on march 8
while bush suggested that dole was ``angry and bitter'' over his second-place finish in new hampshire, the vice president's aides acknowledged that he was withdrawing from competition in tuesday's south dakota primary. bush wants to devote more attention to the southern and border states holding contests on super tuesday, they said
dole, meanwhile, appearing in lexington, ky., said he was not shaken by his runner-up showing in new hampshire and that he will do well in south dakota and minnesota
we're ready for the next round in south dakota and minnesota and we'll see who wins those two. we'll see who's dispirited wednesday morning next week,'' the kansas senator said
in their second caustic debate in as many days, three democratic candidates played catch-the-leader in turning their criticism toward front-runners michael dukakis and richard gephardt
jesse jackson drew hoots from the crowd in st. paul, minn., when he asked gephardt if he was ``proud of your vote for the reagan tax cut in 1981.'' the missouri congressman defended his overall tax voting record. most of that tax cut ``went to ordinary people,'' he said. jackson retorted: ``that was the trigger of this whole deficit crisis.''
dukakis, the winner of the new hampshire primary this week, took a direct shot at gephardt's trade policies, warning during the friday debate that ``we've got to do more than wave a fist at our foreign competitors.''
why is everyone defending unfair trade practices?'' gephardt said
toward the end of a turbulent campaign week that saw the withdrawals of republicans alexander m. haig jr. and pete du pont and democrat bruce babbitt, there were these other developments:
_democrat paul simon said in south dakota that he would remain in the presidential race, despite saying just days earlier he would drop out if he didn't win in south dakota or minnesota's contests next tuesday
i'm in it until the finish line in atlanta,'' he said, contending he had received an ``outpouring of encouragement'' and money since his disappointing third-place finish in new hampshire
_robertson, holding a rally with supporters at the same posh dallas hotel where bush and his entourage had stayed, said he backed out of the debate because he didn't get enough tickets for his supporters, ``and i'd rather be with you here.''
because of the no-shows by dole and robertson, kemp got a rare opportunity to confront bush, with wide television exposure and without interference from others. he didn't flinch
i believe in the reagan revolution and i want to carry it into the 1990s,'' the new york congressman said in a point-blank challenge to bush's oft-stated campaign pitch that he is the rightful heir to the reagan legacy
in an exchange that provoked laughter, debate moderator roger mudd asked if the kemp and bush appearance might suggest a gop ticket for 1988. kemp responded, ``i don't think george bush wants to serve another eight years as vice president.''
in the night's sharpest exchange, kemp attacked bush on nuclear weapons, saying he would more quickly research, test and develop a missile defense shield
bush said it would be wrong to support ``premature development,'' and kemp asserted that they must ``stand up for something'' beyond peace alone
i was in combat,'' bush replied, referring to his record in world war ii experience. ``i don't think you know what it is until you've seen your fellow men drop dead.''
kemp snapped back: ``i don't need a lecture.''
the democrats, during their st. paul run-in, seemed oblivious to party chairman paul kirk's exhortation that they cut down some of the internecine warfare
in a ``dear candidate'' letter, kirk said personal attacks among the contenders ``do nothing to enhance the opportunity for a democratic victory in november.''
but the candidates seemed unfazed by this
dukakis complained that ``my name was taken in vain'' by gary hart, who demanded to know why the massachusetts governor had not followed his example and released a budget proposal
the reason my colleagues have not put out budgets is because they don't want to tell the american people the facts,'' hart said
i'm the only person on this platform who has balanced a budget,'' retorted dukakis. million figure in lede. inserts 3 grafs after 8th graf, ``the cost ...,'' to update with details of agreement, quote from union leader; picks up 9th graf, ``murdoch said ...;'' deletes now-redundant 13th graf, ``kalikow had ...''</note>
agreement was reached saturday on a $22 million package of union concessions that will keep the new york post publishing and clears the way for owner rupert murdoch to sell the paper
the agreement was reached at 1:50 a.m. after a final bargaining session that began around 10 a.m. friday
murdoch had said the paper would close friday unless the paper's unions provided concessions he needed to sell the money-losing paper to real estate developer peter kalikow
i want to say at this time that i wish mr. kalikow great, successful publishing of the new york post,'' murdoch said in announcing the agreement
he's a very ambitious man, as well as being a wealthy one. i know that he is determined to make it successful,'' murdoch said
he's getting the newspaper now in better shape, getting a newspaper with a fine staff, wonderful executives, and i'm sure that he needs nothing more than a new start under new leadership and he goes ahead with that with my full blessing.''
the agreement, slated to take effect march 7, is subject to the auditing of the savings by kalikow's company and fast ratification by each of the 10 unions involved, officials said
the cost reductions amount to $10 million in the first year, $8 million in the second and $6 million in the third, with a $2 million across-the-board bonus for employees in the third year, officials said
murdoch had demanded concessions totaling $24 million over three years to meet conditions of a deal to sell the post for $37 million to kalikow
according to the agreement, the paper will save $22.5 million by cutting 130 jobs, officials said. murdoch contributed $3 million to the package, raising the total beyond the $24 million mark and allowing for the employees' raises, officials said
union leader george mcdonald thanked murdoch for the $3 million ``to sweeten the pot.''
murdoch said the agreement resulted from good will on both sides
it has been a very difficult 12 days for all of us,'' he said
at the post's offices, editors were preparing the saturday edition
murdoch met earlier friday with kalikow, said union leader george mcdonald
the alternative was to fold the paper because of a federal regulation barring murdoch from owning a newspaper and tv station in the same city. murdoch owns wnyw in new york
on friday morning, murdoch had declared flatly that he would not stop the clock to save the newspaper
on wednesday, the unions put forward a proposal they said would save $33 million, $9 million more than murdoch demanded, and asked that the extra money go into pay raises. on thursday, management knocked down $12 million of the package as non-negotiable under terms of the deal with kalikow
after 10 minutes with the negotiators at the grand hyatt hotel on friday morning, murdoch said the gap in the concessions package amounted to $4 million over three years
the exact size of the gap was a major sticking point, along with the union demand for raises for those workers who survived the cuts
barry lipton, president of the newspaper guild of new york, said another problem was that management had increased the number of jobs that would have to be pared. initially the negotiators said they were dealing with 116 reductions from a workforce of 1,200
while other union leaders went into small working groups to seek a solution, the leader of the paper's drivers' union, jerry cronin, said he was done talking unless he heard from management
if the post went under, he said, ``it died at the hands of mr. murdoch.''
the union leaders consistently called on kalikow to join the talks, but he said the concessions had to be made with murdoch for the sale to go through
the contract with kalikow gave murdoch until feb. 22 to negotiate the union concessions
the post, founded in 1801 by alexander hamilton, faced financial problems from its earliest years but held on as paper after paper in the city merged and then eventually shut down
murdoch bought the afternoon tabloid from dorothy schiff in 1976 for about $31 million as he expanded his worldwide media holdings from australia and england into the united states
under murdoch, the paper turned from liberal to conservative on the editorial page and became splashy and racy. the early edition of friday carried the front-page headline: ``only hours to live ...'' to promote a story about the release of photographs taken of jennifer levin a short time before she was killed in central park
murdoch says he has lost nearly $150 million in 11 years of operating the post. he said friday that current losses were running $100,000 a day
murdoch chose to sell the post following a congressional rider engineered by sen. edward m. kennedy, d-mass., and sen. ernest hollings, d-s.c., that blocked the federal communications commission from continuing to waive its rule barring ownership of both a television station and a newspaper in the same city. murdoch owns wnyw-tv in new york
in boston, where he faces the same situation, murdoch has indicated he'd sell his tv station and hold on to the boston herald
a 30-year-old sinhalese man set himself ablaze to mourn the assassination of a popular movie actor and politician. doctors said the man was in critical condition today
amarasinghe jayasinghe doused himself with kerosene and set himself ablaze about midnight thursday where queues of people had formed to file past the coffin bearing the body of vijaya kumaranatunga
the poor quality of the kerosene and quick action by onlookers kept him alive so far'' said a doctor in the burn unit of colombo's general hospital
relatives said jayasinghe was an ardent fan of kumaranatunga, who was killed at his suburban colombo home tuesday by two gunmen police say they suspect belong to the extremist sinhalese people's liberation front
the front has vowed to kill anyone who, like kumaranatunga, supports an indian-brokered peace accord that aims to end tamil rebels' four-year-old struggle for an indepedent homeland
the july accord would grant the tamils some degree of autonomy in northern and eastern provinces where they are most numerous
kumaranatunga, who was 43, headed the opposition sri lanka people's party. he is to be cremated sunday afternoon and police said they expect huge crowds
people from all over the country are expected to attend the cremation. kumaranatunga starred in more than 100 films, and theater owners say they will close their establishments sunday out of respect
police say the people's liberation front has killed about 150 people who support the peace accord, including lawmakers, police officers and harsha abeywardene, chairman of the governing united national party
the accord has also been rejected by the largest tamil militia, the liberation tigers of tamil eelam, who have refused to surrender their weapons, as called for by its provisions
tamils, who are mostly hindu, claim they are discriminated against by the sinhalese buddhists, who make up 75 percent of the island's 16 million people. tamils comprise about 18 percent of the population
india has sent nearly 50,000 troops to the neighboring island to disarm the rebels, but fighting continues in the east. picks up 9th graf, ``investigators from ...'' note previous lead, a0452, should have been slugged a 6th ld-writethru.</note>
a commuter plane crashed in heavy fog friday night after takeoff from raleigh-durham airport, and all 12 people aboard were feared dead, officials said
american eagle flight 378 was en route to richmond, va., with 10 passengers and two crew members when it went down in a wooded area at 9:27 p.m. about a mile from the 10,000-foot runway, said airport spokeswoman teresa damiano
i show them as fatal,'' said v.h. steed, night duty officer with the federal aviation agency in atlanta
witnesses said they heard an explosion and saw a fireball before the twin-engine plane with a seating capacity of 19 went down near a small residential area, ms. damiano said. she said no homes were hit
there are no anticipated survivors,'' she said. ``indications are that the plane is in several pieces. there was a small bit of fire that was contained. there was no indication to the tower that the plane was in any danger prior to takeoff.''
shortly after midnight, a woman was escorted into the terminal sobbing and asking, ``what happened?''
the woman, who declined to give her name, said her 13-year-old son was on the flight. she said she had received no official word on her son's fate
it sounded like a blast or something because they've been blasting down on this road, putting in sewer lines, and that's the way it sounded,'' said mary h. ward, who lives in a mobile home three miles from the airport
it wasn't too awful loud. it was kind of muffled. i wondered what it was, but there was nobody here but me so i didn't go out and look around.''
at richmond international airport, several people were waiting for information on the crash and on arrangements for travel to north carolina, said a ground supervisor for american airlines who refused to give his name
they can't believe it happened,'' said the man. ``some people wish it was them.''
most of the passengers were from richmond, and the crew was based in raleigh, he said
investigators from the faa and the national transportation safety board in washington will arrive saturday, steed said
american eagle, an affiliate of american airlines, had recently resumed flights from its base at raleigh-durham after filing for bankruptcy reorganization jan. 15
the airline abruptly ceased flights jan. 14, leaving some passengers stranded. in its bankruptcy filing, avair inc., which operates american eagle, claimed $9.2 million in assets and $12 million in liabilities
the united states sent records to help britain investigate alleged links between kurt waldheim and six british commandos who were executed in nazi-occupied greece, prime minister margaret thatcher said
she also said britain had no suspicions about waldheim's record as an intelligence officer in the german army when he was elected u.n. secretary-general in 1972
the prime minister made the comments friday in written replies to questions in the house of commons
allegations have been made that waldheim, who held the u.n. job 10 years and now is president of austria, committed war crimes during his service in the balkans. an international panel of historians appointed by the austrian government said it found no proof, but left the question of guilt open
waldheim, 69, has denied wrongdoing since the accusations began during his presidential campaign two years ago, and has refused to resign since the historians' report was made public last week
the arrival of the microfilmed german army war records from u.s. military archives was the latest step in an attempt ordered by mrs. thatcher to determine whether waldheim interrogated the six commandos
the men, a raiding party captured off the greek island of alimina in april 1944, were handed over for interrogation to the unit in which waldheim served
they refused to talk and were executed by the germans, a war crime under the geneva convention on prisoners of war
i am informed that at the time of dr. waldheim's election as u.n. secretary-general no doubts were raised about his wartime record,'' said mrs. thatcher
she was answering questions from lawmaker robert rhodes james, who served on waldheim's personal staff at the united nations and now is trying to prove him guilty of war crimes. the historians' report said waldheim was in ``close proximity'' to atrocities, must have known of them and did nothing to stop them
british officials said the material sent from the united states was a copy of the so-called alimina file dealing with the capture of the commandos
the original file was in a mass of german military documents american forces captured at the end of the war in 1945. the documents were kept in the united states until sent to west german archives at freiburg in the late 1960s
historian gerald fleming says records of the vital second interrogation of the commandos, including who conducted it, were missing from the original file in freiburg
fleming was the british member of the international commission, which reported finding the initial ``w'' in waldheim's hand on an earlier record of interviews with the six men, indicating he at least had read it
the historians' report said waldheim was well aware of hitler's orders to execute commandos
a note in english attached to the alimina file said: ``do not film this sheet. interrogations reports removed because of security classification.'' it was not immediately clear whether the u.s. microfilmed material was more complete than the original file
an inquiry in 1986, based on incomplete british files, did not establish a link between waldheim and the commandos
four men died today from inhaling toxic fumes given off when plastic foam in a sofa caught fire during a minor blaze at an apartment, london fire brigade reported
the four deaths bring to at least 14 the number of britons killed during fires by the thick black fumes given off by plastic foam used as filling material in cheap furniture
the other 10 victims were children who died within the first 10 days of this year
public concern and a long-running campaign by fire chiefs against the filling prompted the government to announce last month a ban on use of standard and high-resilience polyurethane foam in new furniture. the ban would be put into effect starting february 1989
the time gap is to allow manufacturers to re-equip but the ban does not cover existing foam-filled furniture, which will remain a potential danger in many homes
the fire brigade said in a statement that a carelessly discarded cigarette is thought to have started today's fire in an apartment at bethnal green in east london
the fire itself took firefighters only 10 minutes to bring under control. they found the bodies of two of the dead beside a locked rear door in the apartment. the bodies of the other two victims were found in a bathroom. they are thought to have taken refuge there to escape the fumes
a fifth man, found in the same room as the sofa, also had inhaled the fumes but survived. he was hospitalized
tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, who accused ousted ptl leader jim bakker of sexual misconduct, is being investigated by the assemblies of god church amid reports of similar allegations
the denomination's 13-member executive presbytery met with swaggart at its headquarters here for nearly 10 hours thursday ``to discuss matters that could affect his credentials with the church,'' church spokeswoman juleen turnage said friday
mrs. turnage would not give details of the investigation, but said it is a ``critical situation'' and that swaggart is cooperating. the assemblies of god last year stripped bakker of his credentials
abc's ``nightline,'' citing sources it did not identify, reported early today that church officials at the meeting were shown photographs purported to show swaggart and a known prostitute going into and out of a motel room
one unidentified church official told abc the photos were open to interpretation
swaggart did not deny to church officials that he had been with a prostitute, abc reported. abc said new orleans preacher marvin gorman was believed to have provided the photos to church officials
the assemblies of god defrocked gorman in 1986 for ``immorality and conduct unbecoming to a minister,'' an unidentified church official told the washington post
cbs news reported friday that the probe involved allegations of sexual misconduct, and the post quoted unidentified sources in today's editions as saying the investigation involved charges of adultery
the assemblies of god did not comment on the nature of its investigation. swaggart spokeswoman barbara klein said late friday: ``at this point, we don't have a statement.''
bakker, who was stripped of his credentials as a minister in the church following allegations of homosexuality and an extramarital sexual encounter in 1980 with jessica hahn, said friday night that the reports about swaggart were ``most confusing and hurtful.''
i'm shocked,'' he added. ``what we've gone through no one on earth should have to go through.''
swaggart, 52, is president of a tv ministry worth an estimated $140 million a year. it is based in baton rouge, la., and broadcasts to 143 countries
swaggart, interviewed at the baton rouge airport upon his return from springfield, was asked about the nature of the meeting with church officials
you'll have to call them and ask them,'' he replied
when asked about the report of the pictures, he said, ``call our attorney if you like.''
last september, gorman filed a $90 million suit accusing swaggart and others of plotting to ruin his tv ministry with false reports of adulterous affairs. a judge dismissed the suit, saying it was a religious dispute that didn't belong in court
shortly afterward, gorman's organization, marvin gorman ministries, filed for bankruptcy reorganization, claiming debts of more than $2 million. he is pastor of the metropolitan christian life church in metairie, la., outside new orleans
calls to gorman's church in new orleans went unanswered, and there is no telephone listing under gorman's name there
swaggart, a pentecostal minister, has come under scrutiny recently on several fronts
in june, a court battle over the tax-exempt status of a texas radio station belonging to the ministry forced the evangelical empire to release details of its finances and led to allegations swaggart has kept contributions for his personal use
when bakker stepped down from ptl last march, he accused a rival group of trying to take over the $172 million tv ministry by exposing his involvement in a sex-and-money scandal. swaggart was alleged to be a member of that rival group, but denied that accusation. bakker later retracted the charge
swaggart, a high-school dropout, is the cousin of singer jerry lee lewis. he and his wife, frances, have a son, donnie. in addition to the television ministry, swaggart has put out more than 50 gospel albums and runs one of the largest non-profit mail order merchandise businesses in the country. helicopters.</head>
thai and laotian officers today flew over a disputed border area to arrange for the disengagement of troops that had been locked in a bloody, 3{-month battle, a thai officer said
since a truce began friday, no fighting was reported in the area where hundreds of soldiers on both sides had died since fighting commenced in november around contested hills at the frontier
members of the laotian joint committee flew over the area in a soviet-made mi-8 helicopter while the thais inspected it from a u.s.-manufactured huey said thai army spokesman col. rithee rungkaputi
after the cease-fire began, two parallel rows of thai and laotian flags were staked to mark a zone which troops are forbidden to cross, said thai gen. charuay wongsayant
the fighting had been the bloodiest since communist forces triumphed in laos in 1975
gen. chaovalit yongchaiyuth, the thai army commander, said he would fly to the laotian capital of vientiane tuesday at the invitation of gen. sisavat keobounphan, the chief of the laotian army general staff
sisavat was chaovalit's counterpart at talks early last week in bangkok that produced the cease fire
thai and laotian military delegations agreed that their troops should be separated by 2 miles within 48 hours of the start of the truce
the affected area is between thailand's northern province of phitsanulok and laos' sayaboury province, an area about 240 miles north of bangkok
friends of a teen-ager accused of hacking four family members to death with an ax tried to hand him letters of support during his arraignment as people here struggled for an explanation of the slayings
it would be so much easier for us if we could say the guy was living on the edge, a criminal at heart,'' rochester lourdes high school principal michael leahy said friday. ``but no, he's a very regular kid. the allegations are beyond our comprehension.''
david brom, a 16-year-old lourdes sophomore, was captured here friday and charged in the thursday slayings of his parents and younger brother and sister. brom gave himself a punk haircut on the day of the killings, said olmsted county sheriff charles von wald
killed were bernard brom, 41, an engineer at ibm's rochester plant; paulette brom, 41; diane, 14; and rick, 9, von wald said
the four were found in their night clothes in the family's home in a rochester suburb, all apparently struck at least once with an ax, the sheriff said. a bloody, 28-inch ax was found in the basement, the sheriff said
during brom's arraignment friday, about a dozen friends tried to hand him letters of support, but were stopped by security guards
friends and acquaintances wrote several dozen letters to be delivered to him in the olmsted county jail in rochester, a city of about 60,000 some 90 miles southeast of minneapolis
we want him to know we support him and care about him,'' said one classmate, who would not give her name
anybody who judges dave without knowing him is out of their mind,'' said student chris bromelkamp. ``he may have done something bad, but there's a lot of people he touched. in the morning, i would come in in a bad mood, and there's dave with a big smile and a joke.''
some students told reporters that brom had recently argued with his father over a punk rock music tape the son brought home, and said the teen-ager liked punk groups such as suicidal tendencies
von wald said brom dyed and cut his hair in a spiked, punk fashion thursday, and that he had bought a wig and makeup in what the sheriff speculated may have been an attempt to disguise himself
he listened to some pretty far-out music, but he wasn't a satanist and wasn't a transvestite'' or a drug-user, bromelkamp said
brom appeared calm friday during his 15-minute arraignment on four counts of first-degree murder and eight counts of second-degree murder. the charges allege different degrees of premeditation or intent
according to the complaint, one unidentified person indicated that brom on wednesday said he was going to kill his parents that night, and another person indicated that brom told her over the phone the next day that he had killed his parents
district judge gerard ring ordered brom examined by court-appointed psychiatrists, said county attorney raymond schmitz. he was being held under a 24-hour watch at the county jail pending a detention hearing next week, schmitz said
assistant county public defender terry walters, representing brom, said he will fight any efforts to have the youth tried as an adult
the administration of the 415-student roman catholic school set up a series of therapy sessions and a special mass on friday. dozens of students spent much of the day hugging, crying and talking to friends and counselors
a funeral is planned sunday at pax christi catholic church, where the elder broms were known as leaders and devout christians. name of slain farmer. adds byline. ^by deepak sharma</note>
sikh gunmen killed two people at a bus stop outside amritsar today, raising to 25 the number of people slain in two days of bombings and shootings in punjab state, police and news reports said
the victims included 10 people shot to death then set ablaze in a farmhouse and 10 others who died in apparently well-planned bomb attacks in four cities in the northern state. more than 60 people were wounded in the bombings
an unexploded bomb was found today in a fifth city, batala, the united news of india reported. it said the four-pound tin of explosives was left in a store by a woman customer in the city 25 miles northeast of amritsar
the news agency also said two men were shot to death this afternoon at a bus stop on the edge of the sikh holy city
the latest killings brought to nearly 250 the number of people killed this year in punjab in attacks blamed on sikh militants, who demand a separate nation for their minority religion
in the village of sahsra, nine members of a farm family were killed with automatic rifles and revolvers friday night, along with a man staying at the house, police said
residents in the village 20 miles southeast of amritsar said about six sikh gunmen stormed into the home of farmer kewal singh while the family slept. the assailants set the bodies, the farmouse and its furnishings ablaze, the villagers said
the victims included the farmer, his wife, two daughters, four sons, a niece and a guest identified as sukhdev singh. police said earlier reports that 11 died apparently resulted from confusion
while sikh militants frequently claim their sikh victims are police informers, neighbors insisted kewal singh was only a simple villager
gurcharan singh, the village leader, said he was ``a poor farmer and tongawalla,'' or wagon driver
uni reported two other people were shot to death by sikh militants friday at bhuri kalan near amritsar and a man was killed near patiala, about 140 miles southeast of amritsar
friday's bomb attacks were in the cities of amritsar, patiala, gurdaspur and hoshiarpur and prompted police in new delhi to issue a ``red alert'' that the attacks might spread to the capital
sikh extremists have been fighting for a separate state in punjab since 1982. sikhs are a majority in punjab but comprise only 2 percent of the nationwide population of 780 million, more than 80 percent of whom are hindu
the sikh faith has elements of both hinduism and islam and was founded about 500 years ago as a peaceful alternative to the two warring religions
but the sikhs' 10th and final prophet, guru gobind singh, declared sikhism a warrior faith in which male adherents should all carry knives and bear the name singh, ``lion'' in punjabi. crash.</note>
witnesses report seeing a fireball and hearing an explosion before a commuter plane crashed on takeoff from raleigh-durham airport, killing all 12 people aboard in one of three air tragedies
near atlantic city, n.j., at least six people were killed in a plane crash friday, authorities said, and three others died when a plane slammed into a highway in el paso, texas
in north carolina, american eagle commuter flight 3378, a twin-engine turboprop bound for richmond, va., crashed in heavy fog at 9:27 p.m. friday with 10 passengers and two crew members aboard, airport spokeswoman teresa damiano said
the plane is in several pieces,'' ms. damiano said. ``there was a small bit of fire that was contained. there was no indication to the tower that the plane was in any danger prior to takeoff.''
she said witnesses reported hearing an explosion and seeing a fireball before the crash
it sounded like a blast or something,'' said mary h. ward, who lives in a mobile home about three miles from the airport. ``it was kind of muffled.''
a team of investigators from the federal aviation administration and the national transportation safety board flew to the scene, said v.h. steed, night duty officer for the faa in atlanta,
the airplane was listed as a swearingen sw-4 twin-engine turboprop, steed said
the fog was not believed to be a factor in the crash, said richard wines, the airport tower controller
the victims' names were not immediately available. american eagle is a commuter carrier for american airlines
in hamilton township, n.j., no one survived when a small twin-engine plane crashed in dense fog and driving rain near atlantic city international airport, officials said
emergency crews were still on the scene early today, and few details of the crash were available
faa spokesman anthony willett said at least six people died when the twin-engine piper navajo went down sometime after 10:10 p.m., when its radar signal was lost, but it was not known exactly how many were aboard
deep woods, fog and rain hampered investigative work, willett said
the plane was en route from norwood, mass., to the atlantic city airport at pomona, willett said. it was found at 11:11 p.m. about two miles northwest of the airport
willett said officials from the faa and ntsb would be at the scene today
he said the 32-foot-long plane is of the type commonly used by commuter airlines, but that it mave have been privately owned
earlier, a twin-engine plane skimmed over morning rush-hour traffic and crashed on a freeway access road in el paso, killing all three people aboard and spewing flaming debris that destroyed two parked cars, authorities said
it looked like it was going to attempt maybe to come onto the freeway, but as soon as it got over the freeway, it just nosedived,'' said victor armendariz, who was at a stop light
the gulfstream commander 680 went down in moderate snow and light fog after takeoff from el paso international airport, ntsb spokesman tommy mcfall said
the plane apparently developed landing-gear trouble and was trying to return, mcfall said
the victims' identities were not immediately released and the plane's destination was not available
in lake charles, la., authorities attempted friday to free a downed plane from 10 feet of mud in a lake but failed when a helicopter pulled the tail off as it tried to lift the wreckage
the plane was buried nose down in the shallow waters of lake prien, where it went down thursday. officials said the wreckage was buried so deep that there was no way to determine fatalities, but it was believed two men were aboard. area</head> kidnapping; unifil spokesman's comments. no pickup.</note>
a militia commander today said his forces arrested several accomplices in the kidnapping of a u.s. marine officer who heads a united nations observer team, but that the mastermind had escaped
daoud daoud, the top military commander of the mainstream shiite amal militia in south lebanon, also that the kidnapping was well-planned in advance but that a series of snags slowed down the abductors' flight, giving amal time to seal the area
he said he believes lt. col. william r. higgins still is in south lebanon, although he was kidnapped wednesday
we have arrested several accomplices, but the leader of the kidnap operation has left the south,'' daoud told the associated press in an interview at his home in bedias, seven miles northeast of tyre
we know them all by name now, and we believe (lt.) col. higgins is still in south lebanon,'' he said
amal militiamen and u.n. peacekeeping troops have sealed off a 300-square-mile area around tyre, searching through cave-strewn valleys and olive and citrus groves
higgins, 43, heads a 76-man unarmed u.n. observer team that monitors border violations of a 1949 armistice agreement between lebanon and israel
the group is attached to the 5,800-member u.n. interim force in lebanon, or unifil, deployed in 1978 after an israeli incursion into south lebanon
the pro-iranian organization of the oppressed on earth on friday claimed responsibility for higgins' abduction, accusing him of being a cia spy. american and u.n. officials denied the charge
the pentagon said higgins, of danville, ky., had been a junior military aide to former u.s. secretary of defense caspar weinberger but that his abduction did not pose a major security risk to the united states
the first claim of responsibility for the kidnapping came thursday in a call from an anonymous man claiming to speak for a previously unknown group, the islamic revolutionary brigades
we believe higgins is still in south lebanon because the accomplice who was assigned to transport him to beirut after the abduction is detained by us,'' daoud said, refusing to identify any of the suspects or their affiliations
security sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said many of the 40 men detained have links to the iranian-backed hezbollah, or party of god, an umbrella organization for shiite extremists
hezbollah's voice of islam radio station, based in baalbek, in east lebanon, claimed today that 150 hezbollah members were rounded up in house raids in the tyre region
amal's men have stormed hezbollah's operations center in the south, seized documents, equipment and cameras. they also raided the house of hezbollah's south lebanon leader abbas musawi,'' the radio said. it made no mention of higgins
daoud said higgins' abduction was ``carefully thought out, planned and staged.''
he said among the detainees were those assigned to monitor higgins' movements, and ``they have confessed that they knew four days in advance that he was coming to tyre on wednesday.''
higgins was driving from tyre to unifil headquarters in the border town of naqoura when gunmen in a brown volvo car blocked the highway and seized him
the kidnappers ran into a chain of snags after the abduction. their first car, the brown volvo, got stuck in the mud. they made a bulldozer driver push them out, but the exhaust was broken and they had to move higgins to a white peugeot,'' daoud said
this (second) car collided with a truck loaded with oranges southeast of tyre. the kidnappers then moved higgins to a red mercedes and fled to their unknown hideout,'' daoud added
these snags cost the kidnappers about 1{ hours, during which we managed to seal off all exits from tyre region south of the litani river,'' daoud said
he said the mastermind had sent four other brown volvo cars speeding through several neighboring villages
he wanted to shake off any pursuers. however, the accidents gave us the needed time to seal off the area,'' daoud said
i am 60 percent certain that higgins is still south of the litani. it is very difficult for them to smuggle him out on foot through the valleys. nevertheless, we're keeping this in mind,'' he added
unifil spokesman timur goksel today said: ``we are maintaining road checks and heavy emphasis on collection of information. we believe he is probably still south of the litani,'' goksel said
in washington, president reagan said thursday that the united states will not withdraw americans from the u.n. observer group, despite the abduction. fifteen other nations contribute to the unit
in its type-written arabic statement, the organization of the oppressed on earth said higgins is ``one of the biggest spies planting daily terror in our land.''
the statement was delivered to a western news agency in beirut, accompanied by photocopies of two identity cards of higgins
the group, believed made up of shiite zealots, previously has claimed responsibility for hijackings, bombings and the abduction of 12 lebanese jews. it has claimed to have killed eight of the jews kidnapped in 1984
the soviets' top arms control official said his country is counting on secretary of state george p. shultz to arrive ready to explore new initiatives in u.s.-soviet disarmament talks
viktor karpov, a former arms negotiator who now heads the soviet foreign ministry's arms control department, said late friday that shultz's visit, which begins sunday, ``must set the pace for further soviet-u.s. dialogue.''
during the u.s. official's three-day visit, he is scheduled to talk with mikhail s. gorbachev and other top soviet officials about a proposed agreement to cut the superpowers' long-range nuclear missiles by 50 percent
the talks follow the dec. 8 signing of a treaty to ban superpower medium- and shorter-range nuclear missiles by soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev and president reagan in washington
in a special panel of the supreme soviet parliament earlier friday, two red army officials said that ratification of the dec. 8 treaty could save the soviet union more than $80 million and would free ``tens of thousands'' of soldiers from their present duties
marshal sergei f. akhromeyev, the military chief of staff, and maj. gen. vladimir i. medvedev were among top officials who spoke before the panel, which is considering ratification of the pact
those who spoke at the hearing at the kremlin endorsed the treaty, but akhromeyev said the soviet military is worried about nato moves to compensate for the weapons slated for destruction by the pact
the idea of compensation is wild,'' said the first deputy foreign minister, yuli m. vorontsov. ``a doctor who operates on a person to cure him of an ulcer does not then say, `what can i put in to compensate for the ulcer?'''
on feb. 9, the foreign relations commissions of the two houses of the soviet legislature created a special 10-member subcommittee to seek the opinion of experts and ordinary soviet citizens about the treaty
the treaty must be ratified by the supreme soviet's presidium to become law. but because it already has been approved by the ruling communist party politburo, passage is assured
friday's two-hour hearing seemed designed to assuage the fears of some soviets that their leaders made too many concessions in the treaty. a small group of foreign reporters was allowed to attend
those against are few,'' said chairman georgy m. korniyenko, summing up soviet public opinion. ``those who are against just don't trust the imperialists ... but then there are not a few who have concerns.''
under the pact, the soviet union must destroy 1,752 missiles, compared with 859 for the united states
but akhromeyev said that under the agreement, the soviets will eliminate 650 modern medium-range missiles, while the americans will destroy 689 new weapons, he said
u.s. defense secretary frank carlucci and other nato officials have said the west needs to modernize its battlefield nuclear weapons or improve its conventional arms to make up for the banned missiles
akhromeyev said there was ``not a word'' in the inf treaty that would bar such measures
akromeyev said 3 percent to 4 percent of the ``tens of thousands'' of military men to be released from their duty with the missiles would be put on pension, but that younger men could continue with their military careers
medvedev told the panel that missiles and other soviet military equipment worth $33 million to $41.5 million would be destroyed because of the treaty
he said the soviet union would save $83 million, and that military equipment used for the missiles that does not have to be destroyed is worth $250 million
the subcommittee adjourned without a date set for its next session. the panel will report back to the supreme soviet's foreign relations commissions, which must recommend whether the treaty should be ratified. information from berkeley putting quake at 5.1 on richter scale, corrects locator for hollister to 75 miles, sted 25 miles; picks up 4th graf, ``people living ...''</note>
a strong earthquake rattled across central and northern california early today, causing minor damage in this agricultural town and shaking people awake over a wide area, officials said. no injuries were reported
the quake measured 5.1 on the richter scale, said anthony lomax, spokesman for the seismology laboratory at the university of california, berkeley
he said the strong quake struck at 12:40 a.m. about seven miles southeast of hollister, a quake-prone city some 75 miles southeast of san francisco
in hollister, the tremor knocked products off store shelves, broke a glass door and set off burglar alarms across the city, said paul penn, emergency services coordinator for san benito county
but no injuries were reported, and power was not interrupted, he said
san benito county is known as one of the more seismically active counties in the country, so you get used to it,'' penn added. ``the last major one was superbowl sunday 1986.''
people living over a broad area reported feeling strong earth movement, with jittery residents in modesto, san francisco, and monterey calling authorities for reassurance
i was standing in a sturdy old building when i felt the ground begin to rumble, and lights began shaking,'' said gordon bock, a time magazine staff writer experiencing his first earthquake
i'm from new york. i've only read about these things,'' said bock, who was in asilomar, near monterey, when the temblor hit. ``my stomach is churning and my hands are still shaking.'' pickup. adds byline.</note>
the air force carried out a revenge attack on two swapo guerrilla bases in angola this morning, retaliating for a bank bombing that killed 18 people in namibia, the defense force chief said
gen. jannie geldenhuys said air force fighter aircraft successfully carried out attacks on south-west african people's organization targets in lubango and ongiva in southern angola
he said the attacks were in retaliation friday's bombing of the first national bank in oshakati, south-west africa, where 18 people were killed and 31 injured
geldenhuys said swapo, which has been fighting for 22 years against south african occupation of the territory, also known as namibia, was responsible for the lunch-hour bomb
a statement friday from the swapo office in luanda, angola, denied involvement in the bombing, and said it was part of a south african propaganda campaign to ``smear the name of swapo.''
the guerrillas fight in south-west africa, also known as namibia, from bases in southern angola that periodically are raided by the south african defense force
eight mirage fighters took part in the attack on two targets near lubango, 186 miles north of the namibian-angolan border; and five impala aircraft attacked targets at ongiva, 26 miles north of the border, the statement said
geldenhuys said the lubango targets were ``swapo's most important training center in angola, the tobias hainyeko training center, and a terrorist holding area about 10 kms (6.2 miles) west of there.''
he said swapo guerrillas receive training in the handling of explosives at the tobias hainyeko center, which he said, ``can be regarded as the breeding ground for terrorism against the inhabitants of south-west africa-namibia.''
swapo had launched a number of raids from ongiva recently on civilians in south-west africa, the general said
by these attacks the security forces demonstrated their willingness never to allow swapo terrorism to go unpunished,'' geldenhuys said. ``terrorists will be tracked down and destroyed.''
friday's bank blast was the deadliest in 22 years of war between the black guerrillas and the minority white government of south africa
among the dead in the blast in the far-northern town of oshakati were 10 women, three men and a child. all the victims were black, except for one white woman who was identified today in a pro-government newspaper as the wife of a member of a special police unit
four of the bodies were discovered in the rubble friday night, said the citizen newspaper
of the 31 people injured, 20 of them were black, said an army spokesman, cmdt. lieb bester
there was no immediate claim of responsibility for the blast, which destroyed the bank building. five people were injured when an explosion occurred in the street near the same bank a year ago
chris ball, managing director of the first national bank, flew to windhoek to visit the scene friday afternoon. he called the bombing ``a barbarous and senseless attack on the community of oshakati, achieving nothing.''
all those killed were civilians, bester said. most were believed to be local government employees who had just been paid
a police inspector, keirie du rand, said about 55 pounds of plastic explosive was used in the blast, which occurred shortly before 1 p.m. he said a fire raged for several hours after the explosion, hampering police access to the scene
oshakati is in north-central namibia, about 25 miles south of the angolan border. it is home to the largest military base in the region, a staging point for south africa's current military intervention in angola's civil war
swapo has claimed responsibility for numerous previous bombings in the territory, including a blast last month at a store at a military base in windhoek. ``kalikow agreed ...,'' to restore dropped word `less.'</note>
the new york post, the nation's oldest continuously published daily, gained a new lease on life today with approval by its unions of $22 million in concessions
owner rupert murdoch had said unless he was given $24 million in concessions he would close the paper. but he contributed $3 million to the deal, calling it a farewell gift
the agreement clears the way for murdock to complete a $37 million sale of the financially troubled tabloid, founded in 1801 by alexander hamilton, to real estate developer peter kalikow
the agreement was reached at 1:50 a.m. after nearly 16 hours of bargaining
i want to say at this time that i wish mr. kalikow great, successful publishing of the new york post,'' murdoch said in announcing the agreement. ``i ... hate to leave it.''
while murdoch had said the paper would close unless he obtained the concessions, he agreed to stop the clock as negotiations continued past his 2 p.m. friday deadline
kalikow agreed to a package that would save $2 million less than originally sought on condition the unions agreed to all other terms, according to howard rubenstein, a spokesman for both kalikow and murdoch
under the agreement, kalikow would save $10 million in the first year, $8 million in the second and $6 million in the third, minus a $2 million bonus in the final year, said theodore kheel, an adviser to the unions
in each of the three years, kalikow saves $7.5 million through employee buyouts and $2.5 million through employee pay cuts, kheel said. in all, 130 jobs from a work force of 1,200 will be eliminated
however, in the first year employees will not lose anything because murdoch will give them $2.5 million to restore the pay cuts, he added
in the second year, kalikow is to restore $2 million of the pay cuts and murdoch make up the difference with $500,000. kalikow agreed to provide $4 million in raises and $2 million in bonuses in the third year, kheel said
i don't think there's any question that without murdoch's contribution of $3 million, the paper would have definitely shut down,'' kheel said
kheel said murdoch referred to the $3 million contribution as a farewell gift
union leader george mcdonald thanked murdoch for the $3 million
the unions achieved their goal ``to save our jobs for our people and our families,'' said mcdonald, president of the allied printing trades council, an umbrella group for post unions
the agreement, to take effect march 7, is subject to verification by kalikow's auditors and union ratification, but murdoch said those were only formalities
murdoch said of kalikow: ``he's a very ambitious man, as well as being a wealthy one. i know that he is determined to make it (the newspaper) successful.''
the post faced financial problems from its earliest years but held on as paper after paper in the city merged, then shut down
murdoch bought the afternoon tabloid, the nation's oldest continuously published daily, from dorothy schiff in 1976 for about $31 million as he expanded his worldwide media holdings from australia and england into the united states
under murdoch, the paper turned from liberal to conservative on the editorial page, became splashy and at times racy
his efforts failed to turn the paper around. murdoch says he has lost nearly $150 million in 11 years of operating the post. he said friday that current losses were running $100,000 a day
earlier this month, murdoch announced he had reached agreement to sell the post to kalikow
the sale was prompted by congressional action late last year that blocked the federal communication commission from granting him another waiver to its rule against owning a newspaper and tv station in the same market. murdoch also owns wnyw-tv in new york
in boston, where he faces the same situation, murdoch has indicated he'd sell his tv station and hold on to the boston herald
a moderately strong earthquake today shook the mountains of the soviet central asian republic of tadzhikistan, but no injuries or damage were reported, the official soviet news agency tass said
the tremor occurred at 4:50 a.m. moscow time (8:50 p.m. est friday) and was centered 99 miles east of the republic's capital, dushanbe, tass said
it said the dushanbe seismic station measured the magnitude of the earthquake at 5 on the soviet scale. the soviet scale measures observable effects of an earthquake
tadzhikistan, with an area of 55,240 square miles, is known for farming and cattle ranching. rich deposits of coal, lead and zinc also are found in the republic, whose 1981 population was 3.4 million
it borders afghanistan and china. that shelter set up. no pickup.</note>
one person was killed and 14 people were taken to a hospital after a fire broke out today in two cars of an amtrak train near here, authorities said
the fire aboard the california zephyr was reported around 3 a.m. and was under control by 4:30 a.m., said fire chief jim mitera
it was unclear whether the fatality was a crew member or a passenger, mitera said. he said the injured apparently suffered either smoke inhalation or burns
passengers aboard the train saw thick smoke coming from the train, according to passenger vicki miller of omaha. the smoke appeared to be coming from crew cars just in front of the passenger sleeping cars, she said
police reported two cars were burning, said bryce wellnitz, a dispatcher with the nebraska state patrol in lincoln
amtrak crew members disconnected the two cars and the zephyr, which travels from chicago to oakland, calif., continued on its route
investigators did not know where the fire started or what may have caused it, mitera said
the red cross set up a shelter in the hastings city auditorium, wellnitz said. hastings, a town of about 18,000, is in southeast nebraska
a call to amtrak's office in omaha reached an official who refused to give his name or comment on the fire. ramallah, edits to trim. picks up 11th graf pvs bgng, _israeli soldiers...</note>
soldiers shot and killed a palestinian demonstrator today in the west bank town of ramallah during a march on the municipal building, the arab-run palestine press service and hospital sources said
a spokesman for the israeli army could not immediately confirm the death
the palestinian news agency identified the victim as abdullah atta abdullah, 20, and said he was shot in the head
it said abdullah was one of several hundred demonstrators demanding the resignation of the municipal council of ramallah, which is 10 miles north of jerusalem
sources at a hospital at ramallah, who spoke on condition they not be identified, said abdullah was shot in the forehead
the army command said israeli troops clashed with 200 moslem worshipers at the tomb of the patriarchs in hebron in the occupied west bank
moslems and jews both believe the site is the burial place of the biblical patriarchs abraham, isaac and jacob and three of their four wives
arabs spread prayer rugs on the floor and began to pray friday during jewish services in a chamber normally used at different hours as a place of worship by jews and arabs
the site attracts jewish and moslem religious fundamentalists and has been a constant source of friction since israel captured the west bank and gaza strip in the 1967 middle east war
an army spokeswoman said soldiers ordered the moslem worshipers out of the hall and used force, but not gunfire or tear gas, to evict them when they refused
the arabs attacked the soldiers, the spokeswoman said on condition of anonymity in keeping with army regulations
by u.n. count and not including today's reported death, 55 arabs have been killed by israelis since protests began in the occupied territories dec. 8
in other developments on friday:
_israeli soldiers tangled with palestinian protesters in nablus and in the gaza strip, but no casualties were reported
_military sources denied charges by neil kinnock, head of britain's labor party, that israeli troops were using dumdum bullets against arab protesters. dumdum bullets expand explosively when they hit a target, causing greater damage
_fayez abu rahmeh, one of six palestinians reportedly favored to meet u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz in israel next week, said he would cancel the meeting if ordered to do so by the palestinian liberation organization
in nablus, 40 miles north of jerusalem, hundreds of protesters waved palestinian flags, brandished photographs of plo chief yasser arafat, and chanted slogans
they moved toward israeli troops at the exits of the old city, throwing stones, bricks and bottles. soldiers retaliated with tear gas and chased youths through the streets
at jabaliya refugee camp in the gaza strip, hundreds of people demonstrated after prayers, carrying palestinian flags and throwing rocks
the army command denied palestinian reports that soldiers used tear gas and clubs to disperse the protesters at jabaliya
in gaza city, protesters threw stones and burned tires. shati refugee camp remained under curfew imposed by the army last week
kinnock, in israel on a visit, made the charge about dumdum bullets at a news conference friday. he said he saw x-rays of a wound which ``showed shattering of the bone and flesh consistent with the use of an explosive bullet.'' at another point he said the injury was consistent with ``the wound inflicted by a dumdum bullet.''
the comment by abu rahmeh, a palestinian leader from the gaza strip, to the associated press came after the outlawed plo issued a statement friday
the statement said the visit, and a new peace initiative promoted by shultz, were aimed ``at liquidating the palestinian cause and the heroic uprising'' in the occupied lands. it said no palestinian leaders in the occupied territories would meet shultz on his visit
abu rahmeh said: ``i must obey the (plo) request, whatever it is.''
earlier, he said he would urge shultz ``to agree to the convening of an international peace conference and help the parties reach a settlement between themselves.''
the plo backs an international peace conference if it includes an independent plo delegation
israel's two main parties, the right-wing likud and centrist labor party are split over the convening of a peace conference but united in their refusal to negotiate with the plo
a lawyer for attorney general edwin meese iii said saturday that meese received no money or benefit from a reported $150,000 payment to two close meese associates in connection with promotion of an iraqi pipeline project
the attorney, james rocap, said he was aware of the payment but that ``it has absolutely nothing to do with mr. meese.''
swiss businessman bruce rappaport sent the money in mid-1985 to franklyn chinn, meese's former investment adviser, and e. bob wallach, a close friend of meese for more than 30 years, according to sources familiar with independent prosecutor james mckay's investigation of meese
rappaport was enlisted by the san francisco-based bechtel group, which was seeking to build the project
the sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, quoted wallach as saying the money from rappaport represented his legal fee for his work on the pipeline proposal, including getting meese's help to set up a meeting for rappaport in june 1985 with then-national security adviser robert c. mcfarlane
rocap characterized as ``not a big deal'' the fact that wallach had been paid a fee through rappaport and that the $150,000 had been deposited in a trust account with chinn
ed meese never got any money from the pipeline project or from bruce rappaport. he never got any money from bob wallach with the exception of a few lunches,'' said rocap
the lawyer said that the only money meese got through his partnership with chinn was the previously disclosed stock profits that chinn earned for the attorney general through various stock trades
the washington post reported saturday that the payment was not included on wallach's 1985 income tax return and was not reported by him until may 1987, when mckay expanded his investigation of the scandal-plagued wedtech corp. to include meese's dealings with wallach and chinn
a federal indictment in new york accused wallach and chinn and a third man of taking illegal payments from wedtech to influence meese
rappaport hired wallach in 1985 to try to drum up u.s. support for the proposed 540-mile pipeline through jordan that would run close to israeli territory. the pipeline never was built
president reagan today asked congress to ward off election year pressure for increased spending and enact the $1.1 trillion budget presented earlier in the week
if congress upholds its commitments and stands firm against pressures for increased spending _ pressures that reach a peak during election years _ solid results will be forthcoming,'' reagan said in his weekly radio speech
if our proposed budget is enacted, deficit spending will have dropped from $221 billion in fiscal year 1986 to $130 billion in fiscal year 1989,'' the president said
he said consultations between congress and the white house before the budget submission _ which both branches have hailed as a method of avoiding budget fights as in previous years _ demonstrates ``responsible leadership expected by the electorate.''
reagan said the budget will ``keep the lid'' on spending, while recognizing that some increases are needed to avoid jeopardizing national security
he repeated his criticism of last year's budget process, saying late amendments to the spending bill required him to sign a package without the review it should have been granted, or face shutdown of the federal government
with the new budget, he said, ``we have an opportunity to put our fiscal house in order.''
reagan also repeated his assertion that his administration has presided over the biggest economic expansion since world war ii and once again hailed his administration's record on employment
william paley, the 86-year-old founder and chairman of cbs inc., remained in critical condition saturday after undergoing emergency gall bladder surgery more than a week ago
a spokeswoman for new york hospital-cornell medical center said that paley was in critical but stable condition
on friday, another spokeswoman, diana goldin, said paley was ``off the respirator and recuperating well from emergency abdominal surgery performed 10 days ago, but is being treated for pre-existing pulmonary and renal conditions aggravated by this recent illness.''
the hospital said that paley was receiving kidney dialysis
he had been in critical condition since undergoing surgery on feb. 11
paley bought a fledling radio station in 1928 and built it into the columbia broadcasting system. in 1983, he stepped down as chairman, but made a comeback in 1986 with loew's corp.'s chairman lawrence tisch after he became disenchanted with company policies. sted eight detained; picks up 7th graf pvs, `solidarity regional ...</note>
police across the country detained at least seven top opposition activists in an apparent effort to prevent a weekend solidarity meeting from convening, opposition spokesmen said today
among those reported held were two prominent figures in the outlawed trade union federation who were removed by officers from a car also carrying solidarity chairman lech walesa
walesa, interviewed by telephone from his home in gdansk, said union spokesman janusz onyszkiewicz and gdansk regional solidarity leader bogdan lis were taken from his car shortly after noon, but he was left alone
we have reforms by (means of) arresting,'' walesa said sarcastically. ``this is something well known to communist authorities.''
also reported held was zbigniew bujak, warsaw-region solidarity leader who was the union's underground chief after the imposition of martial law in december 1981
he was detained at the warsaw train station before he could board a train to gdansk to attend a meeting of the solidarity national executive commission, said the rev. henryk jankowski, an adviser to walesa
jankowski initially reported that solidarity adviser jacek kuron was detained at the same time. but warsaw opposition spokesmen said later that jankowski was mistaken and kuron had not been held
solidarity regional leaders from krakow, lublin, bydgoszcz and wroclaw also were reported detained
commission meetings are not announced in advance, and neither walesa nor jankowski would not state the reason for the meeting in the baltic port
however solidarity, which has remained active despite its being banned in 1982, is known to be evaluating its strategy in the face of steep price increases imposed feb. 1
the increases have caused widespread discontent, but no major unrest. past price increases have triggered violence as well as the strikes that spawned solidarity in august 1980
jankowski, who spoke by telephone from gdansk, said 19 people were detained nationwide, but there were contradictory reports from other opposition sources
a spokesman in the government press office, zbigniew augustynowicz, said he had no immediate comment on the reports but would look into them
authorities in poland often use brief detentions to block illegal meetings. since a 1986 amnesty, no one has been held more than 48 hours solely on political charges
wladyslaw frasyniuk, a regional leader of solidarity in the southwestern city of wroclaw, was detained friday evening by a group of uniformed and plainclothes police, said his wife, krystyna
police later telephoned their home and said without explanation that frasyniuk was being held for 48 hours, she said
it was not known if frasyniuk, who is also a member of solidarity's executive commission, had planned to attend the meeting in gdansk. however, he was to attend a meeting sunday of a banned farmers' group, rural solidarity, in southeastern poland
another executive commission member, stanislaw weglarz, was detained friday in his home city of lublin, in eastern poland, said opposition spokesman janusz winiarski
stefan jurczak, an executive commission member from near krakow, also was detained friday, another opposition source said
briefly detained was janusz stepniak, from near lublin, a leader of rural solidarity, said winiarski, who said stepniak was warned against attending the rural solidarity meeting in rzeszow
the provisional national council of rural solidarity, an farmers' union modeled on the soviet bloc's first and only independent labor federation, has called a national meeting of farmers to mark the seventh anniversary of the 1981 rzeszow-ustrzyki agreements
in those accords, the government officially recognized rural solidarity
after the imposition of martial law, rural solidarity was banned, although some members have continued their activities
at least 32 people were killed and 23 were injured saturday when a bus skidded into a gorge near shimla, the capital of himachal pradesh state
united news of india said 30 people died on the spot and two died of injuries on the way to a hospital. all the victims were passengers on the bus
the accident occured at ghanog nallah, 185 miles north of new delhi. caesar</note>
tony curtis, zsa zsa gabor and cesar romero were among the more than 2,000 well-heeled revelers who celebrated the hotel del coronado's 100th anniversary in grand style
it's fantastic. you don't see too many parties like this any more,'' romero said of the friday night fund-raising bash that recaptured highlights of the seaside resort's history
hotelier larry lawrence lavishly decorated the venerable victorian hotel for 750 guests who came from across the country for a sold-out weekend at $2,500 apiece. money raised was going to some 40 charities
other celebrities at the gala included singers marilyn mccoo and billy davis and actors lloyd bridges, ed ames, jane withers, bernie kopell
curtis starred with jack lemmon and marilyn monroe in the 1958 comedy ``some like it hot,'' which was filmed at the historic resort
the hotel, which opened feb. 19, 1888, is one of the world's largest wooden structures and the nation's only working commercial hotel with a national monument designation
a regional ice cream company has won a trademark victory over giant mcdonald's corp., which claimed a frozen milkshake called ``quick thaw mcstraw'' was too much like its own trademarks
it's not often that the little guy wins over a fortune 500 company,'' said dennis roney, president and chief executive officer of oberweis dairy inc., parent company of roney ice cream co
roney announced friday that it has won a five-year trademark dispute with mcdonald's
the roney company, which makes ice cream and ice milk in this chicago suburb, filed in december 1983 for a trademark registration for ``quick thaw mcstraw.''
the name was a variation on hannah-barbera productions' quick draw mcgraw, and the hollywood animator gave the company permission to use the name, with limitations, roney said
mcdonald's opposed the registration, arguing that consumers would be confused by the use of mcstraw when it had so many trademarks using `mc' or `mac', roney said. mcdonald's, based in suburban oak brook, also argued that the roney frozen shake was similar to its own products
the department of commerce's trademark trial and appeal board ruled in favor of the ice cream maker
mcdonald's spokesman chuck rubner said the comnpany may appeal
here is the text of president reagan's weekly radio broadcast:
my fellow americans, this week i transmitted to congress our proposed budget for 1989. this budget fulfills the second year obligations of a bipartisan agreement i hammered out last november with the leaders of congress
we then, after arduous negotiations, agreed on a plan to reduce federal deficit spending by over $75 billion in two years. if congress upholds its commitments and stands firm against pressures for increased spending _ pressures that reached a peak during election years _ solid results will be forthcoming, and progress has already been made
if our proposed budget is enacted, deficit spending will have dropped from $221 billion in fiscal year 1986 to $130 billion in fiscal year 1989. as a proportion of gross national product, it will have been cut by more than half since 1983
the legislative and executive branches, by living up to our commitments of last november, are demonstrating the kind of responsible leadership expected by the electorate. the budget we've transmitted is true to that spirit
it reduces the level of deficit spending, while at the same time, holds the line against any general tax increase. it remains firm in our commitments to essential domestic programs. it also includes funding for the minimum defense program needed to keep our country safe and necessary to honor our commitments to our friends and allies
anything less would not only jeopardize our national security, but also dim prospects for further negotiated agreements with our adversaries
we've proposed a trim budget that keeps the lid on spending, and yet still recognizes that some increases are justified. for example, we're actually calling for congress to spend substantially more on education, combating aids, the war against drugs, and improving air safety, while keeping discretionary domestic spending within predetermined limits
the long-term solution to the plague of deficit spending, however, is not prudence this year or next. what's needed is reform that will bring discipline and accountability to the budget process
exemplifying the shortcomings, last year the federal budget was slapped together into a single behemoth bill and delivered to me hours before the federal government was due to run out of money. i was faced with the decision to either sign without time for careful consideration or see the federal government shut down
i pledged during the state of the union, after plopping down 43 pounds of paper sent to me by congress, that i would never sign another catchall continuing resolution. i'm pleased that at least 34 senators and a good number of congressmen, including many in the leadership, have indicated that they, too, do not want a repeat of last year's budget mayhem
make no mistake, we have the opportunity to put our fiscal house in order and to reform the budget process. we've proven time and again that by working together, partisanship can be put aside and progress can be made when the national interest is at stake
it took co-operation from both sides of the aisle. for example, to put in place an economic recovery program that has given this country the longest peacetime expansion in history, inflation and interest rates have been kept down. family income is up. and we created over 15 million new jobs since the recovery began. being mindful of the suffering that comes with unemployment, that last figure is a matter of particular pride for me. and as our economy is grown, unemployment has dropped to its lowest level since 1979. but that statement doesn't come near to describing the success we've enjoyed
today, more people have jobs and a higher percentage of our work force is employed than ever before. since the recovery began, we've created more new jobs than in all of western europe and japan combined. and even the meaning of unemployment figures is sometimes not fully understood
our 7 million unemployed citizens are often thought of as people who have lost their jobs, as they're sometimes described in the media. in fact, less than half of the unemployed are job losers. fifty-five percent are new entrants, mainly young people looking for their first jobs, re-entrants _ individuals who left the work force, perhaps to raise a family and are now seeking to get back in _ or job-leavers who've voluntarily left their jobs to change locations or occupations
we, of course, need to remain concerned about each and every citizen who is seeking work, and should not be satisfied until everyone who wants a job _ a good job _ has one
one person enduring the pressures and frustrations of unemployment is too many. that is why responsible federal spending and taxing policies _ policies that foster growth and expand opportunities for all our citizens _ are so important. that is what the budget that i have just sent to congress is all about
until next week, thanks for listening. god bless you
associated press writer vicki miller was aboard the california zephyr on her way to a skiing weekend in colorado when a fire broke out. this is her account of the incident
most people in the first coach car of an amtrak train were trying to sleep in the wee hours of saturday morning when the california zephyr pulled into the small station here to pick up passengers
the quiet was shattered by the sound of sirens, but no one knew what was going on until they began to smell smoke
there were no crew members in sight. one woman in our group, which was headed for a ski trip in winter park, colo., went to investigate. she returned to tell us calmly that there was a fire in a nearby car
it didn't sound serious, and jokes were tossed around while passengers in the car began to stir
we remained in the car, wondering if it was safe, reassuring each other that we would be warned of trouble
minutes later, a woman crew member ran through the coach, her face blackened with soot. she dashed outside and then returned, saying she'd barely escaped from the crew car where the fire apparently began
chattering with cold, she said she had no shoes and that her feet were cold. outside it was about 31 degrees
the woman left, but returned quickly to ask passengers for blankets. her voice was panicky as she told us people outside the train needed them
i glanced out the window and saw smoke billowing from the crew car two cars ahead. soon the faint smell of smoke drifted into our car and we decided it was time to get out
as we left the train, it became apparent that the fire was serious. some crew members, blankets drapped over their shoulders, appeared dazed. one man sat bent over on the steps leading to the upper deck of our coach car. others were visibly shaken
outside was a maze of fire trucks, hoses and rescue vehicles. firefighters on ladders attempted to cut into the crew car's windows with power tools
emergency personnel and volunteers carried stretchers to ambulances. an amtrak employee yelled to firefighters that he thought there were still people inside the car
soon, more people were helped from the car. many were dressed in bedclothes, and some men were bare-chested
by the time a spokesman announced that the train would proceed without the crew car and sleeper car, our group of six had decided to bail out of our weekend trip. we hitched a ride across town in the back of an ambulance, with another vehicle toting our gear
we turned our hopes from fresh powder to finding a rental car; after we got the last one in town, my companions headed back home
one person was dead, others were hurt. my traveling companions kept asking, ``why weren't we told whether we were in danger or were safe?''
acting gov. rose mofford is getting high marks in her role as temporary chief executive from many legislators but not from the man she replaced, impeached gov. evan mecham
mrs. mofford, a democrat and arizona's longtime secretary of state, became acting governor feb. 5 when mecham, a republican, was impeached by the house. she moved into the governor's office and will remain acting governor until the senate reaches a verdict
my lifestyle has changed,'' mrs. mofford, 65, told a group of mayors friday, saying she's switched her bedtime reading to subjects like the state budget or arizona's medicaid alternative program
when mecham was impeached he was considered legally ``disabled'' and mrs. mofford assumed all of his gubernatorial powers, including the right to sign bills and hire or fire state employees
mrs. mofford brought in her own volunteer staff and replaced one state agency head _ department of administration director max hawkins, who drafted mecham into the 1986 gubernatorial race and was widely blamed for many of mecham's problems. she also accepted the resignation of mecham's controversial washington lobbyist, fred craft
that angered mecham, who has moved his own staff to an office building in suburban glendale. in a letter to mrs. mofford last week, he complained that she was ``turning a temporary acting governorship into a complete disruption and replacement of my administration.''
may i ask you to recognize that i have only been accused and not convicted of any act,'' mecham said, adding that he expects to be cleared and return to the governorship
mrs. mofford replied to mecham, ``i am responsible for acting as the chief executive of this state ... i did not ask for this job, but i intend to discharge it to the best of my ability during these difficult times.''
lawmakers say they generally are pleased with the work of mrs. mofford, who many had hoped would act mainly as caretaker
mrs. mofford addresses problems in a calm, deliberate manner,'' said rep. jim skelly, a conservative republican who headed the house select committee on mecham's impeachment. ``that's a change. she's not going off half-cocked.''
haven't you noticed? there's a different air in state government,'' said senate minority leader alan stephens, a democrat. ``people aren't looking for the next bomb to drop.''
mecham faces a feb. 29 impeachment trial on allegations that he concealed a $350,000 campaign loan, misused $80,000 from the governor's protocol fund by lending it to his auto dealership, and that he tried to thwart an investigation of an alleged death threat by a state official
he is also scheduled for a march 9 criminal trial on six felony counts in connection with the $350,000 loan
if mecham is convicted in court or by the senate, mrs. mofford becomes governor in her own right
however, that would raise a new series of questions if it occurred before the may 17 recall election. attorney general bob corbin has issued a non-binding opinion saying that if mecham resigns or is removed before the recall, mrs. mofford would be subject to removal from office in the recall vote
rep. gary giordano, a republican who opposed mecham's impeachment, said he realized mrs. mofford was entitled to her own staff, but added, ``i don't think she had a particular mandate to bring in the babbitt administration.''
many of mrs. mofford's volunteer aides had worked for former gov. bruce babbitt, a democrat
but house minority leader art hamilton, a democrat, said he believes mrs. mofford is handling the job wisely
it's ticklish and it's difficult and it's like no other chief executive in this state has ever found themselves in,'' hamilton said
mrs. mofford pleased democrats and angered some republicans when she said one of her top priorities would be to seek creation of a martin luther king state holiday. mecham created a storm of controversy in january 1986 when he canceled a holiday for state workers on grounds it was illegally declared by babbitt through executive order
otherwise, there has been little controversy over her policies, including her statement that a tax increase probably would be needed to balance arizona's budget
i don't know all the problems that are facing us,'' mrs. mofford acknowledged friday. ``i know that there are criticisms out there, but i don't think that that will be the last time that i will ever be criticized.''
greek cypriots vote sunday in the second and decisive round of the most heated presidential election since cyprus won independence from britain 28 years ago
the outcome is wide open in the race between veteran right-wing leader glafcos clerides and political newcomer george vassiliou
the candidates, left in the race after they took the top two spots in the first round of voting last sunday, held their final mass rallies in nicosia friday night and fired verbal broadsides at each other
clerides, 68, topped last sunday's poll with 33.32 percent of the vote by the 363,000-strong electorate. vassiliou, 56, a millionaire businessman backed by the powerful communist party, akel, polled 30.11 percent
on paper, vassiliou goes into sunday's showdown ballot in the strongest position after the small socialist party, which polled 9.4 percent, announced it will back him
but sunday's ballot was thrown wide open after president spyros kyprianou, eliminated in the first-round vote, refused to back either of the frontrunners
kyprianou, leader of the centrist democratic party, diko, was seeking a third five-year term. he took 27.29 percent last sunday
he told the 91,000 greek cypriots who voted for him that they can back anyone they want
tens of thousands of flag-waving greek cypriots, many bused in from other areas, attended friday's rallies, held within 500 yards of each other in central nicosia, jamming streets for hours
both candidates stressed that sunday's poll will be the most crucial since the island became independent in 1960
cyprus has been divided since 1974, when the turkish army invaded to seized the northern third of the island, forcing about 180,000 greek cypriots to flee to the south
turkish cypriots declared their own republic in the north in 1983. turkey is the only country to recognize it
the partition of the island, and stalled efforts to reunite the rival communities, has been the dominant issue in the election. bread and butter issues have taken a back seat
clerides and vassiliou have taken a more conciliatory attitude toward reviving negotiations than kyprianou, a hardliner who has been widely blamed for blocking u.n. efforts to establish a federation
kyprianou said he would resume negotiations with the turkish side when it withdrew its 35,000 troops from northern cyprus along with the 65,000 settlers turkey shipped from the mainland
clerides and vassiliou have said they are willing to resume talks without such preconditions
the turks invaded, ostensibly to protect the turkish cypriot minority, after militant greek cypriots staged a short-lived coup seeking to unite the island with greece
that coup forced the president at the time, archbishop makarios, to flee the country. clerides, who was then president of parliament, stood in until makarios returned in december 1974
clerides has sought to attract wide support by pledging to form an all-party government of national unity to enter into talks with the turkish cypriots
to strengthen his strategy, clerides announced during a televised debate thursday night that he was resigning as leader of his democratic rally party to go into sunday's ballot as an independent
vassiliou rejected that as an electoral ploy, pointing out that the other three parties have rejected clerides's coalition proposal as unworkable
the two frontrunners, who had concentrated on knocking kyprianou out in the first round, have spent the last week slamming each other
vassiliou accuses clerides of harboring the extremists involved in the 1974 coup and of being a ``right-wing, anti-labor reactionary.''
the conservative leader has rejected the charges and accuses vassiliou of being a communist pawn. commission ^by malcolm ritter</byline>
people with aids who have begun their own trials of experimental aids drugs found support for their efforts saturday from members of the president's aids commission
the most exciting aspect of this project is that it originates from the aids community, empowering ourselves to participate in the research that may save our lives and dramatically expand the number of patients who have access to experimental drugs,'' said thomas hannon, administrative director of the community research initiative in new york
the project uses private physicians and their patients to test ways of preventing development of full-blown acquired immune deficiency syndrome, he said
while aids drug trials are usually done by government, universities and drug companies, the community based project will include areas of reseach that might otherwise be neglected, he said
several members of the presidential commission on the human immunodeficiency virus epidemic voiced support for the project after hannon testified at a commission hearing
i think what you're doing is introducing an element of competition into the realm of what to do abut the aids problem,'' said commission member john j. creedon. ``i commend you. i say , `right on.' ''
but commission member burton lee, a physician at the memorial sloan-kettering cancer center in new york, said the project's strategy of including intravenous drug abusers among test subjects was ``a bad mistake.''
they are unpredictable at almost the 100 percent level'' and their inclusion will create ``completely flawed material'' in research results, he said. some researchers say that intravenous drug users are poor research subjects because they often don't follow instructions and don't appear for follow-up visits
hannon disagreed, saying ``people with this disease have their lives on the line and are willing to cooperate.''
the project is sponsored by the people with aids coalition, said hannon, who said he has aids
the project, approved by the new york state department of health to sponsor treatment trials, already has five experiments under way, he said. most funding comes from the companies that make the drugs involved, he said
creedon, president and chief executive officer of metropolitan life insurance co., suggested the project also apply to the insurance industry for financial help
studies must be approved by the organization's institutional review board, which includes physicians, law professors, religious leaders and people with aids
another commission member, william walsh, told hannon to ``let us know as specifically as you can what we can do to get more support, more interest'' for such community-based programs
commission member beny primm, executive director of the addiction research and treatment corp. in brooklyn, n.y., offered to supply ``responsible intravenous drug abusers who are in treatment from my program any time you want.''
among the drugs being tested by the community project are pentamidine, being studied in 200 people with aids for prevention of pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, and erythropoietin for anemia brought on by the aids drug azt or the disease itself
another study in seven people will see if a parasitic infection called cryptosporidiosis can be treated with milk from cows that were injected with the parasite. the idea is that the cows' immune systems would create proteins called antibodies that would attack the parasite, and that the antibodies would be in the milk
a $750,000 trial, about to begin with funding from du pont co., will test a drug called ampligen
with money raised from the community, hannon testified, the project is testing al-721, an extract from eggs that hannon said thousands of people with aids are taking on their own. the project is studying its potential for fighting the aids virus and boosting the immune system, he said
the leader of a french basque terrorist group and four members of his organization were arrested saturday after a shootout with police, authorities said
philippe bidart, leader of iparretarrak, had been sought for more than six years. the former schoolteacher was convicted twice in absentia, once for the murder of two police officers, and is suspected in two other slayings of policemen
iparretarrak, which means ``those of the north'' in the basque language, is fighting for independence for the basque country in southwestern france and northern spain
it has been less active than the spanish basque terrorist movement eta but has claimed responsibility for dozens of attacks
about 20 gendarmes _ members of a police force under direction of the french army _ surrounded bidart and his companions in a home on the outskirts of bayonne, the largest city in the french basque region
as they emerged about 1 a.m., they were confronted by the gendarmes. two of the iparretarrak members, joseph etcheveste and pierre aguerre, were wounded by gunfire and taken to the local hospital for treatment. etcheveste was described as bidart's top lieutenant
bidart and the other two, philippe lascaray and jean-paul hiribaren, then surrendered
defense minister andre giraud sent a message of congratulations to the gendarmerie, saying the arrests were the result of a long effort ``accomplished in particularly delicate and often dangerous conditions.''
authorities said only one iparretarrak member remained at large, lucienne, fourcade, and they issued an appeal for her to surrender
no harm will be done to her. we known she never intended to kill anyone,'' the gendermerie in bayonne said. ``she cannot stay on the run by herself.''
bidart, 35, had been sought since nov. 7, 1981, when he was caught on camera during a bank robbery in saint paul les dax, a basque country town
bidart was convicted in absentia of murder in the march 19, 1982, slayings of two national policemen killed in st. etienne de baigorry, his hometown. he received a life sentence in that case and another life term for a conviction in absentia for the bank robbery
authorities say bidart also is believed responsible for two other attacks in which gendarmes died, one on aug. 7, 1983, and the other last august
during his six years in hiding, bidart gave one press conference in hiding and made one cassette recording played at the funeral of an iparretarrak member last june
here is the text of the democratic response, delivered by house budget chairman william gray of pennsylvania, to president reagan's radio address on saturday:
hello, this is congressman bill gray, the chairman of the house budget committee. two days ago the president sent congress his budget request for fiscal year 1989. but this year something is different. everybody is shocked at the calm on capitol hill
people have gotten used to a set pattern: the budget comes up, the battle lines are drawn, political bombs are dropped, the war begins. this time people wonder why no bombs are being dropped. what's different is the president's budget. the budget that arrived on my desk on thursday is more realistic than any of the other seven the president has sent to congress
in large measure, of course, this is due to the bipartisan agreement between the administration and congress at the budget summit last fall. that agreement established specific limits for the major areas of the budget, including defense spending and domestic programs
it also committed us to an equally important objective: real, permanent significant deficit reduction. the president's budget appears to meet the summit guidelines, which is why we're not seeing the kind of fireworks we've had in the past. let's give credit where it's due: in at least some areas the president has recognized that congress' priorities are also the priorities of the american people
instead of trying to cut aid to education by 28 percent, as he did last year, the president is proposing a four percent increase from the current funding level. instead of trying to cut back on the war on drugs, the president would increase spending by 13 percent. and to deal with aids, one of our most important health problems, the president is asking for a 40 percent increase in funds for aids research and education
but in other areas, this budget is out of line with america's needs and america's values. for example, the president's budget would spend more for homes in space than for the homeless here on earth. in fact, funding for the proposed space station would be almost $1 billion, but funding for the needs of the homeless would be only $219 million, far less than the amount authorized by congress
the president and his representatives have indicated that this year they want to avoid confrontational politics and acrimonious exchanges, the kinds of things that in previous years led to budget stalemate and huge deficits. well, we can all agree with that. the success of the budget summit and the prospect of continued administration involvement will, i believe, demonstrate that nothing is wrong with the budget process, nothing that can't be fixed by cooperation and compromise on priorities and policies
we proved that the process wasn't the problem when, in seven to eight weeks, with cooperation and compromise, we designed and implemented a two-year budget agreement. the spirit and willingness to compromise are the oil that makes the budget process work. we know that the economy has improved recently. inflation is down, and unemployment, after rising to records in the long recession, is back down to its 1979 level
but we democrats are concerned about the future. we cannot rest comfortably with economic gains built on a policy of borrow, borrow, spend, spend. the deficit is a problem we cannot escape by talking about process. since 1980, our national debt has more than doubled. by next january, it will be almost $2.8 trillion. that works out to $11,400 for every man, woman and child in the united states, and every year we have to pay the interest on that debt. we have made major progress, but we still have a long way to go
if we maintain the bipartisan spirit that came out of the budget summit, we can pass a budget that reduces the deficits and meets the needs of this nation. and if we maintain the spirit of conciliation that has been evidenced so far this year, we can make the budget process work and build a brighter future for the next generation, and an america with greater opportunity. this is congressman bill gray. committee chief; adds byline</note>
president reagan beseeched congress saturday to ``stand firm'' against election year pressure for expensive additions to his $1.1 trillion budget, but the chairman of the house budget committee called for more money to help the homeless
reagan, defending the spending package in his weekly radio speech delivered from camp david, md., said deficit spending will drop from $221 billion in fiscal year 1986 to $130 billion in the 1989 fiscal year, which his proposed new budget covers
if congress upholds its commitments and stands firm against pressures for increased spending _ pressures that reach a peak during election years _ solid results will be forthcoming,'' the president said
the new budget, sent to capitol hill thursday, was written after a series of consultations with congress on deficit-reduction goals and outlines of the amounts to be spent on broad categories
as a result, reagan said, the legislative and executive branches ``are demonstrating the kind of responsible leadership expected by the electorate.''
the budget, the president said, ``remains firm in our commitments to essential domestic programs. it also includes funding for the minimum defense programs needed to keep our country safe and necessary to honor our commitments to our friends and allies.''
he called it a ``trim budget'' that keeps the lid on spending, while permitting increases for education, the battle against aids and illegal drugs, and air safety programs
rep. william gray, d-pa., chairman of the house budget panel, echoed the president's praise for the budget consultations and the hikes for education, aids and narcotics programs
let's give credit where its due,'' gray said in the democratic response. ``in at least some areas, the president has recognized that congress' priorities are also the priorities of the american people.''
in other areas, this budget is out of line with america's needs and america's values,'' gray said
his only specific criticism of the package was a request for $1 billion to build a manned space station, compared with $219 million for programs to help homeless people, ``far less than the amount authorized by congress.''
the budget provides ``more for homes in space than for the homeless on earth,'' gray said
at the same time, he said, he expected differences to be worked out through compromise and cooperation
this year something is different,'' gray said. ``everybody is shocked at the calm on capitol hill. people have gotten used to a set pattern: the budget comes up, the battle lines are drawn, political bombs are dropped, the war begins.''
this time, he said, ``people wonder why no bombs are being dropped.''
what's different is the president's budget,'' gray continued. ``the budget that arrived on my desk on thursday is more realistic than any of the other seven the president has sent to congress.''
reagan, in his radio address, repeated his criticism of last year's budget process, saying late amendments to the spending bill required him to sign a hastily assembled package without review, or face the shutdown of the federal government
with the new budget, he said, ``we have an opportunity to put our fiscal house in order.''
reagan also repeated his assertions that his administration has presided over the biggest economic expansion since world war ii, and he once again hailed his administration's record on employment. 20th graf, the soviet, to delete incorrect date and to say obituary appeared a few days later</note>
the soviets have become more open about announcing their space failures, but failed to announce the destruction of a spy satellite last month and gave out sparse details about a rocket failure, space-watcher jim oberg said saturday
the official tass news agency reported that the upper stage of the proton rocket booster failed on wednesday and that on thursday ``the sputniks entered dense layers of the atmosphere and ceased their existence.''
according to u.s. space command, the largest chunk of debris from the mission re-entered the earth's atmosphere friday afternoon between saudi arabia and turkey, and a smaller chunk fell earlier near australia
besides the failure of the proton, with three satellites aboard, the soviets lost another satellite, cosmos 1,906, on jan. 31. the imaging satellite was launched on dec. 26 and was ``blown up to prevent the film and equipment from falling into the hands of western intelligence agencies,'' oberg said
since soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev came to power in march 1985, oberg said, the soviets ``have certainly released new material. but there remain severe limits. military stuff is clearly beyond the limit.''
still, oberg said, western technology can detect such events as the proton failure, and western news reports can force further disclosures from the soviets
penetrating the secretive soviet space program is nothing new for oberg, who has published his findings in a new book called ``uncovering soviet disasters: exploring the limits of glasnost.''
long before gorbachev's moderate reforms led to greater disclosure of problems in the soviet union, oberg had pieced together hair-raising tales of disasters that for decades went unreported in the state-controlled media
oberg has ``been working since childhood at this, watching their space program, looking for chinks in their secrecy, and driving through them.''
soviet secrecy can be dangerous, oberg wrote in his book. on oct. 24, 1962, a soviet space probe exploded into dozens of objects during the cuban missile crisis, the confrontation that brought the superpowers their closest to nuclear war
debris from the probe ``appeared without warning on american attack-warning radars in alaska,'' oberg wrote. ``the cuban missile crisis was at its height, and for a few moments the unannounced and unpredicted soviet space failure looked like the long-feared massive soviet (intercontinental ballistic missile) attack.''
the debris burned up as it entered the atmosphere. but, oberg said, the soviets have never publicly acknowledged the event
soviet media also have not reported on the most spectacular ``and probably the greatest disaster of the space age,'' the ``nedelin catastrophe,'' which on about oct. 24, 1960, killed scores of soviets including marshal mitrofan nedelin, the commander in chief of the soviet strategic rocket forces
the accident came three years after the soviets launched the first satellite, ``sputnik.'' operating in the strictest secrecy, the soviets launched two unmanned spacecraft on a probe to mars, but both fell back into the atmosphere and burned up because their upper stages failed
a third booster was loaded with fuel, and the order was given to launch. but the main rocket engine did not ignite. ``it just stood there on the launch pad, bathed in searchlights and fuming with clouds of supercold liquid oxygen,'' oberg wrote
nedelin made a fatal error and committed a gross violation of elementary rocket safety standards,'' oberg wrote. ``from the launch bunker, where he had prepared to watch the expected success, he ordered a team of engineers to inspect the rocket booster immediately. ...''
since he was an experienced combat commander, he would not send men into peril he himself avoided, so he walked out to the base of the rocket while the inspection was being made.''
although the main rocket failed to ignite, the uppermost stage continued to operate as though it were en route to mars, and at the time when it would have separated from the booster, fired its own rockets
a million pounds of kerosene and liquid oxygen flared up in a pyre which must have been visible for hundreds of miles,'' oberg wrote
the soviet press carried an official obituary of nedelin several days later, saying that he had ``died tragically in the line of duty'' in a plane crash
not a word has appeared since then in the official press, although writings smuggled out of russia or published by emgres have described the incident, and oberg pieced together the evidence
riot squads saturday hurled tear gas at hundreds of anti-government demonstrators marching through a fashionable downtown shopping district and calling for fairer election rules
about 500 demonstrators took to the streets and clashed with police after a large rally at a roman catholic cathedral. at least two firebombs were thrown by demonstrators, who eventually were scattered by tear gas
no arrests or injuries were reported
kim dae-jung, head of the opposition party for peace for democracy, held an overnight sit-in with about 150 supporters at the party headquarters to protest the government's stand on election rules
the demonstrations were called to protest proposed changes in rules for electing members of the national assembly, the country's parliament. elections are to be held in april
the government is proposing that one to three representatives be elected from each district, based on population. kim's supporters want the law to allow for one elected member from each district, regardless of population
the protesters also demonstrated against the dec. 16 election of roh tae-woo of the governing democratic justice party. the opposition contends the elections were rigged. the new president is to be inaugurated on thursday
rally participants shouted, ``down with military dictatorship!'' and ``we oppose seizing power through fraudulent election!''
kim said electing one representative from each district would ensure democratic representation
he also called on the rival opposition reunification democratic party to endorse his formula, but he charged that the party had made a secret deal to support the government's election formula
the government has held separate talks with the rival opposition groups on reforming rules for the national assembly elections. the reunification democratic party favors a formula of electing more than one representative from each district
roh was catapulted to power after the two rival opposition groups split a majority of the votes during the dec. 16 election. treatment</head>
when an innocent bystander in an affluent los angeles neighborhood was killed in the crossfire of a gang gunbattle, local merchants asked for more police protection and quickly got it
the swift action following the jan. 30 incident sparked protest from many blacks and hispanics, who charged that similar requests from poorer minority neighborhoods fall on deaf ears
a week after the shooting local minority leaders publicized a new study to support claims that police react more slowly to emergencies in less affluent areas. police chief darryl gates released a letter friday from the study's author saying his findings had been misconstrued
the racial tug-of-war intensified last weekend when an off-duty black police officer was arrested as he stood on a street corner in an upscale neighborhood with six black youths. the officer said his group was conducting an informal ``sting'' operation to investigate alleged police harassment
none of those kids did anything except stand on that corner and be black _ and that was enough,'' said hawthorne police sgt. don jackson. police said jackson's group was blocking the sidewalk
gang violence fueled by drug trafficking has been a reality for years in the city's predominantly black and hispanic southside neighborhoods. drive-by shootings are commonplace, with innocent bystanders being killed by errant or ricocheting bullets
in one recent incident, a 67-year-old woman was killed in a drive-by shooting while she sat in a wheelchair in the doorway of her southside home
there were more than 300 gang-related murders in los angeles county in 1987. that figure may rise to 450 this year as gangs battle for control of the lucrative crack cocaine market, said michael genelin, head of the district attorney's gang division
and that's not the way it should be. we should be able to live normally,'' said barbara thomas, spokeswoman for the south central organizing committee, a group that claims a membership of 78,000 black families
gang violence has begun to move into more affluent, mainly white areas, illustrated by the jan. 30 shooting of 27-year-old karen toshima, who was caught in gang crossfire. she was killed in westwood village, a popular theater and restaurant district
when police stepped up patrols in the area, hundreds of southside residents demonstrated at lapd headquarters, charging that officials ignored daily death tolls in their communities
minority leaders publicized a just-released study ordered by the police commission and prepared by the public administration service in virginia. the study showed that police responded more slowly to crimes in poor areas than in the more affluent westside and san fernando valley, the leaders said
the police department then released a letter from peter bellmio, the principal author of the nearly 200-page report, that stated his findings had been misinterpreted
the letter said the actual conclusion was that the police department takes too long to respond to emergencies and does not significantly respond more rapidly in any of the city's geographical areas
bellmio said he was under contract not to comment publically until march 8, when he makes a formal report to the police commission
the deployment controversy has fanned other racial issues, such as the alleged harassment that prompted jackson to conduct his own ``sting.''
in an effort to prove that lapd officers were mistreating blacks, jackson and six friends gathered on a busy street corner in westwood, while an associate secretly videotaped the scene. officers arrested jackson on a misdemeanor charge and rounded up and frisked the others
police defended the arrest, saying jackson's group was blocking the sidewalk, refused to move when requested by officers and was dressed in attire similar to gang members'. jackson was released on his own recognizance pending a court hearing
more criticism of the police came monday when the rev. william johnson, of curry christian methodist episcopal temple, complained that when officers do patrol black neighborhoods, they come ``ready to do combat.''
mayor tom bradley, who is black, signed an ordinance wednesday that provided for the hiring of 150 more officers, increasing the force to its largest strength ever, 7,500 officers
we're determined to return this city to a drug-free, gang-free atmosphere,'' the mayor said
i've been telling the people of this city that we need hundreds more police officers,'' said gates, the police chief. ``we should focus on getting rid of the problems, and not on the complicated subject of deployment.''
some criminal experts say more officers won't make a difference in poor, crime-infested areas
historically, there's a resentment to an excessive show of force,'' said garrett capune, professor of criminology at the university of southern california and california state university
it has a racist overtone, you know; there seems to be more crime because there's more officers,'' he said. ``it becomes a sort of self-fulfilling prophecy.''
i don't know what these criminologists are all about,'' snapped city councilman nate holden, who represents a mainly black district. ``these guys can sit in some classroom and think what it's supposed to be like. but they haven't seen the real world. i resent them
let them come into the black community and see what it's like.''
a top pingpong player went to poland and took her son away from her ex-husband, then hid from polish authorities until she could sneak the boy into sweden, a newspaper said saturday
i have gone through hell, and the child has gone through hell,'' kaisa karlsson said in a telephone interview with the denver post from stockholm, where she and her son michael arrived friday
probably this night i can sleep,'' said karlsson's father, bohdan dawidowicz, also a top table tennis player, from his home in suburban aurora
karlsson, 26, has been fighting since 1983 to win custody of michael from her polish ex-husband, who was initially given custody in colorado and polish courts. she got the colorado ruling reversed, but the polish ruling stood and she took matters into her own hands a week ago saturday
she said she took her son away during her regular visit with him in warsaw, then hid in a series of homes, working her way from the warsaw suburbs to the port city of gdansk, the post reported
there they boarded a ferry for sweden late thursday
karlsson wouldn't say exactly how she got her son past polish police, who were looking for him
there are just too many people who could get in trouble,'' she said
karlsson and dawidowicz's battles with the polish government began shortly after dawidowicz decided to live in the united states in 1971 in the middle of an international table tennis tour
three years later, after going back to poland, they won permission for the whole family to come to the united states. she won tournament after tournament representing u.s. teams, and in 1978 became a u.s. citizen
in 1981, she married mitchell gaca, another polish immigrant. michael was born later that year. they were divorced in 1983, with custody initially given to gaca
karlsson battled back, but her travels on the table tennis circuit worked against her and in 1985 her ex-husband returned to poland with their son
the same year, karlsson introduced new evidence in her case and was awarded custody by an aurora court, but it was too late
karlsson and her father said they were disillusioned by the u.s. government's hands-off approach
the state department refused to intervene, saying polish law applied since gaca had gotten a polish court to award him custody
donna sherman, a spokeswoman for the consular division of the u.s. state department, said there is not much the government can do once a child is in another country's jurisdiction
we cannot do anything that violates the laws of that country,'' she said. ``we can arrange for meetings, to try and arrange some kind of conciliation, but we can't force it. we can't act as attorneys.''
karlsson, who has since married a swedish businessman, hopes to visit the united states this summer but says that in the meantime she and michael will relax in sweden
he needs a little rest. i think he'll be sticking around the house,'' she said
sikh gunmen set off a new wave of violence saturday in punjab state, killing 10 people and prompting police in the amritsar district and in new dehli go on red alert
the attacks raised the death toll in violence blamed on the separatist radicals to 32 since friday. at least 60 others were wounded
we are after the killers, the entire police force is on red alert,'' said amritsar district police superintendent mohammed izhar alam
road blocks were set up saturday throughout the farming state bordering pakistan, and punjab's 35,000-member police force was being aided by paramilitary troops in the search operations
in a related development, a hindu angered by the spate of killings entered a sikh temple and set fire to sikh holy book in wadala kala, a village 26 miles south of amritsar saturday, police said
we are worried, because this will give rise to tension,'' said police officer rajinder singh
the man, identified as atma ram, was arrested. singh said ram's younger brother had been slain by suspected sikh radicals last month
he was angry after he heard the news of the new killings. he went inside a gurdwara (sikh shrine) and set fire to the holy book,'' singh said
sikh militants have been fighting for a separate homeland in punjab since 1982. sikhs are a majority in punjab, but comprise only 2 percent of india's 800 million people, more than 80 percent of whom are hindus
the radicals want an independent homeland because they say the hindus discriminate against them
at least 250 people have been killed in sikh-related violence this year. last year more than 1,000 deaths were blamed on the separatists
among saturday's victims were two hindu farm laborers, a hindu trader and four sikh farmers. the remaining three have yet to be identified, police chief alam said
one person wounded in a bomb blast friday died of injuries saturday, hospital sources said
in the village of sahsra, nine members of farm family were killed with automatic rifles and revolvers friday night, along with a man staying at the house, alam said
residents in the village, about 18 miles southeast of amritsar, said about six sikh gunmen stormed into the home while the family slept
earlier friday, sikh bomb attacks killed 11 people. the bomb attacks were in the cities of amritsar, patiala, gurdaspur and hoshiarpur. the bombings later prompted police in new delhi to issue a red alert because of fears that the attacks might spread to the capital
on saturday an unexploded bomb was found in a fifth city, batala, the united news of india reported. the agency said the four-pound can of explosives was left in a store by a woman customer in the city 25 miles northeast of amritsar
police in new delhi advised residents not to pick up unknown objects and report movement of new people in their neighborhood
the sikh faith has elements of both hinduism and islam and was founded about 500 years ago as a peaceful alternative to the two warring religions
but the sikhs' 10th and last prophet, guru govind singh, declared sikhism as a warrior faith in which the adherents should all carry swords and the male should bear the name singh, ``lion'' in punjabi. say</head>
the 16-year-old accused of the ax murders of four members of his family wrote poetry and was so gentle ``he wouldn't step on a flower,'' friends say, but those closest to him also saw a darker side
david brom, who faces four charges of first-degree murder in the slayings of his mother, father, sister and brother, had expressed frustration and anger about his parents, and was drawn to hard-core, punk-rock bands with songs of pain, insanity and death
i saw the school side of david. i think you're going to find there were a lot of faces,'' said the rev. jack krough, david's teacher and the chaplain of rochester lourdes high school
a favorite of david's, according to one friend, is the group ``suicidal tendencies.'' a song on their latest album describes ``the maniac i'll meet. his love for me is like a father to a son. and now the maniac and i are one.''
the high school sophomore was arrested friday after an all-night manhunt in this city of 62,000 about 90 miles southeast of minneapolis
friends, according to krough, had heard david muse recently about wanting to hurt his family. they regarded that as an expression of typical teen-age alienation but never as a serious plan, the priest said
to most, david had a quiet magnetism at school, krough said. he was an avid bicyclist but not a ``jock.'' and he wasn't active in other extra-curricular activities at the 415-student parochial school, principal michael leahy said
there was a group of students he was the center of,'' krough said. ``i guess you would tend to call him an artistic, poetic kind of person, a deep-feeling person.''
about david and his friends, krough said, ``if there was ever a group of adolescents that fit the image of sensitive teens, that group would qualify.''
many of brom's friends wrote letters to be delivered to the olmsted county jail, and they defended him fiercely when questioned by reporters
the punk appearance he adopted the day of the killings, including shaving the sides of his head, dying his hair black and spiking it on the back of his head, seemed out of character to some
he wouldn't step on a flower,'' said schoolmate chris bromelkamp, whose locker is next to david's. ``he may have done something wrong, but there's a lot of people he touched.''
authorities were far from understanding what may have triggered the slayings, but sheriff charles von wald said one small piece came out in interviews with david's friends. the teen-ager and his father had an argument about a tape the boy had taken home, he said
also unexplained was how a boy described as an almost frail 130 pounds could commit the slayings with a 28-inch ax without anyone in the house escaping
chief deputy sheriff stan anderson would not comment on other details of the murders, such as where the weapon was obtained or why the suspect stayed in rochester after the killings
the victims were bernard brom, 41, paulette, 40, diane, 14, and rick, 11. the only family survivor other than david is his 19-year-old brother joseph, who has his own apartment in rochester
rochester is dominated by the mayo clinic and an ibm plant where the elder brom worked
mrs. brom had recently quit her job at the church to spend more time with her children, leahy noted
david did not appear to possess his parents' devout religious faith, krough said. ``david was a searcher,'' he said
roy acuff, ``the king of country music,'' celebrated his 50th anniversary on the grand ole opry by citing the fans of the long-running show
acuff, 84, received a standing ovation friday night when he appeared on the stage to mark his golden anniversary on the live program
this is a little special occasion for roy acuff,'' he told the audience after singing his best-known song, ``the wabash cannonball.''
i'm proud to have lived to see this day,'' he said. ``you are the ones who made roy acuff and the grand ole opry. have fun, i'm going to.''
moments before, when the curtain went up and the crowd rose, acuff playfully told the audience, ``sit down so i can sing.''
he later sang his version of ``blue eyes crying in the rain,'' a song willie nelson also turned into a hit
that was written for me by fred rose many, many years ago,'' acuff told the audience, which included representatives of rotary international from 22 countries. ``then willie nelson brought it back. he did a good job with it.''
acuff also saluted his dobro player, bashful brother oswald, who also was celebrating his 50th anniversary on the show
we haven't had a fight yet,'' acuff said
other opry stars joined in honoring acuff, a fiddler who came out of the east tennessee hills to become the opry's first genuine singing star
that's a long time, folks,'' singer del reeves said about the 50 years of performing. ``i hope he's here another 50.''
singer porter wagoner called acuff ``one of the grandest men in country music.'' singer connie smith dedicated her song ``once a day'' to him
johnny cash and his wife, june carter cash, were to have appeared on the show during a special segment honoring acuff, but canceled because both have the flu, opry officials said
the pry bills itself as the longest running radio show still on the air. it has never missed a broadcast since going on the air in 1925, meaning acuff has been on the program for all but 13 years of its existence
there are signs that child heart transplant recipients develop atherosclerosis and also have a worse survival rate than adults given new hearts, a transplant surgeon says
dr. d. glenn pennington, chief of the cardiac replacement service at st. louis university hospital in st. louis, said he has seen ``indications of development of atherosclerosis'' in child transplant recipients, and ``it may become more of a trend.''
atherosclerosis is the thickening of the internal lining of the blood vessels and the cause of coronary artery disease
as for survival rates, ``i think it is worse than adults,'' with infection the leading cause of death among children, pennington, a specialist in the use of artificial devices and in pediatric transplantation, said friday at an international conference on thoracic organ transplantion
he said children who have received transplants do not have worse problems with organ rejection than adults. but he said there is an increasing number of child transplants who need retransplantation because of progressive failure of the organs they have been given
i don't know what that means, but my suspicion is that if we transplant children in infancy we will probably have to retransplant at some point again,'' pennington said
there was encouraging news on transplants from a leader in transplantation for extremely young infants, dr. leonard l. bailey, of loma linda university medical center in california, who said some of his patients have exhibited an ``immune tolerance'' not seen in adults
as a result, several of the young recipients need only extremely small doses of the anti-rejection drug cyclosporine and may be withdrawn entirely from all drug therapy
my guess is that a number of the babies will be able to grow up without the need for immunosuppression,'' bailey said
cyclosporine is used in transplantation in combination with other drugs to suppress the body's immune system and keep it from turning against the donor heart
bailey said he believes the optimal therapy is diagnosis ``of heart disease in-utero, because that gives us a chance then from 35 weeks on to find a donor.''
he said that in his program's experience, transplants after more than the first few weeks of a child's life make for a ``much more difficult post-operative management problems. ... those who have been transplanted in the first month of life have really been a piece of cake.''
infants more than 3 to 3{ months old given transplants ``will reject with considerable vigor,'' requiring aggressive anti-rejection therapy, said bailey, who has performed heart transplants on the world's youngest infants, including a four-hour-old canadian boy last october. donor hearts</head>
the surgeon who transplanted a baboon's heart into an infant girl in 1984 says he's optimistic about the continuing research toward eventual use of animal heart transplants in humans
we're still really working vigorously in that area from all points of view, goats and sheep and primates,'' dr. leonard l. bailey said at a three-day international conference on thoracic organ transplantation that concluded saturday
researchers have turned to exploring the use of non-human organs for transplantation on either a temporary or possibly permanent basis, in part because of the lack of sufficient organ donors
in a controversial procedure in october 1984, bailey and his staff at loma linda university medical center transplanted the heart of a baboon into a 12-day-old girl known as baby fae
the child, born with a fatal heart defect, survived for 20 days before her body's immune system rejected the foreign-tissue transplant, or xenograft
rejection has been a major obstacle in xenografts
another problem area has been the ethical question of using a primate heart in humans, said dr. bartley p. griffith, of the university of pittsburgh
griffith, thoracic and cardiovascular surgeon at one of the nation's busiest transplant centers, said chimpanzees ``are almost too close'' to humans in terms of behavior and would raise a moral dilemma
nobody is talking about using chimpanzees, and yet they in fact are the most size-appropriate probably to use,'' he said
griffith added that baboons' hearts are small for human use and might eventually be used more appropriately as auxiliary hearts
bailey said the testing that has been conducted at the loma linda, calif., facility has involved a series of experiments, testing the ``xenograft bridge to allograft theory, and it's working out very well.'' an allograft is a same-species organ transplant
the testing, he said, includes using xenografts of green monkey hearts into baboons in temporary bridge-to-transplant situations
we still very firmly believe that a well-selected primate heart from a baboon will be virtually as good'' as a human allograft ``that may have no tissue match whatsoever and bear very little resemblance and genetic makeup'' to the original _ even as a permanent graft, he said
american banker and philanthropist david rockefeller unveiled a private non-profit foundation saturday that he said will aid hard-pressed farmers in this communist country
rockefeller met privately with polish communist leader gen. wojciech jaruzelski before formally inaugurating the foundation, which will raise pigs and export hams to the united states
it seems to me that what we all need to do is to find ways in which despite the ideological differences, we can work together,'' rockefeller said at a ceremony in warsaw's royal castle
organizers said the foundation brings poland its first new long-term western credits since the 1981 martial law crackdown and will serve as a model for western institutions wishing to provide financial assistance to the debt-stricken country
but the size of the credits, $2.4 million, is miniscule compared to poland's burgeoning foreign debt, now standing at $39.2 billion
the foundation for the development of polish agriculture is the result of the personal interest of rockefeller and the rockefeller brothers' fund, said leon irish, chairman of the foundation's organizing committee
its first project will be the development of swine production to increase exports of premium polish hams to the united states by 14 percent
the foundation will borrow money to import to poland high-protein feed concentrates from the united states for sale to polish farmers under a contract arrangement
the farmers will use the feed to raise swine more efficiently. the swine will be sold to polish meat processors in partnership with the foundation
hams resulting from the arrangement will be exported to the united states, with a portion staying in poland for domestic sale
proceeds from the exports will repay foreign loans and be used for other foundation projects, irish said
unlike other east bloc nations where cooperative farming predominates, private farmers control 75 percent of the farmland in poland and produce 80 percent of the crop
the foundation is to be governed by a council with 60 percent u.s. and western european membership and 40 percent private polish membership
two city ambulance workers face disciplinary charges because they waited for their sandwiches in a delicatessen before responding to a report of a heart attack victim 1{ blocks away, officials said saturday
the man died in the incident wednesday in the bronx
the emergency medical service said its investigation had substantiated allegations of delay. both crew members had been reassigned to clerical duties and faced disciplinary charges, it said
ems director james kerr said it was impossible to know whether the delay, which he said amounted to 5 minutes, had cost the stricken man his life. but he said ems policy requires ambulance crews to respond immediately
the crew had just ordered sandwiches to go when a man ran in into the deli at 8:30 p.m. wednesday and said someone had suffered a heart attack in the church of the mediator, kerr said
instead of leaving at once, the investigation showed, the pair waited for their sandwiches, kerr said. he declined to identify the crew or discuss possible penalties. bombing raid</head> casualties. picks up 7th graf pvs, `on friday ...'</note>
south african fighter planes flew revenge raids on guerrilla bases in angola at dawn saturday, a day after a bomb killed 18 people in a namibian bank
angolan authorities said several civilians were killed
more than a dozen mirage and impala aircraft attacked three bases of the south-west african peoples organization in southern angola, the defense force chief, gen. jannie geldenhuys, said in a statement
he said the attacks avenged the bombing friday of the first national bank in oshakati, south-west africa, where 18 people were killed and 31 injured. most of the dead were black government employees cashing their weekly paychecks
geldenhuys accused swapo of the bank bombing. the guerrilla group has been fighting for 22 years against south africa's occupation of south-west africa, also known as namibia
on friday, swapo denied involvement in the bank blast, the deadliest in namibia in two decades. it has claimed responsibility for other bombings in namibia
swapo officials in london declined to comment on saturday's raid
later saturday, angola's defense ministry said the air assault on lubango and onjiva left several civilians dead
a statement reported by the official angolan news agency angop said the exact number of victims had not yet been determined, according to a report monitored in lisbon
the angop report made no mention of swapo or geldenhuys' announcement
on friday, south african defense minister magnus malan and foreign minister roelof ``pik'' botha warned neighboring states that south african troops would undertake unannounced ``hot pursuit'' raids across borders to fight guerrilla groups
we have repeatedly invited them (neighboring states) to talk with us to sort our problems in peace. now they have demonstrated they are not interested,'' botha said, reacting to news of the namibian bombing. ``as far as i'm concerned there is no more talk of a regional conference _ not from our side. we're no longer interested in the neighboring states.''
geldenhuys said eight mirage fighters took part in the attack on two targets near lubango, about 190 miles north of the namibian-angolan border; and five impala aircraft attacked targets at ongiva, about 25 miles north of the border
geldenhuys said all the south african aircraft returned safely, but gave no estimate of casualties inflicted
he said the lubango targets were ``swapo's most important training center in angola, the tobias hainyeko training center, and a terrorist holding area about 10 kms (6.2 miles) west of there.''
an air force source told the associated press that the jets that attacked lubango were probably mirage f1-as, a french-designed fighter-bomber capable of carrying about 14,000 pounds of bombs
the impalas are a south african version of an italian aermacchi light attack craft. they can carry sidewinder air-to-air missiles and are able to carry about 4,000 pounds of missiles or bombs
the general said swapo had launched a number of attacks from ongiva on civilians in south-west africa
in 1971, the united nations ruled that south africa's occupation of namibia was illegal. but south africa has defied the court and continued its occupation
only about 70,000 of namibia's 1.3 million people are white, and the south african government has installed a multiracial transitional administration to run the territory's affairs
swapo has refused to negotiate with the transitional government, citing the u.n. resolution demanding free elections
south african and south-west african troops have been fighting for about five months in angola on behalf of the unita rebel movement, which is battling the marxist government in luanda. south african officials say they will not grant independence to namibia until the 40,000 cuban troops supporting angola's marxist government leave africa
all of south africa's black-ruled neighbors _ swaziland, lesotho, mozambique, botswana and angola _ have accused south africa of staging unannounced cross-border raids during the past 10 years, killing dozens of civilians as well as alleged guerrillas
south african officials have denied, refused to comment on, or ridiculed most of the claims, although they did announce a raid last year on livingstone, zambia
but military officials have acknowledged previous ``hot pursuit'' operations against swapo in southern angola
botha and malan presented their statement friday as a new get-tough policy against neighboring governments which, they say, allow the anti-apartheid african national congress, swapo and other guerrilla organizations to stage attacks on south africa from their territories
by law and custom in south africa, apartheid establishes a racially segregated society in which the 26 million blacks have no vote in national affairs. the 5 million whites control the economy and maintain separate districts, schools and health services
the organizer of a planned blood bank for chaste donors says he hopes to expand into a national network of christian blood banks, a plan one physician called a dangerous attempt to capitalize on fear of aids
dr. condon hughes said he hopes to open lifeblood, a christian blood bank that will not accept promiscuous donors, by early april. blood donors will be asked to sign a statement confirming they have abstained from sex or been faithful to a spouse since 1977
the blood also will be tested for aids and other blood-borne viruses, hughes said
my intention is to inform heterosexuals that if they have more than one faithful partner that they are at risk of developing a deadly disease ... and to provide blood from people who do not fall into that category,'' hughes said
but dr. ronald gilcher, of the oklahoma blood institute, said hughes inaccurately implies that lifeblood's supply will be safer than other blood banks
and u.s. food and drug administration spokeswoman susan cruzan noted that the fda's list of risk categories does not include promiscuous heterosexuals
what we see this doing is undermining the donor base ... confusing people, creating distrust and a lack of credibility,'' gilcher said. ``we think that is a dangerous thing.''
i commend what he's doing in the sense of trying to create a safer blood supply because that's what we're all doing, but the method by which dr. hughes is trying to do this i think is unsound,'' gilcher said. ``i think it's dangerous because it could create a lack of availability of blood products.''
gilcher said existing blood banks already screen donors and test donated blood
the blood supply is safe, but it's not 100 percent safe,'' gilcher said. ``there is no such thing as a zero risk. the public wants a zero risk, but it doesn't exist.''
gilcher said hughes' exclusion of heterosexuals who have had more than one partner since 1977 relies on the honesty of the donor and the honesty of the donor's sexual partner. he said it also dangerously limits the pool of potential donors
but hughes said he thinks chaste and faithful donors can supply the nation with blood
five percent of the nation provides the blood for the entire nation,'' hughes said. ``i am confident that there is 5 percent of the nation that is chaste. our goal is to identify those individuals and encourage them to give blood, take a stand for morality and administer the love of christ through blood donations.''
aids, or acquired immune deficiency syndrome, is an affliction in which a virus attacks the body's immune system, leaving victims susceptible to a wide variety of infections and cancers. one method of transmission is through infected blood or blood products
the fda requires all blood banks to provide potential donors with information about aids and ask them to refrain from donating if they fall into certain risk categories
the fda constantly reviews categories,'' cruzan said. ``the category of promiscuous heterosexuals was discussed in 1986. epidemiologists concluded at that time that the heterosexual spread of hiv (the aids virus) was not a significant reason to exclude this category.''
hughes said he plans to sell blood on a first-come, first-served basis regardless of religion or sexual activity. for a fee, donors will be allowed to have their own blood frozen for their own use
the cost of the blood is going to be determined primarily by the number of donors that we have. we hope it will be comparable to the (non-profit) oklahoma blood institute. we may be at a disadvantage because we have to pay taxes,'' hughes said
a motorist whose heart was apparently bigger than his nose rescued an injured skunk saturday but could not find an animal hospital to help, police said
the man, whom police declined to identify, found the animal off interstate 393 and bundled it into his car. he first took the skunk to the fish and game department, but no one was there, so he went to the police, said lt. james fletcher
we couldn't find an animal hospital who would do something with an injured skunk,'' he said. the animal apparently had been hit by a vehicle and was badly injured, so police put it out of its misery, fletcher said
as for the good samaritan, fletcher said, the smell ``didn't seem to bother him. i was a little surprised.''
a sit-in launched by 200 university of massachusetts students at the start of a snowy holiday weekend seemed doomed by doubt and disarray, leaders of the little rebellion by minorities recalled
you do not take a building on a night before a major snowstorm that will close it anyway and which is going to be closed for an entire holiday weekend,'' michael thelwell, a black professor, said he warned the protesters at the start of the occupation
but by the end of the six-day occupation of new africa house, hundreds of white students had displayed their sympathy in rallies and vigils, money and supplies had poured in from around the nation and even the chancellor had expressed admiration for the protesters, who won several concessions from the school
we weren't organized. all we had were these five little demands,'' said jo ella costello, a negotiator for the group. ``but something had brought us all together. that was the fascinating thing. by the third day, we knew it was working.''
the takeover began feb. 11 after students met with chancellor joseph d. duffey to discuss the demands. troubled by recent acts of racial violence on campus, the protesters insisted on the disciplining of five white students accused of beating two blacks, and they demanded a stop to the encroachment of other school departments on new africa house, a third world center
tension had festered since an october 1986 beating of a black student by several whites following the boston red sox loss to the new york mets in the final game of the world series
the disorganized protesters refused to meet with duffey the morning after the takeover, but began forming committees to handle finances, security, media questions and negotiations, and they imposed strict procedures on meetings
the rules proved successful. ``we started voting on everything,' costello said. ``we even voted on which movies to watch.''
support began pouring in from the campus and beyond. the black faculty senate said members would risk arrest with the protesters if the chancellor called in police to remove them from the building, costello said
the massachusetts teachers association volunteered to strike in the same event, she said. some 500 white students staged a rally outside the building to lend their support
costello said she knew the protesters had won widespread support when she went to a nearby dormitory for a shower: ``they said, `you all from new africa house?' i said, `yeah. anybody got any soap?' they ran to get it. they'd give us deodorant, anything.''
costello was among four women and five men elected by the protesters to negotiate with the chancellor
a meeting scheduled for monday had to be postponed when duffey went to visit a brother who had undergone major surgery. the protesters sent the chancellor a card and duffey responded with a basket of fruit
we had old-timers with us saying, `my god, i've been going to sit-ins for 20 years and i've never seen anything like this,'' costello said
duffey and the students met tuesday and talked for more than four hours
but then the group that had been occupying the house was suddenly outnumbered by minorities returning to the campus from the holiday weekend
they were acting like we'd sold out,'' saidcostello
i was really hurt by all these people who hadn't been there the whole time. i asked them, `where were you?'''
the newcomers left early wednesday and the stalwart core voted to accept duffey's responses to their demands, which included timetables for the hiring of minority faculty and a promise to leave the new africa house in the hands of the third world community
costello said the agreement was a victory that will enhance the school's image among whites and blacks
i think umass will get the reputation of fighting racism,'' she said. ``this is terrific, what's happening here.''
relief services for about 260,000 palestinian refugees in lebanon will be cut to the minimum because of the kidnapping of two scandinavian employees of the u.n. relief and works agency, the agency said saturday
there will be noticeable changes in unrwa services and activities because of security problems and the lack of freedom of movement,'' said agency spokesman niall kiely
we feel agency staff, be they foreign nationals or locals, are under threat to their physical safety.''
unrwa employees jan stening, 44 of sweden, and william jorgensen, 58, of norway, were kidnapped feb. 5. unrwa said palestinians, acting independently of guerrilla factions, kidnapped the men for personal motives
kiely said only four of the 14 international staff assigned to lebanon remained in west beirut and ``they are very heavily involved in the search for stening and jorgensen.''
he said he was ``reasonably hopeful'' that the scandinavians would be released because ``there are no real setbacks'' in negotiations. he did not elaborate
kiely said unrwa has canceled a repair program for beirut's war-ravaged chatilla and bourj el-barajneh palestinian refugee camps ``because it can't be supervised.''
about 2,200 local relief workers serve with unrwa at field centers in lebanon
kiely said another impact of the kidnappings in south lebanon was that all unrwa transports between beirut and the southern port cities of sidon and tyre have been stopped both ways
he said agency operations such as schools ``have a certain momentum, so for the moment many services will continue to run as before.'' activist and family arriving in sweden.</note>
the government in estonia accused u.s. senators of trying to ruin soviet-american relations and scuttle nuclear disarmament by encouraging nationalist demonstrations in the baltic republic, tass said saturday
the official soviet news agency said the presidium of the supreme soviet of estonia issued a statement saying the senators are ``taking part in a new propaganda farce. they advocate a favorable attitude to anti-soviet actions planned to be held in estonia by some groups.''
such steps can further only one political aim _ to hamper the improvement of soviet-american relations and to undermine the nuclear disarmament process,'' tass said
the statement was the latest manifestation of a dispute between the government and nationalist activists, supported by western politicians, over the fate of the baltic states
the states, estonia, lithuania and latvia, were independent until they were incorporated into the soviet union in 1940. some residents believe their national identity and religious freedom are suppressed under soviet rule
moscow-based dissidents said some lithuanians demonstrated tuesday to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the declaration of independence from soviet russia months after the bolshevik revolution of 1917. wednesday is estonia's anniversary of independence, and activists say they plan protests there also
this month, 32 u.s. senators wrote to kremlin leader mikhail s. gorbachev asking him not to interfere with demonstrations and religious services in the baltics. the senators urged gorbachev ``not only to allow the lithuanian and estonian people to peacefully honor their national independence days, but also to take all necessary measures to guarantee that they do not become targets of state-sponsored harassment.''
estonia's presidium shot back that ``those who call into question the choice made by estonia in 1940, when it joined the union of soviet socialists republics as a full-fledged member, oppose the will of our people, the policy of perestroika, the principles of humanism and the policy of peace.''
perestroika is the name of gorbachev's wide-ranging program to reform soviet society
in a speech to the communist party central committee on thursday, gorbachev acknowledged the nationalities problem remains thorny. he said soviets must respect the language and culture of national groups but that nationalism aimed at ``self-isolation lead only to a spiritual blind alley.''
the presidium statement also acknowledged the nationalities problem, but said some people are taking advantage of the recent soviet campaign for openness ``as a means of kindling hostility among the nationalities living on estonian territory. this fully applies to the groups that emerged in estonia which try to put soviet estonia and its history in a bad light.''
tass did not say when the presidium of the supreme soviet of estonia, the republic's nominal parliament, issued the statement
last august, thousands of people demonstrated in estonia's capital and those of the other baltic states on the anniversary of a secret agrement between nazi germany and the soviet union the led to the soviet takeover of the baltic states in 1940
the u.s. government has never recognized the soviet incorporation of the baltic states
in a related development, an estonian political activist and his family of six arrived in sweden saturday after being expelled from the soviet union
about 30 exiles greeted rein metz, his wife and five small children at the airport
metz told swedish television at stockholm's arlanda airport he was the leader of a ``religious and political association.'' he said he expected ``30-40'' more members of his congregation could be forced to leave
i greet you in the name of jesus,'' he told some 30 exiles at the airport
last weekend two converted estonian buddhists arrived in sweden after given the choice of going to jail or leave the country. one of them, eke-part nomm, 22, said he had probably been forced to leave because he read an appeal to form an estonian independence party at a meeting in the city of tartu on feb. 2
a leader of the congressional iran-contra probe says he can't understand why vice president george bush remains reluctant to discuss his role in the affair months after president reagan opened the administration's books
i don't know why he's been so hesitant to acknowledge that he supported the president in it'' said arthur liman, chief senate counsel in the investigation. ``he was not a decisive factor.''
liman, 55, was on the hawaiian island of maui on thursday preparing to address tuesday's meeting of the federal bar council, an association of judges. he made the comments in an interview with the maui news newspaper
the vice president now talks about the fact that his conversations with the president were privileged and he can't reveal them,'' liman said. ``the reality of it is, the president waived executive privilege. i saw memos, diaries, other documents reflecting meetings attended by the vice president and the president
there was never any document withheld on that ground, either by the vice president or the president,'' liman said. ``all of the damaging evidence came as a result of the white house's production of documents.''
liman said evidence presented to the congressional committees shows the decision to sell arms to iran was made by the president, and the vice president supported him. liman said if bush had opposed the plan, it wouldn't have made a difference
the president heard arguments on both sides and made his own decision,'' liman said. to be friendly. pick up 3rd pvs, `but any...' edits thereafter to conform</note>
john demjanjuk's yearlong nazi war crimes trial was supposed to serve as a vivid history lesson to young israelis, but it gave way to lengthy technical debates that some say trivialized the horrors of the holocaust
demjanjuk, the second man to stand trial in israel on nazi war crimes charges, became more human to many israelis than adolf eichmann, the first, because he learned some hebrew and his family attended nearly every session
he chatted with police guards, laughed good naturedly during sessions and shouted the hebrew greeting ``shalom'' to bystanders as he was led handcuffed to and from court
he even tried to shake hands with a death camp survivor, who recoiled in horror and called demjanjuk a murderer
but any sympathy demjanjuk might have won was virtually undone by a stumbling defense team that seemed to move two steps backward for every step forward
for months before the trial ended last week, israelis stood in line to get a seat in the converted movie theater where five holocaust survivors recounted how a guard called ``ivan the terrible'' mutilated jews with sadistic pleasure before driving them into gas chambers at the treblinka death camp in nazi-occupied poland
but interest waned and frustration mounted when the survivors' emotional accounts of nazi atrocities were replaced by a time-consuming, often repetitive debate over the issue of identification
demjanjuk, 67, a retired ohio autoworker, maintains he is not ivan but an innocent victim of mistaken identity
this trial truly displayed the banality of justice,'' ephraim zuroff, a new york-born israeli and nazi hunter, said in an interview. ``there's no question that people got frustrated by the triviality and technicalities.''
hundreds of exhibits, even a paperclip, were submitted in an effort to determine the authenticity of a key piece of prosecution evidence, demjanjuk's alleged nazi identity card
six prosecution experts testified the card was authentic and an equal number of defense witnesses maintained it was forged
demjanjuk contended the document was fabricated by the soviet union to punish him for fighting in an anti-communist unit at the end of world war ii
for many israelis, there was a difference between eichmann, the man who masterminded adolf hitler's final solution, and ivan, who carried them out. eichmann was convicted and hanged in 1962
unlike eichmann, whom spectators glimpsed only as he was tried behind a bullet-proof screen, demjanjuk had a human dimension that intensified the emotion of the trial
the ukrainian-born defendant's wife, vera, his three children and 2-year-old grandson frequently watched the proceedings from front row seats and their anguish was recorded in israeli newspapers and on television
shame on you! you have no heart!'' mrs. demjanjuk screamed tearfully at prosecutors when the trial ended thursday and accused them of lying and failing to give her husband a fair trial
the three-judge panel, which has retired to review more than 15,000 pages of testimony and some 500 exhibits, is expected to issue a verdict in april
if convicted, demjanjuk faces a maximum penalty of death. but it is widely believed the sentence will not exceed life in prison
on thursday, one member of the audience, holocaust survivor mordechai fuchs, 63, displayed the pain of dozens of nazi victims who attended the proceedings over the year
waving a tattered photograph of his parents, three brothers and a sister killed at treblinka, he sobbed: ``the defense lawyers are liars. ... why does this have to be such a performance?''
but many israelis believe the attempt to probe into details showed the trial was fair
it wasn't a quick open-and-shut case,'' said toby greenwald, a cleveland-born israeli. ``no matter what the verdict, no one can ever say there wasn't enough time spent on detail. that's important, because people will ask whether jewish judges can be fair in a war crimes trial.''
some of his supporters, however, claimed demjanjuk did not get a fair hearing, partly because of his own faltering defense team and the trial's publicity. some witnesses watched others testify on israel television before they took the stand
demjanjuk, frustrated by his defense, fired mark o'connor of buffalo, n.y., his attorney of seven years, midway through the proceedings
several defense witnesses were discredited, including one who retracted her testimony and another who tried to commit suicide after her credentials were called into question
some of the defense arguments seemed bizarre. even demjanjuk squirmed uncomfortably in his seat when a defense expert claimed the soviet secret service used ``thought power'' to kill its enemies and inflict disasters on the west
demjanjuk's own contradictory version of his whereabouts during world war ii also appeared to hurt his case
until the defense began its case, i was not convinced of demjanjuk's guilt,'' said ehud offer, a 31-year-old israeli sculptor. ``but the defense itself has erased the doubts.''
fire officials and university of vermont researchers saturday picked through the rubble of a nationally known laboratory for maple tree research destroyed by fire
the laboratory at the university-affiliated proctor maple research farm was engulfed in flames friday night in a fire of undetermined origin, university officials said
frederick laing, an associate professor long involved in research at the farm, said efforts in recent years had centered on finding a cause for declines in maple syrup production in vermont and around the northeast
much of that research had been looking into whether acid precipitation, atmospheric pollutants carried into the northeast on winds out of the midwest, was to blame for recent maple production declines
laing said saturday that it was now ``generally agreed that it (acid rain) is one of the stresses'' causing the slump in maple sugaring. ``there's still some difficulty in assessing just how large a part it plays.''
the fire, which laing said destroyed between $200,000 and $250,000 worth of equipment, comes with this year's maple sugar season about a month away. it was unclear saturday whether the lab or some replacement facility could be geared up in time
rayburn levigne, a uvm assistant vice president for buildings and facilities, said while the cause of the fire was unknown, it was not believed to have been arson
possibly spooked by light at the end of the tunnel, deer have been shy about using four passageways recently installed for them under a new maryland interstate highway
the state highway administration built four corrugated steel culverts under sections of interstate 97 near annapolis in hopes of encouraging animals to cross under instead of over the roadway
researchers at the university of maryland's appalachian environmental laboratory in frostburg are trying to find out if animals are using the underpasses. so far they've found mink, mice, muskrat and raccoon, but no deer have ventured through the dimly lighted pathways
to us, the opening (at the other end) looks fairly large,'' said william r. gates, a graduate assistant working on the project. ``but for deer, it's like going into a cave or tunnel and they aren't used to going into enclosures.''
several other states have tried culverts, but little has been done to document their use
the state and federal highway administrations are funding the $210,000, five-year study in hopes of finding a way to reduce the number of animals killed on american highways
according to the federal highway administration, an estimated 200,000 deer die each year on u.s. roads. however, doug smith, an fha ecologist, said the number was a conservative estimate. more than 25,000 are killed each year on roads in states with high deer populations, such as pennsylvania
the study also aims to learn more about what happens to a wildlife area when it is bisected by a highway. the interstate cuts through woods near crownsville state hospital
researchers are observing tracks and using a wildlife surveillance system to monitor animal activity in the culverts. movement at the tunnel openings trips sensors on video cameras, which film the activity day or night
so far we had a deer enter the culvert and then come back out,'' gates said
recent flooding inside the tunnels might have discouraged some animals from using them, but gates said he suspected the culverts might not be large enough
three of the culverts are 15 feet high, 21 feet wide and about as long as a football field. the fourth is even longer, at more than 500 feet. perhaps the deer assume they cannot get through what they perceive is a tiny opening at the other end, gates said
the only evidence i have is that we have had several deer approach the culverts, but they have not gone in,'' he said
if the culverts prove successful, they would be a cheaper than bridges, which cost four to five times more to build and maintain, said william l. branch, environmental specialist with maryland's highway administration
the japan communist party has accused communist north korea of bombing a south korean airliner that vanished with 115 aboard off the coast of burma last november
the party, in an official publication obtained saturday by the associated press, stressed that communism has nothing to do with terrorism and that true communists should denounce such violence
we firmly believe that the north actually did it,'' wrote party central committee chairman kenji miyamoto in the publication
north korea has denied any involvement in the jet's disappearance, and accused seoul of engineering the incident to malign pyongyang
the korean air boeing 707, on its way from the middle east to seoul, disappeared on nov. 29
on jan. 15, a woman said in a public confession in seoul that she was a north korean agent and that she and a male north korean agent had planted a bomb on the aircraft during an earlier leg of the plane's flight
the woman, identified as kim hyon hui, 26, said kim jong il, son and heir apparent of north korean president kim il sung, had ordered the sabotage because he wanted to disrupt the 1988 summer olympics, to begin in seoul sept. 17
the north korean pair, traveling on forged japanese passports, left the plane in abu dhabi, its last stop before it vanished, flew to bahrain and were stopped for questioning at bahrain airport on dec. 1. both swallowed poison before being questioned. the man died but the woman survived. she was extradited to seoul on dec. 15
japanese communists have been at odds with north korean communist leaders since the early 1970s over ideological differences, often denouncing the personality cult surrounding kim il sung and jong il
the people of dixon are reading about life in dickson, siberia, thanks to the efforts of mayor james dixon and his soviet counterpart
this week, dixon received 100 copies of the dickson newspaper ``sovetsky taimyr,'' printed in english. ordinarily, the daily newspaper is printed only in russian
we want this issue to link us like a bridge over the cold ocean that lies between us. we want you to see ... that not so many things divide us after all,'' editor-in-chief albion brechalov wrote in a front-page story
the friendship between the two cities began in january, when the mayor of dickson, siberia, sent new year's greetings to the people of dixon, ill
mayor dixon replied, suggesting a citizen exchange visit, and he announced earlier this month that he had been notified that dickson's mayor, an interpreter and a journalist will visit dixon for a week, though no date has been set
the dickson newspaper tries to show everyday life in that siberian city, which is roughly a third the size of dixon, a community of 15,000 in north-central illinois. on the front page of the newspaper, dated november 1987, is a picture of three bundled woman eating ice cream bars
half of the newspaper contains carefully written letters from citizens expressing friendship and a hope for world peace. some also expressed opposition to the policies of president reagan, who spent his boyhood and high school years in dixon
mayor dixon says he is sending dickson 19 large photographs, taken by local amateurs, that show life in dixon
the government is sending tortilla-grams to remind illegal aliens that the deadline to apply for immigration amnesty is less than three months away
we're trying anything we can think of to get people the information,'' said jane friday, an immigration and naturalization service spokeswoman
the ins has printed 80,000 spanish-language reminders on 4-by-6-inch pieces of paper, and next week plans to send them to tortilla factories in brownfield, odessa and lovington, n.m., where they will be stuffed into packages
we have had lots of publicity in larger areas. the purpose of this grass-roots publicity campaign is to get out the word in the smaller areas,'' ms. friday said
the text of the inserts says: ``act now. take advantage of the legalization program. amnesty ends may 4, 1988. if you have lived in the united states illegally since before jan. 1, 1982, perhaps you qualify. for peace of mind, legalize your status. for more information, please contact your local legalization office.''
the bakeries agreed to include the reminders in their tortilla packages as a public service and at no charge to the government, ms. friday said
the ins has been using more traditional outlets _ churches, schools and public service broadcasts _ to remind people in metropolitan areas that the government's amnesty offer expires may 4
yuri and tanya zieman got bad news again last week. their latest application for an exit visa was turned down by soviet authorities
vladimir tufeld learned friday that he, too, had once more been refused
their disappointment was aggravated by the timing, for the latest rejection notices arrived on the eve of secretary of state george shultz's visit to moscow, an event many jewish ``refuseniks'' had hoped would help get them out
in the past, the soviets often have lowered emigration barriers just before high-level u.s.-soviet talks, but there is no indication shultz's scheduled arrival on sunday has had much effect
people are pinning so many hopes on him that i'm afraid it's going to be a very pathetic frustration for many,'' mrs. zieman said. ``there is nothing to pin your hopes on now.''
a senior western diplomat who watches trends in soviet emigration and other human rights matters, said, ``what had been some fairly steady but limited improvement (last year) may have come to a halt.''
as for freeing of political prisoners, ``the process has stopped'' following the release last year of dozens of religious, humans rights and nationalist activists, the diplomat said. he spoke only on condition he not be identified
observers say one possible reason the flow of jewish emigrants appears to have slowed from last year's unusually high levels is that the issue is receiving less official and public attention now
most of the best-known ``refuseniks'' have left in recent months, said one diplomatic analyst, and although thousands of would-be emigrants are left behind, they aren't as well organized and don't have as effective a voice as some of the jewish activists who have recently been granted exit visas
the ziemans first applied for permission to emigrate when their daughter, vera, was a baby. vera is now 11 years old and has grown up knowing she and her family could leave at any time. but while they wait, they are outcasts
yuri zieman, 50, lost his job as a computer programmer in the biomedical field as soon as he applied to leave and worked until recently as a janitor. the family's plight has taken on a new urgency since yuri suffered a potentially deadly aneurysm in the brain several weeks ago and doctors warned him not to risk the delicate surgery to repair the afflicted artery unless he can reach the west
although zieman says he never had access to state secrets, the only reason he and his family have been given for the authorities' refusal to permit them to leave is that theirs is a ``security'' case
tufeld's wife, isolda, was granted a three-month visa in december to enable her to have surgery for a brain tumor. she remains in johns hopkins university hospital in baltimore, md., after undergoing three operations last month, her husband said saturday
jewish emigration reached a peak of about 51,000 in 1979, but dropped after that as u.s.-soviet relations worsened. in 1986, fewer than 1,000 were allowed to emigrate. the number rose above 8,000 last year for the first time since 1979 but appears to have reached a plateau or declined since the u.s.-soviet summit in december in washington
some refuseniks blame soviet leader mikhail s. gorbachev's public annoyance at being questioned repeatedly on the subject. others fear the u.s. government has lost some of its persistence in the drive to improve relations and reach a strategic nuclear weapons accord with the kremlin
in the meantime, new groups of jews are forming to press their exit demands
one, calling itself the new wave, announced it will hold demonstrations every week in downtown moscow to protest the refusal of soviet authorities to recognize its members' eligibility for visas because they acknowledge they don't have immediate relatives abroad
another group, called the second generation, consists of young people whose parents have spent years trying unsuccessfully to leave the country. the children, many now in their teens or 20s, have grown up expecting that one day they would go to the west with their parents but now find they are barred, just as their parents were. include material from newsweek poll.</note>
richard gephardt's past has become his present, dredged up endlessly by democratic presidential rivals who ask whether his evolution on issues from abortion to busing is a troubling lack of conviction
the attacks on gephardt and his record could seriously damage the missourian's candidacy if voters come to perceive the six-term congressman as insincere in his beliefs, according to political professionals
it's clearly everybody's best shot at gephardt,'' says democratic pollster geoffrey garin
what voters are really looking for is somebody who says what he means and means what he says during the election year.''
gephardt has switched his positions on issues such as abortion and school busing since arriving in the house in 1977 to represent a blue-collar st. louis district
gephardt explains his changes as a natural evolution of his views and says they are unrelated to the start of his national campaign. but gephardt's democratic presidential rivals suggest they are flip-flops of political convenience
what i try to do in approaching issues is to do it from a practical point of view, to ask what will solve a particular problem,'' gephardt has said. ``i have strong beliefs about things _ arms control, central american policy, tax reform, trade, health care, social security and what have you _ but i don't come to those from an ideological viewpoint. i try to look at the facts of a particular issue.''
the attacks against gephardt heated up last week during a democratic debate in texas when sen. albert gore jr. mentioned several of gephardt's voting zig-zags and said, ``i'm going to lay it on the line, dick. the next president has to be someone who the people will believe will stay with his convictions.''
sen. paul simon employed a similar attack strategy against gephardt's voting record in television commercials aired during the new hampshire primary campaign. the ads asked voters whether they could trust a candidate like gephardt who had changed his positions
a newsweek magazine poll of 284 democratic leaders and politicians rated gephardt last among the party's seven presidential candidates. the poll, taken on feb. 17-19 and published this week, asked if the candidates have been ``generally consistent in their stands on issues or not.''
fifty-eight percent said gephardt had not been consitent, and 38 percent said he had, according to the newsweek poll. by contrast, former colorado sen. gary hart, who was sixth, was rated as inconsistent by 38 percent and consistent by 49 percent and massachusetts gov. michael dukakis, who was first, received an 86 percent consistent rating and 5 percent inconsistent
gephardt has obviously been wounded by the way that simon basically drew out his record,'' says robert squier, a democratic political consultant
but squier contends it will be more difficult and far more expensive for candidates like gore to launch a similar tv offensive against gephardt in the south because of the large number of states participating in the super tuesday primaries on march 8
i would guess that the gephardt people feel like they have been through a near miss,'' says squier
here are some of gephardt's positions
_abortion: gephardt started his career in congress backing anti-abortion constitutional amendments but dropped his support in 1986, saying there was ``no clear agreement in the country'' on an amendment and that was hurting the chances for resolving the controversial issue. he says he continues to oppose federal financing of abortions but has pledged not to veto congressional appropriations of such money if elected president
_busing: gephardt sponsored a constitutional amendment in the 97th congress to prohibit forced busing of school children for desegregation, a position in line with the views of his mostly white working-class district in south st. louis. he says he no longer supports such an amendment because ``it's a completely different situation.''
the justice department and the courts are doing something very different which i think is working,'' says gephardt. ``today they use magnet schools, voluntary plans and other methods of trying to get schools integrated, and i think they're much more effective.''
_social security: in 1985, gephardt joined with conservative southern democrats in supporting a deficit-cutting package that eliminated cost-of-living increases for social security and other federal retirement benefits. the proposal was rejected in the house. in his presidential campaign, gephardt says social security should be taken out of the budget so it does not become entangled in deficit-reduction fights on capitol hill. he also says he would no longer support a freeze on social security adjustments
_defense: in 1981, gephardt reversed his long-standing opposition to the mx missile and b-1 bomber and voted for the weapons systems sought by president reagan. in later years, he renewed his opposition. gephardt says he was wrong in changing his position and did so to give president reagan a bargaining chip in arms control talks with the soviet union
gephardt supported former president carter's proposal for a neutron bomb and in 1982 backed a reagan push for production of new chemical weapons. as president, gephardt says, he would press for a ban on all nerve gas and chemical weapons. he also is supporting a liberal democratic proposal to ban nuclear tests
_taxes: gephardt, a critic of reagan's economic policies, supported the administration's income tax cut proposal in 1981. he initially voted against the gop plan because he supported a democratic alternative. however, he backed the tax cut measure on final passage as did several other democratic leaders, including house ways and means chairman dan rostenkowski. gephardt has defended his vote, saying: ``once we lost, the question was clear _ were we for a tax cut for the middle class or were we not.''
_education: in 1981, gephardt voted for a conservative republican proposal to bar the justice department from using federal money to block prayer and meditation in public schools. gephardt says his vote is consistent with his current view that ``you could have voluntary, silent prayer'' in schools. gephardt, who campaigns on the need for educational improvements, opposed establishing the education department. he also has abandoned his past support of tuition tax credits
leftist guerrillas on saturday vowed to launch more attacks on u.s. military advisers stationed in the country and claimed american personnel have become directly involved in combat
washington last year provided more than $600 million in aid to the centrist government fighting an 8-year-old war against marxist-led insurgents. most of the aid was military or war-related
commander roberto roca, a member of the high command of the farabundo marti national liberation front, said in an interview with the rebel radio station that u.s. personnel are becoming increasingly involved in combat and repression
he said that makes them more likely to suffer the consequences of insurgent activity
roca's statement, broadcast by the rebels' radio venceremos, did not appear to be a blanket threat against all americans in el salvador. he referred to the 55 military advisers here training salvadoran government troops and to what he said was a contingent of ``about 40 (american) civilians advising and directing the repression of the people's movement.''
this kind of personnel is also part of the counterinsurgency campaign and because of that it will find itself increasingly the object of popular combat,'' said roca
for us, the americans have always been those responsible for this war; they have always sustained the war against the salvadoran people,'' he said. ``consequently, the personnel they have fighting here is a military objective of our forces.''
he claimed the u.s. military advisers stationed at the headquarters of the 6th infantry brigade in usulutan, 70 southeast of the capital san salvador, took part in combat there wednesday
an estimated 600 guerrillas attacked the base and a nearby cotton cooperative in the rebel's biggest assault in 10 months. eighteen people died in the fighting
col. inocente montano, commander of the 6th brigade, said there were four u.s. advisers at the base when the rebels attacked. he said the compound was never penetrated and that the advisers were never in danger. but he added that ``they were ready, in case of incursion, to help repel the attack.''
regulations governing the conduct of u.s. advisers here prohibit them from participation in combat except in self defense
to the degree that the war's operation theater is widened, the american advisers, the american personnel in those places ... will find themselves increasingly up against direct military operations,'' said roca. ``that is to say their (the american) military personnel will be going home wounded, dead.''
sgt. gregory fronius, the only military adviser to die in combat here, was killed in march of last year during a guerrilla attack on an army base in the northern province of chalatenango
the rebels assassinated a u.s. officer here in 1983 and killed four u.s. marine embassy guards, two american businessmen and seven other people in a machine gun attack on a san salvador cafe in 1985
the dean of harvard college has warned students that anyone involved in racial incidents faces expulsion and other disciplinary measures, but says his comments are general and not provoked by any particular incident
in dealing with situations where harassment, discrimination or insensitivity come to light, the college is ready to respond firmly and with appropriate actions,'' dean alfred jewett said in an open letter to the harvard community
in cases where physical harassment of students by other members of the community occurs, there is a general principle that the harasser should be asked to leave the community,'' said the letter, published friday by the student newspaper, the harvard crimson
the letter was issued a week after minority students at university of massachusetts in amherst took over a campus building to protest campus racism. the students left the building wednesday after meeting with the school chancellor
in a telephone interview, jewett said the letter was issued to lay down principles in the wake of deliberations with a committee on racial relations that was set up last year
harvard and the committee of students and faculty members decided to ``come out with a series of messages that would alert the community to problems that might exist and do exist in some communities,'' jewett said. ``mine is the first statement.''
four white students were expelled for a year last fall after frozen fruit was hurled at a black student, who later received several racially derogatory telephone calls
jewett said ``we have had no major things'' outside of that incident. the decision to issue the open letter was made later, in december, but its publication was postponed until after exams
the crimson said questions of racism were raised earlier this month after students alleged that a professor made unspecified disparaging comments about blacks and indians during a course called ``the peopling of america.''
harvard officials who asked to remain anonymous said they were aware of the allegations but said no investigation would be made unless a formal complaint was made
harvard college, made up of harvard university's undergraduate institutions, has an enrollment of 6,400
south korea's overall trade surplus last year doubled to $6.26 billion from 1986, with a record surplus reached with the united states, the korea foreign trade association announced saturday
according to the final tally, south korean exports last year amounted to $47.28 billion, up 36.2 percent from a year ago, and imports rose 29.9 percent to $41.02 billion
the overall surplus in 1986 was $3.13 billion
south korea's trade surplus with the united states rose to a record $9.55 billion from $7.33 billion in 1986
exports to the united states reached $18.31 billion, up 31.9 percent from a year ago, while imports from the united states rose 35.7 percent to $8.76 billion
topping the list of south korean export items were textiles, at $11.71 billion. automobile exports amounted to $3.25 billion
the small left radical movement party said saturday it was endorsing socialist president francois mitterrand for re-election, even though he hasn't declared himself a candidate
the center-left party, which has two members in the 577-seat national assembly, decided at its national convention to support mitterrand in the april 24 election, said party spokesman emile zuccarelli
the possibility that mr. mitterrand will not be a candidate is so unlikely that it wasn't even worth our considering,'' zuccarelli told reporters
the socialists, by far the strongest leftist party, are waiting for mitterrand to announce his decision before making an endorsement. he is expected to make his plans known in the middle of march and is expected to be a candidate
public opinion polls indicate mitterrand has far more popular support than the best-known declared candidates _ premier jacques chirac and former premier raymond barre. the two conservatives are running neck-and-neck for second place
other declared candidates include jean-marie le pen of the extreme-right national front, andre lajoinie of the communists and pierre juquin, a dissident communist. none is given much chance of making the runoff, which will be held may 8 between the top two vote-getters unless one candidate wins more than 50 percent april 24
the radical movement was france's leading party before world war ii, with a progressive, anti-clerical program. it has gradually lost strength, and it split in the 1970s into the left radicals and the center-right valoisian radicals, who participate in chirac's coalition government. killings</head>
the military chief of staff put all troops and police in the manila area on full alert saturday to prevent disruption of second anniversary celebrations of president corazon aquino's rise to power
gen. renato de villa said he also placed the alert after the killings of at least six people on manila streets in the past two weeks, the government-run philippine news agency reported
authorities have blamed the ambushes and slayings on communist guerillas
de villa also ordered the arrest saturday of a navy captain linked to the 1986 murder of a leftist labor leader, but the officer refused to leave his home, saying the arrest papers were not in order
de villa canceled all military leaves and ordered his troops to intensify patrols and set up nighttime mobilecheckpoints, the agency said
the celebrations next week mark the feb. 26, 1986 civilian-military coup that placed mrs. aquino in power after ousting president ferdinand marcos, who now lives in exile in hawaii
the military said earlier this month that it uncovered plans by communist rebels to step up slayings in the manila area this year. more than 130 policemen and soldiers were killed in the capital last year
military field reports reaching manila saturday said at least six communist new people's army guerrillas were killed and one soldier wounded in clashes friday in surigao del norte and bukidnon provinces on the southern island of mindanao
in cebu city, 350 miles southeast of manila, police said they discovered friday the bodies of five people who they believed were executed by rebels on suspicion of being military informers
navy capt. rex robles meanwhile denied involvement in the november 1986 murder of leftist labor leader rolando olalia and refused to accompany arresting officers because they carried only a photocopy of de villa's arrest order, robles' lawyer told reporters
in the order, de villa said robles was being arrested ``in connection'' with the slaying of the charismatic chairman of the may 1st movement, one of the philippines' largest labor federations
attorney armando marcelo told reporters that robles challenged the government to present evidence of his involvement
the arresting officers left robles' guarded home after he refused to go with them, marcelo said. update with comments by ortega. pickup 8th pvs: `the cardinal ...' and edits thruout to trim</note>
future peace talks between nicaragua's leftist government and its contra rebels are likely to have a political hue the sandinistas never wanted
the government appeared to open the door to political discussions with its armed opponents by belatedly agreeing in principle last week to a proposal by the mediator of the negotiations, cardinal miguel obando y bravo, head of the roman catholic church in nicaragua
that proposal called on the contras to accept a cease-fire in exchange for four major concessions by the sandinista government. the concessions were something the contras had been seeking, and they were quick to accept the cardinal's plan
the government was called upon to grant unrestricted freedom of the press and a total, unconditional amnesty for political prisoners, renew a dialogue with its internal opposition and review its universal military conscription law
whether it was a tactical error or a considered response, the sandinistas delayed in taking a position that president daniel ortega has long and strenuously opposed. on innumerable occasions in the past, he has said he would never discuss political matters with the contras
we don't want to create the impression that we don't want a cease-fire and are being intransigent,'' said paul reichler, a washington, d.c., attorney who advises the sandinistas. ``at all costs, we want the negotiations to go forward.''
reichler's comments came in a chat with reporters friday after obando y bravo abruptly suspended the latest round of peace talks a day before they were supposed to end and obliquely blamed the sandinistas for the breakdown
ortega said saturday in managua that the cardinal's proposal ``was not rejected'' by the sandinistas and said his government ``is willing to continue the conversations.''
but a clarification was needed on the withdrawal of the contras to enclaves during the truce, ortega said at the close of a government meeting
he repeated that his government is willing to apply an amnesty once a cease-fire is in effect. referring to the military draft, he said ``it is logical that with the end of the war the military service will not require the current volume (of soldiers).''
ortega told the meeting on new economic measures aimed at fighting inflation that ``enemies of the revolution'' opposed the measures. he said the right, the extreme left and the opposition daily la prensa should be careful not to stir up insurrection
the cardinal said after his return to managua on saturday that with the suspension of talks, ``we have given time for reflection since there is a lack of trust between the two sides.''
appearances are of vital importance to both sides, with neither party wanting to be seen as the spoiler as long as there is any remaining chance the u.s. congress might approve additional military aid for the contras
in private talks with reporters, the sandinistas made it clear that they were initially surprised by the cardinal's five-point proposal, then disappointed by his abrupt cancellation of the talks
victor hugo tinoco, nicaragua's deputy foreign minister, said obando halted the negotiations friday afternoon before he had a chance to deliver the government's formal, written response to the proposal the cardinal put forth thursday
but tinoco insisted that he had discussed the government's position at length with the cardinal friday morning and had not been given any reason to believe that the cardinal was unwilling to continue the negotiations
the cardinal ``did not tell us he disagreed'' with the government's position, reichler told reporters later
in its written response, the government declared its ``agreement in principle'' with the cardinal's proposal, but carefully conditioned its answers to his requests that it reconsider its mandatory draft law and grant an unconditional amnesty to the thousands of political prisoners in nicaraguan jails
but before nicaragua's formal response was delivered, obando had canceled the talks, saying he was disappointed that both sides had not accepted his proposal, at least in principle. the remark was clearly aimed at the sandinistas
but late or not, the government's response clearly put such political matters as press freedom and amnesty on the bargaining table for further talks and, given the opening, the contras are likely to push for even greater concessions
the cardinal is expected to announce a time and place for a third round of face-to-face negotiations sometime this week. the first round of talks took place in san jose, costa rica, in late january, only a week before the house rejected president reagan's latest request for about $43 million in additional contra aid
but the administration is considering a new bid for military aid for the rebels, and as long as that possibility exists, both sides will be playing their cards cautiously at the bargaining table
reid g. miller is the associated press' roving correspondent for central america. he has been based in san jose, costa rica, since january 1984
new york post employees cheered and uncorked champagne saturday after news that owner rupert murdoch reached agreement with 10 unions to save the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper
it has been a nightmare, but thank god, we're still in business,'' said lenny higgins, president of the newspaper pressmen's union
the deal will enable murdoch to sell the post to real estate developer peter kalikow. it involves a $22 million cost-reduction package that fell into place just before 2 a.m. when murdoch said he would provide $3 million to the unions to satisfy the terms of his sale agreement
the unions had already agreed to concessions totaling $19 million and said they could not give any more
cheers, deep sighs and the fizz of champagne filled the post's fourth-floor newsroom when the agreement was announced. some employees had worn black to mourn the paper's possible death
i feel great,'' said jerry cronin, head of the drivers' union. ``i feel we salvaged something that at five (minutes) of two (o'clock) was gone.''
murdoch had set a 2 p.m. friday deadline for closing the paper, and extended it with time almost out
kalikow will take over the post for $37.6 million on march 7 pending rank-and-file ratification of the concessions and verification by his accountants of the details
his spokesman, howard rubenstein, said kalikow was considering editorial changes that could tone down the post's brassy style and was committed to keeping the paper operating
there will be some changes in the format and appearance of the paper but he's not yet ready to discuss the changes in detail,'' rubenstein said. many of the expected changes come from suggestions by post employees
the new owner will meet with union leaders immediately to discuss his plans, rubenstein said
he wants to assure them he bought the paper so it could continue being a powerful voice in new york city and that he did not buy it for the real estate,'' rubenstein said. ``he will try to make it a very new york paper
it seems his whole life now is involved with the post. he's gone into it with great vigor.''
kalikow faces stiff problems in a highly competitive market. the daily news and new york newsday are also fighting for tabloid readers and the new york times maintains a strong leadership in advertising revenue
the post was founded in 1801 by alexander hamilton and other investors and during its long history has come close to folding several times. the latest threat came from a federal law that forced murdoch to sell the financially troubled tabloid because he also owns a new york city television station, wnyw-tv
he had said the post was losing $100,000 a day and that he had lost $150 million since he bought it in 1976 for $31 million
after saturday's agreement was announced, murdoch said, ``i would do it all again. i ... hate to leave it.''
the $22 million package presented to kalikow will eliminate 130 of the 1,012 union jobs at the post, some immediately and some later over the three-year life of the deal. the paper has about 1,200 employees
i don't think there's any question that without murdoch's contribution of $3 million, the paper would have definitely shut down,'' lawyer and mediator theodore kheel said. ``i would give him the lion's share of the credit.''
the package to keep the post afloat consists of $22 million in lost jobs and pay cuts and $3 million from murdoch's news america corp. to restore the pay cuts. because of that contribution, no paycheck will be smaller for the employees who remain
kheel said murdoch referred to the $3 million he put into the settlement as his farewell gift to the post and its employees. other currency measures. pickup 14th graf pvs ``groups from...''</note>
president daniel ortega said saturday that the right, the extreme left and the opposition newspaper la prensa should ``be careful, because they can in fact provoke an insurrection that can destroy them.''
speaking at the closing of the leftist government's meeting on new economic measures, ortega said ``enemies of the revolution,'' including the political opposition, the u.s. government and la prensa, opposed new economic steps announced by his administration the past week
he called la prensa ``the daily of the cia.''
the opposition from both sides of the political spectrum and the superior council of private enterprise, ortega said, ``have said that the time for an insurrection has come.''
he said they should not ``be looking for five feet on the cat because they may find them. they should be careful, because if they put themselves on the side of the contras and the aggressors they are going to stir winds that can provoke tempests.''
the superior council of private enterprise is the most important private business organization in nicaragua
adding more teeth to the economic measures announced earlier, ortega announced one- to four-year prison sentences for speculators. he said taxi drivers and others who work in transportation would have their vehicles confiscated if they charged more than the official prices
he also announced a 10 percent reduction in the national budget and a tax exemption for 22,900 families whose housing loans were forgiven by the government
the exact amount of the budget is not known and he did not elaborate on where the cuts would be made
those and other measures announced the past week are ``to give the economy a push and fight inflation,'' he said
the sandinista government on monday created a new cordoba currency worth 1,000 times as much as the old one and pegged it at 10 to the dollar
it also raised salaries to five times what they were in december and authorized price increases of up to more than 50 percent on some basic goods
although the measures were designed to slow inflation, which was 1,500 percent for 1987, prices already were being hiked beyond the new official levels
ortega issued a decree that requires individuals and corporations to report any foreign currency holdings of more than $500
a stamped, signed copy of a report of the holdings to one of the country's banks will be legal authorization for the owner to keep the money, said the decree issued friday. reports must be filed within 15 days but are not required if the funds are deposited in state-owned banks
failure to follow the rules will be considered a currency violation, punishable by one to three years in prison under a 1981 law
another decree authorizes the government's central bank to investigate large deposits of old cordobas if there are suspected of being linked to illegal activity
groups from sandinista defense committees, civilian neighborhood organizations, accompanied by police, have raided storerooms of alleged black market businesses and public markets to confiscate goods and force vendors to sell at official prices
ortega compared the economic measures to ``a strong medicine'' for a sick person
as long as the war doesn't end, we are going to try to have the patient recover to better confront the aggressor,'' he said
the contra rebels, which have been supported by the u.s. government, have been fighting more than six years to overthrow the sandinistas. advisory. woman was widowed just twice, not five times; three other marriages ended in divorce.</note>
a woman pleaded innocent saturday to a charge that she killed one of her five former husbands, who died two years ago of arsenic poisoning, but she remained in jail in lieu of $200,000 bond, authorities said
joan hensley davis, 54, was arrested friday and charged with first-degree murder in the 1986 death of james h. hensley, said st. clair county state's attorney john baricevic
my client is in disbelief about the whole thing,'' attorney judy cates said in a telephone interview
the southern illinois woman, who now has a sixth husband, is ``not wealthy'' and was having trouble coming up with the bond, mrs. cates said
her husband ``is standing beside her,'' said mrs. cates, who did not know his name
ms. davis was widowed by two of her husbands and was divorced from the other three, mrs. cates said
ms. davis entered her innocent plea before associate judge robert craig, who informed her she could face a minimum of 20 years and a maximum of 40 years if convicted
hensley, 62, of shiloh, died march 8, 1986, at memorial hospital in belleville, and the initial autopsy showed he had died from arsenic poisoning, said illinois state police capt. philip kocis
it's unusual for a case to be charged two years after the offense,'' baricevic said. ``but we didn't feel we had enough evidence to present to a jury until now
we had some problems, and all the questions about them will be answered at the trial. we'd rather not discuss them until the trial.''
in an in-depth investigation like this, there are obviously no witnesses to the crime. we have to rule out all accidental causes, so it takes a long time,'' kocis said
he said the death of the other man who died while being married to ms. davis was not currently under investigation, but he refused to say whether it had ever been investigated. he said he did not know the man's name or when he died
the investigation is concentrated on (hensley's) death at this particular time,'' kocis said
the parents of former ptl president jim bakker have applied for unemployment benefits after being laid off from their jobs as greeters at heritage usa, ptl's religious theme park
raleigh bakker, 81, and his wife, furnia, 81, were laid off jan. 29 from their $500-a-month jobs. they still live at the resort
it's pretty hard to take when you've been independent all your life and then you have to go down for unemployment,'' raleigh bakker said friday
we love the bakkers,'' ptl spokeswoman linda ivey said. ``we hope they will continue to feel a part of the family. but there have been numerous positions we have had to reduce.''
the work force has fallen from 2,700 to 900 since 1985, she said
jim bakker resigned from ptl in march after admitting a sexual encounter. a federal grand jury in charlotte is investigating him and his aides for possible mail, wire and tax fraud
at heritage usa, raleigh and furnia bakker spent mornings in the ptl studio shaking hands with visitors, and afternoons at the heritage grand hotel
the elder bakker gets $600 a month in social security and his wife gets $300 a month. he said his house, valued at $125,500, is paid for
we haven't been off that long, but we can't live this way indefinitely,'' he said. he said he must pay taxes, plus home insurance and upkeep
the bakkers said they must seek jobs at least three times a week to receive unemployment checks. bakker plans to apply for ptl openings _ at the hotel and at restaurants they frequent
a roofer who apparently was trying to break into a bank by shimmying down an air vent was trapped upside-down in the vent for five hours saturday, police said
raymond mention of bayshore suffered minor injuries to his right arm and collar bone and bruises on his face, said officer thomas sorriano, a suffolk county police spokesman
this is the first time in my life i've ever been so glad to see a bunch of cops,'' mention told his rescuers
employees of the long island savings bank in islip arrived at work at 8:45 a.m. and heard a man calling for help, sorriano said
when the officers reached the roof, they found a roofer's belt and tools, the vent, and then discovered mention's feet ``wiggling up in the air,'' said officer mark ryan
he told them he tried to get in feet first and when he couldn't, he tried head first,'' ryan said. ``he had nothing to hold on to and fell in.''
the officers kept mention talking while they tried to get the blood circulating in his legs and pry him from the curve in the 2-foot-by-2-foot vent where he had become lodged, he said
when he was finally freed, mention asked for the time, was told it was 9 a.m., and said he had been stuck for five hours, ryan said
mention was taken to southside hospital, where he was treated and released into police custody. the roofer was charged with criminal mischief; other charges were pending, said sorriano. arraignment was scheduled for sunday
mildred seydell, a globe-trotting journalist who interviewed benito mussolini and covered the scopes ``monkey trial,'' died saturday. she was 98
ms. seydell, a resident of the suburban atlanta town of roswell, once said she ``much preferred to set the stage for adventure rather than the table for dinner.'' her work as a writer and columnist for hearst publications, including the now-defunct atlanta georgian newspaper, took her around the world
she wrote ``talks with celebrities,'' including an interview with the italian dictator mussolini, for universal news service and 27 hearst papers. she also covered for hearst the 1925 tennessee trial of john scopes, a teacher indicted for illegally teaching the theory of evolution
ms. seydell was a columnist for the atlanta georgian from 1926 to 1939, the year the paper closed
born mildred woolley in atlanta, she married paul seydel, a chemist she met while studying at the sorbonne in paris, in 1910. she added an ``l'' to seydel and adopted the name for her writing
she is survived by two sons, grandchildren and great-grandchildren
angola's unita rebels said saturday they killed 16 enemy soldiers in recent fighting and shot down a fighter plane, killing a cuban pilot
unita, the national union for the total independence of angola, said in a statement distributed in lisbon that guerrillas killed 14 angolan soldiers and two cubans in an attack feb. 12 on two army battalions close to the strategic southern town of cuito cuanavale
the rebels, supported by the united states and south africa, said guerrilla anti-aircraft guns shot down a soviet-built mig-23 fighter jet the same day, killing the cuban pilot
unita also claimed rebels ambushed a train and destroyed the locomotive during the first two weeks of february between the towns of catete and botomona in central luanda province
the guerrillas said they had also captured the town of luquembo and two army garrisons in cenetral malange province
the statement gave rebel casualties in recent fighting as two killed and nine wounded
unita has been fighting to force angola's soviet- and cuban-backed government to share power since 1975, when angola gained independence from portugal. pickup 4th graf pvs ``the four-hour...''</note>
a flash rainstorm caused floods and mudslides that left at least 70 people dead saturday. as many as 95 others were feared dead after an avalanche of mud and boulders crashed into a nursing home
firemen used surfboards and the navy used amphibious vehicles to rescue people stranded by the storm, which began late friday night and left about 3,150 homeless
state health director jose noronha said at least 70 died and 80 to 95 more were feared dead. the same number of victims was reported by civil defense spokesman bruno avila, who said the death toll could be even higher because of mudslides in poor shantytowns that line mountainsides in this city of 5.6 million
the four-hour downpour dumped 4.88 inches on rio and left many streets under 5 feet of water
mayor roberto saturnino braga declared the city a disaster area, called in all off-duty municipal doctors and canceled a post-carnival parade of champions scheduled for saturday night
there is nothing to celebrate now. there is only sorrow,'' said martinho da vila, a popular samba composer who performed in the famous carnival festivities here a week ago
the vila isabel neighborhood, whose samba school won this year's top carnival prize and which celebrated wednesday with an all-night victory party, was one of the most rain-battered zones in the city
state troopers were sent out to prevent the looting of stores and stop holdups of drivers whose cars had broken down in the high water
avila said most of the 70 deaths occurred in poor slum areas, where housing is precarious and drains and sewers often nonexistent
james lewis, a rescue work coordinator in the mayor's office, said: ``we are accustomed to tragedies in our slums, but this was too much. something definitely must be done to protect slum people from rainstorms.''
a mudslide knocked down one three-story wing of the three-wing santa genoveva hospital, a social security nursing home in santa teresa, a well-to-do mountainside neighborhood. there was little hope that the estimated 80 to 95 elderly patients there would get out alive
there is so much wood and concrete there we don't believe anybody could survive,'' avila said
at sundown the rescue efforts were called off for the day
it was awful. all my friends were dead in an instant,'' maria teixeira, one of 350 patients evacuated from the two other wings of the hospital, told a tv interviewer as she lay in a stretcher
boulders and mud left by the storm held up rescuers for three hours on their way to the nursing home
old people were left standing in the rain and chill all that time. i don't know how they endured it,'' lewis said
the storm, accompanied by near nonstop thunder and lightning, knocked out telephones and international communications and stopped commuter trains
even the fire department and civil defense were without phones for a while and had to rely on radio to coordinate rescue work
earlier this month, rain caused flooding and mudslides that killed about 206 people and drove 13,000 from their homes in rio de janeiro state. the hardest-hit spot then was petropolis, a mountain resort 40 miles north of the city of rio. limits</head> extradition limits with britain, quotes, details, background.</note>
a court saturday ordered the extradition of a prominent irish republican army activist to northern ireland. prime minister charles haughey, citing a separate case, welcomed limits on extraditions to britain
owen carron, 34, a former member of the british parliament and a leading member of sinn fein, the ira's legal political wing, had been sought since he jumped bail on a weapons charge in northern ireland two years ago
police arrested him friday night in the southwestern county of sligo, about 20 miles from the northern ireland border, after an officer recognized him
the district court in sligo ordered carron extradited to british-ruled northern ireland but gave him 15 days to appeal the order. the court ordered that he remain in custody pending appeal
in dublin, haughey said saturday that a british court's refusal to free six irishmen accused of ira bombings showed the need for restrictions on the extradition of terrorist suspects to britain
dublin inserted new conditions dec. 1 for extradition to britain. the measures include the requirements that british authorities produce evidence on warrants in all extradition cases, and that the irish attorney general approve all extraditions
britain has a ``historic inability ... to comprehend irish feelings and sensitivities,'' haughey said in a speech to the annual conference of the governing fianna fail party
britain long has criticized the irish republic's reluctance to extradite suspects sought for trial in connection with irish republican army actions. the ira is fighting to end british rule in northern ireland and unite the protestant-dominated province with mainly roman catholic ireland
haughey said the need for restrictions was exemplified by the case of six irishmen sentenced to life in prison for ira's bombings of two birmingham pubs in 1974 that killed 21 people
britain's court of appeal upheld their convictions last month, rejecting arguments that new evidence undermined the confessions and forensic findings that sent them to prison
the wisdom of, and the necessity for, the effective safeguards provided in our extradition legislation has been clearly confirmed,'' haughey said. ``these safeguards are now in place and it is on the basis of these safeguards, or not at all, that extradition will proceed.''
carron's case was not affected by the legislation because warrants seeking his extradition were issued in november, before introduction of the new regulations
carron came to prominence in 1981 when he was the election officer for bobby sands, who launched a seven-month ira hunger strike at belfast's maze prison that year
sands, who was elected to the british parliament while behind bars, and nine other ira members starved themselves to death during the protest over prison regulations. when sands died, carron won his parliamentary seat
the royal ulster constabulary, northern ireland's police force, had been hunting carron since he jumped bail in january 1986 on a charge of possessing a soldier's rifle. he had been released on bail to run as a sinn fein candidate in special elections to the british parliament
after being defeated in the election, carron failed to report back to jail
port-au-prince, haiti (ap) _ an opposition leader who led two unsuccessful invasions during the duvalier family dictatorship left the country saturday after spending six months holed up in an embassy, said haiti radio inter
bernard sansaricq, who was granted political asylum by the argentine embassy after the haitian government accused him of urging peasants to revolt, boarded an eastern airlines flight bound for miami at 5 p.m., the independent radio station said
sansaricq, head of the national peoples party, was driven to the airport in an argentine embassy limousine, accompanied by four carloads of haitian soldiers, the radio said
president leslie manigat, in an address on state television friday night, promised safe conduct ``for all of those in political asylum.''
sansaricq, in his mid-40s, was the only person known to have been in political asylum in haiti
he was accused aug. 3 last year of attempting to provoke a revolution in jeremie, his hometown, on the tip of haiti's southwestern peninsula. after a shootout with soldiers, he and several supporters fled into the surrounding hills and disappeared for three weeks
the military claimed he arrived with a group of armed men and distributed weapons to peasants in the town
sansaricq denied the charges. sansaricq said in a radio address from the argentine embassy on aug. 25 that he had been armed only with a revolver, for which he claimed to have a license
he said he went to jeremie to attend a trial of people accused of taking part in a massacre in 1964. sansaricq said hundreds of upper class mulatto families and suspected opponents of dictator francois duvalier were massacred by soldiers and the tontons macoutes, duvalier's secret police
the government has never acknowledged the killings
sansaricq, whose entire family was slain in the massacre, said the army wanted to kill him since his testimony would have implicated high ranking officers, including defense minister williams regala, a reserve army brigidier general and former member of the military-run junta
sansaricq, who at one time owned a gas station in south florida, led foiled invasions in 1963 and 1982 during the 29-year dictatorship of francois duvalier and his son, jean claude. he lived in miami from the early 1960s until 1986, when jean-claude duvalier fled into exile in france
the 1963 invasion occurred in jeremie. he escaped, but 12 colleagues were captured and shot by a military firing squad. in 1982, he landed on the island of la tortue on haiti's northern coast. eight people died in the 1982 invasion and sansaricq and others were rescued by the u.s. coast guard
an earthquake rattled central colombia saturday evening, sending people in bogota's high-rise apartments and office buildings fleeing into the streets
there were no immediate reports of injuries from hospitals, fire stations and police stations, according to the colombian radio network rcn
the tremor measured 5 on the richter scale and the epicenter was in the andes about 50 miles south of bogota, said the geophysical institute of the andes, according to rcn
the earthquake at 5:52 p.m. lasted three seconds and slight aftershocks were registered 12 minutes later, a spokesman for the bogota institute said in the rcn report
the richter scale is a measure of ground motion as recorded on seismographs. every increase of one number means a tenfold increase in magnitude
an earthquake of 5 on the richter scale can cause considerable damage in the local area
a mob stoned one candidate's car, leaving four injured, and at least one candidate was arrested for bad debts as hundreds of political hopefuls registered for next month's parliamentary elections
daily nation, an independent nairobi newspaper, said supporters of an opponent hurled stones friday at the motorcade of nahashon njuno, an assistant minister for tourism and wildlife in the outgoing government
the attack took place at kirinyaga, in central kenya, where njuno was presenting papers qualifying him to stand in the march 21 elections
njiru was among nearly 750 candidates who presented election papers friday at administration centers across the country
candidates are contesting 188 parliamentary seats. there are 202 seats in the kenyan parliament. twelve members of parliament are nominated by the president
kenya is a one-party state and all candidates must be approved by president daniel arap moi's ruling kenya african national union
in the western town of nakuru, police arrested john njenga mungai for failure to pay a $42 debt as he was about to present his papers, according to another independent newspaper, the standard
mungai paid the money he owed the ministry of information and broadcasting for advertisements on state-owned television, the newspaper said
the ruling kenya african national union disqualifies anyone owing the government money from contesting
william odongo omamo, minister for research, science and technology in the outgoing government, failed to get clearance to run for election because officials said he had not paid a $1.1 million debt owed to the government
daily nation also reported that the high court on friday issued a warrant for the arrest of candidate james muriuki, a member of parliament in the 1970s, for not paying $4,640 in rent on a nairobi house as ordered by the court in 1983
abisai masinde, candidate for western emuhaya constituency said he nearly did not make it to present his election papers because he was kidnapped
masinde told the standard, another independent newspaper, that he was forced into the back seat of a car thursday morning when he was shopping at a market in western kakamega
the kidnappers drove around with him until friday afternoon, when they released him without giving a reason for holding him, masinde said. est, sted cst.</note>
frigid air slid across the great lakes and into the midwest on saturday and made temperatures fall rapidly, and rain fell over sections of the southeast, pushing some streams close to flood stage
the temperature at sault ste. marie, mich., crashed from a mild 30 degrees with light wind at around 5 a.m. to 16 degrees at 7 a.m. est, with strong northerly wind and half-mile visibility in blowing snow. by 11 a.m., it was one degree above zero with a wind chill of 30 to 40 degrees below zero
by afternoon, snow and falling temperatures were common throughout michigan and snowdrifts blocked some highways on the upper peninsula. the temperature at lansing dropped 9 degrees in 15 minutes
the cold front moved through the chicago area and roads were iced by one to 4 inches of snow. visibility dropped to around a quarter of a mile in snow and blowing snow in northern indiana
in the southeast, rain was widespread from the eastern carolinas across southern georgia and northern florida to the southeast tip of louisiana. cecil field naval air station at jacksonville, fla., measured 1.25 inches of rain in the six hours up to 1 p.m. est
a flood warning was issued for the satilla river in southeastern georgia and other rivers in northern florida and southern georgia were swollen to near flood stage, with more rain expected, the national weather service said
in maine, moderate to heavy rain fell at eastport while to the north at caribou it was cold enough for 3 inches of snow to fall in the morning, bringing the city's total snow depth to 30 inches
elsewhere, light snow fell across sections of the northern and central plains during the morning with an inch of snow at both grand island, neb., and rapid city, s.d
high wind blew across parts of colorado with gusts to 61 mph recorded at boulder. a high wind warning was issued for areas along the eastern slopes of the montana rockies with gusts to 70 mph possible
florida also was a study in sharp temperature contrasts. at 2 p.m., miami had a record 86 and daytona beach was a toasty 85, also a record. but at the same time at jacksonville, 90 miles north of daytona beach, it was rainy and 57 degrees
temperatures around the nation at 2 p.m. est ranged from 5 degrees below zero at warroad, minn., to 88 at orlando, fla. the low for the day was 22 degrees below zero at warroad
for sunday, rain was forecast over much of florida with scattered thunderstorms in the southern part of the peninsula. snow showers were forecast in northern maine. snow or snow showers also were forecast from northern west virginia to western new york and from michigan across wisconsin and minnesota to eastern north dakota
highs in the teens or 20s were predicted from northern new england across the great lakes and the ohio valley to the upper mississippi valley; in the 30s or 40s from southern new england across the mid-atlantic states, the carolinas, the tennessee valley, the middle and lower mississippi valley and the missouri valley to the eastern dakotas; and over inland parts of the northwest; in the 70s in coastal and southern california, southern arizona and the southern tip of texas; in the 70s to low 80s in southern florida; and in the 50s or 60s in most of the rest of the nation. supreme court, sted federal. subs 8th graf, `the supreme...', to add `state.'</note>
a black teen-ager sent to death row at age 15 was convicted saturday of murder in a retrial brought after the state supreme court overturned his original conviction by an all-white jury. the prosecutor said he would not seek the death penalty again
ronald ward, 18, showed no emotion and even smiled faintly at the jurors as they filed out of the courtroom
the crittenden county circuit court jury deliberated nearly 13 hours over two days before finding him guilty in the 1985 deaths of three whites
though he was convicted of capital murder, prosecuting attorney scott hunter said he would not ask the jury to impose the death penalty. as a result, ward was automatically given life in prison without parole, the only other possible sentence for capital felony murder
the fact that he has been on death row for 2{ years was a factor in the decision,'' hunter said
he also said he considered the length of time the jury spent in deliberations. ``i felt like i could not call upon this jury to do more than they've done.''
ward's attorneys, samuel turner jr. of west memphis and joseph b. brown jr. of memphis, tenn., said a notice of appeal would be filed immediately. the attorneys maintain that ward was illegally fingerprinted before his arrest
the state supreme court overturned the original conviction last year, noting that an all-white jury convicted the 15-year-old black boy of killing the three whites
the retrial jury had eight whites and four blacks
ward was convicted of killing lois jarvis, 76; audrey townsend, 72; and a seventh-grade classmate of ward's, 12-year-old chris simmons, who was the grandnephew of the two women. harassment; subs from 7th graf to end, bgng `mrs. king's...', to add further comment, from both sides, background on tapes.</note>
attorneys for boston university have asked a judge to have coretta scott king release tapes of conversations between her late husband, martin luther king jr. and others, recorded secretly by federal investigators
the motion, filed in suffolk superior court on friday, also asks for correspondence between king and his colleagues
the action, which mrs. king's attorneys charged was a form of harassment, was the latest round in the legal fight between the school and mrs. king over an estimated 83,000 documents involving her husband which are now held by bu
king, who had earned a graduate degree from the school of theology in 1955, donated the papers to the university in 1964
mrs. king has filed suit, saying the documents should be in the martin luther king jr. center for nonviolent social change in atlanta, and contending the university had mishandled or lost some of the papers
bu trustees decided unanimously to oppose the suit
mrs. king's attorneys said they would oppose the request for copies of the secretly recorded tapes
it seems they're inquiring into things, including dr. king's personal life and perhaps mrs. king's, that have nothing to do with this case,'' said boston attorney james o'brien, one of mrs. king's lawyers
we are going to object to the request for tapes,'' he said. ``i think it's harassment.''
o'brien and rudolph pierce, who also represents mrs. king in the suit, said they did not believe mrs. king had copies of the tapes
i don't know at the moment if mrs. king, or the estate, has that information. i would doubt it,'' said pierce
published reports in the 1970s indicated that a package of the tapes was sent anonymously to mrs. king
beginning in 1964, the fbi bugged hotel rooms where king was staying. tapes implicating king in alleged extramarital sexual activity were made available to reporters, members of congress and then-president lyndon b. johnson. in 1977, a federal judge ordered the tapes sealed for 50 years
melvin b. miller, a bu trustee who law firm is handling the suit for the university, said he believed mrs. king had some of the tapes
of course she has some of them,'' he said
he refused to say why the university wanted copies of the tapes for the lawsuit
we are entitled to seek documents we believe will be admissible evidence in this case,'' miller said. ``whatever we ask for we believe will further our position.''
we could make an argument for its appropriatenesss in a court of law,'' miller said. ``if you think we're going to discuss the strategy of our case in the press _ that's a bit much.''
japanese and u.s. officials failed to reach agreement on opening some japanese construction projects to american firms, u.s. officials said saturday
japan recently offered to allow foreign participation in six large public works projects, but u.s. officials said saturday the proposals were not enough. the officials held an unusual weekend news conference at the u.s. embassy, but spoke on condition of anonymity
michael farren, deputy undersecretary of commerce for international trade, is heading the u.s. delegation
the six projects are expansion of the tokyo international airport at haneda, construction of a new airport in hiroshima, a bridge across the akashi strait near osaka, a highway along ise bay, the development of a coastal area along the tokyo bay and work at osaka port
a great many american firms have expressed tremendous interest in gaining access to japanese markets,'' said one official. ``but the kind of things we called for in the way of construction services on this list would only open door to a very narrow range of american construction firms
we've come to a judgement that the list (of the six projects) is not sufficient'' he said
the officials said the talks will probably continue in washington, where prime minister noboru takeshita met with u.s. leaders on an official visit last month
access to the japanese construction market has been a major trade issue in recent years between the two countries
japanese companies won about $2.3 billion in contracts in the united states in 1986, while u.s. firms did about $500 million in business in japan, according to construction officials
japan has opened only two semi-public projects to u.s. builders _ the tokyo bay bridge and the multi-billion dollar kansai international airport project
the u.s. congress last year passed legislation prohibiting foreign companies from taking part in u.s. public works projects for one year if their countries bar participation of u.s. firms in their public works projects. on tal victory, kasparov loss. picks up 5th pvs: `the championship ...' adds byline. corrects ages of georgiev to 22 sted 23 and tal to 51 sted 52</note>
world champion garri kasparov lost saturday in the quarterfinals of the world chess blitz championship, but soviet colleague mikhail tal won the sport's richest tournament ever
i played badly as you saw,'' said kasparov, 24, of the soviet union. he spoke briefly to reporters after his morning loss to bulgarian kirel georgiev, 22
tal, 51, who won his first major soviet competition in 1957 and the world championship in 1960, defeated soviet rafael vaganian 3.5-0.5. vaganian, 37, had defeated georgiev in the semifinals
the blitz match is a fast-paced chess game in which each player has only five minutes' playing time. the results do not count in competition for the world chess title
in the six-game final, tal stormed to a 3-0 lead before agreeing to a draw in the fourth game to seize the title
tal, ranked no. 6 in the world, told reporters that he never expected to win and said ``my opponents played too hospitably.''
it's the beginning of a second career for tal,'' said american grandmaster larry evans
in 1960, tal, then 23, became the youngest world champion in history until kasparov gained the title in 1985 at age 22
but tal lost his title in 1961 to mikhail botvinnik, another soviet
kasparov's debacle began in the first of a four-game series where he had a queen, a bishop and a king verses goeirgive's lone king, a position where many beginners would have little difficulty in winning
but kasparov, the tournament favorite, stunned the audience by stalemating his opponent, ending the game in a draw
in the position, georgiev's king could not move, but unlike a checkmate, it was not attacked
as kasparov made the hideous error, there were gasps from spectators and he held his head in his hands
in the second game, kasparov pressed too hard for victory, blundered and lost
their third encounter was drawn and georgiev checkmated the world champion in the fourth as kasparov overreached, desperately searching for a victory
the championship offered a total prize fund of 75,000 u.s. dollars. tal won $37,500 for four hours work, the highest prize ever offered for a single chess tournament
on friday, former world champion anatoly karpov of the soviet union, ranked no. 2 in the world, was eliminated from the blitz competition
the blitz championship ended the monthlong world chess festival in the port city on canada's east coast
the premiers of romania and bulgaria met saturday in bulgaria to discuss ways of ending repeated chlorine pollution along their border, the official bulgarian news agency bta said
premier georgi atanassov of bulgaria and his romanian counterpart constantin dasalescu met in the northern bulgarian town of rousse, the news agency said
there have been repeated reports in the official bulgarian media of dense clouds of chlorine gas from a chemical complex in giurgiu in southern romania drifting over the danube river to rousse and forcing residents to stay indoors
chlorine is a greenish-yellow poisonous gas which has a suffocating effect
last year, bulgaria and romania set up a joint commission charged with taking measures to end the repeated chlorine pollution in the border area
the warsaw pact allies agreed to have teams of experts from both countries measure air pollution in the two cities and determine its sources, bta said
atanassov informed dascalescu of measures taken by bulgaria to ``decisively purify'' the air in rousse and proposed an intergovernmental convention for the protection of the environment in the danube region, bta said. injured. subs 21nd graf to end, bgng `the victim...', with 4 graf to add dead crew member's occupation, update detail on number of victims, how many are crew members, other detail.</note>
passengers aboard amtrak's california zephyr complained that they received no warnings or instructions from crew members when a smoky fire caused by a defective heater in a crew car killed one man early saturday and injured 19 people
it's a miracle that there wasn't some kind of panic,'' said sara bentley, of fremont, neb., a passenger in the first coach car behind the passenger sleeper, which was coupled to the crew car
i think the worst thing was that they didn't let anyone in our car know whether we were in danger. we couldn't find out if our car was safe.''
amtrak spokesman john jacobsen said the fire aboard the 14-car westbound train carrying 294 passengers and a crew of 18 was reported about 3 a.m. as the train was pulling into hastings for a scheduled stop. hastings fire chief jim mitera said the blaze was under control about 90 minutes later
an electrical short in the wiring of the crew car heating unit caused the fire, deputy state fire marshal chuck hoffman said at an afternoon news conference. he said the heater was in a storage area under the crew sleeping quarters and that the short ignited the car's wood floor
state fire marshal wally barnett said the wiring showed wear and tear but did not say amtrak was negligent
adams county attorney gary anderberg said an autopsy showed that the amtrak employee died of smoke inhalation
amtrak investigators, who did not attend the news conference, were on the scene by late saturday morning
the crew car and the passenger sleeper were disconnected from the zephyr, which travels from chicago to salt lake city, then splits into sections that proceed to oakland, calif., los angeles and seattle, jacobsen said from his office in washington, d.c. the rest of the train pulled out of hastings about 9:30 a.m. after some crew members were checked at the hospital and returned, he said
robert ballard, his wife, helen, and 11-year-old grandson robby were in a deluxe sleeper en route to a colorado ski trip. he said they opened the compartment door and found the hallway filled with smoke
we just woke up and smelled smoke,'' said ballard, of flint, mich
mrs. ballard, who suffers from asthma, was admitted to the hospital for observation, her husband said
the thing i can't understand is we heard no smoke detectors going off,'' ballard said
jacobsen said there are no smoke detectors on the train because ``no one has invented one that works reliably.'' because smoke detectors are so sensitive, the constant vibrations of trains would set them off, he said
jacobsen said he could recall only two train fires and that because they are so rare there has not been a market for smoke detectors designed for trains
jacobsen said the rest of the train was not in any danger from the fire, and that there is no fuel or propane in any of the passenger cars
bentley and another passenger, mike casuscelli, also of fremont, said no crew members told them to evacuate, but they and a number of other passengers decided to leave the train after seeing fire trucks arrive. some crew members and passengers from the sleeping cars milled around outside the train, many of the men shirtless or wearing only long underwear
normally, you don't want passengers to get off as long as the rest of the train is not in danger,'' jacobsen said. ``it is safer to keep people on the train.''
a female crew member ran through bentley's car, asking passengers for blankets for the injured. she said the woman's face was covered with soot and she was shoeless
the crew car is designed for amtrak service attendants who are with the train from the beginning to the end of the trip. jacobsen said it was divided into two sections, one for baggage and one with small bedrooms
the victim, identified as chef cesar arguelles, 70, of chicago, was one of seven crew members on the car, jacobsen said
nine crew members and three passengers remained saturday evening in mary lanning hospital, where they were being treated for smoke inhalation, anderberg said. all were listed in satisfactory or good condition
three crew members, one passenger, two policemen and an ambulance attendant were treated and released, anderberg said
hastings, a town of about 18,000, is in south-central nebraska
supporters of massachusetts gov. michael dukakis saturday accused missouri rep. richard gephardt of running a television advertisement that distorts the governor's views on agriculture
the ad, which first aired across the state friday night, said dukakis would not take a stand on a family farm bill sponsored by gephardt and ended with a barb at dukakis' much-criticized suggestion that iowa farmers consider raising belgian endive, a salad green
at a news conference, minnesota agriculture commissioner jim nichols, who supports dukakis for the democratic nomination for president, said the governor's farm plan would work well for midwestern states
although dukakis praised massachussetts farmers's efforts to diversify by raising endive, he recognizes that nationally, ``we need a fair price in the marketplace, and supply management,'' nichols said
but after the news conference, gephardt's south dakota campaign issued a statement contending dukakis ``has repeatedly denounced supply management for farmers.'' the statement included a boston globe article quoting the governor as saying that controlling production would be ``incredibly complicated and very bureaucratic.''
but, state rep. robert duxbury of wessington, a state co-chairman for the dukakis campaign, said,``mike dukakis has laid out a very thoughtful agriculture policy for family farmers and ranchers. he favors credit relief, supply management and fair market prices for farmers.''
state sen. roger mckellips of alcester, another state co-chairman, called the ads ``a new low in south dakota presidential politics'' and urged their removal. procedure; no pickup.</note>
a brain-dead baby whose body was kept alive in hopes of tranplanting his organs was removed from life-support machines saturday after no suitable recipient could be found, officials said
meanwhile, a child born saturday with the same fatal defect in san antonio, texas, was placed on a respirator and flown to california to be enrolled in loma linda university medical center's donor program
the babies were born without most of their brain and skull, a fatal condition known as anencephaly
the child known as baby john was born tuesday and declared brain-dead thursday at loma linda. officials had hoped to keep the baby's body on life-support machines for up to seven days, hospital spokeswoman anita rockwell said
by saturday, ms. rockwell said, ``physicians of four waiting liver recipients of baby john's same blood type refused the liver because of its progressive deterioration over the past 36 hours
despite a worldwide search, no infant of the same blood type needing a heart has been found
out of respect for the brain-dead infant and with the consent of his mother, dr. joyce peabody removed the artificial life support from baby john and his cardiac activity ceased at 2:15 p.m.''
anencephaly is fatal, usually within days after birth. an infant's healthy organs can only be transplanted if organ damage is prevented by maintaining the infant on life-support from birth
the first anencephalic child considered by loma linda hospital for the pioneering procedure was the child of brenda and michael winner of arcadia, calif. but the baby was stillborn on dec. 22
the use of such infants as organ donors has raised controversial ethical issues, and loma linda is the first hospital in the united states to develop a medical protocol allowing such transplants
the national right to life committee has denounced the procedure and complained that doctors have failed to do enough to ensure that organs weren't removed from live children
one of the hospital's 13 heart transplant patients under age 4 received the heart of an anencephalic baby earlier this year from a donor child in canada
if the texas baby is declared dead within seven days, and one or more of her organs successfully transplanted, it would be the first time that the procedure has been tried using an anencephalic baby born in the united states
the infant, 6-pound, 1-ounce evelyn keys was put on a chartered plane in texas en route to loma linda. she was born with only a brain stem, said robert mcnaughton, wilford hall medical center spokesman in san antonio
evelyn is the first child of airman first class todd keys, 21, and his wife, judy, 22. democrats</head>
sen. bob dole of kansas was the favorite among minnesota republicans while gov. michael dukakis of massachusetts was the leader among democrats surveyed in the latest minnesota poll
the poll results, published in the sunday editions of the star tribune, said dole received support from 42 percent of the republicans surveyed while vice president george bush was favored by 32 percent. former television evangelist pat robertson was third with 11 percent and u.s. rep. jack kemp of new york was favored by 5 percent. ten percent gave other responses
among democrats, dukakis was favored by 29 percent, followed by u.s. rep. richard gephardt of missouri at 18 percent. jesse jackson was third with 14 percent, followed by former colorado sen. gary hart at 11 percent and illinois sen. paul simon with 9 percent. nineteen percent gave other responses
the poll of 800 adults randomly selected statewide from households that have telephones was taken feb. 10-14, or about 10 days before the state's precinct caucuses
the poll has a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points, the newspaper said
the newspaper said the poll makes no attempt to predict how candidates will perform in the precinct caucuses because the survey was not confined to those likely to attend precinct caucuses
a simon statement issued by his minnesota campaign office said, ``there's no way any poll can get a realistic picture of how active, independent-minded (democrats) will divide tuesday night.''
simon finished second in the iowa caucuses, which were won by gephardt, and came in third in the new hampshire primary, where dukakis came in first and gephardt was second
dole won the iowa caucuses while robertson finished a surprising second ahead of bush, who bounced back to win the new hampshire primary over dole. kemp finished third in new hampshire
the minnesota poll found that dukakis and gephardt are stronger with middle-aged and older minnesota adults, while hart and jackson find more of their support with younger adults
bruce babbitt's last stop on his way home from 18 months of campaigning for the democratic presidential nomination was to tell a cheering crowd at his national campaign headquarters saturday that it was good to be home
i got a call a week ago from a neighbor of mine who said, `bruce, you may be hot stuff out there in the rest of the united states, running for president of the united states, debating on television all the time, but you better get home because you're fence is falling down and the dog is wreckin' my lawn,''' babbitt told about 1,000 of his supporters
babbitt, the former governor of arizona, officially dropped out of the race thursday after disappointing showings in the new hampshire primary and the iowa democratic caucuses
babbitt said he and his wife, hattie, were going to spend some time getting reacquainted and re-establishing their roots in arizona
i want you to know one thing: wherever we go, our roots will always be in arizona, he said.''
babbitt said he would be jumping into the fray of the gubernatorial recall election, but not as a candidate
i want to take the time in the next month or two to try and get back into the swing of what it is that's going on here, to rejoin our fight here in arizona,'' he said
babbitt, introduced to the crowd by acting gov. rose mofford, who has replaced impeached gov. evan mecham, said, ``i'm going to join you in whatever way i can to make sure the change is permanent.''
he said he has been asked about his future plans and that he hasn't ruled out anything except running for governor of arizona, adding that there were plenty of good candidates
it's all of you that gave me this opportunity. it was a great run. i hope that i come back having reflected the spirit of arizona, our traditions, honor, on all of us. i'm glad to be home. thanks very much,'' babbitt said
asked what he had learned from 18 months of campaigning, said: ``i think most of all, a tremendous sense of faith and confidence in the future of america
it's an incredibly diverse country, full of people just bursting with energy, with optimism, who are really thirsting for some leadership.... 1988 is going to be important, because we will have a transition, and we've somehow got to capture a spirit of challenge, of truth-telling, of a kind of willingness to tell the american people the truth and get this economy moving.''
soviet cosmonauts will carry a u.s. commercial project into space for the first time in a deal approved by the government, an attorney for the project said saturday
payload systems inc. of wellsley, mass., received a two-year license from the commerce department earlier this month to contract with the soviet space agency to perform protein crystallization experiments aboard the soviet space station mir, said mark s. mcconnell, a washington attorney who handled the company's negotiations with the commerce and defense departments
the company, a consulting firm, was founded in 1984 by byron k. lichtenberg of the massachussetts institute of technology. he was the first american non-astronaut to fly aboard the space shuttle in december 1983
the experiment will use the weightlessness of space to grow large, regular protein crystals, which are useful in the development of new drugs, mcconnell said saturday evening
to my knowledge, it is the first time that the u.s. government has approved commercial activity in the soviet space program. certainly we've had joint missions, government-to-government,'' he said
since the explosion of the challenger space shuttle in january 1986, american companies have been left with few alternatives for space projects
even when the shuttle was flying it provided only a limited amount of time in space. with the shuttle down, the only american option is (a plane) flown in a parabolic flight path that gives only a few minutes of weightlessness,'' mcconnell said
u.s. officials were concerned about the possibility of transferring sensitive technology to the soviet union, but mcconnell said, ``we created a situation that absolutely minimized that.'' he said the commerce department issued the license after getting from the pentagon
there will be extremely limited training given to the cosmonauts. they will be doing no more than turning some dials on a box, the contents of which they will not know about, and monitoring environmental conditions in the space station,'' he said
he said the soviets were satisfied with the arrangement, adding, ``their goal from what i could tell is to promote commercial uses worldwide of their station.''
the u.s. government has been reluctant to permit american companies to hire the soviets to launch satellites and mcconnell said the soviets viewed the crystallization project as their best shot at working with a u.s. firm
he said payload systems has reached an agreement in principle with the soviets, but still was negotiating over details
he said the company would not attempt to sell the crystals grown in the first flight
they're just trying to see if it works for commercial purposes,'' he said
according to the new york times, which carried a story on the project in sunday's editions, the first flight will be sometime next year
the newspaper said payload systems refused to discuss the terms of the contract. it added, however, that the soviets in the past have offered to carry western experiments for between $10,000 and $15,000 a kilogram
calls to company officials seeking comment were not immediately returned saturday night
president reagan's budget, released thursday, provides $1 billion to build a u.s. space station by the mid-1990s. earlier this month reagan unveiled a national policy for commercial activity in space. it provides for the government to lease space aboard a space module that will be carried aloft by the space shuttle and left in orbit
figure skater brian boitano won the united states' first gold medal of the winter olympics on saturday, beating canadian world champion brian orser
orser took the silver and viktor petrenko of the soviet union was third for the bronze
boitano's win gives the united states one gold; one silver, also won saturday; and one bronze as the olympics ended its first week
boitano, the 1986 world champion and a four-time american titlist, took the long program with a sensational exhibition of freestyle skating
the 24-year-old from sunnyvale, calif., who was fifth in the 1984 olympics, depicted the various stages of a soldier's life to music from the film ``napoleon.''
he successfully performed all eight triple jumps, including two in combination, and drew a standing ovation from the sellout crowd at the olympic saddledome
he also won over five of the nine judges, who gave him eight marks of 5.9 and one perfect 6.0, from the czechoslovakian judge for artistic impression
orser, 26, also came in second at the 1984 winter olympics in sarajevo, losing the gold to another american, scott hamilton
earlier saturday, speed skater eric flaim won the first silver medal for the united states. andre hoffmann beat flaim by .06 seconds, giving east germany its second gold medal of the day and leading another soviet-bloc day at the olympics
the only other u.s. medal was a bronze in pairs figure skating won tuesday night by jill watson and peter oppegard
the soviets now have 14 medals, including five golds; and east germany has 10, including six golds
leftist guerrillas said friday they will shut down road and highway transport nationwide next week as part of their protest against the government's election plans
the 24-hour transport ban, set to begin at 12:01 a.m. monday, is the first scheduled by the rebels this year. the announcement, made on the rebels' clandestine radio venceremos, said the action was part of the guerrilla campaign against legislative and municipal elections scheduled for march 20
the traffic bans have been effective in the past, especially in the war-torn east. motorists stay off the roads, fearing reprisal by the guerrillas
also friday, the armed forces said five guerrillas and two soldiers died in combat near the town of la laguna, 55 miles north of the capital. six government soldiers were wounded, they said
radio venceremos claimed guerrilla forces inflicted 23 casualties on government troops in thursday's clash at la laguna. it did not distinguish between dead and wounded and did not report rebel losses
in another attack, rebels assaulted the local civil defense headquarters, the mayor's office and the telephone office in san jorge before dawn friday, according to sources in the town 95 miles southeast of san salvador
the sources, reached by telephone, said five civil defense militiamen were killed and two wounded. they had no information on guerrilla casualties
the guerrillas caused extensive damage, according to the sources, who spoke on condition of anoymity
guerrillas of the farabundo marti national liberation front have pursued a steady campaign of economic sabotage as part of their 8-year-old war against the u.s.-backed government
in addition to the regular declaration of traffic bans, the campaign includes the blowing up of utility poles, attacks on power stations and raids on farms and warehouses containing coffee, cotton and sugar _ the country's main export crops
there were seven guerrilla-imposed transport strikes last year. three violators of the strike were killed, about 30 were wounded and 160 vehicles were destroyed or damaged
the insurgents on wednesday carried out their biggest attack of the year, assaulting the base of the 6th infantry brigade and a cotton cooperative in usulutan, 70 miles east of the capital
the rebel radio said the assault marked the beginning of a campaign designated ``armed struggle is the alternative to the new electoral farce.''
leftist parties have not participated in elections held during the war, saying that their candidates' safety could not be guaranteed
thai and laotian forces began a truce in a disputed border area friday, pulling back from the hilly ground where hundreds of comrades had been killed since november, thai officers said
after the cease-fire began at 8 a.m., two parallel rows of thai and laotian flags were planted to mark a zone two miles deep that soldiers are forbidden to cross, said the army chief of staff, gen. charuay wongsayant
military officials of both sides agreed to the cease-fire wednesday after two days of talks in bangkok. the disputed area is about 240 miles north of bangkok between thailand's northern province of phitsanulok and sayaboury province in laos
col. rithee rungkaputi, chief of civilian affairs for the 3rd army region, said a half-hour skirmish occurred on a contested hill an hour before the truce began, with no casualties. he said it there probably was a delay in commmunicating the cease-fire order
rithee also reported a heavy artillery exchange and two ground battles wednesday and thursday, while military teams from the two countries were meeting in bangkok
foreign minister siddhi savetsila of thailand told reporters friday that foreign ministry officials had been sent to france seeking help in resolving the problem. both sides claim the area on the basis of recognized maps and a 1907 french-thai treaty
the official laotian news agency kpl quoted maj. gen. thonglay kommasith, deputy head of the army's general political department, as saying the talks in bangkok ``paved the way toward negotiations, a diplomatic channel to solve the lao-thai border problem.''
thonglay participated in the bangkok meeting. the dispatch said he spoke at a news conference thursday in vientiane
the agreement calls for the governments to hold talks within 15 days after the truce begins to determine the frontier line
prime minister margaret thatcher has announced plans to shift 70,000 of britain's 580,000 civil servants out of government ministries and into a dozen new agencies run by private-industry-style executives
the new agencies will take over such duties as issuing passports and drivers' licenses, forecasting the weather and printing government documents
mrs. thatcher told the house of commons thursday that ``in general'' the new agencies planned in the next 12 months will stay part of the civil service, accountable to the government and parliament
but she indicated some may eventually become private companies, saying: ``insofar as they become totally outside the civil service they will not, of course, be accountable'' to government scrutiny
she did not elaborate but said the 12 were ``the first suitable candidates,'' indicating more changes are in the pipeline
the british domestic news agency press association said the plans herald the biggest civil service shake-up this century
the daily telegraph said the government aims to eventually separate the civil servants responsible for carrying out executive functions from the minority responsible for formulating policy
the possibility of some of the new agencies eventually being turned into private companies drew criticism from the opposition labor party
some civil service trade unions also attacked the restructuring plans, saying the changes could lead to a decline in pay and working conditions for their members
the government has said its aim is increased efficiency. the 12 new agencies will take control of 12 services currently run by central government departments. they include:
_ issuing passports, currently one of the jobs of the home office
_ running the government stationery office which prints government documents. that is currently one of the jobs of the office of the chancellor of the exchequer, nigel lawson
_ running the meteorological office, which provides weather forecasts for the armed forces, television and radio, farmers and other clients and is presently run by the ministry of defense
_ managing the royal parks in and around london, now done by the department of the environment
_ issuing driving permits, one of the jobs of the department of transport
the plans announced by mrs. thatcher follow a report by her efficiency unit headed by sir robin ibbs, an executive of the industrial chemicals group imperial chemical industries. it called for agencies run by executives, not ministers, to take over the day-to-day executive functions of government
mrs. thatcher came to power in 1979 pledged to cut back the growth of big government. her conservative administration has followed a program of selling off state-owned companies to private owners
millionaire industrialist victor posner began serving part of a sentence for tax evasion friday by handing out rolls at a soup kitchen
he's being introduced to everybody on a first-name basis,'' said barbara smith, spokeswoman for camillus house, a shelter for the needy
the 69-year-old miami beach tycoon, who declined requests for interviews, was received ``in just the same way as any other person who comes here to work as a volunteer, although i realize he's not a volunteer,'' ms. smith said
u.s. district judge eugene spellman last week sentenced posner to work 5,000 hours of community service over five years. he also must pay $3 million to help the homeless and $4 million in back taxes, penalties and interest
posner had faced up to 40 years in prison after pleading no contest last sept. 29 to evading more than $1.2 million in federal taxes by inflating the value of land he donated to a bible college as a tax exemption
posner, whose net worth was estimated at $240 million in 1984 by forbes magazine, will work one day a week for the next eight weeks at the downtown shelter
posner, accompanied by his attorney, edward bennett williams, began his five-hour shift by taking a tour of the shelter and meeting other workers
he worked at an entrance gate, admitting people to the cafeteria and making sure it did not exceed its capacity of about 100
when several news photographers tried to take his picture, posner went inside to serve rolls to people coming through the food line, which serves 700 to 900 needy people each day
several of the men who went through the food line said they knew about posner's background and found him to be friendly
he shook hands with me. he's a very nice guy,'' said brote harris. ``i said, `come on, papa, shake my hand. i'd like to shake a millionaire's hand.'''
posner, wearing a white shirt and clear plastic gloves, chatted with other workers as he handed out rolls. the meal also included hot chicken, string beans and rice
nicaragua proposed friday that canada and five western european countries take part in efforts to verify compliance with a central american peace plan
foreign minister miguel d'escoto told a news conference that foreign observers would form permanent mobile units in each of the five countries covered by the peace plan
the mobile units, he said, would be in place for a year and be allowed to make on-site inspections without prior notice to ensure the countries were meeting terms of the agreement
d'escoto suggested that representatives from canada, spain, italy, sweden, norway and west germany be members of the verification panel
the countries, he said, ``have shown their willingness to take part in this type of activity in order to achieve and guarantee peace in central america.''
the presidents of nicaragua, costa rica, el salvador, honduras and guatemala signed the peace plan last aug. 7
d'escoto said he offered the proposal at a verification meeting of the central american foreign ministers wednesday. the officials met for 10 hours in san salvador, the capital of el salvador, but failed to agree on ways to determine compliance with the peace plan
they called for further talks in guatemala by march 15
the peace plan calls for cease-fire negotiations between governments and insurgents in el salvador, guatemala and nicaragua as a first step toward democratic elections
it also calls for political amnesties and a ban on all outside military assistance to rebel groups
a kurdish inmate died friday, 12 days after he and 600 other prisoners began a hunger strike to protest prison conditions, the independent hurriyet news agency reported
it identified the inmate as mehmet emin yavuz, who had been sentenced to die for carrying out terrorist acts as a member of the outlawed kurdish labor party. his death sentence was awaiting parliamentary approval
yavuz died in a hospital in diyarbakir military prison where he was taken along with six other inmates after their health deteriorated during the hunger strike that began feb. 8, the agency said
the semi-official anatolia news agency reported later friday that the diyarbakir inmates stopped the hunger strike hours after yavuz' death
the government announced thursday that it agreed to improve prison conditions. however, the inmates and several relatives continued the hunger strike friday, contending that conditions remained unchanged, hurriyet said
most of the inmates belong to the kurdish labor party, which seeks to set up an independent marxist state in parts of southeastern turkey
foreign minister bernardo sepulveda denied in a strongly worded protest note that mexico allows its territory to be used by leftist rebels to threaten the government of el salvador
the government of mexico in no case allows the use of mexican territory by the groups of the fmln-fdr (farabundo marti national liberation front _ democratic revolutionary front) to develop activities that have repercussions and attempt against the stability of the salvadoran government,'' sepulveda said in a note to foreign minister ricardo acevedo peralta of el salvador
the note, released thursday afternoon, was in response to a protest note acevedo peralta sent to mexico earlier in the week
the fmln links five guerrilla groups that have been fighting el salvador's u.s.-supported government for the past eight years. the fdr is its political ally
the groups' joint political-diplomatic commission maintains an office in mexico city, as does clandestine rebel radio venceremos
sepulveda said the office is allowed because mexican law establishes ``protection for political exiles who enter national territory and the constitution guarantees for all people who are in the territory liberty of association, transit and expression of ideas.''
a foreign ministry source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said sepulveda decided to make his response public because the salvadoran government released its note to the press. ``that goes out of normal diplomatic channels,'' the source said
relations between mexico and el salvador were tense in the early years of the salvadoran civil war, especially after then-president jose lopez portillo recognized the rebels as a legitimate political force in a joint mexican-french declaration in 1981
the friction has eased during the administration of president miguel de la madrid, who succeeded lopez portillo in december 1982
mexico helped form the contadora group seeking peace for central america in january 1983, along with panama, colombia and venezuela
one of four leaders of the extreme left group direct action who have been refusing food for 81 days was acquitted friday night on charges of attempted murder
nathalie menigon and the other two defendants in the case, regis schleicher and jean-francois gailhac, were found innocent by the special assizes court. the court, which has judges serving as the jury, was established last year for terrorism cases
the three were accused in the january 1982 shooting of alain carpentier, then a leader of a squatters movement in eastern paris
carpentier testified friday that he did not know the three defendants, and said police had tried to get him to say the direct action members were his assailants
i don't understand what you want of them,'' carpentier said. ``i'm the victim, and i can tell you they had nothing to do with this affair.''
police investigators told the court they considered the defendants suspects after questioning carpentier's friends and family
prosecutor daniel barreyre said in his closing argument that the shooting was part of direct action's effort to gain control of the squatters movement. he asked for 15-year sentences for each of the three defendants
ms. menigon and three other direct action leaders, joelle aubron, georges cipriani and jean-marc rouillan, have been on a hunger strike since dec. 1, demanding an end to their solitary confinement. they are being fed intravenously against their will
all four were convicted feb. 12 in a lower court of criminal association and given 10-year sentences. ms. menigon was convicted wednesday, also in the special assizes court, of attempted murder of two policemen
authorities say all of direct action's leaders are now in prison
several human rights groups have urged the government to meet the hunger strikers' demands, but justice minister albin chalendon said he will not yield to what he called blackmail
the parents of baby m have failed to reach an out-of-court settlement on surrogate mother mary beth whitehead-gould's visitation rights, sending the matter back to court, it was announced friday
superior court judge birger m. sween on friday set a hearing for march 28 to determine the terms under which mrs. beth whitehead-gould may visit the child she bore under a $10,000 contract and lost in the landmark court battle
mrs. whitehead-gould is allowed to visit the child for two hours every tuesday pending sween's decision
the state supreme court on feb. 3 banned surrogate motherhood for pay, voided the $10,000 contract, and reinstated her right to visit the baby, now legally called melissa stern
the court said a superior court judge must decide the conditions for visitation if mrs. whitehead-gould and the child's father, william stern, failed to reach an agreement
we did talk and it did not work. we cannot settle the case,'' said gary n. skoloff, an attorney for the sterns. he declined to disclose the positions of both sides
mrs. whitehead-gould's attorney, harold j. cassidy, said in a statement friday night the sterns had not negotiated with the child's best interest in mind
it is in the best interest of melissa that she have the opportunity to know and love and respect her mother,'' he said. ``until mr. and mrs. stern learn to accept this simple fact, there cannot be further discussions.''
the baby m case began when the sterns signed a contract with mrs. whitehead-gould for her to be artificially inseminated with stern's sperm and bear them a child
after the child was born, mrs. whitehead-gould decided she couldn't give up the baby. the sterns sued to get the child back
on march 31 superior court judge harvey r. sorkow upheld the contract, terminated mrs. whitehead-gould's right to the baby, awarded custody to the sterns and let stern's wife, elizabeth, adopt the baby
the supreme court, in its 7-0 ruling, overturned all but the custody decision. attorney's name to higaki sted hikagi.</note>
a real estate magnate was sentenced to 15 years in prison friday for sending his estranged wife a bomb in a flower basket that injured her and a co-worker
peter pilaski, 54, received the same sentence given to his homosexual lover, 28-year-old shaun small, who testified pilaski supervised the bomb's construction and had him deliver the device in a bellhop's uniform
pilaski was convicted in december of conspiracy, making and possesing a bomb, and aiding and abetting in an explosion that damaged federal property and caused personal injury
melanie pilaski, 42, and a co-worker were injured in when the bomb, hidden in a basket of dried flowers, exploded at a u.s. general services administration building
the german-born pilaski, speaking in a heavy accent, maintained his innocence and told u.s. district judge robert schnacke the only time he saw the bomb used in the 1986 attack was when the government displayed a replica at his trial
i never wanted to hurt my wife. i still don't. ... i have a lot of feeling for her. i still do,'' he said as his voice cracked and tears filled his eyes
he said the prosecution drew a distorted picture of him ``as a cold-blooded murderer.''
small had testified pilaski suggested that he make the bomb and gave him detailed instructions about its delivery to mrs. pilaski, who had filed for divorce a month earlier after 20 years of marriage
small, who had donned a wig, heavy makeup and a uniform to deliver the bouquet, was convicted of using a bomb to damage federal property and cause personal injury
defense attorney paul higaki jr. said pilaski will appeal
pilaski could have received up to 45 years in prison and a $1 million fine. assistant u.s. attorney john lyons had asked for a 20-year sentence, arguing pilaski played a bigger role in the bombing
higaki said that parole authorities can review both men's sentences and release them at any time, but that pilaski might not survive any substantial term because of health problems that include a heart condition
small had testified that pilaski had become increasingly hostile toward his wife's drug use and alcoholism, that he vowed that she would regret her decision to seek a divorce and that he ordered small to assemble a bomb
pilaski was an impoverished west german seaman in 1955 when he immigrated to the united states, sponsored by small's parents. he made a fortune in real estate and hired small, then a teen-ager, as an apartment manager in 1976
mrs. pilaski testified that pilaski and small had been lovers and went on regular cocaine binges, and that her husband's relationship with small contributed to the breakup of their marriage
several anti-government activists planning to attend a weekend meeting of rural solidarity, the outlawed farmers' union, were detained by police friday, opposition spokesmen said
the group, modeled after the outlawed solidarity independent trade union, is planning a meeting sunday in the southeastern polish city of rzeszow, said opposition spokesman janusz winiarski
rural solidarity leaders have called a national meeting to mark the seventh anniversary of the rzeszow-ustrzyki agreements signed in february 1981 in which the government officially recognized rural solidarity
wladyslaw frasyniuk, a regional leader of solidarity in the southwest city of wroclaw, was detained around 6 p.m. friday by uniformed and plainclothed police, said his wife krystyna
police later telephoned their home and said without explanation that frasyniuk was being detained for 48 hours, mrs. frasyniuk said
another regional solidarity leader, stanislaw weglorz, was detained in his home city of lublin, in eastern poland, said opposition spokesman janusz winiarski
briefly detained was janusz stepniak, from near lublin, a leader of rural solidarity, said winiarski
stepniak was warned against attending the meeting
after the december 1981 imposition of martial law, rural solidarity, like other opposition groups, was banned by the government although some members have continued their activities
the world bank, a major source of credit for poor countries, late friday announced a five-year general capital increase
president barber b. conable said the capital increase of $74.8 billion will enable the bank to lend money to developing countries at the rate of $20 billion a year by the early 1990s
the world bank, owned by its 151 member countries, lent a record $14.2 billion in the fiscal year ending last june
agreement of the shareholding countries on the new capital opens the way for ``stronger world bank support for the developing countries'' and demonstrates ``the confidence of our shareholder governments in the bank,'' said conable
it was the bank's third general capital increase in its 44-year history. earlier general increases, in 1959 and 1980, approximately doubled the authorized capital. the latest increase will raise the bank's authorized capital to $171 billion
each of the 151 member countries contributes capital in proportion to its holding of shares, with the united states the largest shareholder with about 20 percent
only a small part of the capital is actually paid in cash. friday's announcement said this would be 3 percent, with the remaining 97 percent to be on call if needed to secure world bank borrowings
the guarantees of participating governments enable the world bank to borrow money in private capital markets and to invest the proceeds while waiting to disburse it to poor countries
last september, the bank sold a record $750 million offering of 10-year notes in the u.s. market at 9.91 percent after earlier selling issues of world bank dollar and yen bonds outside the united states. it registered $1.1 billion profit in the year ending last june 30
leftist guerrillas attacked a convoy of peruvian troops in the andes and killed 10 soldiers and two civilians, defense minister enrique lopez said friday
the assault thursday near a road construction site on the outskirts of huancavelica, a state capital 155 miles southeast of lima, was the most devastating in a wave of attacks by shining path guerrillas this month
a group of army personnel were the object of a cowardly attack by delinquent subversives,'' the joint military command said. lopez and the joint command declined to elaborate on how the rebels mounted the raid
lopez said the troops were traveling in civilian vehicles from huancavelica to the road construction site to provide protection to government workers
the mao-inspired shining path has been fighting for eight years to topple the government and install a marxist state
a year ago, the guerrillas exploded a mine near huancavelica that killed 10 soldiers and four civilians. one week ago, in a nearly identical attack, rebels killed 10 soldiers and wounded 14
since early february, leftist guerrillas have killed five telephone company workers, bombed and derailed two ore trains and bombed the office of royal dutch shell and five other private offices in lima
huancavelica, one of peru's most impoverished and isolated regions, is under a state of emergency to counter rising guerrilla violence
the government says more than 10,000 people, including troops, police, guerrillas and non-combatants, have died during the shining path insurgency
world experts ended a three-day meeting friday without completing a draft protocol on controlling nitrogen oxide pollution, suspected of being a main factor in widespread forest damage in europe and north america
environmentalist groups allowed to attend part of the closed-door meeting expressed deep disappointment
we can only conclude that the international community is prepared to condemn the environment to an acid future,'' said andrew kerr, an observer for greenpeace
the meeting of experts from 25 nations was sponsored by the u.n. economic commission for europe. commission spokesman hans lassen said it now was up to the governments to complete the protocol, adding that it was still hoped the protocol could be signed before the end of the year
lassen said three major areas of disagreement remained, requiring ``political decisions'':
_when would a freeze on emissions take force and from what level should they be reduced by a proposed 30 percent
_would the united states be entitled to an ``emission credit'' _ meaning a reduction by less than 30 percent _ in view of efforts it has already taken unilaterally to control pollution
_by what year should unleaded fuel be available in all countries parties to the protocol
acid rain begins with sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide pollution from smelters, power plants and vehicle exhaust. it travels long distances in the atmosphere and is transformed into sulfuric and nitric acid before falling to the earth in rain or snow
it raises the acidity of lakes and rivers, killing off fish, and has been blamed by some environmentalists for stunting forest growth
sources close to the meeting said seven countries _ canada, west germany, switzerland, austria, denmark, sweden and the netherlands _ called for a freeze on nitrogen oxide emissions at the 1987 level by 1990
the united states, britain, france, norway, finland as well as the soviet union and its allies reportedly favored a freeze by 1994 at the level of 1987 or later, with a reduction several years later
canada strongly opposed the u.s. proposal for a credit clause in the protocol, the sources said, speaking on condition of anonymity. canada reportedly argued that the concept of using past actions to control air pollution to permit future increases in national emissions was contrary to the spirit of the agreement
greenpeace has demanded a 75 percent cut in emissions throughout europe
adam markham, the observer for the world wildlife fund, complained that the draft protocol that was emerging ``virtually has no teeth.'' markham said it was increasingly likely that a group of countries, including west germany, switzerland and scandinavian countries, will seek a separate accord _ outside the protocol _ that would call for speedier measures
a twin-engine plane skimmed over rush-hour traffic friday and crashed on a freeway access road, killing all three people aboard and spewing flaming debris that destroyed two parked cars, authorities said
it looked like it was going to attempt maybe to come onto the freeway, but as soon as it got over the freeway, it just nosedived,'' said victor armendariz, who was at a stop light. ``there's not much left. it's just charcoal.''
the gulfstream commander 680 went down in moderate snow and light fog after takeoff from el paso international airport shortly before 9 a.m., national transportation safety board spokesman tommy mcfall said
from the eyewitnesses we talked to, (the plane) didn't have any power on the way down. it was silent,'' said police sgt. john loy
the victims' identities were not immediately released. the plane's destination was not available
the plane apparently developed landing-gear trouble and was trying to return to the airport when it crashed onto the interstate 10 access road, mcfall said. the cause of the crash was under investigation
the man known as the ``grand puppeteer'' for his high-level personal connections dashed investigators' hopes friday that he would detail what he knew about the collapse of the nation's largest private bank
licio gelli is accused in italy of masterminding a group involved in right-wing terrorism, subversion and spying. he was the grandmaster of the p-2 (propaganda due) masonic lodge, which italian officials linked to tax evasion, bribery, conspiracy to topple the government and other spectacular crimes
but his extradition wednesday from switzerland came on grounds he would only face charges of fraudulent bankruptcy in the 1982 collapse of banco ambrosiano
gelli had written to magistrates in milan and expressed his willingness to discuss the collapse of the bank, but he refused to talk to them when they visited him in jail in parma friday, said officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity
in 1981, gelli fled italy after police raided his office and found a list of purported p-2 lodge members. the list included cabinet ministers, journalists, businessmen and generals. the scandal toppled the government of premier arnaldo forlani
gelli was arrested in switzerland in september 1982 when he tried to withdraw funds from a frozen account at a geneva bank. he was sentenced to two months in jail for entering the country illegally
in 1983, while awaiting extradition to italy, gelli escaped and reportedly hid in south america for four years
he surrendered to swiss authorities last september, reportedly suffering from heart problems. he was convicted and sentenced to two months in prison for paying a guard a $20,000 bribe to help him escape
a fast-moving freight train struck a car and cut it in two, killing all four occupants at a desert crossing friday, authorities said
three airmen from edwards air force base were among those killed by the train traveling about 50 mph, los angeles county sheriff's deputy roger hom said
investigators said the gate on the side of the crossing the car entered was found in the up position, while the other gate was down
they said they were unable to conclude whether the first gate had failed to come down, came down late, or was down when the car approached and the driver bypassed it
a government council recommended friday that emergency rule be extended in nine provinces to help combat kurdish insurgents, the semi-official anatolia news agency said
the emergency rule would include turkey's largest city, istanbul, and the southeast provinces of bingol, diyarbakir, elazig, hakkari, mardin, siirt, tunceli and van, the news agency said
the national security council, a powerful advisory body of cabinet members and top military commanders, announced its recommendation after a meeting friday, anatolia said
government troops and kurdish guerrillas seeking autonomy have fought since 1984. an estimated 10 million of turkey's 52 million people are ethnic kurds and most live in the rugged terrain of east and southeast turkey
if the recommendation is approved by the one-house parliament, emergency rule in those provinces will be extended for four months as of march 19, when a four-month period of emergency rule expires
under emergency rule, civilian officials may impose curfews or bar or censor a publication. it differs from martial law in that emergency powers are assumed by civilian officials instead of military commanders
the national council of churches said friday that continued israeli occupation of territories taken in the 1967 six-day war ``is unacceptable.''
the status quo cannot, and should not be maintained,'' the council said of the rioting on israel's west bank and gaza strip
declaring that ``the israeli military response to the palestinian uprising has been disporportionate and often brutal,'' with more than 50 people killed and hundreds wounded and beaten, the council said:
it is time for the parties to the conflict _ israel, the chosen representatives of the palestinian people and affected arab states _ to negotiate an end to the painful impasse.''
the statement was adopted by the 49-member executive committee of the council, which includes most u.s major protestant and eastern orthodox denominations
the government raised gas prices 32 percent friday in a new tax to help retirees, whose monthly stipends have declined in value in the nation's economic crisis
president raul alfonsin and congress proposed the gas tax last month as a way to help finance a 40 percent increase in the monthly pensions of retirees to 300 australs, or about $52
economy minister juan v. sourrouille said friday inflation for 1988 was expected to exceed 100 percent. the inflation will come despite the planned sale of some debt-ridden state companies and programs to push export sales and increase income tax collections, he said
inflation stood at 175 percent last year, more than double the 82 percent rise in 1986. blame was placed primarily on debilitating strikes, low prices for exports and high losses from state-owned companies
last week, argentina and the scandanavian carrier sas signed an agreement in which sas will buy 20 to 40 percent of state-owned aerolineas argentinas, which is heavily in debt. under the accord, sas has until may to determine its ownership share
a doctor and former hospital board chairman was indicted friday on charges he defrauded pharmaceutical companies of nearly $2 million by falsifying test results on experimental drugs
dr. robert a. fogari, 46, of saddle river, invented data and patients, enrolled ineligible patients in the clinical studies and failed to report adverse affects the drugs may have caused, federal prosecutors said
the drugs tested were anti-inflammatory treatments for arthritis
one of the drugs was feldene, a leading seller for the pharmaceutical company pfizer, which used fogari's test results in its advertising, said assistant u.s. attorney paul weissman
fogari, who has a practice in jersey city, also was charged with obstruction of justice for allegedly inducing witnesses to lie to investigators and a grand jury
he was accused of defrauding the companies, including johnson &amp; johnson, pfizer, upjohn and warner-lambert, from 1977 to 1985, when the food and drug administration barred him from performing trials
for part of that period, fogari was chairman of the board of managers of jersey city medical center, where he was a board member until last year. he also was chief of rheumatology at that hospital and president of the medical staff at st. francis hospital in jersey city, u.s. attorney samuel a. alito jr. said
pharmaceutical companies use doctors to perform clinical trials and pay them on the basis of the number of patients and office visits and the procedures performed
fogari did not return a telephone call to his office. his attorney, a. patrick nucciarone, said in a statement he is convinced his client will be exonerated
experimental drugs cannot be sold in the united states unless approved by the fda, which reviews clinical data provided by the company before allowing their sale
pharmaceutical companies provide the drugs free to physicians conducting the clinical trials. the doctors in turn are required to follow study guidelines, keep accurate records and provide them to the fda for review
officials involved in a widely publicized bribery and corruption case tried in slovakia have been expelled from the communist party, the ruling politburo announced friday
an announcement by the state news agency ctk said the presidium also chided legal and judicial organs in the republic of slovakia for a slow approach to the case, which was reported in the west and in czechoslovakia's state-run media
the trial focused on stanislav babinsky, former head of a catering and supply enterprise in dolni kubin in western slovakia. he was sentenced last summer to 14{ years in jail on charges he misappropriated $382,000 in state property
babinsky and his associates were accused of paying bribes, giving away art work and antique furniture and arranging sex parties in order to attract development aid to dolni kubin, a mountainous agricultural region near the polish border
there were persistent but unconfirmed reports that high government and party officials were involved in the scandal
friday's statement from the communist party's ruling presidium, or politburo, said functionaries had been expelled from the party, while other unspecified ``comrades were accused falsely'' in connection with the case
every inconsistency or regard for the position of individuals or even attempts to shield functionaries or leading workers ... create distrust in the party,'' the statement said
communist party leader milos jakes stressed when he took over the party leadership from president gustav husak in december that corruption in official ranks must be combated. news digest: trye, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap, a0476; jerusalem _ isrtael-violence, a0411; undated _ political rdp, a0442; morrisville, n.c. _ plane crashes, a0473</note>
a federal prosecutor in miami says he was ``treated like the enemy'' by u.s. diplomats and stymied by superiors in the u.s. attorney's office after he discovered oliver north's contra supply network
jeffrey feldman, an assistant u.s. attorney, says in a sworn statement the u.s. ambassador to costa rica ``turned white'' after learning what feldman knew in the spring of 1986 _ eight months before the iran-contra arms and money affair dominated the news
and feldman described months of unsuccessful efforts to take the investigation to the grand jury, with his boss telling him in august 1986 that ``politics'' was responsible for the delay
panama, apparently seeking a way out of a legal and diplomatic predicament with the united states, made discreet inquiries about u.s. willingness to drop federal charges against military strong man gen. manuel antonio noriega, administration officials say
the state department confirmed friday that panamanian authorities had asked about that possibility and that assistant secretary of state elliott abrams raised the matter with the justice department
after being told that dropping the charges was ``technically possible,'' abrams relayed that message wednesday to panamanian president eric arturo delvalle during an unannounced meeting in miami
peace talks between nicaragua's leftist sandinista government and contra rebels are right back where they began _ mired in a dispute over what comes first, democracy or a truce
cardinal miguel obando y bravo, the nicaraguan roman catholic church leader who has been mediating the negotiations, abruptly suspended the latest round of talks friday, indirectly blaming the sandinistas for their failure
obando y bravo said he was disappointed that both sides had not accepted, at least in principle, a proposal he put forth thursday in an attempt to break a deadlock that arose in the first hours of the talks
tv evangelist jimmy swaggart, who accused ousted ptl leader jim bakker of sexual misconduct, is being investigated by the assemblies of god church amid reports of similar allegations
the denomination's 13-member executive presbytery met with swaggart at its headquarters here for nearly 10 hours thursday ``to discuss matters that could affect his credentials with the church,'' church spokeswoman juleen turnage said friday
mrs. turnage would not give details of the investigation, but said it is a ``critical situation'' and that swaggart is cooperating. the assemblies of god last year stripped bakker of his credentials
friends of a teen-ager accused of hacking four family members to death with an ax tried to hand him letters of support during his arraignment as people here struggled for an explanation of the slayings
it would be so much easier for us if we could say the guy was living on the edge, a criminal at heart,'' rochester lourdes high school principal michael leahy said friday. ``but no, he's a very regular kid. the allegations are beyond our comprehension.''
david brom, a 16-year-old lourdes sophomore, was captured here friday and charged in the thursday slayings of his parents and younger brother and sister. brom gave himself a punk haircut on the day of the killings, said olmsted county sheriff charles von wald
senior conservatives are growing uneasy about the people's party backing president kurt waldheim, who for the first time in an opinion poll did not muster the support of a majority of austrian voters
the daily salzburger nachrichten today published a survey showing 45 percent of those who responded to the poll favored waldheim's resignation and 42 percent wanted him to stay
it said 31 percent of the respondents said they would vote for waldheim ``by all means'' if presidential elections were held, while 42 percent replied they would ``by no means'' elect him
president spyros kyprianou refused to back either presidential candidate in sunday's runoff elections after he lost a bid for a third term, throwing wide open cyprus' most hotly contested vote
kyprianou's centrist democratic party, diko, said friday that it did not agree with the stands of either glafcos clerides, leader of the right-wing democratic rally party, or millionaire businessman george vassiliou, an independent backed by the powerful communist party, akel
that left kyprianou's 91,000 supporters free to vote either way. news digest: rio de janeiro, brazil _ brazil-rainstorm; morrisville, n.c. _ plane crashes; tyre, lebanon _ lebanon-kidnap; ramallah, occupied west bank _ israel; undated _political rdp; los angeles _ racial tug-of-war; jay, maine _ strike town; dhaka, bangladesh _ bangladesh; wash _ liberals-future; jerusalem _ demjanjuk.</note>
democratic presidential contender michael dukakis aims to win minnesota's caucuses this week to demonstrate support outside his native new england, while vice president george bush is all but conceding he will lose two midwestern states to his gop rivals
in a second democratic contest next tuesday, rep. richard gephardt is rated the favorite to capture the south dakota primary in a four-way battle with sen. albert gore jr., sen. paul simon and dukakis
in the republican race, most rival campaigns give sen. bob dole the edge in the south dakota primary. the kansas senator and rep. jack kemp have invested time and money in minnesota, as well, but former television evangelist pat robertson is conceded considerable strength
richard gephardt's past has become his present, dredged up endlessly by democratic presidential rivals who ask whether his evolution on issues from abortion to busing is a troubling lack of conviction
the attacks on gephardt and his record could seriously damage the missourian's candidacy if voters come to perceive the six-term congressman as insincere in his beliefs, according to political professionals
it's clearly everybody's best shot at gephardt,'' says democratic pollster geoffrey garin
south african fighter planes flew revenge raids on guerrilla bases in angola at dawn saturday, a day after a bomb killed 18 people in a namibian bank
angolan authorities said several civilians were killed
more than a dozen mirage and impala aircraft attacked three bases of the south-west african peoples organization in southern angola, the defense force chief, gen. jannie geldenhuys, said in a statement
if you're confused by the new federal tax law, you're in good company. some tax professionals, including those working for the internal revenue service, don't seem to understand it much better
a new general accounting office study to be released tuesday found that irs employees whose job is to take questions by telephone are giving wrong answers even more often than a year ago, when their accuracy rate was only 79 percent
informal spot checks of the 4,500 irs ``assistors'' found that despite a concentrated effort by the agency to educate its employees about the new law, the changes enacted in 1986 are so far-reaching that one-third to one-half the answers to specific questions are wrong
passengers aboard amtrak's california zephyr complained that they received no warnings or instructions from crew members when a smoky fire caused by a defective heater in a crew car killed one man early saturday and injured 16 people
it's a miracle that there wasn't some kind of panic,'' said sara bentley, of fremont, neb., a passenger in the first coach car behind the passenger sleeper, which was coupled to the crew car
i think the worst thing was that they didn't let anyone in our car know whether we were in danger. we couldn't find out if our car was safe.''
u.s. secretary of state george p. shultz said saturday the soviet union should work to improve human rights if it wants to participate in a middle east peace conference
shultz cited soviet restrictions on emigration and religious practices as well as an absence of diplomatic relations with israel
i think it's fair to say that if you want to come to an international conference about some tense and important subjects it would be a good idea if you had full diplomatic relations with all the parties,'' shultz said at a news conference
new york post employees cheered and uncorked champagne saturday after news that owner rupert murdoch reached agreement with 10 unions to save the nation's oldest continuously published daily newspaper
it has been a nightmare, but thank god, we're still in business,'' said lenny higgins, president of the newspaper pressmen's union
the deal will enable murdoch to sell the post to real estate developer peter kalikow. it involves a $22 million cost-reduction package that fell into place just before 2 a.m. when murdoch said he would provide $3 million to the unions to satisfy the terms of his sale agreement
the new firm running united press international has no plans to lay off staffers, but hopes to improve the wire service's profitability through better marketing, a spokesman said saturday
dwight geduldig, a spokesman for the wnw group, inc., said upi's new president, paul steinle, 48, spent the day talking with upi's managers
mario vazquez rana, a mexican publisher who paid $41 million to acquire upi from chapter 11 proceedings in u.s. bankruptcy court in june 1986, announced friday that he had transferred control of the company's stock to the wnw group
an extract of snake venom shows promise as a treatment for stroke victims, according to researchers looking for ways to dissolve blood clots before brain damage can occur
the treatment, called ancrod, is derived from the venom of the malayan pit viper. doctors have given it to 10 patients, and although the results are still preliminary, the therapy appears to help
this is a drug that shows potential,'' said the study's director, dr. charles p. olinger, of the university of cincinnati
supreme court justice anthony m. kennedy's first full week in a new judicial career may attract more public scrutiny and speculation than did most of his 12 years as a federal appellate judge
the ``fish bowl'' experience begins when the high court's newest member joins his eight colleagues in taking the bench at 10 a.m. est monday and starts hearing arguments in cases under study
what will be kennedy's first question from the bench? will he, as justice antonin scalia did two years ago, quickly establish himself as an aggressive interrogator of lawyers appearing before the court?
the soviets have become more open about announcing their space failures, but failed to announce the destruction of a spy satellite last month and gave out sparse details about a rocket failure, space-watcher jim oberg said saturday
the official tass news agency reported that the upper stage of the proton rocket booster failed on wednesday and that on thursday ``the sputniks entered dense layers of the atmosphere and ceased their existence.''
according to u.s. space command, the largest chunk of debris from the mission re-entered the earth's atmosphere friday afternoon between saudi arabia and turkey, and a smaller chunk fell earlier near australia
president reagan contends in his annual economic report to congress that his tax and budget policies helped turn economic despair into hope during his administration
the report issued friday also downplayed problems associated with the $2.4 trillion national debt and record trade imbalances during the reagan years
separately, on wall street the dow jones industrial average finished at a six-week high, rising 28.18 points to 2,014.59. the widely-followed indicator had not closed at such heights since it stood at 2,051.89 on jan. 7
market watchers attributed the rally to an increasingly optimistic market outlook, due partly to signs of strength in the manufacturing sector of the economy
in an eight-page introduction to this year's economic report, president reagan said the country was in much better shape than when he took office seven years ago. the president said the attitude toward the economy had shifted to hope from the despair that prevailed in the early 1980s
the past five years of sustained and vigorous growth in production, income and employment did not occur by accident,'' the report stated. ``they were shaped by government policies explicitly directed toward fostering the inherent dynamism of the private sector.''
during a separate press briefing, beryl sprinkel, the president's chief economic adviser, said the united states had produced 2{ times the number of jobs as the other top six industrialized countries combined since the end of the 1981-82 recession
addressing the nation's $400 billion foreign debt, sprinkel noted that the net payments to foreigners needed to service the country's foreign debt represented just 0.1 percent of the $4.6 trillion u.s. economy
sprinkel predicted an improving trade deficit would provide about half of the country's overall economic growth this year, which the administration is forecasting will slow to a 2.4 percent from 3.8 percent in 1987
sprinkel also said recent signs of economic slowdown did not point to a recession in 1988. he said the recent string of three consecutive declines in the index of leading indicators signaled slower economic growth in the first half of 1988 but not a recession this year
sprinkel discounted recent big declines in the key housing construction sector during december and january, attributing them to a too-restrictive monetary policy pursued by the federal reserve in the months before the october stock market collapse
in facing a proxy fight over four seats on its board of directors, gillette co. might also be facing a referendum on its future as an independent company, analysts say
gillette said friday it would resist an attempt by coniston partners to place four representatives on board seats up for election at the company's annual meeting in april, including the seat of chairman colman m. mockler jr
coniston, which holds a roughly 6 percent stake in the giant personal products maker, is attempting to pressure gillette into a restructuring or merger that would boost its share price
gillette rose 25 cents to $38.87{ a share in new york stock exchange trading friday
coniston pursued a similar strategy last year in leading the successful campaign to break up allegis corp., leading analysts to predict the battle over gillette would be long and bitter
coniston i don't think is going to go away any time soon,'' said deepak rap, who follows gillette for the investment firm merrill lynch &amp; co
mockler, who also is gillette's chief executive and president, said gillette would continue resisting coniston in the belief that the company would function best as an independent business
gillette cited its 1987 financial results, which reflected a 12 percent rise in sales and a doubling of operating profit, indicated that its business strategy was working
andrew shore, of the investment firm shearson lehman hutton inc., said proxy fights were difficult to win, but in this case gillette management would have its hands full
the company has rebuffed several buyout offers from revlon group inc. dating back to 1986. the latest _ a $47-a-share, or $5.4 billion, offer _ was spurned late last year
in addition, a major restructuring that it undertook after turning down a $4.12 billion revlon buyout offer in november 1986 may not have boosted gillette's share price enough to suit major investors who remain wary about the strength of the stock market in the wake of october's crash
gillette's recent stock price in the high-$30 range is well below the high-$40 to low-$50 range analysts estimate is the company's acquisition value
it's really a referendum, like a vote for coniston is a vote for the sale of gillette,'' said shore. ``that's going to be very difficult for shareholders to turn down.''
revlon must have gillette's consent to launch a takeover of the company under terms of a 10-year standstill agreement it signed in november 1986, when gillette bought out revlon's nearly 14 percent stake in the company after spurning the $4.12 billion offer
nevertheless, revlon chairman ronald o. perelman reportedly remains interested in acquiring gillette
shore said that in addition to opposing coniston's slate of directors, gillette could take other defensive measures including the issuance of more stock, a leveraged buyout, a recapitalization or a ``white knight'' merger with a friendly suitor
even its candidates win election, coniston would be unable to take control of gillette's board because only a third of the seats are up for election in any year. but analysts say a coniston victory could pressure the board to consider a merger
keith gollust, a principal in the partnership, contended the proxy fight was mandated by gillette's takeover defenses, which essentially gave its board unilateral power to accept or reject any merger offers
